From  the  collection  of  the 


o  Prelinger 
q  '  "ibrary 


San  Francisco,  California 
2006 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 


STATE  OF  NEW  YORK  —  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 


THE 


APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK 


VOLUME    I 


BY 

S.  A.  BEACH 

Horticulturist 
ASSISTED  BY 

N.  O.  BOOTH 

Assistant  Horticulturist 
AND 

O.  M.  TAYLOR 

Foreman  in  Horticulture 


Report  of  the  New  York  Agricultural  Experiment  Station  for  the  Year  J903 

II 


ALBANY 

J.  B.  LYON  COMPANY,  PRINTERS 
1905 


NEW  YORK  AGRICULTURAL  EXPERIMENT  STATION. 

GENEVA,  N.  Y.,  December  31,  1903. 

To  the  Honorable  Board  of  Control  of  the  New  York  Agricultural 
Experiment  Station : 

Gentlemen. — I  have  the  honor  to  transmit  herewith  Part  II  of  the 
Annual  Report  of  the  New  York  Agricultural  Experiment  Station 
for  1903,  to  be  known  as  "  The  Apples  of  New  York".  The  period 
of  the  collection  of  the  data  which  form  the  subject-matter  of  this 
publication  is  coincident  with  the  life  of  the  Station,  having  been 
begun  over  twenty  years  ago  by  the  late  Professor  Emmet  S.  Goff, 
who  was  the  Station's  first  horticulturist.  In  1891  this  work  passed 
into  the  hands  of  Professor  Spencer  A.  Beach,  who  is  now,  fortu- 
nately, charged  with  the  presentation  to  tn'e  public  of  the  results  of 
this  long-continued  and  costly  effort.  In  the  collection  and  organiza- 
tion of  the  information  contained  in  this  volume,  Professor  Beach 
has  had  the  valued  assistance  of  Professors  Wendell  Paddock, 
Charles  P.  Close,  Heinrich  Hasselbring  and  Vinton  A.  Clark,  who 
have  been  associated  with  him  in  the  horticultural  department  of  the 
Station.  Professor  Nathaniel  O.  Booth  and  Mr.  Orrin  M.  Taylor 
have  not  only  assisted  in  the  collection  of  original  data,  but  they  have 
rendered  efficient  service  in  the  immediate  preparation  of  the  text. 
The  publication  of  this  volume,  which  is  confined  to  the  winter 
varieties  of  apples,  to  be  followed  by  a  second  volume  covering  the 
early  and  fall  varieties,  is  made  possible  by  the  generous  action  of  the 
New  York  legislature  of  1904,  and  should  be  regarded  as  an  occasion 
of  justifiable  pride  on  the  part  of  the  state,  the  Station  management 
and  the  individuals  chiefly  concerned  in  the  work  on  its  professional 
side.  There  is  every  reason  to  believe  that  these  two*  volumes  will 
take  their  place  as  a  part  of  the  standard  literature  of  pomology,  and 
will  be  useful  and  stimulating  to  one  of  the  most  important  industries 
of  the  state. 

W.  H.  JORDAN, 

Director. 


<  V  '. 


PREFACE, 


This  report  on  the  apples  of  New  York  is  the  outgrowth  of  one 
of  the  lines  of  investigation  which  from  the  first  has  been  a  distinctive 
feature  of  the  work  carried  on  at  this  Experiment  Station.  During 
the  period  when  this  Station  was  being  established  there  was  an  in- 
sistent popular  demand  that  the  testing  of  varieties  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  be  made  a  prominent  line  of  work  here.  Variety  testing 
was  accordingly  undertaken  at  once  with  great  thoroughness,  as  is 
shown,  in  part,  by  the  bulletins  and  reports  published  by  the  Station 
during  the  first  decade  of  its  existence.  A  collection  of  apple  varie- 
ties was  begun  by  Professor  Goff  as  early  as  1883,  and  since  that  time 
it  has  been  continually  enlarged  by  annual  additions.  For  many 
years  it  has  been  one  of  the  most  noteworthy  collections  of  its  kind  in 
America.  By  1900  it  had  come  to  include  over  seven  hundred  named 
varieties  of  apples  and  crabapples,  besides  a  large  number  of  unnamed 
seedlings.  Professor  Goff  resigned  his  position  at  this  Station  to 
become  horticulturist  in  the  University  of  Wiconsin  in  1888,  just 
as  the  first  fruits  of  the  varieties  which  were  grafted  into  the 
orchards  in  1883  were  beginning  to  appear.  He  was  succeeded  here 
by  the  writer  in  the  fall  of  1891. 

Very  many  of  the  varieties  herein  treated  have  been  collected  and 
grown  in  the  Station  orchards.  Descriptive  notes  and  other  records 
of  these  varieties  have  been  made  year  after  year  till  a  mass  of  first- 
hand information  has  accumulated  which  has  been  invaluable  in  the 
preparation  of  this  report.  We  have  also  been  favored  with  the 
cooperation  of  fruit  growers  from  all  parts  of  the  state.  Hundreds 
of  them  have  assisted  by  giving  information  concerning  the  varieties 
of  apples  which  are  known  in  their  respective  localities,  and  in  many 
cases  have  supplied  samples  of  the  fruit.  The  leading  American  and 
some  European  pomological  works  have  been  constantly  referred  to 
in  verifying  descriptions  of  varieties ;  various  Experiment  Station 
publications  and  horticultural  reports  and  periodicals  have  also  been 
freely  consulted. 

vii 


viii  PREFACE. 

For  one  who  is  interested  in  growing  apples  either  for  home  use 
or  for  commercial  purposes,  or  in  supplying  nursery  trees  for  orchard 
planting,  or  in  any  of  the  industries  accessory  to  that  of  apple-grow- 
ing, such  as  storing  and  marketing  the  fruit  or  manufacturing  fruit 
products,  it  is  at  times  a  great  advantage  to  have  accessible  for 
ready  reference  full  descriptions  of  the  different  varieties  of  apples, 
each  under  the  name  which  pomological  authorities  are  accepting  as 
correct,  together  with  the  list  of  synonyms  by  which  the  variety  has 
been  known.  It  is  for  the  purpose  of  making  such  information  more 
generally  available  that  this  report  on  the  apples  of  New  York  has 
been  prepared.  This,  the  first  volume  of  the  report,  treats  of  winter 
apples  which  are  in  season  with  Hubbardston  and  Tompkins  King 
or  later.  Earlier  varieties  are  treated  in  the  succeeding  volume. 

The  following  considerations  have  generally  governed  the  writer 
in  determining  what  varieties  should  be  noticed  in  this  report. 

First,  the  comparative  value  of  the  variety  for  planting  in  any  part 
of  the  state  as  determined  by  its  record  at  this  Station,  by  numerous 
systematic  reports  collected  especially  for  this  report  from  New  York 
fruit  growers  and  from  men  interested  in  buying  and  storing  fruit  in 
New  York  and  elsewhere,  by  information  published  in  books,  cata- 
logues and  periodical  literature,  and  by  extensive  correspondence. 

Second,  the  probable  value  in  this  state  of  new  or  comparatively 
little  Known  varieties.  The  opinions  which  the  writer  has  expressed 
regarding  their  probable  value  are  based  upon  the  records  which 
these  varieties  have  made  in  other  regions,  their  general  resem- 
blance to  other  varieties  which  are  better  known  in  this  state,  and 
their  parentage  or  origin. 

Third,  many  varieties  have  been  noticed,  not  because  they  now  are 
or  promise  to  become  valuable  in  New  York,  but  rather  because  they 
are  not  or  do  not  promise  to  become  valuable  here.  It  is  quite  as  im- 
portant for  the  inexperienced  prospective  planter  to  know  what 
varieties  are  unworthy  as  well  as  to  know  what  ones  are  the  most 
worthy  of  his  care  and  attention.  This  is  particularly  true  in  the 
case  of  those  varieties  which  are  being  urged  upon  New  York  fruit 
growers  because  they  have  succeeded  elsewhere,  but  which  have  as 
yet  been  tried  only  in  regions  where  the  conditions  are  markedly 


PREFACE.  ix 

different  from  those  which  obtain  in  New  York.  In  such  cases  an 
especial  effort  has  been  made  to  give  a  conservative  estimate  of  the 
known  or  probable  value  of  these  varieties  to  New  York  fruit 
growers. 

Fourth,  some  varieties  are  noticed  chiefly  on  account  of  their  his- 
torical value.  In  a  report  like  this  it  is  appropriate  to  notice  old 
varieties  which  are  becoming  obsolete,  but  which  possibly  are  still  in 
cultivation  in  this  state. 

In  each  full  discussion  of  a  variety  there  is  presented  first  the 
statement  of  those  matters  which  seem  to  be  of  general  interest. 
With  the  more  important  apples  this  is  given  in  long  primer  type, 
while  the  historical  account  and  the  technical  descriptions  of  the  tree 
and  fruit  are  in  brevier.  With  varieties  of  less  importance  the 
entire  text  is  in  brevier. 

In  addition  to  the  description  of  the  variety,  there  has  been  given 
in  many  cases  some  estimate  of  its  known  or  probable  value  in  this 
state  for  either  amateur  or  commercial  purposes  and  the  conditions 
which  appear  to  be  best  adapted  for  its  successful  cultivation  are 
sometimes  indicated.  In  order  to  make  the  report  more  complete 
and  thus  add  to  its  value  as  a  book  of  reference  many  varieties  of 
little  importance,  or  of  only  local  value,  are  herein  described.  Usually 
in  such  cases  but  brief  comment  is  given.  More  extended  notice  is 
commonly  given  to  the  more  important  varieties,  and  many  of  them 
are  illustrated  either  by  half-tone  or  colored  photo-engravings  made 
directly  from  the  fruit  itself  instead  of  from  drawings  or  paintings. 
In  fact,  the  illustrations  form  a  unique  feature  of  the  work  because 
they  have  all  been  made  from  photographs,  thus  adding  greatly  to 
the  fidelity  and  value  of  the  plates.  With  but  few  exceptions  the 
photographing  has  been  done  under  the  personal  supervision  of  the 
author. 

In  the  immediate  preparation  of  this  report  the  writer  has  been 
assisted  by  Professor  N.  O.  Booth  and  Mr.  O.  M.  Taylor,  whose  con- 
stant fidelity  and  active  interest  in  the  undertaking  it  is  a  pleasure  to 
thankfully  acknowledge.  The  bibliographical  work  has,  for  the  most 
part,  been  done  by  Professor  Booth,  to  whom  very  much  of  the  value 
of  this  feature  of  the  report  is  due.  Mr.  Taylor  has  assisted  in 


x  PREFACE. 

various  ways,  particularly  in  making  technical  descriptions  of  the 
fruits.  John  A.  Maney,  foreman  of  the  orchards,  has  aided  in  pre- 
paring" the  technical  descriptions  of  the  trees.  Assistance  in  making 
orchard  observations  and  descriptive  notes  of  varieties  has  been  given 
in  previous  years  by  Wendell  Paddock,  1893  to  1899;  C.  P.  Close, 
1896  to  1899;  Heinrich  Hasselbring,  1900,  and  V.  A.  Clark,  1902  to 

1904- 

The  writer  is  embarrassed  in  undertaking  to  acknowledge  pro- 
perly the  many  favors  which  he  has  received  in  carrying  forward 
this  work.  These  favors  are  so  various  and  come  from  so  many 
different  sources  that  for  lack  of  space  the  particular  personal 
recognition  which  he  desires  to  give  cannot  be  made.  Fellow 
workers  among  professional  horticulturists,  nurserymen,  men  inter- 
ested in  buying  and  storing  fruit,  apple  growers  in  all  parts  of  the 
state  and  particularly  members  of  the  State  Fruit  Growers'  Associa- 
tion and  of  the  Western  New  York  Horticultural  Society,  all  have 
shown  a  spirit  of  cordial  interest  and  cooperation  which  is  gratefully 
recognized.  Special  acknowledgment  is  due  to  Professors  L.  H. 
Bailey  and  S.  W.  Fletcher  of  Cornell  University  for  the  loan  of  books 
and  for  the  use  of  a  collection  of  numerous  references  to  Experiment 
Station  publications. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


PAG«. 

Preface    vii 

Index  to  Illustrations xiii 

Authorities  Cited  and  Abbreviations  Used xvii 

Botanical    Classification I 

The  Native  Home  of  the  Apple 3 

The  Origin  and  Development  of  Apple  Culture  in  New  York 4 

The  Adaptation  of  Varieties  to  Particular  Regions 18 

What  Is  a  Variety  ? 20 

Description  of  Varieties 27 

Index  to  Technical  Terms 389 

Index  to  Varieties 391 

xl 


INDEX  TO  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


TEXT  FIGURES. 

PAGE. 

Fig.  i.        Indian  Apple  Tree  Still  Standing  near  the  Geneva  Experiment 

Station  in  1904 5 

Fig.  2.  Collection  of  Varieties  of  Wild  Apples  from  a  Hill  Pasture  at 

Chittenango  6 

Fig.  2a.  The  Old  Tree  Stands  as  a  Reminder  of  the  Days  of  the  Stage 

Coach  and  the  Paring-Bee 8 

Fig.  3.  Longitudinal  Cross  Section  of  an  Apple  Showing  Internal 

Characters  34 

Figs.  4,  5.  Longitudinal  Sections  of  the  Wild  Crabapple  Showing  Internal 

Characters  35 

Figs.  6,  7.  Transverse  Sections  of  the  Wild  Crabapple  Showing  Internal 

Characters  35 

Fig.  8.  Transverse  Section  of  an  Apple  Showing  a  Closed  Axile 

Core  36 

Fig.  9.  Transverse  Section  of  an  Apple  Showing  an  Open  Abaxile 

Core   37 


HALF-TONE  PLATES. 

FACING  PAGE 

Aucuba    52 

Group  of  fruit-pickers  in  the  Baldwin  orchard  of  Foster  Udell,  Brock- 
port,  Monroe  county,  N.  Y 56 

Bottle   Greening 86 

Bullock    90 

Canada   Baldwin 92 

Canada   Reinette 94 

Clayton    96 

Dickinson   106 

Doctor  108 

Dumelow 112 

Dutch    Mignonne 114 

English  Russet 120 

French   Pippin 134 

Gideon   Sweet 136 

Gilpin  138 

Golden  Medal 140 

Golden  Russet 294 

Lankf ord  • 186 

xiii 


xiv  INDEX  TO  ILLUSTRATIONS. 

HALF-TONE  PLATES — Concluded. 

FACING  PAGE 

Menagere   206 

Milden  210 

Milwaukee   212 

Moore   Sweet 220 

Newman   224 

Northwestern  Greening 234 

Oakland  (reduced  size) 234 

Occident    236 

Oel    Austin 236 

Opalescent    242 

Red  Russet 278 

Roxbury    294 

Schodack 300 

Smokehouse 312 

Stanard   3H 

Stone    320 

Texas  336 

Vanhoy    35° 

Wabash  Red 352 

Wallace  Howard 358 

Wandering    Spy 360 

Willow 370 

Windsor    372 

COLOR  PLATES. 
View  in  a  Baldwin  orchard  in  the  Lake  Ontario  apple  belt Frontispiece 

FACING  PACE 

Akin   40 

Arkansas   48 

Bailey  Sweet 54 

Baldwin    58,  60 

Ben  Davis 68 

Bethel 72 

Black  Ben  Davis 76 

Black   Gilliflower 78 

Blue   Pearmain 80 

Boiken  82 

Buckingham   88 

Collins  98 

Cooper  Market 100 

Domine    no 

English  Russet 118 

Esopus  Spitzcnburg 122 

Ewalt  124 

Fallawater 126 

Gano  134 

Golden  Russet , , 144 


INDEX  TO  ILLUSTRATIONS.  xv 

COLOR  PLATES — Continued. 

FACING  PAGE 

Green  Newtown 146,  148 

Green    Sweet 150 

Greenville 152 

Grimes 154 

Holland  Winter 160 

Hubbardston    162 

Hyde   King 166 

Jacobs   Sweet 168 

Jewett  Red 170 

Jonathan   172 

Lady  180 

Lady   Sweet 184 

Lawver 190 

Lee  Sweet  (whole  fruit) 230 

Lee  Sweet  (section),  see  Volume  II. 

Long  Island  Russet  (II) 194 

Mann   200 

Melon 204 

Monmouth    216 

Nelson  222 

Newtown    Spitzenburg 226 

Nickajack  228 

Northern  Spy 230,  232 

Olivet- 238 

Ontario    ....    240 

Paragon 246 

Peck  Pleasant 254 

Pennock    256 

Pewaukee   258 

Pomme  Grise 264 

Rails  270 

Rambo    274,  356 

Red  Canada 276 

Reinette   Pippin 280 

Rhode  Island  Greening 282 

Ridge  288 

Rome  290 

Roxbury  (2   plates)  •  • 292 

Salome  298 

Scott  302 

Shackleford    304 

Smith   Cider 310 

Stark    316 

Stayman   Winesap 318 

Streaked  Pippin 322 

Sutton    324 

Swaar 326 

Sweet  Winesap ,,,,.,,,, ,...,,...,, 334 


xvi  INDEX  TO  ILLUSTRATIONS. 

COLOR  PLATES— Concluded. 

FACING    PAGE 

Titus    Pippin 338 

Tolman  Sweet 344 

Tompkins    King 346 

Twenty-Ounce  Pippin: 34$ 

Wagener  354 

Walbridge    274,  356 

Washington  Royal 362 

Westfield   Seek-No-Furihcr 364 

White   Pearmain 366 

White  Pippin , .  368 

Willow 370 

Winesap 374 

Winter   Banana 378 

Yellow   Bellflower 382 

Yellow  Newto wn 148 

York  Imperial 386 


AUTHORITIES  CITED  AND  ABBREVIATIONS 

USED. 


In  the  following  list  of  the  authorities  which  have  been  consulted 
in  preparing  this  volume  the  date  of  publication  cited  is  that  of  the 
copyright  rather  than  that  of  the  title  page;  but  where  no  date  for 
the  copyright  has  been  found  the  date  of  the  title  page  has  been 
accepted  as  the  date  of  publication.  This  has  been  done  for  histori- 
cal reasons,  as  it  appears  in  most  cases  that  the  copyright  date  is 
a  better  index  of  the  time  when  a  book  was  written  than  the  date 
given  on  the  title  page. 

Works  issued  in  series  by  institutions  or  by  regular  organizations, 
like  bulletins  and  reports  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, bulletins  and  reports  of  experiment  stations,  reports  of  horti- 
cultural societies  and  state  boards  of  horticulture  and  catalogues  of 
nurserymen  are  not  here  listed.  In  referring  to  such  works  the 
citation  in  each  case  has  been  made  sufficiently  full  for  the  easy 
identification  of  the  publication. 

Albany  Cultivator.     See  Cultivator. 

Amer.  Agric.     American  Agriculturist.     New  York :  1842    to  date. 

American  Cultivator.     1838. 

American  Farmer.     Boston. 

Am.  (or  Amer.)  Card.  American  Gardening.  New  York:  1892-1904.  (Be- 
fore its  union  with  Popular  Gardening,  in  1892,  was  known  as  American 
Garden.  Both  Popular  Gardening  and  American  Garden  resulted  from 
the  union  or  absorption  of  many  other  horticultural  periodicals.) 

Amer.  Card.  Cal.  American  Gardener's  Calendar.  By  Bernard  M'Mahon. 
Philadelphia:  1806. 

Amer.  Gard.  Mag.     American  Gardener's  Magazine.     See  Mag.  Hort. 

Amer.  Jour.  Hort.  and  Florist's  Companion.  American  Journal  of  Horticul- 
ture and  Florist's  Companion.  Boston:  1867-1869.  Continued  as  Tilton's 
Journal  of  Horticulture  and  Floral  Magazine.  1869-1871. 

An.  Hort.     Annals  of  Horticulture.     See  Bailey,  L.  H. 

An.  de  Pom.  Beige.     Annales  de  Pomologie  Beige.     See  Bivort. 


xviii          AUTHORITIES  CITED  AND  ABBREVIATIONS  USED. 

Bailey,  L.  H.  Annals  of  Horticulture  in  North  America.  New  York:  1889- 
1893.  Volume  for  1892  contains  inventory  of  apples  sold  by  nurserymen 
in  North  America  in  that  year. 

Barry.  The  Fruit  Garden.  By  P.  Barry.  New  York:  1851.  Revised  edition 
1883. 

Berghuis.  De  Nederlandsche  Boomgaard.  S.  Berghuis.  Erste  deel.  Appels. 
Groningen :  1868. 

Biedenfeld.     Handbuch  aller  bekannten  Obstsorten.     1854. 

Bivort.  An.  de  Pom.  Beige.  Annales  de  Pomologie,  beige  et  etrangere. 
Bruxelles:  1853-1860. 

Boston  Cultivator.     See  American  Cultivator. 

Bredsted.  Haandbog  i  danske  Pomologie.  Af  H.  C.  Bredsted.  2  det  Bind. 
^Ebler.  Odense.  1893. 

Budd-Hansen.  American  Horticultural  Manual.  Part  II.  Systematic 
Pomology.  By  J.  L.  Budd,  assisted  by  N.  E.  Hansen.  Descriptions  of 
Apples  by  Hansen.  New  York:  1903. 

Can.  Hort.     Canadian  Horticulturist.     Toronto :   1878  to  date. 

Cat.  Cong.  Pom.  France.  Catalogue  descriptif  des  fruits  adoptes  par  le  Con- 
gres  pomologiques  de  France.  1867. 

Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London.  A  Catalogue  of  the  Fruits  Cultivated  in  the  Gar- 
den of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London.  London:  1826.  2d  ed. 
1831 ;  3d  ed.  1842.  A  supplement  was  published  in  1853. 

Cole.     The  American  Fruit  Book.     By  S.  W.  Cole.     Boston:  1849. 

Country  Gentleman.  Albany:  1853-1865.  The  Cultivator  and  Country  Gentle- 
man. Albany:  1866-1897.  The  Country  Gentleman,  Albany:  1898  to  date. 

Coxe.  A  View  of  the  Cultivation  of  Fruit  Trees.  By  William  Coxe.  Phila- 
delphia: 1817. 

Cultivator.     Albany :  1834-1865.     In  1866  united  with  the  Country  Gentleman. 

Diel.  Versuch  einer  systematischen  Beschreibung  der  Kernobstsorten. 
Aug.  Fried.  Ad.  Diel.  1799-1825. 

Dittrich.     Systematisches  Handbuch  der  Obstkunde.     Vol.  III. 

Dom.  Encyc.  Domestic  Encyclopedia.  Willichs.  Edited  by  Mease.  Phila- 
delphia: 1804. 

Downing.  The  Fruits  and  Fruit  Trees  of  America.  By  A.  J.  Downing. 
1845.  2d  ed.,  same  text  with  colored  plates,  1847.  First  revision  by 
Charles  Downing,  1857.  Second  revision,  1869.  First  appendix,  1872. 
Second  appendix,  1876.  Third  appendix,  1881. 

Duhamel.  Traite  des  Arbres  Fruitiers.  Par  M.  Duhamel  du  Monceau. 
Tome  premier.  Paris  :  1768. 

Elliott.  Elliott's  Fruit  Book;  or  the  American  Fruit  Growers'  Guide.  By 
F.  R.  Elliott.  New  York:  1854.  Revised  edition,  1859. 

Eneroth-Smirnoff.  Handbok  i  svensk  pomologi.  Af  Olof  Eneroth  and 
Alexandra  Smirnoff.  Vol.  2.  Applen.  Stockholm:  1896. 

Fessenden.  The  New  American  Gardener.  By  Thomas  G.  Fessenden. 
Boston:  1828. 

Fitz.  The  Southern  Apple  and  Peach  Culturist  James  Fitz ;  edited  by  J.  W. 
Fitz.  Richmond:  1872. 

Flotow.     See  111.  Handb.  der  Obstk. 


AUTHORITIES  CITED  AND  ABBREVIATIONS  USED.  xix 

Floy-Lindley.  A  Guide  to  the  Orchard  and  Fruit  Garden.  By  George  Lind- 
ley;  edited  by  John  Lindley.  American  edition  by  Michael  Floy.  New 
York :  1833.  New  edition  with  an  appendix,  1846. 

Forsyth.  A  Treatise  on  the  Culture  and  Management  of  Fruit  Trees.  By 
William  Forsyth.  London :  1802.  Same  with  Introduction  and  Notes,  by 
William  Cobbett.  Albany:  1803.  Seventh  edition  (English)  London: 
1824. 

Garden.     London :  1872    to  date. 

Card,  and  For.     Garden  and  Forest.     New  York :  1888-1897. 

Gardening.     Chicago :  1893    to  date. 

Gartenflora.     Berlin :    1852    to   date. 

Gaucher.  Pomologie  der  Praktischen  Obstbaumzuchters.  Von  N.  Gaudier. 
Stuttgart:  1894. 

Genesee  Farmer.  Edited  by  Luther  Tucker.  Rochester:  1831-1839.  Then 
consolidated  with  Cultivator.  Another  periodical  of  same  name  was  pub- 
lished in  Rochester  from  1845-1865.  Also  others  of  this  name. 

Goodrich.  The  Northern  Fruit  Culturist,  or  Farmers'  Guide.  By  Chauncey 
Goodrich.  Burlington,  Vt. :  1849. 

Gregg.     A   Handbook   of   Fruit   Culture.     By   Thomas   Gregg.     New   York: 

1857- 
Hoffy.     Hoffy's  North  American  Pomologist.     Edited  by  William  D.  Brinckle. 

Book  No.  I.     Philadelphia:    1860. 

Hogg.  The  Fruit  Manual.  By  Robert  Hogg.  Fifth  edition.  London:  1884. 
Hooper.  Hooper's  Western  Fruit  Book.  By  E.  J.  Hooper.  Cincinnati :  1857. 
Horticulturist.  The  Horticulturist  and  Journal  of  Rural  Art  and  Rural  Taste. 

Albany,  etc.     1846-1875.     Founded  by  A.  J.  Downing.     Other  editors  were 

Barry,  Smith,  Mead,  Williams  and  the  Woodwards. 

Hovey.     The  Fruits  of  America.    2  vols.     C.  M.  Hovey.     Boston :   1851. 
111.  Handb.  Obst.     Illustrirtes  Handbuch  der  Obstkunde.     (Various  authors). 

Stuttgart:  1858-1865. 
Jour.  Roy.  Hort.  Soc.     Journal  of  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society.     London : 

1846  to  date.     Vols.  1-9,  1846-55  bear  the  title  of  Journal  of  the  Horti- 
cultural Society  of  London. 
Kenrick.     The    New   American    Orchardist.     By   William    Kenrick.     Boston : 

1832.     Second  edition  revised,   1835. 

Knoop.     Pomologia.     Johann  Hermann  Knoop.     Leeuwarden :   1758. 
Langley.     Pomona :    or    the  Fruit    Garden    Illustrated.     By    Batty    Langley. 

London :  1729. 
Lauche.     Deutsche  Pomologie.    W.  La'iche.     ^Epfel.    Vols.  I  and  II.     Berlin : 

1882-1883. 

Le  Verger.     Par  M.  [A.]  Mas.     5  vols.  in  4.     Paris :  1868-1873. 
Leroy.     Dictionnaire  de  Pomologie.     Par  Andre  Leroy.     Paris :   1873.     Vols. 

3  and  4  devoted  to  the  apple. 
Lindley.     Guide  to  the   Orchard  and  Kitchen  Garden.     By   George  Lindley. 

London:   1831.     (See  Floy-Lindley  for  American  editions.) 
Lucas.     See  111.  Handb.  Obst. 
Lucas,     Ed.     Vollstandiges    Handbuch    der    Obstkultur.      Von    Ed.    Lucas. 

Stuttgart:  ist  ed.  1880;  2d  ed.  1886;  3d  ed.  1893.     Third  edition  edited  by 

Fr.  Lucas. 
Lucas,  Fr.     Die  Werthwollsten  Tafelapfel  und  Tafelbirnen.    Von  Fr.  Lucas. 

2  vols.     Stuttgart:   1893-4. 


xx  AUTHORITIES  CITED  AND  ABBREVIATIONS  USED. 

Lyon.     Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.   1890.     This  catalogue  has  been  quoted  rather 

than  the  earlier  ones  because  it  represents  more  nearly  the  final  opinion  of 

Mr.  Lyon  on  Michigan  fruits. 
M'Mahon.    Card.  Cal.     See  Amer.  Card.  Cal. 
Mag.  Hort.     Magazine  of  Horticulture.     Boston :  1837-1868.     First  published 

under  name   American   Gardener's    Magazine   1835-6.     Edited   by    C.    M. 

Hovey  with  P.  B.  Hovey,  Jr.,  associate  editor  during  1835-6. 
Manning.     Book  of  Fruits.     By  Robert  Manning.     Salem :  1838.     Second  edi- 
tion with'  title,  New  England  Fruit  Book.     Revised    by    John    M.    Ives. 

Salem:   1844. 
Mas.     See  Le  Verger. 
Nat.  Nurseryman.     National  Nurseryman.     Edited  by  R.  T.  Olcott  and  later 

by  John  Craig.     Rochester :  1893  to  date. 
Nat.   Hist.  N.   Y.     Natural   History  of    New    York.     Part    V.    Agriculture. 

By  Ebenezer  Emmons.     Vol.  Ill  devoted  to  fruits.     Albany:  1851. 
N.  E.  Farmer.     New  England  Farmer.     Boston :  1822. 
New  Genesee  Farmer.     See  Genesee  Farmer. 
N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.     Memoirs  of  the  Board  of  Agriculture  of  the  State  of 

New  York.     Vol.  III.     Albany:  1826.     Article  and  fruit  list  by  Jonathan 

Buel. 

Oberdieck.     See  111.  Handb.  Obstk. 
Pom.  Brit.     See  Pom.  Mag. 
Pom.    Heref.     Pomona    Herefordiensis.     By    Thomas    A.   Knight.     London : 

1811. 
Pom.  Mag.     Pomological  Magazine.     3  vols.  London :  1828-30.     This  work  has 

also  been  published   under  the  title  Pomona   Brittanica. 
Pomologie.     See  Gaudier. 

Prairie  Farmer.     Chicago:  1841.     Several  periodicals  of  this  name. 
Regel.     Russkaja  Pomologija.     E.  Regel.     St.   Petersburg:   1868. 
Ronalds.     Pyrus  malus  Brentfordiensis.     By  Hugh  Ronalds.     Figures  by  E. 

Ronalds.     London:  1831. 

Rural  N.  Y.     Rural  New  Yorker.     Rochester  and  New  York:  1850  to  date. 
Syst.  Handb.  der  Obstk.     See  Dittrich. 

Thacher.     American   Orchardist.     By  James  Thacher.     Boston :    1822. 
Thomas.     American    Fruit    Culturist.     By    John    J.     Thomas.     Published   at 

various  places.     1st  ed.  1846;  2ist  ed.  1903. 

Todd.    The  Apple  Culturist.     By  Sereno  E.  Todd.     New  York :  1871. 
Trans.   Roy.   Hort.    Soc.     Transactions   of   the   Royal    Horticultural    Society. 

London:  1805-1848. 
Verger.     See  Le  Verger. 
Warder.     American     Pomology.     Apples.     John     A.     Warder.     New     York: 

1867. 
Waring.     The  Fruit  Growers'  Handbook.     By  Wm.  G.  \Varing.     Boalsburg, 

Pa.:  1851. 

Western  Fruit  Grower.     Edited  by  J.  M.  Irvine.     St.  Joseph :  1896  to  date. 
Wickson.     California  Fruits.     By  Edward  J.  Wickson.     San  Francisco:  1889. 

2d  ed.  1891. 

Willichs.     See  Dom.  Encyc. 
Wilson.     Economy  of  the  Kitchen    Garden,  etc.     By  William  Wilson.     New 

York:  1828. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 


BOTANICAL  CLASSIFICATION. 

The  apple  is  classed  with  a  natural  group  of  plants  in  which  the 
fruit  is  more  or  less  fleshy  and  contains  seed  cells  enclosed  by  either 
bony  or  parchment-like  carpels.  Some  botanists  still  hold  to  the 
older  classification  in  which  this  group  of  plants  is  included  in  the 
great  order  Rosaces  under  the  suborder  Poniecr,  but  there  is  a 
tendency  among  modern  botanists  to  raise  the  group  to  the  rank  of 
an  order  under  the  name  Pomacece.  In  this  suborder  or  order, 
whichever  it  may  be  called,  there  are  several  genera.  One  includes 
the  mountain  ashes,  one  the  Juneberries,  one  the  hawthorns,  one 
the  quinces,  and  one  the  pears,  apples  and  crabapples.  This  last 
genus  botanists  have  called  Pyrus.  Within  this  genus  there  are  many 
species  of  apples  and  crabapples,  most  of  which  are  native  to  the  old 
world.  Sargent,  from  whom  the  three  following  descriptions  are 
largely  derived,  recognizes  in  the  apples  which  are  indigenous  to 
North  America  the  three  species  named  below.1 

NATIVE  WILD  APPLES. 

1.  Pyrus  coronaria  L.,  the  fragrant  crab,  which  is  found  in  glades  from 
Canada,    Western    New    York   and    the   shores    of   Lake    Erie    southward 
along   the  mountains   to  Alabama  and  westward  to  the   Missouri  valley 
and  Texas.     The  flowers  are  large,  showy,  on  slender  pedicels,  white  or 
rose-colored  and  delightfully  fragrant.     Leaves  ovate  to  triangular  ovate 
and  often  three  lobed.     The  fruit  may  reach  a  diameter  of  one  and  one- 
half  inches.     The   calyx  is  persistent.     The  skin,  which  is  green  or  be- 
comes yellowish,  is  waxy  and  has  a  peculiar  aroma.     The  fruit  ripens  late, 
is  sour  and  almost  bitter  but  has  long  been  valued  for  making  preserves. 
No  varieties  of  this  species  are  cultivated  for  the  fruit. 

In  the  prairie  states  this  species  runs  into  the  variety  iowensis  Wood, 
which  some  regard  as  a  distinct  species.  There  are  known  in  cultivation 
hybrids  between  this  and  the  common  apple  as  we  shall  see  later.  The 
fruit  of  ioivensis  sometimes  reaches  a  diameter  of  two  inches. 

2.  Pyrus  angustifolia  Ait.,  the  native  crabapple  of  the  southern  states, 
is   much   like  P.   coronaria  except   that   its   leaves   are   not   lobed   but   are 
lanceolate  oblong  and  acute  at  the  base.     The  flowers  are  white  or  rose- 
pink  and  very  fragrant;  calyx  persistent;  fruit  about  one  inch  in  diameter, 
pale  green  or  yellowish,  ripens  in  winter  and  is   then  very  fragrant  but 

N.  A.,  IV:   70-78. 


2  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK:.  , 

austere.  The  fruit  is  used  for  preserves  but  no  variety  of  this  species 
is  cultivated  for  its  fruit.  The  species  is  found  from  Southwestern 
Pennsylvania  to  Florida  and  west  to  Tennessee  and  Louisiana. 

3.  Pyrus  rivularis  Doug.,  the  Oregon  crabapple,  has  rather  small  white 
flowers,  and  the  calyx  lobes  become  deciduous  from  the  mature  fruits.  The 
fruit  is  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  oblong,  yellowish  or  blushed, 
and  ripens  in  autumn.  It  is  used  by  the  Indians.  No  variety  of  this 
species  is  cultivated  for  its  fruit.  This  species  ranges  from  Northern 
California  northward  along  the  coast  to  the  Aleutian  Islands. 

CULTIVATED  HYBRIDS  OF  NATIVE  APPLES. 

Craig  and  Hume1  describe  four  hybrids  between  the  common  apple  and 
P.  ioivcnsis,  or  other  indigenous  American  crabapples,  which  hybrids  are 
cultivated  for  their  fruit  in  some  locations  in  the  Mississippi  valley. 
These  are  Soulard,  Howard  (or  Hamilton),  Mercer  (or  Fluke)  and  Ken- 
tucky Mammoth  (or  Mathews).  The  fruits  of  these  hybrids  are  fit  only 
for  culinary  uses  or  for  cider.  They  vary  in  size  from  medium  to  large 
for  a  crabapple,  are  green  or  yellowish  and  ripen  in  winter.  These 
hybrids  are  valued  chiefly  where  superior  hardiness  is  a  prime  requisite 
in  a  variety,  but  they  are  practically  unknown  and  unsought  in  New  York 
state  because  there  are  other  kinds  which  are  more  valuable  here. 

SPECIES  INTRODUCED  FROM  THE  OLD  WORLD. 

Ornamentals.  Several  species  of  apples  or  crabapples  which  are 
indigenous  to  the  old  world  are  grown  in  this  country  for  ornamental 
purposes  only,  as,  for  example,  the  flowering  crabs  and  flowering  apples 
from  China  and  Japan.  But  we  are  now  particularly  concerned  with 
those  species  which  have  been  brought  from  the  old  world  to  be  culti- 
vated here  for  their  fruit,  as  shown  in  the  common  apple  and  common 
crabapple. 

The  Common  Apple.  The  apples  which  are  grown  here  for  their 
fruit  mostly  belong  to  the  species  which  Linnaeus  called  Malus.  He 
placed  it  in  the  same  genus  as  the  pear  and  thus  its  botanical  name  became 
Pyrus  malus  L.  Recently  Britton  has  separated  it  from  the  pear  genus 
on  the  ground  that  it  has  flesh  free  from  grit  cells.  He  mak^s  its  botani- 
cal class  Malus  malus  (L.)  Britton.2  This  species  is  particularly  character- 
ized by  simple,  soft  leaves:  flowers  white  or  partly  tinged  with  deep  rose- 
pink,  short-stemmed  and  borne  in  a  simple  umbel;  fruit  depressed  at  both 
ends;  calyx  persistent.  The  under  side  of  the  young  leaves,  the  young 
twigs,  the  buds,  calyx  lobes  and  young  fruits  are  commonly  fuzzy. 

This  species  is  very  variable.  Under  cultivation  it  has  developed 
innumerable  varieties  as  will  be  noticed  farther  on.  Some  varieties 
which  because  their  fruit  is  large  are  called  apples  doubtless  are  hybrids 
between  this  species  and  the  one  next  described. 

The  Common  Crabapple.  The  crabapples  which  we  cultivate  for  their 
fruit  are  for  the  most  part  hybrids  between  the  apple  P.  malus,  and  the 
primitive  Siberian  crab,  or  berry  crab,  called  by  Linnaeus  Pyrus  baccata. 

1  Native  Crabapples  and  Their  Cultivated  Varieties.     la.  Acad.  Sci.,  VII:  123-141.      1899. 

2  Flora  Nor.   States  and  Can.,   II:   236. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  3 

This  species,  baccata,  in  its  pure  forms  is  readily  distinguished  from  the 
apple,  P.  mains.  The  calyx  is  eventually  deciduous,  instead  of  persistent. 
The  leaves  are  firm,  smooth,  bright  green  and  are  borne  on  long,  slender, 
hard  leaf-stalks.  The  twigs  are  smooth  and  slender.  The  ripe  fruit  is 
brilliant  in  color,  red  or  yellow,  does  not  get  mellow,  varies  from  three- 
eighths  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  diameter  and  is  borne  on  long 
slender  stalks.  The  flowers  are  large  and  usually  pure  white.  In  some 
of  the  hybrids,  as,  for  example,  Martha  and  Currant,  the  calyx  is  on  some 
fruits  deciduous,  or  partly  so,  while  on  other  fruits  borne  on  the  same 
tree  the  entire  calyx  may  be  persistent;  also  the  fruit  is  large  and  it  is 
clear  that  other  characters  which  they  show  are  derived  wholly  or  in 
part  from  either  baccata  on  the  one  hand  or  from  malus  on  the  other.1 

It  is  well  to  remark  that  the  name  crabapple  is  not  applied  exclusively 
to  the  Siberian  crabs  and  their  hybrids  but  is  popularly  used  to  designate 
indiscriminately  small  apples  whether  of  the  malus  species  or  of  some 
other  species,  but  the  term  Siberian  crab  is  properly  used  to  indicate  the 
baccata  species  and  its  kin.2 

THE  NATIVE  HOME  OF  THE  APPLE. 

The  original  home  of  the  apple,  P.  malus,  is  not  definitely  known. 
After  examining  the  evidence  carefully  A.  DeCandolle  came  to  the 
conclusion  that  it  is  most  indigenous  to  the  region  south  of  the 
Caucasus,  from  the  Persian  province  Ghilan  on  the  Caspian  to 
Trebizond  on  the  Black  Sea,  and  that  from  prehistoric  times  it  has 
existed  in  Europe,  both  wild  and  cultivated,  over  an  area  extending 
from  the  Caspian  Sea  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean,  except  in  the  extreme 
north.3  He  cites  it  as  being  found  wild  in  the  mountains  of  North- 
west India,  but  not  in  Japan,  Mongolia  or  Siberia. 

Marlatt  says,4  "  The  apple  industry  in  Japan  is  of  recent  origin, 
say  within  the  last  thirty  or  forty  years.  *  *  *  The  varieties 
are  our  varieties  and  have  been  imported  from  America  with  the 
exception  of  some  few  European  sorts.  *  *  *  Prior  to  the 
introduction  of  this  fruit  from  America  it  was  unknown  in  Japan, 
the  native  apple  of  Japan  being  a  crab,  grown  more  for  ornament 
than  for  fruit,  and  a  very  rare  tree,  unknown  to  most  Japanese." 
From  the  reports  of  Marlatt  and  others  it  appears  doubtful 
whether  the  Chinese  knew  this  species  until  cultivated  varieties 
of  it  were  introduced  among  them  from  Europe  and  America. 

xSee  plate  of  Martha,  in  Vol.  II  of  this  report. 

2 See  also  Prof.  Budd's  discussion  of  this  subject  in  Am.  Hort.  Man.,  I:  160.      1902. 

8Or.    Cult.   Plants  233-236.      1885. 

*  Yearbook,    U.    S.   Dept.  Agr.   1902:    161   et  seq. 


4  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

It  appears  that  the  native  apple  of  North  China  is  quite  different 
from  our  common  apple,  P.  mains,  but  rather  like  what  we  call 
"  crabapples."1 

Evidently  the  Siberian  crabapple,  P.  baccata,  had  its  origin  farther 
north  and  east  than  P.  mains.  Bailey  cites  its  habitat  as  Siberia 
to  Manchuria  and  the  Himalayan  region.2 

THE    ORIGIN   AND    DEVELOPMENT    OF   APPLE    CULTURE    IN 

NEW  YORK. 

The  principal  native  fruits  of  New  York,  in  addition  to  the  wild 
crab  already  noticed,  are  the  wild  strawberries,  red  raspberries, 
black  raspberries,  dewberries,  blackberries,  elderberries,  cranberries, 
high-bush  cranberries,  huckleberries,  blueberries,  the  beach  plum 
along  the  seacoast,  the  wild  red  or  Canada  plum  of  the  St.  Law- 
rence valley,  the  wild  red  or  yellow  plum  of  Central  and  Southern 
New  York,  the  fox  grape  in  eastern  and  southeastern  parts  of  the 
state,  the  summer  grape  in  the  southern  counties,  and  the  river-bank 
or  frost  grape  of  general  distribution.  Improved  varieties  of  the 
native  grapes  and  of  many  of  the  small  fruits  are  now  extensively 
grown  both  for  home  use  and  for  market,  but  so  far  as  New  York 
state  is  concerned  this  does  not  hold  true  for  any  of  the  orchard 
fruits.  Some  of  the  native  plums  are  cultivated  in  the  northern 
counties  to  a  very  limited  extent,  but,  generally  speaking,  New  York 
orchard  fruits  are  all  of  old  world  species. 

Introduction  of  the  Apple.  In  view  of  the  primitive  character 
of  our  native  fruits,  it  was  but  natural  that  the  Europeans  when 
they  began  to  form  settlements  on  this  continent  should  bring  their 
favorite  fruits  with  them  from  the  old  world.  This  they  did. 
Some  few  brought  trees  or  scions  of  choice  varieties,  but  more  fol- 
lowed the  less  expensive  plan  of  bringing  seeds  of  selected  fruits 
to  plant  about  their  new  homes  in  America,  just  as  their  descendants 
till  recent  times  have  continued  to  do  when  leaving  the  older  settle- 
ments of  the  East  to  take  up  pioneer  life  along  the  frontier  of 
civilization. 

aMarlatt  1.    c.   Cf.   Leroy  Diet,   de  Pom.,   3:5. 
2Cyc.   Am.   Hort.   111:1472. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  5 

The  introduction  of  the  apple  into  New  York  along  with  other 
old  world  fruits  was  thus  begun  nearly  three  hundred  years  ago. 
In  the  following  years,  at  one  time  or  another,  very  many  of  the 
cultivated  varieties  of  apples  of  Western  Europe  were  brought  here, 
and  this  importation  has  been  kept  up  with  each  succeeding  genera- 
tion till  the  present  time.  In  the  earliest  settlements  doubtless  the 
varieties  which  were  first  brought  into  New  York  were  mostly  from 
Holland.  Later  some  came  from  Germany,  France  and  other  con- 


FIG.  i.    INDIAN  APPLE  TREE  STILL  STANDING  NEAR  THE  GENEVA  EXPERIMENT 

STATION  IN  1904. 

tinental  countries,  and  many  from  the  British  Isles,  either  directly 
or  through  neighboring  colonies. 

The  Early  Dissemination  of  the  Apple.  When  once  the  apple 
was  introduced  its  dissemination  kept  pace  with  the  progress  of  the 
settlement  of  the  country.  In  fact,  it  was  carried  by  Indians, 
traders  and  white  missionaries  far  into  the  wilderness  beyond  the 
outermost  white  settlements.  Reports  of  General  Sullivan's  expedi- 
tion, in  1779,  against  the  Cayttgas  and  Senecas,  in  describing  the 
Indian  villages  which  were  then  destroyed,  make  frequent  mention 


6  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

of  peach  and  apple  orchards  that  were  found  bending  with  fruit. 
Within  sight  of  the  Geneva  Experiment  Station  are  two  very  old 
Indian  apple  trees,  the  only  ones  in  this  vicinity  now  left  out  of  many 
hundreds  which  the  Indians  were  growing  in  the  clearings  about 
their  town  of  Kanadesaga,  which  was  located  here.  The  illus- 
tration, Fig.  i,  shows  the  present  appearance  of  one  of  the  trees. 
Both  bear  winter  fruit  of  medium  size.  The  fruit  of  one  is  very 
good  for  cooking,  that  of  the  other  is  pleasant  flavored,  subacid 
and  very  good  for  eating.  Neither  has  been  propagated.  These 
trees  are  interesting  as  types  of  the  seedling"  apples  which  were 
most  common  around  the  homes  of  the  early  settlers,  and  also  to 
some  extent  in  the  Indian  villages. 


FIG.  2.    COLLECTION   OF   VARIETIES   OF   WILD    APPLES   FROM    A    HILL   PASTURE   AT 

CHITTENANGO. 

The  Apple  now  Grows  Wild  in  New  York.  The  apple  now 
grows  wild  in  various  parts  of  New  York  state.  It  is  notably 
abundant  along  fence  rows  and  in  hill  pastures  in  some  places  in 
Southern  and  Southeastern  New  York  and  on  the  Onondaga  lime- 
stone formation  in  Onondaga  and  Madison  counties.  Fig.  2  shows 
the  fruit  of  several  wild  apples  which  were  found  in  a  hill  pasture 
near  Chittenango  in  Madison  county.  Some  of  these  are  superior 
to  many  of  the  named  and  cultivated  sorts,  being  more  attractive, 
larger  and  of  better  quality. 

The  Siberian  crab  has  not,  to  my  knowledge,  ever  been  found 
growing  spontaneously  either  in  New  York  or  in  any  other  part 
of  this  continent. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  7 

Primitive  Orchards.  As  the  early  settlements  gradually  ex- 
tended back  from  the  Atlantic  coast  region  the  pioneers  who  over- 
spread the  interior  of  New  York,  hewing  farms  out  of  the  forests, 
planted  around  their  new  homes  apple  seeds  brought  from  the  older 
settlements  or  from  Europe.  It  is  commonly  known  that  the  culti- 
vated varieties  of  the  apple  seldom,  if  ever,  reproduce  true  from 
seed.  For  example,  seedlings  of  large  apples  may  bear  very  small 
fruit,  seedlings  of  red  apples  may  bear  green  or  yellow  fruit,  seed- 
lings of  sour  apples  may  bear  sweet  fruit.  In  fact,  not  often  does 
the  fruit  of  a  seedling  apple  resemble  the  fruit  of  the  parent  closely 
enough  to  indicate  its  parentage  clearly.  The  exceptions  to  this 
general  statement  will  be  considered  later.  It  appears  at  first 
thought  that  it  would  be  better  for  the  fruit  grower  if  the  different 
kinds  of  apples  came  true  from  seed,  as  garden  vegetables  do.  Then 
lie  could  supply  himself  with  as  many  trees  of  a  kind  as  he  liked  by 
simply  growing  seedlings  of  that  kind  instead  of  propagating  the 
variety  by  budding  or  grafting,  as  is  now  done.  But  from  another 
point  of  view  the  great  variability  of  the  apple  seedlings  is  a  most 
valuable  feature.  It  has  made  possible  more  rapid  progress  than 
could  otherwise  have  been  made  in  developmg  varieties  especially 
well  adapted  to  succeed  in  the  new  world.  Large  numbers  of  Euro- 
pean apples  have  been  tried  in  America,  but  the  great  majority  have 
failed  to  maintain  themselves  alongside  of  American  varieties,  and 
soon  have  been  discarded  from  American  orchards  and  nurseries. 
But  among  the  innumerable  seedlings  of  infinite  variety  which  have 
been  grown  on  this  continent  during  the  last  three  hundred  years 
certain  ones  have  been  found  from  time  to  time  that  succeed  better 
in  this  country  than  those  kinds  do  which  have  been  brought  in 
from  Europe.  So  also  in  the  region  west  of  the  Great  Lakes  the 
varieties  which  are  succeeding  best  are  selections  from  seedlings 
which  have  been  originated  in  that  region.  This  is  in  accordance 
with  what  appears  to  be  a  general  rule,  that  the  varieties  originating 
in  any  section,  probably  because  they  have  been  selected  on  account 
of  their  capacity  to  fit  the  conditions,  gradually  supersede  those 
brought  in  from  outside.  This  holds  true  with  regard  to  different 
sections  of  this  country,  and,  as  we  shall  see  later,  even  of  different 
regions  within  New  York  state. 


8 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 


The  fruit  from  the  seedling  trees  would  now  be  called  "  natural  " 
or  "  seedling  "  fruit  in  distinction  from  grafted  fruit ;  in  the  early 
days,  however,  and  even  within  the  last  half  century,  the  fruit  of 
these  seedling  apples  was  also  called  "  common  "  fruit,  a  designation 
which  might  have  arisen  because  of  the  abundance  of  such  trees  at 
that  time.  Such  apples  were  then  used  chiefly  for  feeding  to  stock 
and  for  cider-making,  being  on  that  account  often  called  cider  apples. 
The  surplus,  if  there  were  any,  was  usually  allowed  to  rot  because 
there  was  no  profitable  way  of  disposing  of  it. 


FIG.  2a.    THE  OLD  TREE  STANDS  AS  A  REMINDER  OF  THE  DAYS  OF  THE  STAGE- 
COACH AND  THE  PARING-BEE. 

In  many  parts  of  New  York,  especially  in  the  eastern  two-thirds 
of  the  state,  there  are  still  seen  portions  of  the  primitive  seedling 
orchards  varying  in  age  from  fifty  to  one  hundred  years,  or  possibly 
more.  The  old  trees,  having  outlived  their  companions,  stand  as 
silent  reminders  of  the  days  of  the  stage-coach,  the  hand-loom,  the 
spinning-wheel,  and  the  paring-bee,  and  of  the  time  when  the  farmer 
generally  considered  his  winter  supplies  incomplete  unless  there 
were  several  barrels  of  cider  stored  in  the  cellar. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  9 

Mixed  Orchards.  It  is  pretty  certain  that  grafted  fruit  was 
known  in  the  earliest  orchards  to  a  limited  extent  only.  In  an 
appendix  to  Cobbett's  American  edition  of  Forsyth's  Fruit  Trees, 
published  in  Albany,  1803,  there  is  a  communication  from  a  member 
of  the  State  Agricultural  Society,  Peter  W.  Yates,  in  which  he 
remarks  concerning  the  practice  of  grafting  and  budding  (inocu- 
lating) in  America: 

'  The  practice  of  grafting  and  inoculating  in  America  is  but  of 
modern  date.  It  was  introduced  by  Mr.  Prince,  a  native  of  New 
York,  who  erected  a  nursery  in  its  neighborhood  about  forty  years 
ago.  But  since  the  late  American  revolution  others  have  been  insti- 
tuted in  this  and  some  other  parts  of  the  United  States.  Mr. 
Livingston  has  lately  established  one,  not  far  from  the  city  of  New 
York,  which  can  vie  with  some  of  the  most  celebrated  ones  in 
Europe.  May  he,  and  others  who  have  undertaken  that  useful 
branch  of  business,  meet  with  encouragement  and  success." 

Although  his  idea  that  grafting  and  budding  were  introduced  in 
America  by  Mr.  Prince  is  based  upon  a  misapprehension  of  the 
facts,  Mr.  Yates'  statements  are  of  interest  because  they  tend  to 
show  that  prior  to  the  Revolutionary  war  the  planting  of  orchards 
with  grafted  trees  from  the  nursery  was  not  common  in  the  vicinity 
of  Albany,  one  of  the  oldest  settlements  in  the  state.  But  there  is 
reliable  evidence  that  grafting  was  practiced  to  some  extent  by 
American  colonists  long  before  the  establishment  of  the  Prince 
nurseries  at  Flushing,  Long  Island.  Taylor1  says :  "  Certain  it  is 
that  in  1647  the  apple  is  recorded  as  grafted  upon  wild  stocks  in 
Virginia ;  while  in  1686  William  Fitzhugh,  in  describing  his  own 
plantation,  mentions  '  a  large  orchard  of  about  2,500  apple  trees, 
most  grafted,  well  fenced  with  a  locust  fence.'  By  the  close  of  the 
seventeenth  century  there  were  few  plantations  in  Virginia  without 
orchards  of  apple,  peach,  pear,  plum,  apricot  and  quince.  *  *  * 
Frequent  importations  of  seeds,  scions  and  grafted  trees,  together 
with  propagation  of  those  already  noticed,  both  by  seeds  and  grafts, 
brought  the  orchards  of  New  England  up  to  such  point  that  Dudley, 
in  1726,  stated  in  a  paper  in  the  Philosophical  Transactions,  '  our 

xy.  S.  Dept.  Ag.  Yearbook,   1897:308. 


io  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

apples  are  without  doubt  as  good  as  those  of  England,  and  much 
fairer  to  look  to,  and  so  are  the  pears,  but  we  have  not  got  all  the 
sorts.  *  *  *  Our  people  of  late  years  have  run  so  much  upon 
orchards  that  in  a  village  near  Boston,  consisting  of  ribout  forty 
families,  they  made  near  ten  thousand  barrels  (of  cider)/ 

"  Perhaps  the.  earliest  recorded  grafted  tree  brought  from  Europe 
(that  of  Governor  Endicott  is  stated  to  have  been  a  seedling)  was 
the  Summer  Bonchretien,  planted  by  Governor  Stuyvesant,  in 
1647,  m  NCW  Amsterdam.  It  is  said  to  have  been  brought  from 
Holland,  and  its  trunk  remained  standing  on  the  corner  of  Third 
avenue  and  Thirteenth  street,  New  York  city,  until  1866,  when 
it  was  broken  down  by  a  dray.  Many  of  the  earliest  introduc- 
tions of  named  varieties  of  the  pear,  including  White  Doyenne, 
St.  Germain,  Brown  Beurre,  Virgouleuse,  etc.,  were  made  by  the 
French  Huguenots,  who  settled  about  Boston  and  New  York 
shortly  after  the  revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes  in  1685." 

It  was  at  Flushing,  Long  Island,  in  one  of  these  Huguenot  settle- 
ments, that  the  Prince  nurseries  above  referred  to  were  established, 
about  1730.  Near  here  the  famous  Newtown  Pippin  originated. 

While  grafted  fruit  was  certainly  known  in  some  orchards  of  the 
early  settlers  and  sometimes  an  entire  orchard  was  planted  with 
grafted  nursery  trees,  yet,  taking  the  state  as  a  whole,  in  the  earlier 
days  more  often  the  orchards  were  of  seedling  trees,  with  only 
a  portion  of  them  top-worked  to  improved  kinds,  and  so  the 
ordinary  farm  orchard  was  made  up  partly  of  "  common  "  or  of 
"  cider  "  apples  and  partly  of  grafted  fruit.  A  great  diversity  of 
varieties  of  grafted  fruit  was  usually  included  in  this  class  of 
orchards,  because  the  object  was  to  furnish  the  home  with  fruit 
from  the  first  of  the  season  through  the  autumn,  winter  and  the 
spring,  and  even  till  early  summer.  Transportation  facilities  being 
crude,  there  was  little  encouragement  for  shipping  apples  to  distant 
markets.  When  the  farmer  went  to  town  he  would  often  take  with 
him  a  few  bushels  of  apples,  to  offer  in  trade  for  articles  which  he 
wished  to  purchase.  The  other  ways  of  disposing  of  surplus  apples 
were  in  the  manufacture  of  cider,  boiled  cider,  and  vinegar,  or  in 
drying  the  fruit.  For  the  latter  operation  the  kitchen  stove  was 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  n 

usually  surrounded  with  festoons  of  quartered  fruit  which  had  been 
patiently  strung  on  tow  strings,  or  the  prepared  fruit  was  spread  on 
racks  above  or  on  papers  beneath  the  stove. 

Commercial  Orchards.  The  development  of  domestic  and  for- 
eign commerce  in  apples  and  apple  products,  such  as  dried  apples, 
cider,  apple  brandy  and  vinegar,  naturally  first  assumed  importance 
in  New  York  in  the  vicinity  of  New  York  city  because  this  was  the 
metropolis  and  a  seaport.  Speaking  of  the  beginning  of  the  foreign 
trade  of  this  country  in  fruits  Taylor  remarks  :l  '  Trade  in  this 
fruit  with  the  West  Indies  probably  developed  early  in  the  eighteenth 
century,  though  we  have  no  record  of  shipments  till  1741,  when  it 
is  stated  apples  were  exported  from  New  England  to  the  West  Indies 
in  considerable  abundance.  No  transatlantic  shipment  has  been 
disclosed  earlier  than  that  of  a  package  of  Newtown  Pippins  of  the 
crop  of  1758  sent  to  Benjamin  Franklin  while  in  London.  The 
sight  and  taste  of  these  brought  to  John  Bartram,  of  Philadelphia,  an 
order  for  grafts  of  the  variety  from  Franklin's  friend  Collinson, 
who  said  of  the  fruit  he  ate :  '  What  comes  from  you  are  delicious 
fruit — if  our  sun  will  ripen  them  to  such  perfection.'  Subsequently 
a  considerable  trade  must  have  resulted,  for  in  1773  it  was  stated  by 
the  younger  Collinson,  that  while  the  English  apple  crop  had  failed 
that  year,  American  apples  had  been  found  an  admirable  substitute, 
some  of  the  merchants  having  imported  great  quantities  of  them. 
*  *  Statistics  on  the  subject  are  lacking  until  1821,  when  the 
total  export  of  fruit  included  in  the  treasury  statement  consisted  of 
68,443  bushels  of  apples,  valued  at  $39,966." 

It  was  not  till  after  the  first  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century  had 
passed  that  commercial  apple  culture  began  to  be  developed  in  New 
York  to  any  considerable  extent  above  the  southern  part  of  the 
Hudson  valley. 

According  to  Mr.  W.  D.  Barns  of  Middlehope,  the  planting  of  com- 
mercial apple  orchards  did  not  receive  much  attention  in  Ulster  county 
till  1820  to  1825,  although  Robert  Pell  of  Esopus  had  about  20  acres  of 
bearing  Newtown  Pippin  trees  from  which  he  exported  fruit  as  early  as 
from  1825  to  1830.  Along  the  Hudson  where  the  fruit  could  be  easily 
transported  to  New  York  city  by  boat  the  trade  included  a  large  number 
of  summer  and  fall  apples  as  well  as  winter  varieties.  They  were  shipped, 

M.  c.,  311. 


12  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

says  Mr.  Barns,  in  straw-head  barrels.  Some  were  contracted  for  by 
dealers  in  New  York  and  some  were  sold  by  the  captain  of  the  steamboat 
that  carried  them  to  the  city.  The  prices  were  $i  to  $1.50  per  barrel, 
barrel  returned.  Among  the  favorite  early  kinds  were  Summer  Pippin 
(also  called  Sour  Bough,  Champlain  and  Nyack  Pippin),  Spice  Sweet  and 
Jersey  Sweet. 

Mr.  P.  C.  Reynolds  of  Rochester  removed  in  1836  from  the  northeast 
part  of  Dutchess  county  to  northern  Ontario  county  near  Palmyra.  He 
states  that  in  1830  on  their  Dutchess  county  farm  were  two  orchards. 
The  older  was  planted  about  1775  and  contained  nothing  but  "  natural  " 
or  seedling  trees.  In  the  younger  orchard  about  5  per  cent  were  grafted 
trees.  Among  the  seedlings  were  some  excellent  apples.  The  grafted 
varieties  were  Yellow  Harvest,  Bough  Sweet,  Fall  Pippin,  Westfield  Seek- 
No-Further,  Black  Gilliflower,  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Esopus  Spitzen- 
burg.  The  Baldwin  was  not  known  there.  That  portion  of  the  fruit  not 
used  by  the  family  was  either  fed  to  farm  animals  or  made  into  cider. 
There  were  some  large  orchards  in  the  neighborhood  inside  of  which  no 
animals  were  permitted.  The  fruit  of  .these  trees  was  used  for  making 
cider  brandy,  otherwise  called  "apple-jack."  In  that  form  it  became  an 
article  of  commerce. 

This  is  an  interesting  account  and  typical  of  the  orchard  condi- 
tions in  that  part  of  the  state  in  the  first  quarter  of  the  last  century. 
The  view  which  Mr.  Reynolds  gives  of  apple  orcharding  in  northern 
Ontario  county  in  1836  is  equally  interesting  because  it  is  typical 
of  the  apple  orcharding  of  that  time  in  what  is  now  an  important 
apple-growing  region  of  New  York. 

He  says  their  farm  in  Ontario  county  in  1836  had  two  orchards  with 
about  10  per  cent  of  the  trees  bearing  grafted  fruit.  A  few  more  varieties 
were  grafted  in  but  no  Baldwins.  No  apples  were  sold  from  these 
orchards  till  1843  when  some  commission  men  from  Palmyra  bought  the 
grafted  fruit  for  a  New  York  firm  paying  about  75  cents  per  barrel  for 
the  fruit,  finding  the  barrels.  The  fruit  was  shipped  by  the  Erie  Canal. 
In  1848  he  began  to  graft  the  seedling  trees  in  one  orchard  to  varieties 
that  were  being  recommended  by  Barry,  Thomas  and  Downing  and  in- 
cluded Northern  Spy,  Baldwin,  Detroit  Red,  Gravenstein,  Porter,  Peck 
Pleasant  and  a  number  of  other  sorts. 

Development  of  Nurseries.  Concerning  the  Prince  nursery 
above  mentioned,  L.  B.  Prince  says  :l 

"  The  nursery,  which  was  perhaps  the  first  large  commercial  one  in 
America,  was  established  about  1730  by  Robert  Prince.  The  Huguenots 
who  settled  at  New  Rochelle  and  on  the  north  shore  of  Long  Island 
brought  with  them  a  variety  of  French  fruits,  and  the  interest  thus  created 
in  horticulture  resulted  in  the  establishment  of  this  first  nursery.  For  a 
number  of  years  attention  was  confined  chiefly  to  the  fruit  trees  with 
which  to  stock  the  new  country,  and  it  was  only  when  more  settled  con- 

iCyc.  Am.  Hort.,  Bailey,  III:  1435. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  13 

ditions  came  that  the  culture  of  ornamental  trees  and  shrubs  was  intro- 
duced. *  *  *  The  catalogues  from  1815  to  1850  ranked  among  the 
standard  horticultural  publications  of  the  country.  *  *  *  The  cata- 
logue of  1845  which  enumerates  only  the  best  varieties,  contains  350  vari- 
ties  of  apples." 

At  about  the  middle  of  the  last  century  the  nursery  trade  began 
to  be  more  active.  Instead  of  planting  seedling  orchards,  it  became 
a  common  practice  to  plant  orchards  with  grafted  trees  from  the 
nurseries.  Large  nurseries  became  more  numerous,  especially  in 
the  interior  of  the  state,  where  Rochester,  Geneva,  Dansville  and 
some  other  places  became  quite  important  centers  of  the  nursery 
trade. 

Development  of  Commercial  Orchards.  As  transportation  facil- 
ities gradually  improved  by  the  opening  of  canals  and  railways  the 
farmers  in  many  interior  localities  found  that  they  could  send  their 
fruit  to  other  than  local  markets  and  receive  profitable  returns. 
Accordingly  commercial  orcharding  began  to  attract  attention,  espe- 
cially in  regions  which  were  found  to  be  naturally  favorable  to  the 
production  of  good  apples.  From  1850  to  1860  the  number  of  com- 
mercial orchards  which  were,  planted  increased  rapidly,  particularly 
in  Western  New  York,  and  continued  to  increase  thereafter  till 
commercial  apple  orcharding  assumed  the  important  place  which  it 
now  holds  in  the  horticultural  interests  of  the  state. 

With  the  development  of  the  commercial  apple  interests  the  losses 
from  the  depredations  of  the  codlin  moth  and  other  insects,  also  from 
the  apple  scab  and  other  fungous  diseases,  became  relatively  more 
important.  Commonly  the  causes  of  the  losses  which  were  sus- 
tained were  not  very  well  understood,  and  in  those  cases  that  were 
understood  there  appeared  no  practical  remedy.  Because  of  these 
and  other  difficulties  which  faced  them  some  orchardists  eventually 
became  so  discouraged  at  the  outlook  that  in  the  decade  from  1880 
to  1890  they  began  to  cut  down  their  commercial  apple  orchards. 
The  practical  use  in  the  apple  orchard  of  paris  green  and  other 
arsenical  poisons  against  the  codlin  moth,  the  canker  worm  and 
other  leaf-eating  insects  originated  for  the  most  part  in  Western 
New  York  in  the  decade  from  1870  to  iSSo.1  The  use  of  fungicidal 

1Lodeman,  Spraying  of  Plants:  61-64. 

Hooker,  C.  M.  Spraying  Apple  Orchards.  Proc.  49  An.  Meet.  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Socy., 
Rochester,  1904:  131. 


14  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

sprays  was  introduced  in  the  decade  from  1885  to  1895.  The 
demonstration  that  by  combined  treatment  with  fungicides  and 
insecticides  some  of  the  most  destructive  enemies  of  the  apple  might 
be  profitably  kept  under  control  put  the  business  of  growing  apples 
upon  a  more  stable  basis  than  ever  before.  In  the  decade  from 
1890  to  1900  notable  improvements  in  the  methods  of  orchard  man- 
agement in  matters  of  tillage  and  cover  crops  came  into  vogue 
among  progressive  commercial  orchardists.  During  the  same  period 
the  facilities  for  holding  apples  both  in  common  storage  and  in  cold 
storage  were  greatly  increased.1  The  export  trade  developed  more 
extensively,  giving  steadier  markets  for  the  better  grades  of  fresh 
fruit  and  also  of  evaporated  apples,2  and  the  business  of  canning 
apples  assumed  considerable  importance. 

1  Powell  in  the  Yearbook  of  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agric.  1903:  228  gives  statistics  furnished  by 
the  International  Apple  Shippers'  Association  showing  the  number  of  barrels  held  in  cold 
storage  in  the  United  States  about  December  i  of  each  year  since  1898: 

Apples  in  storage  about  December  i  of  each  year  from  1898  to  1903. 


Barrels. 

1898 800,000 

1899 1,518,750 

1900   1,226,900 


Barrels. 

1901 1,771,200 

1902 2,978,050 

1903 2,348,540 

2  The  annual   export   of  apples   and  dried  apples   from  the  United   States   for  the  years 
1891   to   1903  inclusive  is  shown  in  the  following  table: 

APPLES.  DRIED  APPLES. 


Year.  Barrels.  Value.  Pounds.  Value. 

1891  135,207  $476,897  6,973,168  $409,605 

1892 938,743  -,407»9S6  26,042,063  1,288,102 

1893  408,014  1,097,967  7,966,819  482,085 

1894 78,580  242,617  2,846,645  168,054 

1895  818,711  1,954,318  7,085,946  461,214 

1896 360,002  930,289  26,691,963  1,340,507 

1897  1,503,981  2,371,143  30,775,401  1,340,159 

1898 605,3,90  1,684,717  31,031,254  1,897,725 

1899  380,022  1,210,459  19,305,739  1,245,733 

1900  526,636  1,444,655  34,964,010  2,247,851 

1901  883,673  2,058,964  28,309,023  1,510,581 

1902  459,719  1,628,886  15,664,468  1,190,593 

1903  1,656,129  4,381,801  39,646,297  2,378,635 

In  that  section  of  the  Lake  Ontario  apple  belt  which  is  included  in  Wayne  county  prob- 
ably a  larger  proportion  of  the  apple  crop  has  been  made  into  dried  apples  than  in  any 
other  section  of  the  state.  Wayne  county  contains  9  townships.  Its  total  area  is  624 
square  miles.  On  some  farms  the  entire  product  of  the  orchard  is  put  through  the  evapo- 
rator, none  of  the  fruit  being  sold  green.  In  one  township,  Sodus,  there  were  in  1896 
about  400  evaporators.  In  1896  Wayne  county  marketed  about  5,000,000  bushels  of  green 
apples.  In  that  year  about  1500  carloads  of  evaporated  apples  were  shipped  out  of  the 
county,  representing  about  5,250,000  bushels  of  green  apples.  Mr.  E.  S.  Johnson  of 
Wolcott  who  supplied  the  above  information  also  stated  that  Wolcott  for  the  decade  ending 
in  1896  received  an  average  of  $250,000  per  annum  for  its  output  of  evaporated  apples. 
This  fruit  came  from  within  a  radius  of  6  to  10  miles  of  the  railroad  station.  The 
average  price  to  growers  for  the  same  period  was  estimated  at  6|  cents  to  7  cents 
per  pound.  The  prices  were  sometimes  as  low  as  from  3  to  3!  cents  and  sometimes 
reached  as  high  as  12  cents  to  13. cents. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  15 

On  the  whole  the  industry  of  growing  apples  rests  now  on  a  more 
stable  and  satisfactory  basis  than  at  any  previous  period  in  its 
history. 

Lists  1845-1903.  The  1845  catalogue  of  the  Prince  nursery,  as 
noted  above,  which  claimed  to  enumerate  only  the  best  varieties, 
contains  350  varieties  of  the  apple.  At  that  time  the  Baldwin  was  but 
little  known  in  New  York  state,  although  in  the  vicinity  of  Boston 
it  was  already  highly  esteemed  as  a  market  apple.1  In  1845  A-  J- 
Downing  made  the  first  attempt  to  list  all  of  the  varieties  of  apples 
known  in  cultivation  in  America  in  his  work  entitled  "  The  Fruits 
and  Fruit-trees  of  America."  This  was  revised  the  second  time  by 
his  brother  Charles  Downing  in  1869.  Bailey  finds  that  in  these 
two  lists  there  are  1,856  varieties  named,  of  which  the  origin  of 
172  is  not  known,  585  are  of  foreign  origin,  and  1,099  are  American 
varieties.2 

Tnylor  reports3  that  the  1852  list  of  the  American  Pomological  Society 
consists  of  32  varieties,  all  but  one  of  which,  White  Seek-No-Further,  are  still 
propagated  by  nurserymen.  The  list  is  here  given. 

"  FRUITS  WORTHY  OF  GENERAL  CULTIVATION  "  :  American  Summer  Pearmain 
(Summer  Pearmain),  Baldwin,  Bullock's  Pippin,  Danvers  Winter  Sweet, 
Early  Harvest,  Early  Strawberry,  Fall  Pippin,  Fameuse,  Gravenstein,  Hub- 
bardston  Nonsuch,  Large  Yellow  Bough  (Sweet  Bough),  Lady  Apple,  Porter, 
Red  Astrachan,  Rhode  Island  Greening,  Roxbury  Russet,  Summer  Rose, 
Swaar,  Vandervere  (Newtown  Spitzenburg),  White  Seek-No-Further,  Wine 
Apple  or  Hays,  Winesap — (twenty-two  varieties).  "  FOR  PARTICULAR  LOCALI- 
TIES " :  Canada  Red,  Esopus  Spitzenburg,  Newtown  Pippin,  Northern  Spy, 
Yellow  Belle  Fleur — (five  varieties).  "  NEW  VARIETIES  WHICH  PROMISE 
WELL":  Autumn  Bough,  Hawley,  Melon,  Mother,  Northern  Spy  (repeated), 
Smoke-house — (six  varieties).  Total  32  varieties. 

Additions  to  this  list  made  from  1852  to  1891  brought  the  number  of  names 
up  to  435  of  which  "  22  were  synonyms  of  others  so  that  but  413  presumably 
distinct  varieties  "  had  then  been  listed.  Many  of  these  had  been  rejected 
so  that  the  list  of  1891  contained  "  339  names,  of  which  at  least  two  are  recog- 
nized synonyms.'' 

This  Society's  list  for  1901  consists  of  296  names. 

In  1883  Barry  made  a  descriptive  list,4  the  main  object  of  which  was 
"  to  bring  to  the  notice  of  cultivators  the  best  varieties,  those  which  ample 
experience  has  proved  to  be  really  valuable,  or  which  upon  a  partial  trial 
give  strong  indications  of  becoming  so."  The  list  includes  29  summer 
apples,  32  fall  apples,  102  winter  apples,  and  21  crabapples. 

aThacher  Amer.  Orch.,  Boston,   1822:  121. 

Kenrick  New  Amer.    Orch.,   Boston,    1832:    41. 

Manning,  Book  of  Fruits,  Salem,  1838:  59. 
2  An.  Hort.,  1892:  230. 
aAm.  Pom.  Soc..  1895:   192. 
4 Barry's    Fruit  Garden:   331-361. 


1 6  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

The  first  edition  of  Thomas'  Fruit  Culturist  was  written  in  1844,  and 
subsequently  much  enlarged  through  several  revised  editions.1  The  lists 
of  apples  published  in  the  twenty-first  edition,  1003,  include  954  varieties. 

The  number  of  named  varieties  of  the  apple  now  runs  into  the  thou- 
sands. Gregory2  states  that  about  1,200  varieties,  of  apples  were  planted 
in  an  orchard  of  the  University  of  Illinois  in  1869.  Bailey3  asserts  that 
the  varieties  of  apple  trees  on  sale  in  the  United  States  in  any  one  year 
are  not  far  from  1000  kinds.  His  inventory  of  the  apples  sold  by  nursery- 
men in  1892  includes  878  entries,4 

The  Old-time  Grafted  Fruit.  As  has  already  been  noticed,  some  of 
the  European  settlers  brought  with  them,  or  afterwards  imported,  scions 
or  trees  of  the  apples  cultivated  in  Europe.  A  few  nurseries  were  estab- 
lished at  an  early  day  in  which  these  European  kinds  were  propagated. 
Gradually  American  varieties  found  their  way  into  grafted  orchards  and 
into  nurseries  and  gained  the  preeminence  which  as  a  class  they  con- 
tinue to  hold.  Among  the  varieties  originating  on  Long  Island  or  in  the 
Hudson  valley,  or  brought  into  the  state  from  New  England  or  New 
Jersey,  which  were  being  grafted  into  the  farm  orchards  in  the  older 
settled  parts  of  the  state  a  century  or  more  ago  were  Green  Newtown, 
Yellow  Newtown  (the  two  being  often  referred  to  indiscriminately  as 
the  Newtown  Pippin),  Swaar,  Esopus  Spitzenburg,  Fall  Pippin,  Bough 
Sweet  (also  called  Large  Yellow  Bough),  Yellow  Bellflower,  Westfield 
Seek-No-Further,  Rhode  Island  Greening,  Tolman  Sweet,  Pumpkin 
3weet  (often  called  Pound  Sweet),  and  Roxbury  Russet.  Besides  some 
of  these,  the  Fameuse  or  Snow  was  also  grown  in  the  Champlain  and  St. 
Lawrence  valleys,  having  been  introduced  from  Canada. 

Warder^  states  that  grafts  taken  from  the  orchard  of  Israel  Putnam, 
of  wolf-killing  memory,  in  Pomfret,  Conn.,  were  set  in  an  apple  nursery 
at  Marietta,  Ohio,  by  W.  Rufus  Putnam  in  1796,  and  most  of  the  early 
orchards  of  that  region  were  planted  from  this  nursery.  He  cites  the 
following  authentic  list  of  the  varieties  propagated  as  given  in  the  Ohio 
Cultivator,  Aug.  i,  1846: 


1.  Putnam  Russet  (Roxbury). 

2.  Seek-No-Further   (Westfield). 

3.  Early  Chandler. 

4.  Gilliflower. 

5.  Pound   Royal   (Lowell). 

6.  Natural  (a  seedling). 

7.  Rhode  Island  Greening. 

8.  Yellow  Greening. 

9.  Golden  Pippin. 

10.  Long  Island  Pippin. 

11.  Tallman  Sweeting. 


12.  Striped  Sweeting. 

13.  Honey  Greening. 

14.  Kent  Pippin. 

15.  Cooper. 

1 6.  Striped  Gilliflower. 

17.  Black  Gilliflower. 

1 8.  Prolific  Beauty. 

19.  Queening  (Summer  Queen?). 

20.  English  Pearmain. 

21.  Green  Pippin. 

22.  Spitzenburg  (Esopus?). 


In  1806  Bernard  M'Mahon  published  at  Philadelphia  in  his  American 
Gardener's  Calendar  a  list  of  apples  recommended  for  planting  which,  in 
addition  to  some  of  the  varieties  named  above,  includes  Early  Harvest, 
Early  Red  Margaret,  Vandevere,  Newark  Pippin,  Priestly,  Holland  Pippin 

1  Preface    to  Nineteenth  Edition. 

2  Rep.   Univ.  111.,  1870:  44. 
3Cyc.   Am.  Hort.,  I:  78. 

4 An.   Hort.,  1892:  253. 
6 Am.   Pom.  Apples:  25. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  17 

and  Quince.  Bailey  has  republished  the  complete  list,1  thus  making  it 
more  widely  accessible,  together  with  the  list  of  one  hundred  selected 
kinds  published  by  William  Coxe  in  1817  in  his  work  on  Fruit  Trees,  the 
two  lists  of  the  Downings,  1845  and  1869,  and  a  survey  by  himself  of  the 
contemporary  varieties  in  1892. 

Coxe  states2  that  his  list  includes  "a  selection  of  one  hundred  kinds 
of  the  most  estimable  apples  cultivated  in  our  country  "  with  "  a  corre- 
sponding engraving  of  each  kind."  Besides  some  of  the  kinds  mentioned 
above,  Coxe  describes  among  others  the  Maiden  Blush,  Siberian  Crab, 
Domine,  Rambo,  Pomme  d'Api  or  Lady  Apple,  Doctor,  Long  Island 
Russet,  Ribston  Pippin,  Newtown  Spitzenburg,  Roman  Stem,  Pennock, 
Winesap  and  Gilpin. 

Varieties  now  in  the  Lead.  In  1896  the  writer,  assisted  by 
Prof.  C.  P.  Close,  made  an  inquiry  as  to  what  varieties  were  then 
grown  most  extensively  throughout  the  state  and  their  relative 
hardiness.3  During  the  present  year,  1904,  many  inquiries  have 
been  made  also  among  the  fruit  growers  of  the  state  concerning  the 
varieties  of  apples  that  are  being  grown,  as  to  their  relative  im- 
portance and  characteristics.  From  these  and  other  data  it  appears 
that  Baldwin  ranks  preeminently  above  any  other  kind  of  apple  in 
importance  in  the  commercial  orchards  of  the  state.  Probably  more 
Baldwin  apples  are  put  upon  the  market  than  all  other  kinds  in  the 
state  put  together.  Rhode  Island  Greening  ranks  next  in  im- 
portance. It  is  doubtless  speaking  within  bounds  to  say  that  these 
two  varieties  supply  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  apples  grown  for 
market  in  New  York.  Next  in  general  importance  comes  Northern 
Spy.  The  relative  rank  of  other  varieties  is  not  so  readily  deter- 
mined, but  in  the  following  list  those  of  more  general  importance 
precede  those  of  less  importance,  although  it  may  be  not  in  exact 
order.  Among  other  important  kinds,  besides  the  three  just  named, 
are  Tompkins  King,  Roxbury,  Golden  Russet,  Hubbardston,  Esopus 
Spitzenburg,  Black  Gilliflower,  Ben  Davis,  Tolman  Sweet,  Twenty 
Ounce,  Pumpkin  Sweet,  Swaar,  Westfield  Seek-No- Further, 
Fameuse,  Fall  Pippin,  Yellow  Bellflower,  Yellow  Newtown,  Green 
Newtown,  Jonathan,  Red  Astrachan,  Oldenburg,  Maiden  Blush, 
Wealthy,  Mclntosh,  Gravenstein,  Alexander,  Early  Harvest,  Yellow 
Transparent,  St.  Lawrence  and  Blue  Pearmain. 

JAnnals  of  Hort.    1892:   209. 

2 Coxe  on  Fruit  Trees:    100.   1817. 

3Ann.  Rep.  Geneva  Exp.  Sta.   1896:  408-418. 


1 8  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

THE  ADAPTATION  OF  VAKIETIES  TO  PARTICULAR  REGIONS. 

It  is  worthy  of  notice  that  the  apples  in  the  above  list  which  are 
of  dominant  importance  in  the  present  day  commercial  orchards  of 
New  York  are  of  New  York  and  New  England  origin.  Baldwin, 
Roxbury  and  Hubbardston  come  from  Massachusetts ;  Rhode  Island 
Greening  and  Tolman  Sweet  from  Rhode  Island ;  Twenty  Ounce, 
Pumpkin  Sweet  and  Westfield  Seek- No-Further  are  from  Connecti- 
cut. Northern  Spy  originated  in  Ontario  county,  New  York,  from 
seed  brought  by  settlers  from  Connecticut.  Fall  Pippin  is  probably 
from  Eastern  New  York.  Tompkins  King,  though  it  is  said  to  have 
originated  in  New  Jersey,  was  first  brought  to  notice  in  Central  New 
York.  Esopus  Spitzenburg,  Jonathan  and  Swaar  originated  in  the 
Hudson  valley;  Green  Newtown  Pippin  and  Yellow  Newtown 
Pippin  on  Long  Island ;  Early  Harvest  in  Central  New  York  ;  Yellow 
Bellflower  and  Maiden  Blush  in  New  Jersey;  Fameuse,  Mclntosh 
and  St.  Lawrence  in  Canada ;  Red  Astrachan,  Alexander,  Oldenburg 
and  Gravenstein  in  Russia  or  Germany ;  Blue  Pearmain,  Black  Gilli- 
flower  and  Golden  Russet  are  of  uncertain  origin. 

Only  one  of  the  list,  the  Ben  Davis,  comes  from  south  of  Mason 
and  Dixon's  line,  and  this  one  succeeds  better  in  the  South  and 
Southwest  than  it  does  in  New  York.  While  the  Newtown  Pippin, 
under  the  name  of  Albemarle  Pippin.,  has  become  a  very  important 
commercial  variety  in  some  portions  of  the  South,  yet,  a  case  like 
this  is  rather  exceptional.  As  a  rule  northern  varieties  have  not 
succeeded  well  in  the  South  or  Southwest,  nor  do  southern  varieties 
appear  prominently  among  the  commercial  varieties  of  the  northern 
states  or  Canada. 

York  Imperial,  which  is  an  important  commercial  apple  in  southern 
orchards  from  Virginia  westward  to  Arkansas,  does  not  develop  properly 
in  either  size  or  quality  even  in  the  best  apple  districts  of  Central  and 
Western  New  York.  It  does  better  in  Southeastern  New  York  but  is 
not  at  all  adapted  to  the  Lake  Champlain  region  nor  to  the  St.  Lawrence 
valley.  Other  kinds,  too,  which  are  commonly  cultivated  in  the  south 
and  southwest  as,  for  example,  Buckingham,  Grimes,  Huntsman,  Kinnard, 
Kittageskee,  Lankford,  Yopp's  Favorite,  Missouri  Pippin,  Nickajack, 
Rails  Genet,  Willow  Twig  and  even  varieties  which  have  gained  prom- 
inence in  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania  and  other  regions  of  that  latitude 
as,  for  example,  Fallawater,  Lawver,  Minkler,  Rambo,  Roman  Stem, 
Smith  Cider,  Vandevere  and  York  Imperial,  have  none  of  them  become 
leading  kinds  in  New  York.  The  Fameuse  and  St.  Lawrence  which  have 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  19 

been  introduced  from  Canada  grow  to  perfection  along  Lake  Champlain 
and  the  St.  Lawrence  but  do  not  succeed  so  well  in  either  the  central 
or  the  southern  parts  of  the  state.  Blue  Pearmain,  Bethel,  Jewett  Red 
and  other  kinds  which  succeed  well  in  Northern  New  England  and  in 
northern  counties  of  New  York  do  not  usually  develop  as  good  quality 
nor  as  high  color  when  grown  in  the  central  and  southern  parts  of  the 
state. 

This  general  law  as  to  the  adaptability  of  varieties  to  regions  having 
about  the  same  latitude  as  that  in  which  they  have  originated  is  verified 
in  the  experience  of  apple  growers  in  other  portions  of  the  continent. 
In  the  fruit  districts  of  Washington,  for  example,  where  the  length  of 
the  growing  season  more  nearly  approximates  that  of  New  York  and 
New  England  the  apples  which  are  gaining  prominence  in  the  commercial 
orchards,  barring  local  seedlings,  are  Baldwin,  Rhode  Island  Greening, 
Esopus  Spitzenburg,  Yellow  Bellflower  and  other  kinds  which  are  taken 
from  the  lists  of  the  New  York  and  New  England  apples.  Moreover  in 
the  upland  orchards  of  that  state  York  Imperial  cannot  be  brought  up 
to  its  best  quality,  while  in  the  valleys  good  York  Imperials  are  grown, 
as  well  as  other  kinds  which  require  for  their  proper  development  a 
climate  milder  and  a  season  longer  than  that  of  Central  New  York. 
Wealthy  in  Southern  New  York  becomes  a  September  apple  but  at 
Ottawa,  Canada,  it  may  often  keep  well  into  the  winter.  The  Baldwin, 
which  in  New  York  is  a  standard  winter  variety,  becomes  a  fall  apple 
in  Virginia  and  Arkansas.  It  thus  appears  that  each  variety  has  its  own 
peculiar  requirements  as  to  length  of  season  and  amount  of  heat  need-ed 
to  bring  it  to  its  best  development.  Those  varieties  which,  like  Ben 
Davis,  Grimes  Golden  and  York  Imperial  require  a  warmer  and  longer 
season  for  their  proper  development  than  do  such  apples  as  Baldwin, 
Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Tompkins  King,  can  never  become  standard 
sorts  in  Central  and  Western  New  York,  by  reason  of  climatic  limitations. 

But  the  adaptability  of  a  variety  to  a  particular  region  is  not  altogether 
a  matter  of  latitude,  or  length  of  season,  nor  prevailing  temperature 
during  the  growing  season.  The  general  character  of  the  soil,  the  pre- 
vailing climatic  conditions  during  the  blooming  season,  and  other  condi- 
tions peculiar  to  the  local  environment  also  enter  into  the  question. 
Probably  there  is  no  region  of  New  York  where  better  Esopus  Spitzen- 
burgs  are  grown  than  in  the  Schoharie  valley;  or  better  Newtown 
Pippins  than  in  certain  locations  on  the  north  shore  of  Long  Island  and 
in  the  Hudson  valley;  or  better  Fameuse  than  along  the  St.  Lawrence 
river  and  Lake  Champlain,  yet  there  are  other  locations  having  corre- 
sponding latitude  and  altitude  where  these  kinds  do  not  succeed  as  well 
as  they  do  in  the  regions  named.  Just  what  are  the  peculiar  local  condi- 
tions favorable  or  unfavorable  to  a  particular  variety  cannot  all  be  defi- 
nitely stated,  but  it  is  beyond  question  that  some  localities  do  afford 
peculiar  advantages  for  certain  varieties  and  also  that  some  other  local- 
ities are  not  particularly  favorable  or  are  even  unfavorable  to  these 
varieties,  aside  from  the  factors  of  the  length  and  warmth  of  the  season. 
Since  these  peculiar  favorable  or  unfavorable  conditions  are  not  all  defi- 
nitely known  it  is  unwise  to  plant  any  variety  extensively  till  it  has  been 
first  tested  and  proved  satisfactory  either  in  that  region  or  in  an  appar- 
ently similar  region. 


2o  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

WHAT  IS  A  VARIETY? 

It  will  lead  to  a  clearer  understanding  of  the  question  as  to 
what  a  horticultural  variety  is,  if  we  consider  how  such  varieties 
originate  and  how  they  are  perpetuated.  With  respect  to  the 
manner  of  their  origination  horticultural  varieties  fall  into  two 
general  classes :  (a)  those  which  arise  by  sexual  reproduction,  that 
is  to  say,  from  seed ;  (b)  those  which  arise  by  asexual  reproduction, 
that  is  to  say,  from  some  vegetative  portion  of  the  parent  plant. 

The  ways  of  perpetuating  varieties  likewise  fall  into  two  gen- 
eral divisions : 

(a)  Sexual  Propagation,  which  is  propagation  by  seed. 

(b)  Asexual  Propagation,  which  is  propagation  by  dividing  the 
plant,  as  by  taking  from  it  cuttings,  buds,  scions,  etc. 

Some  plants  which  have  originated  from  seed  are  propagated 
asexually  and  vice  versa  some  which  have  originated  asexually 
are  propagated  from  seed.  Some  varieties  may  be  propagated 
either  sexually  or  asexually  as  suits  the  convenience. 

REPRODUCTION  BY  SEED. 

The  normal  blossom  of  the  apple  species  is  perfect.  In  it  both  sexes 
are  represented.  In  the  case  of  a  seed  developed  from  a  self-fertilized 
blossom  the  seed-bearing  parent,  which  is  the  mother,  is  also  at  the  same 
time  the  male  parent.  But  when  the  apple  seed  arises  from  a  cross- 
fertilized  blossom  the  seed-bearing  parent  represents  the  female  line  of 
ancestry  only,  while  the  male  line  is  represented  by  that  apple  tree  which 
produced  the  pollen  by  which  the  cross-fertilization  was  effected.  Under 
natural  conditions  cross-fertilization  is  a  common  occurrence  among 
apple  blossoms.  Multitudes  of  insect  visitors  to  the  flowers  carry  the 
pollen  from  one  flower  to  another.  Accordingly,  if  one  should  plant  the 
seeds  of  a  particular  variety,  as  Wagener  for  example,  without  having 
protected  the  Wagener  blossoms  from  the  visits  of  insects,  he  would  be 
uncertain  whether  or  not  the  seedling  thus  produced  were  a  pure  seed- 
ling of  Wagener.  If  the  blossom  from  which  it  developed  happened  to 
be  cross-fertilized  by  means  of  pollen  from  another  variety  then  the 
seedling  would  be  a  cross  between  the  Wagener  and  that  variety  which 
bofe  the  pollen.  Since  under  natural  conditions  intercrossing  occurs 
abundantly  among  apple  varieties  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  our 
common  apples  are  mongrels  and  almost  never  reproduce  the  varieties 
true  from  seed.  But  among  a  few  races,  or  groups,  of  apples  there  is  a 
very  marked  tendency  to  reproduce  the  variety  somewhat  closely  from 
seed  as  in  the  Aport  group  which  includes  Alexander  and  Wolf  River 
and  in  the  Fameuse  group  which  includes  Mclntosh,  Louise  and  many 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  21 

local  seedlings  of  the  Snow  class,  such  as  are  particularly  abundant  along 
the  St.  Lawrence  valley. 

Neaily  all  of  the  cultivated  varieties  of  apples  have  arisen  from  seed 
of  unknown  parentage.  In  a  few  cases  the  seed-bearing  parent  of  a 
variety  is  known  cr  is  probably  apparent  from  the  evident  similarity  of 
the  seedling  to  its  supposed  parent.  Thus  Fameuse  is  credited  with  being 
the  parent  of  Louise  which  resembles  it  in  many  ways,  and  Ben  Davis  is 
thought  to  be  the  parent  of  Gano.  In  very  rare  instances  both  parents 
of  a  variety  are  on  record.  Thus  Ontario  is  a  cross  of  Northern  Spy  and 
Wagener. 

HYBRIDS. 

Seed  Hybrids.  Those'  varieties  which  originate  from  the  cross-fertili- 
zation of  distinct  varieties  or  races  may  be  called  hybrids  or  more  specifi- 
cally seed  hybrids  to  distinguish  them  from  the  graft  hybrids  noticed 
below.  Thus  have  originated  very  many  of  the  cultivated  varieties  of 
garden  vegetables.  When  the  new  variety  that  has  originated  from  seed 
is  a  kind  of  plant  that  is  propagated  by  asexual  methods  such  as  budding, 
grafting  and  layering,  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  perpetuate  it  by  working 
it  upon  some  other  stock,  just  as  Baldwin  and  other  apples,  for  example, 
are  propagated  in  nurseries  by  either  budding  or  grafting  them  upon 
seedling  stocks,  or  in  the  orchard  by  top-working  them  upon  the  orchard 
trees.  But  if  the  new  cross  or  hybrid  is  a  kind  of  plant  that  commonly 
is  propagated  by  seed  only,  as  most  garden  vegetables  are,  then  it  is 
necessary  to  "  fix  "  the  variety  before  it  may  safely  be  disseminated  as  a 
new  sort.  With  the  first  attempt  to  propagate  a  new  variety  from  seed 
there  are  usually  found  among  the  plants  some  which  are  more  or  less 
unlike  the  first,  or  original,  seedling.  These  must  be  cast  out  if  the  new 
variety  is  ever  to  become  so  fixed  that  it  will  come  true  from  seed.  The 
process  of  casting  out  such  plants  is  well  known  among  seedsmen.  By 
them  it  is  called  "  rogueing."  The  "rogueing"  must  be  continued  faith- 
fully, generation  after  generation,  till  the  variety  appears  to  be  sufficiently 
fixed  to  permit  of  its  being  safely  disseminated.  It  may  be  necessary  to 
continue  the  "  rogueing  "  indefinitely  in  order  to  hold  the  variety  up  to 
its  typical  standard. 

Graft  Hybrids.  Hybrids  may  originate  asexually,  as  when  the  grafting 
or  budding  of  one  sort  upon  another  produces  a  new  variety  unlike  either 
of  the  original  ones  represented  in  the  union.  A  variety  thus  originated 
is  called  a  graft  hybrid.  Graft  hybrids  are  exceedingly  rare  but  well 
authenticated  cases  are  on  record.  1 

SPORTS. 

Occasionally  new  varieties  or  new  strains  of  a  variety  originate  as 
sports  from  the  parent  variety.  Sports  are  sometimes  called  "  freaks." 
They  may  be  classed  according  to  their  origin  into  bud  sports  and  seed 
sports. 

Seed  Sports.  Among  varieties  that  are  propagated  by  seed  there  is 
sometimes  found  a  decidedly  peculiar  plant,  unlike  the  typical  plants  of 
the  variety,  which  may  prove  to  be  a  true  seed  sport  and  be  capable  of 

1  Daniel,  L.,  Cornet.  Rend.,  Acad.  Sci.,  Paris,  118:  992-955.  1894.  Congres.  Lyons  Soc. 
Keg.  Vit.,  II:  262-365.  1902. 


22  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

reproducing  itself  by  seed.  Thus  dwarf  lima  beans  have  originated  from 
pole  lima  beans,  and  dwarf  sweet  peas  from  tall-growing  varieties.  Vari- 
ous other  instances  of  this  kind  might  be  cited.  If  it  should  seem  desir- 
able to  perpetuate  such  a  sport  by  seed  it  is  quite  probable  that  it  would 
be  necessary  to  fix  the  type  before  introducing  it  as  a  new  variety. 

Bud  Sports.  Bud  sports  are  well  known.  They  correspond  to  seed 
sports  in  that  they  appear  suddenly.  They  usually  show  permanent  char- 
acters when  propagated,  entitling  the  sport  to  be  called  a  new  variety. 
Moreover,  these  characters  may  be  transmitted,  to  a  greater  or  less 
extent,  through  the  seed  produced  by  such  a  sport.  Numerous  instances 
in  which  varieties  have  originated  as  bud  sports  are  found  among  orna- 
mental plants  and  they  are  not  unknown  among  orchard  fruits. 

SELECTED  STRAINS. 

In  the  case  of  a  sport  a  variation  from  the  ordinary  type  arises  sud- 
denly. In  other  cases  as  great  variations  have  been  developed  gradually 
by  selecting  individuals  for  breeding  purposes  which  showed  a  tendency 
to  vary  in  some  particular  way  which  it  was  desirable  to  perpetuate  and 
intensify.  Selected  strains  may  be  developed  either  sexually  or  asexually. 
Many  well-known  strains  of  garden  vegetables  have  been  originated  by 
gradual  selection  under  propagation  by  seed.  So  also  under  asexual 
propagation  distinct  strains  have  in  some  cases  originated  through  a 
gradual  process  of  selection  of  the  propagating  wood,  or  whatever  other 
material  is  used  in  propagating  the  variety.  This  latter  process  corre- 
sponds to  the  development  of  strains  by  seed  selection.  By  it  varieties 
of  the  pear  which  in  the  original  seedling  tree  were  armed  with  sharp 
thorny  spurs  have  been  changed  so  that  it  may  be  truly  said  that  the 
thorns  have  been  bred  away.  In  a  like  manner  thorns  have  been  bred 
away  from  certain  cultivated  varieties  of  the  orange.  Galloway,1  who 
has  given  much  attention  to  the  growing  of  violets,  states  that  "  left  to 
itself  the  tendency  of  the  violet  is  to  retrograde.  By  proper  selection  and 
right  cultural  methods  the  yield  may  be  raised  from  fifty  flowers  to  one 
hundred  flowers  per  season  in  three  years." 

From  all  that  has  been  said  it  appears  that  new  varieties  may  be  pro- 
duced sexually  in  seed  hybrids,  asexually  in  graft  hybrids;  sexually  in 
seed  sports,  asexually  in  bud  sports;  sexually  in  selected  seed  strains,  and 
asexually  in  selected  bud  strains. 

VARIATIONS  DUE  TO  ENVIRONMENT. 

It  is  important  to  discriminate  between  those  variations  that  are  in- 
herent in  the  plant  and  capable  of  being  propagated,  as  in  those  cases 
which  have  been  just  considered,  and  variations  which  are  due  to  the 
peculiar  influences  of  local  environment  and  which  are  not  transmitted 
under  propagation. 

Many  of  the  differences  that  different  orchard  trees  show  in  habits  of 
growth  and  productiveness;  in  the  size,  color  and  quality  of  the  fruit 
produced;  in  resistance  to  disease,  and  in  other  ways,  may  be  satisfac- 
torily accounted  for  on  the  ground  of  differences  of  environment.  For 

1  Violet  Culture:   109-116. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  23 

example,  certain  apples  are  known  to  develop  peculiarly  different  char- 
acters when  grown  in  different  regions,  as  has  already  been  noticed. 
This  occurs  regardless  of  where  the  plants  of  the  particular  variety  in 
question  were  obtained.  The  fruit  of  Yellow  Bellflower  as  grown  in 
Washington  is  more  elongated  and  more  angular  than  that  from  New 
York;  Grimes  grown  in  the  Missouri  valley  is  a  larger,  better  colored 
and  better  flavored  fruit  than  Grimes  grown  in  New  York;  Fameuse  de- 
velops deeper  and  more  brilliant  red  color  in  the  valley  of  the  St.  Law- 
rence than  it  does  in  the  valley  of  the  Genesee;  Roxbury  is  more  russeted 
when  grown  in  Southeastern  Ohio  than  when  grown  in  New  England.1 
These  differences  hold  true  with  so  many  individual  trees  and  in  so  many 
different  orchards  in  the  regions  named  that  they  are  not  satisfactorily 
accounted  for  on  the  assumption  that  they  are  due  to  variations  in  the 
buds  or  scions  from  which  the  stock  was  propagated.  They  must  be 
attributed  to  peculiar  local  differences  in  environment.  There  are  many 
other  differences  among  orchard  varieties  in  habit  of  tree,  color  of  fruit 
and  in  other  particulars,  which  are  known  to  be  due  to  differences  in 
environment,  because  they  are  not  transmitted  by  propagation. 

VARIETIES  ARE  PLASTIC  YET  DISTINCT. 

in  view  of  what  has  been  said  above  as  to  the  peculiar  influence 
of  environment  upon  both  tree  and  fruit  it  is  clear  that  a  variety 
must  not  be  regarded  as  unchangeable.  It  is  not  always  and  every- 
where the  same.  It  is  plastic.  Some  are  more  plastic  than  others. 
On  the  other  hand  a  variety  must  hold  certain  peculiar  distinguishing 
characteristics  otherwise  it  is  not  entitled  to  be  called  a  variety. 
Under  propagation  it  must  transmit  its  individuality  to  such  an 
extent  that  the  different  plants  thus  produced  may  all  bear  the  same 
name  without  confusion. 

APPLE  VARIETIES  GROUPED. 

The  named  varieties  of  apples  together  with  the  unnamed 
seedlings,  as  has  been  already  noticed,  exhibit  infinite  variations 
among  themselves  in  the  forrn,  size,  color,  flavor  and  season  of 
the  fruit,  in  the  characters  of  foliage,  bark  and  buds,  and  in  the 
habit  of  growth  of  the  tree.  In  fact  they  vary  so  greatly,  that 
they  almost  defy  any  attempt  to  classify  them  into  groups.  But 
when  large  numbers  of  varieties  are  taken  into  consideration  with 
the  idea  of  studying  their  resemblances  it  is  sometimes  found  that 
a  few  more  or  less  definite  groups  may  be  formed  in  which  the 

1  Warder  Am.  Pom.:  492. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 


members  of  each  group  are  on  the  whole  more  like  each  other  than 
they  are  like  the  varieties  outside  of  that  group.1 

For  example,  Baldwin  is  more  like  Esopus  Spitzenburg  than  it  is  like 
either  Rhode  Island  Greening  or  Fall  Pippin  or  Ben  Davis  or  Winesap. 
In  fact  Baldwin  and  Esopus  Spitzenburg  might  be  taken  for  the  nucleus 
of  a  group  of  apples  characterized  by  certain  similarities  of  the  fruits  in 
their  form;  in  the  color,  dots  and  other  markings,  texture  and  aroma  of 
their  skin;  also  in  the  flesh  as  to  its  texture,  flavor,  color  and  quality.  In 
this  group  would  be  included  Jonathan,  Mother,  Red  Canada,  Esopus 
Spitzenburg,  Baldwin,  Tufts,  Olympia,  Arctic  and  some  others.  These 
varieties  certainly  show  decided  differences  when  compared  with  each  other 
but  when  contrasted  with  other  groups  it  is  seen  that  after  all  they  exhibit 
general  resemblances  among  themselves.  Since  the  Baldwin  is  the  best  known 
of  the  varieties  named  in  this  group  and  is  intermediate  in  character  between 
the  other  members  it  may  well  be  taken  as  the  type  and  its  name  be  given 
to  the  group. 

In  like  manner  other  groups  might  be  formed.  In  many  cases  there 
is  doubt  as  to  what  varieties  should  be  grouped  together  but  in  other 
cases  the  indications  are  clear  and  convincing.  A  few  groups  are  pre- 
sented below  by  way  of  illustration  of  this  idea.  These  groups  are  given 
tentatively  because  they  are  evidently  incomplete  and,  moreover,  further 
study  would  probably  lead  to  modifications  of  them. 


Fall  Pippin  group. 
Fall  Pippin, 

Holland  Pippin  (of  early  autumn), 
Lowell, 
York  Pippin, 
French  Pippin, 
Hawley. 

Rhode  Island  Greening  group. 
Section  A.  Holland  Pippin  (winter), 
Bottle  Greening, 
Northwestern  Greening, 
Rhode  Island  Greening. 


Section  B.  Green  Newtown, 
Yellow  Newtown, 
Occident, 
Newman, 
White  Pippin, 
Peck  Pleasant. 

Winesap  group. 
Winesap, 
Arkansas  Black, 

Arkansas   (Mammoth  Blacktwig), 
Paragon. 

'Cf.  Hansen,  Am.  Hort.  Man,,  II:  26. 


Northern  Spy  group. 
Northern  Spy, 
Wagener, 
Melon, 
Ontario. 


Blue  Pearmain  group. 
Section  A.   Blue  Pearmain, 
Oel  Austin, 
Bethel, 

Scarlet  Beauty, 
Stone. 

Section  B.  Mabie  Sweet, 
Monroe  Sweet, 
Gideon  Sweet, 
Victoria  Sweet. 


Rails  Genet  group. 
Rails, 
Salome, 
Ingram. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 


Fameust  groupl 
Fameuse  (Snow), 
Canada  Baldwin, 
Louise,  Princess, 
Mclntosh, 
Scarlet  Pippin, 
Shiawassee. 

Alexander  or  A  port  group. 
Alexander, 
Wolf  River, 

Grand  Duke  Constantine, 
Bismark, 
Various  other  Russian  kinds. 


Wealthy  group, 
Wealthy, 
Peter, 
Also     several     Wealthy     seedlings 

from    Minnesota    and    adjoining 

states. 


Duchess  of  Oldenburg  group. 
Oldenburg, 
Late  Duchess, 
Gladstone, 
Pewaukee, 
Milwaukee, 
Various  other  Russian  kinds. 


Groups  of  Russian  Apples.  During  the  last  75  years  hundreds 
of  varieties  of  apples  commonly  classed  as  Russian  have  been 
brought  into  the  United  States.  These  Russian  types  of  apples 
have  now  become  established  over  wide  areas  in  this  country. 
But  little  of  value  in  the  way  of  winter  fruit  has  as  yet  been 
derived  from  them,  but  some  of  the  summer  and  fall  kinds  are 
unquestionably  desirable  additions  to  the  lists  of  hardy  apples 
for  America.  As  early  as  1832  Kenrick,  in  a  select  list  of  foreign 
varieties  which  he  considered  worthy  of  trial  in  the  United  States, 
includes  "two  highly  celebrated  Russian  apples/'  one  the  Duchess 
of  Oldenburg,  the  other  Emperor  Alexander  or  Alexander  or 
Aporta.2 

In  a  list  "deserving  of  trial  in  Nova  Scotia  and  Canada"  he  also  includes 
the  Astrachan  or  White  Astrachan,  the  Borovitsky  (Oldenburg)  and  the 
Red  Astrachan.3  It  appears  that  about  two  years  after  this  Alexander, 
Tetofsky,  Oldenburg  and  Red  Astrachan  were  imported  by  the  Massa- 
chusetts Horticultural  Society  from  the  London  (England)  Horticultural 
Society.4  One  of  the  best  concise  accounts  of  the  introduction  and 
present  status  of  these  Russian  apples  is  that  given  by  Professor  Craig 
in  the  Cyclopedia  of  American  Horticulture.4  After  observing  that  the 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  imported  about  300  varieties  from  Russia 
in  1870,  he  remarks  that  the  Iowa  Agricultural  College  made  some  im- 
portations between  1875  and  1880  and  following  the  trip  of  Prof.  J.  L. 
Budd  of  that  institution  with  Charles  Gibb  of  Canada  to  Russia  in  1882, 
this  college  made  further  large  importations  of  Russian  apples  and  other 
fruits.  After  calling  attention  to  the  fact  that  it  is  difficult  to  say  which 

^See  Waugh,  Bull.  83  Vt.  Sta.,  1900. 

2  New    Amer.  Orch.:  61. 

3 New    Amer.  Orch.:  87. 

4 Craig,    J.,  in  Cyc.  Am.  Hort.,  Hi:  1404. 


26  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

are  Russian  and  which  German,  Polish  or  Swedish  apples,!  Professor 
Craig  discusses  the  characteristic  types  of  these  fruits.  He  recognizes 
the  Red  Astrachan  as  a  type  of  a  small  group  of  Russian  apples.  Besides 
this  and  the  Anis  type  which  he  supposes  is  derived  from  it,  "  having 
trees  upright,  spreading  or  vase-shaped;  leaves  medium,  veins  reddish;" 
he  cites  four  other  types. 

1.  Hibernal  type:  trees  vigorous  growers,  with  open  spreading  tops  and 
very  large  leathery  leaves. 

2.  Oldenburg  type:  moderate  growers,  with  round-topped  heads;  leaves 
of  medium  size. 

3.  Longfield    type:    slow   growers;    branches   horizontal    or   pendulous; 
leaves  whitish  and  woolly  underneath. 

4.  Transparent  and  Tetofsky  type:  trees  pyramidal;  bark  yellow  with 
numerous  spurs;  leaves  large,  light  green. 

JOn  the  pomological  use  of  the  term  "Russian  apple,"  see  also  W.  A.  Taylor's  views  as 
published  by  Waugh,  Vt.  Expt.  Sta.  Bui.  61,  1897:  24. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  27 

DESCRIPTION  OF  VARIETIES. 

This  volume  of  the  report  on  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK  treats 
of  varieties  which  are  in  season  with  Tompkins  King  and  Hub- 
bardston  and  all  which  ripen  later.  A  subsequent  volume  is  planned 
in  which  those  varieties  which  come  in  season  earlier  than  Tompkins 
King-  and  Hubbardston  are  to  be  considered. 

Those  portions  of  the  descriptive  text  which  are  supposed  to  be 
of  most  general  or  popular  interest  appear  in  long  primer  type, 
while  that  which  is  of  less  interest  to  the  ordinary  reader  is  given 

in  brevier. 

NAMES  AND  REFERENCES. 

In  the  following  descriptions,  that  name  which  the  present 
writer  accepts  as  the  correct  one  is  given  first.  In  this  matter 
the  decision  of  the  American  Pomological  Society  and  its 
rules  of  nomenclature  are,  with  rare  exceptions,  accepted  as 
authoritative.1 

irThe  revised  code  of  pomological  nomenclature  adopted  by  the  American  Pomological 
Society  is  here  given  in  full.  See  Proc.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.,  1903:  40. 

PRIORITY. 

RULE  i. — No  two  varieties  of  the  same  kind  of  fruit  shall  bear  the  same  name.  The  name 
first  published  for  a  variety  shall  be  the  accepted  and  recognized  name,  except  in  cases 
where  it  has  been  applied  in  violation  of  this  code. 

A. — The  term  "kind"  as  herein  used  shall  be  understood  to  apply  to  those  general  classes 
of  fruits  that  are  grouped  together  in  common  usage  without  regard  to  their  exact  botanical 
relationship;  as,  apple,  cherry,  grape,  peach,  plum,  raspberry,  etc. 

B. — The  paramount  right  of  the  originator,  discoverer,  or  introducer  of  a  new  variety  to 
name  it,  within  the  limitations  of  this  code,  is  recognized  and  emphasized. 

C. — Where  a  variety  name  through  long  usage  has  become  thoroughly  established  in 
American  pomological  literature  for  two  or  more  varieties,  it  should  not  be  displaced  or 
radically  modified  for  either  sort,  except  in  cases  where  a  well-known  synonym  call  be 
advanced  to  the  position  of  leading  name.  The  several  varieties  bearing  identical  names 
should  be  distinguished  by  adding  the  name  of  the  author  who  first  described  each  sort,  or 
by  adding  some  other  suitable  distinguishing  term  that  will  insure  their  identity  in  cata- 
logues or  discussions. 

D. — Existing  American  names  of  varieties  which  conflict  with  earlier  published  foreign 
names  of  the  same,  or  other  varieties,  but  which  have  become  thoroughly  established 
through  long  usage  shall  not  be  displaced. 

FORM  OF  NAMES. 

RULE  2.  — The  name  of  a  variety  of  fruit  shall  consist  of  a  single  word. 

A. — No  variety  shall  be  named  unless  distinctly  superior  to  existing  varieties  in  some 
important  characteristic  nor  until  it  has  been  determined  to  perpetuate  it  by  bud  propagation. 

B. — In  selecting  names  for  varieties  the  following  points  should  be  emphasized:  distinc*,- 
iveness,  simplicity,  ease  of  pronunciation  and  spelling,  indication  of  origin  or  parentage. 

C. — The  spelling  and  pronunciation  of  a  varietal  name  derived  from  a  personal  or  geo- 
graphical name  should  be  governed  by  the  rules  that  control  the  spelling  and  the  pronuncia- 
tion of  the  name  from  which  it  was  derived. 

D. — A  variety  imported  from  a  foreign  country   should  retain  its  foreign  name   subject 


28  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

DESCRIPTIONS. 

The  present  status  of  the  variety,  its  general  adaptability  to 
different  regions  and  its  fitness  for  market  or  other  uses  are 
given  briefly  together  with  other  observations  of  popular  char- 
acter. This  is  followed  by  historical  observations  and  finally  by  the 
technical  descriptions  of  the  tree  and  fruit. 

TECHNICAL  DESCRIPTION.  In  the  treatment  of  varieties  which  are  given 
on  the  following  pages  the  descriptions  vary  much  as  to  their  complete- 
ness. Sometimes  a  description  has  been  made  short  because  the  variety 
is  comparatively  unimportant  in  New  York;  in  other  cases  it  is  short 
because  the  present  writer  lacks  the  information  necessary  to  make  it 
more  complete. 

In  a  full  technical  description  the  tree,  its  twigs,  bark,  buds  and  leaves 
are  first  noticed  as  well  as  its  degree  of  hardiness  and  productiveness,  its 
adaptability  to  locations  and  the  cultural  methods  suited  to  its  require- 
ments if  these  have  not  been  given  previously.  The  fruit,  as  developed 
under  New  York  conditions,  is  then  described  in  detail.  The  suitability 
of  the  fruit  for  home  or  market  or  for  other  special  uses  is  also  con- 
sidered. 

DESCRIPTIONS  NOT  EXACT.  The  reader  should  bear  in  mind  that  these 
descriptions  cannot  be  made  so  as  to  fit  exactly  every  specimen  of  the 

only  to  such  modification  as  is  necessary  to  conform  it  to  this  code  or  to  render    it    intelli- 
rible    in  English. 

E. — The  name  of  a  person  should  not  be  applied  to  a  variety  during  his  life  without  his 
expressed  consent.  The  name  of  a  deceased  horticulturist  should  not  be  so  applied  except 
through  formal  action  by  some  competent  horticultural  body,  preferably  that  with  which  he 
was  most  closely  connected. 

F. — The  use  of  such  general  terms  as  seedling,  hybrid,  pippin,  pearmain,  beurre,  rare- 
ripe, damson,  etc.,  is  not  admissible. 

G.— ^-The  use  of  a  possessive  noun  as  a  name  is  not  admissible. 

H. — The  use  of  a  number  either  singly  or  attached  to  a  word  should  be  considered  only 
as  temporary  expedient  while  the  variety  is  undergoing  preliminary  test. 

I. — In  applying  the  various  provisions  of  this  rule  to  an  existing  varietal  name  fhat  has 
through  long  usage  become  firmly  imbedded  in  American  pomological  literature  no  change 
shall  be  made  which  shall  involve  loss  of  identity. 

RULE  3. — In  the  full  and  formal  citation  of  a  variety  name,  the  name  of  the  author  who 
first  published  it  shall  also  be  given. 

PUBLICATION. 

RULE  4. — Publication  consists  (i)  in  the  distribution  of  a  printed  description  of  the 
variety  named,  giving  the  distinguishing  characters  of  the  fruit,  tree,  etc.,  or  (2)  in  the 
publication  of  a  new  name  for  a  variety  that  is  properly  described  elsewhere;  such  publica- 
tion to  be  made  in  any  book,  bulletin,  report,  trade  catalogue,  or  periodical,  providing  the 
issue  bears  the  date  of  its  publication  and  is  generally  distributed  among  nurserymen,  fruit 
growers  and  horticulturists;  or  (3)  in  certain  cases  the  general  recognition  of  a  name  for  a 
propagated  variety  in  a  community  for  a  number  of  years  shall  constitute  publication  of 
that  name. 

A. — In  determining  the  name  of  a  variety  to  which  two  or  more  names  have  been  given 
in  the  same  publication,  that  which  stands  first  shall  have  precedence. 

REVISION. 

RULES. — No  properly  published  variety  name  shall  be  changed  for  any  reason  except 
conflict  with  this  code,  nor  shall  another  variety  be  substituted  for  that  originally  described 
thereunder. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  29 

variety  which  may  be  found.  Different  fruits  of  the  same  variety  may 
vary  considerably  when  grown  under  differing  conditions.  Some  varie- 
ties exhibit  more  irregularities  in  this  way  than  others  do.  For  example, 
Northern  Spy  fruit  grown  on  the  topmost  branches  fully  exposed  to 
light  and  air  may  be  finely  colored  and  highly  flavored  while  on  the  same 
tree  overshadowed  branches  may  bear  fruit  poorly  colored  and  decidedly 
inferior  in  flavor  and  quality.  Innumerable  examples  of  this  kind  might 
be  cited  to  show  that  the  individual  fruits  of  the  same  variety  may  vary 
noticeably  in  size,  form,  color  and  quality  on  the  same  tree  even  during 
the  same  season,  and  often  the  general  character  of  the  crop  differs 
noticeably  in  different  seasons.  Variations  are  also  found  in  fruit  from 
trees  of  different  ages  or  under  different  conditions  of  growth  or  from 
different  localities  as  has  been  previously  stated. 1  It  should  be  noticed 
that  normally  developed  fruits  of  the  same  variety  may  differ  not  only 
in  the  characters  above  mentioned  but  also  in  such  features  as  the  calyx 
(eye)  being  open  or  closed;  the  basin  wrinkled  or  smooth,  deep  or 
shallow;  the  stem  long  or  short,  thick  or  slender,  and  in  other  characters 
of  this  kind.  For  example,  Baldwin  usually  has  a  short  thick  stern  but  the 
smaller  fruits  of  this  variety  often  have  long  slender  stems. 

This  tendency  of  different  fruits  to  vary  more  or  less  must  be  recog- 
nized if  the  reader  wishes  to  use  technical  descriptions  of  fruits  in  the 
most  satisfactory  and  helpful  manner.  "  Of  what  use  then  are  these 
exact  descriptions?"  some  may  ask.  They  are  of  much  value  if  rightly 
comprehended.  While  fruits  of  the  same  variety  may  vary  in  the  ways 
above  indicated  yet  by  examining  a  considerable  number  of  specimens  it 
will  often  be  found  that  although  it  may  be  impossible  to  identify  the 
variety  from  descriptions  by  any  single  character  yet  it  may  be  identified 
by  the  combination  of  characters  which  it  exhibits.  Thomas  aptly  re- 
marks2 "  Controlling  circumstances  will  produce  changes  in  all  fruits  and 
descriptions  are  not  founded  on  extreme  exceptions  but  on  average  char- 
acteristics." 

DESCRIBING  THE  TREE.  In  the  following  descriptions  when  the  habit 
of  growth  of  the  tree  is  referred  to  the  writer  has  in  mind  trees  of  bear- 
ing age  unless  otherwise  specified.  The  descriptions  of  the  bark  are 
made  from  young  twigs  of  a  season's  growth. 

Top.  In  describing  the  top  the  terms  used,  which  are  largely  self- 
explanatory,  designate  gradations  from  strong,  very  vigorous,  moderately 
vigorous  or  medium,  to  rather  slow  or  weak  growth.  The  form  of  the  head 
is  usually  described  in  the  terms  used  by  Downing;3  upright  spreading  as 
in  Baldwin,  see  frontispiece,  ivide  spreading  as  in  Rhode  Island  Greening, 
round-headed  as  in  Early  Harvest,  or  upright  as  in  Red  June  Carolina, 
Tetofsky  or  Benoni.  The  top  is  sometimes  noticeably  close  or  dense  as  in 
Fameuse  and  other  varieties,  or  it  may  be  open  as  in  Haas,  Lady,  Gilpin  and 
Canada  Reinette. 

Twigs.  The  new  growth  may  be  slender  as  in  Rome  and  Cooper 
Market  or  thick  and  stout  as  in  Sutton.  The  twigs  are  said  to  be  long- 
jointed  when  the  internodes,  or  the  spaces  from  one  bud  to  the  next,  are 
long;  they  are  called  short-jointed  when  the  internodes  are  short. 

1  Page  22. 

-Amer.  Fruit  Cult.,  1897:248. 

3  Fruits  and  Fruit-trees,  ""872:  71. 


30  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

The  color  of  the  bark  after  the  leaves  have  fallen  from  the  twigs  of  the 
current  season's  growth  may  assist  in  identifying  the  variety,  together 
with  appearance  of  its  epidermis,  or  scarf-skin,  the  number  and  shape  of  the 
lenticels,  or  corky  dots  which  are  found  on  the  twigs,  and  the  amount  of  fuzz, 
or  pubescence,  present. 

Buds.  The  more  sharply  pointed  buds  are  called  acute;  the  more  blunt 
ones  are  obtuse.  If  they  are  flattened  unusually  close  to  the  twig  they  are 
called  oppressed;  if  not  close  to  the  twig  they  are  called  free. 

Leaves.  The  leaves  vary  much  in  size  and  form  according  to  the  con- 
dition of  growth  of  the  wood  which  bears  them.  The  descriptions  do  not 
refer  to  the  smaller  leaves  found  on  the  slow  growing  spurs  but  to  the 
leaves  which  are  borne  upon  the  free  growing  twigs. 

DESCRIBING  THE  FRUIT. 

EXTERNAL  CHARACTERS.  In  making  a  technical  description  of  the  fruit 
of  any  variety  of  the  apple  it  is  convenient  to  note  first  the  external 
characters  as  seen  in  the  size,  form,  stem,  cavity,  calyx,  basin,  skin  and 
color;  next  observe  the  internal  characters  as  seen  in  calyx-tube,  core, 
carpels,  seed,  flesh;  then  state  the  uses  for  which  the  fruit  is  adapted,  its 
season,  general  appearance  and  general  desirability.  The  principal  tech- 
nical terms  used  in  making  such  a  description  will  now  be  given. 

The  stem  end  is  called  the  base  of  the  apple  and  the  end  in  which  the 
calyx  or  the  eye  is  located  is  called  the  apex.  The  diameter  passing  from 
the  stem  through  the  eye  is  the  vertical  or  axial  diameter;  at  right  angles 
to  this  is  the  transverse  or  equatorial  diameter. 

Size.  In  considering  the  size  it  is  well  to  hold  the  Siberian  crabapples 
in  a  class  apart  from  the  common  apples.  In  popular  usage  in  this 
country  crabapples  of  the  size  of  Martha  and  Hyslop  are  called  large,  but 
as  compared  with  common  apples  they  are  small. 

The  gradations  in  size  are  expressed  by  the  terms  very  large,  large,  above 
medium,  medium,  below  medium,  small,  very  small. 

Uniform  signifies  that  the  variety  commonly  makes  a  comparatively 
uniform  grade  so  far  as  size  of  fruit  is  concerned. 

Form.  Concerning  the  importance  of  form  as  a  taxonomic  character 
Van  Dieman  well  says,*  "  Certain  characteristics  of  fruit  are  more  con- 
stant than  others.  *  *  *  To  my  mind,  considering  all  classes  of  fruit, 
there  is  no  one  character  so  fixed  as  the  form.  *  *  *  It  is  true  of  the 
immature  as  well  as  of  the  fully  developed  specimens.  A  Che- 

nango  the  size  of  a  marble  is  not  the  shape  of  a  Rambo.  *  *  *  Indeed 
it  would  not  be  hard  to  tell  the  difference  between  such  marked  varieties 
even  before  the  petals  had  expanded." 

In  order  that  the  following  remarks  concerning  the  form  of  the  apple 
may  be  more  clearly  understood  the  reader  is  referred  to  particular  varie- 
ties which  illustrate  the  points  mentioned.  Plates  showing  each  variety 
thus  cited  accompany  the  description  of  that  variety  in  the  following 
pages. 

In  examining  the  form  of  an  apple  let  the  fruit  be  held  opposite  the 
eye  so  that  it  may  be  observed  from  a  point  perpendicular  to  the  axia 
diameter.  As  seen  thus  it  may  appear  round;  flattened  or  oblate;  conical; 

identification  of  varieties.     Rep.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.,   1887:34- 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  31 

somewhat  egg-shaped  or  ovate ;  oblong;  or  it  may  be  intermediate  between 
some  of  these  forms.  Then  let  the  fruit  be  turned  at  right  angles  to  its 
former  position  so  as  to  bring  either  the  base  or  the  apex  into  full  view. 
From  this  point  the  outline  of  the  fruit  may  appear  round,  or  nearly  so, 
when  it  is  called  regular;  or  its  sides  may  be  compressed,  elliptical;  or,  if 
the  fruit  be  somewhat  ribbed,  angular  or  ribbed. 

Round,  globular,  globose  are  terms  which  signify  that  the  apple  approaches 
spherical  shape.  See  Tompkins  King,  Tolman,  Hyde  King.  In  McMahon 
the  fruit  is  roundish  inclined  to  conical;  in  Fallawater  it  is  roundish 
conical  or  a  little  oblate.  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  French  Pippin  are 
roundish  oblate. 

Oblate  signifies  that  the  apple  is  flattened  as  in  Canada  Reinette,  Doctor, 
Lady  and  Menagere.  The  meaning  of  such  terms  as  oblate  conic  and 
roundish  oblate  is  apparent. 

Conical  is  a  term  applied  when  the  apple  narrows  noticeably  toward 
the  apex.  See  Bullock,  Red  Canada,  Westfield  Seek-No-Further  and  White 
Pearmain.  The  Black  Gilliflovver  is  oblong  conic.  Occident  and  Opalescent 
are  roundish  conic. 

Ovate.  When  the  fruit  is  contracted  toward  both  base  and  apex  it  may 
be  ovate,  that  is,  somewhat  egg-shaped.  Bullock  sometimes  is  this  way 
as  also  are  Dickinson,  Magog,  Oel,  and  Stone. 

Oblong.  When  the  axial  diameter  appears  long  the  form  may  be  called 
oblong.  If  it  narrows  toward  the  apex  it  becomes  oblong  conic  as  in 
Yellow  Bellflower,  or  oblong  inclined  to  conic  as  in  Gilpin. 

Truncate.  When  the  fruit  appears  as  though  it  were  cut  squarely 
across,  or  in  other  words  is  abruptly  flattened  at  the  end,  it  may  be 
called  truncate.  See  Gilpin,  Grimes  and  Jonathan. 

Oblique.  The  form  is  said  to  be  oblique  when  the  axis  slants  obliquely 
as  in  Yellow  Newtown  and  York  Imperial.  This  form  is  sometimes 
called  lopsided  but  that  term  is  more  properly  applied  to  indicate  the 
form  next  mentioned. 

Sides  unequal  or  lopsided  are  terms  applied  when  the  fruit  under  normal 
conditions  has  one  side  noticeably  larger  and  better  developed  than  the 
other,  as  in  Milwaukee,  Reinette  Pippin,  Sutton  and  slightly  in  Westfield 
Seek-No-Further. 

Symmetrical.  When  the  sides  are  equally  developed  the  fruit  is 
symmetrical. 

Regular.  When  a  section  through  the  equatorial  diameter  shows  a 
nearly  circular  outline  the  apple  is  called  regular. 

Irregular  is  the  term  used  if  such  outline  be  elliptical  or  angular.  See 
Figs.  6  and  7. 

Sides  compressed  or  elliptical  are  terms  also  applied  when  the  outline  is 
somewhat  flattened  instead  of  round.  See  Roxbury. 

Angular  denotes  that  the  sides  are  more  or  less  ribbed  or  scalloped. 
See  Figs.  6  and  7. 

Uniform  as  applied  to  shape  is  a  term  which  signifies  that  the  different 
fruits  of  the  variety  show  comparatively  little  variation  in  form,  as,  for 
example.  Black  Gilliflower  and  Wealthy.  Other  varieties  like  Canada 
Reinette  and  Roxbury  characteristically  show  considerable  variation  in 
this  respect. 


32  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Stem.  The  character  of  the  stem  is  of  some  taxonomic  importance 
notwithstanding  that  it  may  vary  much  in  different  fruits  of  the  same 
variety.  It  may  be  generally  long  and  slender  as  in  Dutch  Mignonne,  Rambo, 
Rome  and  Westfield  Seek-No-Further;  or  short  and  thick  as  in  Canada 
Reinette,  Fallawater,  Sutton  and  York  Imperial ;  or  fleshy  as  in  Peck  Pleasant. 
or  clubbed  when  enlarged  at  the  end. 

In  general  it  does  not  seem  to  be  affected  by  the  environment  of  the 
tree  as  much  as  other  fruit  characters  and  thus  it  is  somewhat  a  means 
of  recognition  with  fruit  that  has  so  changed,  owing  to  a  change  of  loca- 
tion, that  it  is  otherwise  unrecognizable.  Unfortunately  there  are  com- 
paratively few  varieties  which  show  a  stem  so  characteristic  that  the 
fruit  may  be  recognized  by  this  character  alone. 

Lipped  is  a  term  which  signifies  that  the  flesh  forms  a  protuberance  or 
lip  under  which  the  stem  is  inserted  as  often  is  seen  in  Pewaukee  and  Peck 
Pleasant  and  sometimes  in  Sutton  and  Esopus  Spitzenburg. 

Cavity.  The  depression  around  the  stem  is  technically  called  the 
cavity.  See  Fig.  3a.  If  it  meets  the  stem  at  a  very  sharp  angle  as  in 
Clayton.  McMahon  and  Magog  it  is  termed  acuminate;  if  the  angle  is  wide 
as  in. Rome,  Doctor,  Tolman  and  White  Pearmain  it  is  called  obtuse;  if 
intermediate  between  the  two  it  is  called  acute  as  in  Green  Sweet,  Lady 
Sweet  and  Red  Canada.  In  Jonathan  and  Gilpin  it  varies  from  acute  to 
acuminate.  The  cavity  may  be  wide  as  in  Northern  Spy,  Tompkins  King 
and  York  Imperial,  or  narrow  as  in  Black  Gilliflower  or  medium  as  in 
Ribston  and  Tolman.  It  may  be  deep  as  in  Jonathan,  Northern  Spy  and 
York  Imperial;  medium  in  depth  as  in  Baldwin  or  shallozu  as  in  Pewaukee. 

Calyx.  The  lobes  of  the  outer  green  covering  of  the  flower  bud  are 
called  calyx  lobes  These  persist  in  the  common  apple  and  when  the 
fruit  is  ripe  may  still  be  found  in  what  is  commonly  called  the  "  blow- 
end  "  of  the  apple.  See  Fig.  3b.  They  fall  away,  or  are  deciduous,  in 
the  pure  Siberian  crab  species.  In  some  of  the  hybrid  Siberian  crabs  the 
calyx  is  partly  deciduous.1 

The  calyx  in  the  mature  fruit  is  open  in  some  varieties,  closed  in  others 
and  partly  open  in  others.  In  some  cases,  as  for  example,  in  Blenheim 
the  segments  of  the  calyx  are  noticeably  separated  at  the  base.  The  lobes  may 
be  flat  and  convergent;  when  upright  and  the  tips  inclined  towards  the  axis 
they  may  be  called  connivent;  when  turned  backwards  they  may  be  called 
renexed  or  divergent.  Very  often  the  different  fruits  of  a  variety  show  con- 
siderable variations  with  respect  to  the  various  features  above  mentioned. 

Basin.  The  depression  in  which  the  calyx  is  set  is  technically  called 
the  basin  of  the  apple.  See  Fig.  3b.  It  may  be  shallow,  medium  in  depth 
or  deep ;  narro^v,  medium  in  width  or  wide.  A  basin  with  sides  which  show 
a  sudden  slope  as  in  Jonathan  and  Gilpin  is  termed  abrupt,  but  if,  as  in 
Black  Gilliflower,  Fishkill  and  Lady,  the  slope  is  gradual  it  is  termed 
obtuse.  The  basin  may  be  nearly  round  when  it  is  called  symmetrical  or 
it  may  have  the  sides  compressed.  If  the  sides  are  smooth  it  is  called 
regular.  When  depressed  lines  extend  up  the  sides  as  in  Winesap,  some 
call  it  ridged,  ribbed  or  angular,  others  term  it  furroived.  When  the  furrows 
are  less  distinct  as  in  Baldwin,  it  may  be  called  wavy.  If  wrinkled,  plaited 
or  folded  about  the  calyx  lobes  as  in  Yellow  Bellflower  and  Black  Gilli- 

~  'Page  3. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  33 

flower  it  is  often  called  corrugated.  Peculiar  fleshy  protuberances  about 
the  base  of  the  calyx  lobes  are  sometimes  technically  called  mammiform. 
These  are  decidedly  marked  in  some  Siberian  crabapples. 

Skin.  Both  the  color  of  the  fruit  and  the  character  of  the  surface  of 
the  skin,  as  to  its  being  rough  or  smooth  or  even  russeted,  vary  more  or 
less  with  the  varying  conditions  under  which  the  fruit  is  grown. 

The  surface  of  the  skin  in  some  varieties  as  Mclntosh  and  Northern 
Spy  is  covered  with  a  delicate  whitish  bloom  which  is  easily  rubbed  off. 
In  other  cases  the  skin  is  waxy  or  oily  as  in  Lowell  (Tallow  Pippin),  Titus, 
and  to  some  extent  in  Sutton  and  Tompkins  King.  This  character  which 
is  determined  by  the  sense  of  touch  must  not  be  confused  with  that  de- 
noted by  the  term  waxen  which  refers  only  to  the  appearance  of  fruit 
that  looks  bright,  smooth  and  clear  like  wax.  The  surface  may  be  some- 
what rough  on  account  of  minute  capillary  russet  netted  veins  as  often  in 
Tolman  and  Hubbardston,  or  by  russet  dots,  or  by  both;  or  it  may  have 
more  or  less  of  an  unbroken  russet  surface  as  in  various  russet  apples. 

Russet  Skin.  Sometimes  this  character  is  quite  variable  as  in  the  case 
of  Roxbury  which  under  some  conditions  becomes  nearly  or  quite  smooth. 
Sometimes  the  russet  is  thin  as  in  Bullock;  on  other  varieties  it  may  be 
dense  or  heavy.  Very  often  the  cavity  is  somewhat  russeted  when  the 
surface  of  the  rest  of  the  apple  is  smooth,  as  in  Pumpkin  Sweet.  The 
russet  in  the  cavity  may  be  nearly  unbroken  or  it  may  spread  out  in 
broken  rays  when  it  is  sometimes  spoken  of  as  radiating  or  stellate. 

Dots.  The  dots  are  sometimes  rough  to  the  touch;  in  some  varieties 
they  may  be  sunken  or  depressed;  again  they  are  visible  under  the  epidermis. 
In  the  latter  case  they  may  well  be  called  submerged.  If  they  approach  a 
star  form  they  may  be  called  stellate.  If  they  are  surrounded  by  a  halo  of 
'A  paler  or  brighter  color  they  may  be  called  areolar.  They  are  in  some  cases 
decidedly  conspicuous  as  in  Westfield,  Blue  Pearmain  and  Red  Canada  or 
inconspicuous  in  others.  They  may  vary  from  large  to  very  small  even  on 
the  same  fruit ;  often  they  are  scattering  toward  the  base  of  the  apple,  and 
often  smaller  and  numerous  towards  its  apex.  In  certain  varieties  some  of 
the  dots  are  elongated.  With  Red  Canada,  Baldwin  and  Esopus  Spitzenburg 
elongated  dots  are  often  seen  on  the  base  of  the  fruit  along  lines  radiating 
from  the  cavity. 

Suture.  Sometimes  suture  lines  extend  from  the  base  towards  or  to 
the  apex  as  is  often  seen  in  Tolman. 

Pubescence.  In  some  varieties  there  is  a  noticeable  amount  of  fuzz  or 
pubescence  on  and  about  the  calyx. 

Color.  The  fruit  may  be  striped  with  one  or  more  shades  of  red.  If 
it  is  not  striped  it  may  be  called  self-colored.  A  fruit  may  have  a  bronzed 
or  blushed  cheek  and  still  be  classed  as  self-colored  in  distinction  from 
striped  apples.  It  has  already  been  remarked  that  the  amount  of  color 
will  vary  on  fruits  of  the  same  variety  in  different  locations  and  in  differ- 
ent seasons.  In  some  cases  trees  of  certain  varieties  have  been  known 
to  bear  a  crop  one  season  with  no  trace  of  red  appearing  on  any  of  the 
fruit  and  in  following  seasons  show  a  noticeable  blush  or  red  stripe  on 
the  fruit.  When  the  overlying  color  is  broken  it  may  be  designated  by 
the  term  mottled  or  by  any  other  suitable  expression.  The  shorter  stripes 
are  often  spoken  of  as  splashes,  The  term  blush  in  distinction  from 


34  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

mottled,  striped  or  splashed,  indicates  that  the  surface  is  overspread  with 
a  red  tint  that  is  not  much  broken. 

The  scarf-skin  sometimes  gives  a  characteristic  appearance  to  the  fruit. 
It  extends  outward  from  the  base  in  whitish  lines  or  stripes  readily  dis- 
tinguished in  contrast  with  the  green  or  yellow  color  in  the  Pumpkin 
Sweet  (Pound  Sweet  of  Western  New  York),  the  Green  Newtown  and 
certain  other  varieties;  or  it  may  give  a  dull  or  clouded  appearance  to  a 
red  skin  as  in  Sweet  Winesap  (called  Henrick  or  Hendrick  Sweet  in 
Western  New  York)  and  Black  Gilliflower. 

INTERNAL  CHARACTERS.  When  the  apple  is  cut  in  longitudinal  section, 
as  shown  in  Fig.  3,  the  internal  characters  disclosed  are  very  often  of 
great  assistance  in  identifying  the  variety. 

Core  Lines.  That  part  of  the  flesh  of  the  apple  which  immediately 
surrounds  the  seed  cavities,  and  strictly  speaking,  constitutes  a  part  of 


FIG.  3.  LONGITUDINAL  CROSS  SECTION  OF  AN  APPLE  SHOWING  THE  CAVITY 
a,  BASIN  b,  CALYX  LOBES  c,  CONICAL  CALYX  TUBE  d,  ABAXILE  OPEN  CORE 
WITH  BROADLY  ELLIPTICAL  MUCRONATE  CARPELS  e,  e,  AND  A  PORTION  OF  THE 
CORE  LINES  f.  f. 

the  core  is  delimited  by  visible  core  lines.  Fig.  3f.  In  the  native  Ameri- 
can species,  P.  coronaria  and  P.  iozvensis,  the  separation  along  the  core 
lines  between  the  core  and  the  outer  main  flesh  of  the  apple  is  so  com- 
plete that  by  exercising  proper  care  the  core  may  be  taken  out  so  as  to 
leave  a  clearly  defined  globular  cavity  within  the  apple.  See  Figs.  4  to  7. 
While  in  the  case  of  the  common  apple  this  natural  division  of  the  core 
from  the  outer  flesh  of  the  fruit  i's  not  so  complete  as  it  is  in  the  native 
wild  apples  referred  to,  nevertheless  such  division  does  exist,  as  may 
often  be  seen  in  a  cross-section  of  an  apple  when  the  flesh  of  the  core 
proper  shows  a  somewhat  different  shade  of  color  than  does  the  outer 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 


flesh.  This  difference  is  more  clearly  shown  in  the  fresh  fruit  than  in  a 
photo-engraving.  It  is  seen  in  the  case  of  Jones  seedling,  Fig.  8,  as 
well  as  in  the  sections  of  Rails  Genet,  Westfield  Seek-No-Further  and  other 
fruits  which  are  shown  in  the  accompanying  text. 

Bundles  of  fibres   or  veins    called   fibrovascular  bundles   enter   the   fruit 
through  the  stem.     Some  of  them  pass  directly  through  the  core  along 


WILD  CRABAPPLES,  P.  coronarla,  L.  SHOWN  IN  LONGITUDINAL  SECTION,  FIGS. 
4  AND  5,  AND  IN  TRANSVERSE  SECTION,  FlGS.  6  AND  7.  THE  CORE  LlNES  SHARPLY 
DELIMIT  THE  CORE  FROM  THE  FLESH,  FIGS.  4  AND  6.  WHEN  THE  CORE,  AS 
OUTLINED  BY  THE  CORE  LINES,  is  REMOVED  A  RATHER  GLOBULAR  CAVITY  is 
MADE  AS  SHOWN  IN  FIGS.  5  AND  7.  FIG.  5  SHOWS  PLAINLY  A  LONGITUDINAL 
SECTION  OF  THE  CYLINDRICAL  CALYX  TUBE  WHICH  EXTENDS  FROM  THE  CORE 
TO  THE  CALYX.  IN  FIG.  7  THE  CORE  CAVITY  is  SEEN  FROM  A  POINT  PERPEN- 
DICULAR TO  THE  LlMB  OF  THE  CALYX  TUBE  THUS  SHOWING  THE  STAMENS 

FROM  BENEATH  AS  THEY  CLOSE  THE  VIEW  INTO  THE  CALYX  TUBE. 

the  inner  edges  of  the  seed  cavities  and  continue  on  into  the  outer  parts 
of  the  pistils.  See  plates  of  Mclntosh  and  Canada  Baldwin.  Between 
the  seed  cavities  and  the  base  of  the  stem  other  lines  of  fibrovascular 
bundles  lead  off  from  the  stem,  inclose  a  portion  of  the  flesh  varying  in 
different  varieties  from  turbinate,  as  in  Canada  Reinette,  to  nearly  glob- 
ular in  form,  as  in  Admirable,  and  terminate  principally  in  that  part  of 


36  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

the  calyx  tube  where  the  stamens  are  inserted,  though  sometimes  appar- 
ently below  the  insertion  of  the  stamens.  See  plates  of  Ribston  and 
Sharpe.  The  fibrovascular  bundles  which  may  be  most  easily  followed 
in  tracing  the  core  lines  are  normally  ten  in  number,  as  shown  in  Figs. 
8  and  9.  They  occur  one  opposite  each  outer  angle  and  alternately  one 
opposite  each  inner  angle  of  the  seed  cells.  Consequently  a  longitudinal 
section  through  either  the  outer  or  the  inner  angle  of  a  seed  cell  brings 
out  the  core  line  most  clearly. 

Clasping  core  lines  is  a  term  which  indicates  that  the  core  lines  appear  to 
join  the  calyx  tube  along  the  side  somewhat  above  the  base  of  the  tube, 
as  shown  in  the  plates  of  Admirable,  Ribston  and  Green  Sweet. 


FIG.  8.  TRANSVERSE  SECTION  OF  Jones  SHOWING  A  CLOSED  CORE  WHICH  is 
AXILE  AND  HAS  SYMMETRICAL  CELLS.  THE  DARK  DOTS  SHOW  CROSS  SECTIONS 
OF  THE  PRINCIPAL  FIBROVASCULAR  BUNDLES  OF  THE  CORE  LINES. 

Core  lines  meeting  is  the  term  used  when  the  core  lines  appear  to  join  the 
calyx  tube  at  or  near  its  base,  as  seen  in  the  plates  of  Bullock  and  York 
Imperial. 

The  point  at  which  the  core  lines  meet  the  calyx  tube  does  not  vary 
materially  in  the  same  variety  although  different  descriptions  of  it  may  vary 
when  in  the  same  variety  some  of  the  apples  show  a  funnel-form  extension 
of  the  calyx  tube  towards  the  core  and  others  do  not,  as  stated  below  in 
discussing  the  calyx  tube. 

In  some  cases  be'fore  the  fibrovascular  bundle  reaches  the  calyx  tube 
it  sends  off  a  distinct  branch  to  the  calyx  lobes  as  seen  in  the  plates  of 
Fallawater,  Green  Sweet  and  Newman. 

Calyx  tube.  The  hollow  just  under  the  calyx  lobes  is  called  the  calyx 
tube,  Fig.  3,  d.  This  may  be  cone-shaped,  as  in  Dickinson  and  Salome,  or 
when  it  is  extended  below  in  a  nearly  cylindrical  narrow  tube  it  is  funnel- 
form,  as  in  English  Russet.  If  instead  of  assuming  either  of  these  forms 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 


37 


it  is  comparatively  broad  and  rounded  toward  the  base  it  may  be  called 
urn-shaped.  When  the  calyx  tube  is  funnel-form  its  broad  upper  portion  is 
called  the  limb;  the  narrow  part  extending  from  the  limb  towards  the  core 
may  be  called  the  cylinder. 

In  some  cases  as  in  Northern  Spy  and  Red  Canada  the  tube  may  vary 
in  the  same  variety,  being  cone-shaped  in  some  fruits  and  funnel-form  in 
others,  thus  making  the  core  line  appear  to  vary  in  the  character  of  its 
meeting  or  clasping  the  calyx  tube.  Such  variation  is  due  to  the  fact 
that  in  some  fruits  and  not  in  others  the  base  of  the  styles  below  the 


\ 


FIG.  9.  TRANSVERSE  SECTION  OF  Thompson  SHOWING  AN  OPEN  CORE  WHICH 
is  ABAXILE.  THE  CELLS  ARE  SYMMETRICAL,  OR  NEARLY  so,  AND  WIDE  OPEN. 
THE  DARK  DOTS  SHOW  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  THE  PRINCIPAL  FIBROVASCULAR 
BUNDLES  OF  THE  CORE  LINES. 

limb  of  the  calyx  tube  develops  into  a  fleshy  tissue  which  fills  that  part 
of  the  tube. 

Pistil  Point.  In  some  varieties  the  fleshy  base  of  the  styles  forms  a  pistil 
point  which  projects  into  the  calyx  tube  in  a  way  that  is  characteristic, 
and  of  some  taxonomic  value.  An  example  of  this  kind  is  found  in  Gano. 

Stamens.  Hogg  studied  critically  the  taxonomic  value  of  the  position 
of  the  stamens,  or  the  remnants  of  them,!  in  the  calyx  tube2  and  finally 
made  this  character  the  basis  of  the  primary  classes  in  his  analytical  key 
of  the  apples  of  Great  Britain.  He  recognizes  thus  the  three  following 
divisions  among  apples. 

A.  Marginal  Stamens.  In  this  class  the  stamens  are  inserted  near  the 
outer  margin  of  the  calyx  tube. 

aThe  remnants  of  the  stamens  appear  in  the  ripe  fruit  as  withered  thread-like  organs  on 
the  side  of  the  calyx  tube. 

2  Fruit  Manual,  London,  1884  :  xi  to  xxxix. 


38  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

B.  Median  Stamens.     In  this  class  the  stamens  are  located  about  the  middle 
of  the  calyx  tube. 

C.  Basal  Stamens.     In  this  class  the  stamens  are  found  near  the  base  of 
the  calyx  tube. 

Core.  In  describing  the  core  its  location  in  the  fruit  is  noticed,  also 
its  size  and  the  character  of  the  carpels  and  of  the  seeds. 

Core  Sessile.  The  core  is  sometimes  very  close  to  the  stem.  It  may  then 
be  called  sessile. 

Core  Median.  If  the  core,  as  usually  is  the  case,  is  located  at  about  the 
center  of  the  apple,  it  is  median. 

Core  Distant.  When  the  core  is  comparatively  far  from  the  stem  it  is 
called  distant. 

Carpels.  The  parchment-like  walls  of  the  seed  cells  are  called  carpels. 
Fig.  3e.  Since  they  vary  in  form  somewhat  as  leaves  do  the  terms  used 
in  describing  leaves  may  be  well  applied  to  them.  In  noting  the  form  of 
the  carpels  the  stem  of  the  fruit,  which  corresponds  to  the  petiole  of 
the  leaf,  should  be  held  towards  the  observer.  The  two  sides  of  the  seed 
cell  correspond  to  the  two  halves  of  a  leaf,  with  the  axis  of  the  fruit 
representing  the  midrib  of  the  leaf.  From  this  point  of  view  it  will  be 
noticed  that  the  carpels  of  some  fruits  approximate  a  roundish  form; 
others  a  heart-shaped  or  cordate  form;  others  a  reversed  cordate  or  ob- 
cordate  form;  others  are  so  broad  as  to  be  well  termed  elliptical,  while 
others  are  so  narrow  that  they  may  be  called  oblong  or  elongated;  or  they 
may  be  either  ovate  or  obovate.  If  the  outer  edge  at  the  tip  is  indented 
it  may  be  termed  emarginate ;  if  long  and  slender-pointed  it  may  be  called 
mucronate.  Fig.  3. 

Hogg,  in  the  classification  of  apples  above  referred  to,1  also  notes  the 
following  characters  of  carpels:  When  the  walls  extend  to  the  axis,  best 
seen  in  a  cross-section  of  the  fruit,  as  in  Fig.  8,  the  cells  are  symmetrical 
and  are  termed  a.rile,  whether  they  are  open  or  closed.  When  the  walls 
are  distant  from  the  axis,  as  in  Mclntosh  and  English  Russet,  and  the  cells 
are  unsymmetrical,  they  are  called  abaxilc.  Fig.  9. 

Open  Cere.  The  core  is  called  open  when  the  cells  are  open,  or  slit,  as 
shown  in  Figs.  3  and  9. 

Closed  Core.  When  the  cells  are  closed  the  term  closed  core  is  applied. 
See  Jonathan,  Red  Canada  and  Fig.  8. 

The  inner  surface  of  the  carpels  may  be  either  smooth,  or,  as  in  Tomp- 
kins  King,  may  have  a  soft  whitish  outgrowth.  In  this  case  the  carpels 
may  be  described  as  tufted? 

Seeds.  The  number  of  seeds  to  each  seed  cell  varies  with  different  varieties. 
Two  is  the  usual  number.  Sometimes  no  seeds  develop.  In  rare  cases  there 
are  three  or  more  seeds  in  a  cell.  The  number,  size,  shape  and  color  of  the 
seeds  are  all  worthy  of  notice  in  a  technical  description  of  the  apple.  The 
seeds  like  the  carpels  may  be  tufted.  When  the  seed  has  a  long  sharp  point 
it  is  termed  acuminate;  if  rather  blunt,  it  is  obtuse;  if  intermediate  between 
acuminate  and  obtuse,  it  is  acute. 

Flesh.  In  a  description  of  the  flesh  its  color  is  noticed ;  also  the  firmness 
and  grain  of  its  texture;  its  juiciness;  the  acidity  and  aroma  that  are  found 
in  its  flavor,  and  lastly  its  general  rating  on  all  of  the  above  points  combined. 

1  Fruit  Manual,   London,   1884:xiii. 

2  The  "Wollstreifen"  of  Soraner.     See  Handb.   Planzenkrankheiten,  zweite    Auflage.  1: 
295.      1886. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  39 

Color.  The  color  of  the  flesh  is  called  white  in  such  apples  as  Mclntosh 
and  Fameuse.  In  Jonathan,  Baldwin  and  Rhode  Island  Greening  it  is 
somewhat  tinged  with  yellow.  In  Fallawater,  Rambo  and  Green  Sweet 
it  is  greenish-white.  In  some  varieties  it  may  be  streaked  or  clouded 
with  red,  as  it  sometimes  is  in  Wealthy  and  Mclntosh.  Occasionally 
seedling  apples  are  seen  in  which  the  whole  flesh  is  remarkably  tinged 
with  red,  but  such  varieties  have  not  found  their  way  into  cultivation, 
at  least  not  to  any  considerable  extent. 

The  flesh  of  apples  of  the  same  variety  is  liable  to  show  some  varia- 
tions under  different  conditions  of  growth.  This  is  especially  noticeable 
in  varieties  adapted  to  the  South  when  they  are  grown  in  northern  lati- 
tudes where  the  season  is  not  long  enough  to  bring  them  up  to  their 
highest  standard.  Thus  when  Winesap  and  other  southern  varieties  arc 
grown  in  Western  New  York  they  may  have  a  decidedly  greenish  tinge 
to  the  flesh,  whereas  if  properly  developed,  the  flesh  would  be  tinged 
with  yellow:  or  those  fruits  of  such  a  varietv  which  have  the  most  favor- 
able locations  on  the  tree  may  develop  a  yellowish  flesh  while  others  less 
favorably  located  come  to  the  close  of  the  season  with  the  flesh  still 
greenish.  In  passing  upon  the  color  of  the  flesh,  therefore,  it  is  important 
to  have  properly  developed  specimens  under  examination.  With  such 
specimens  the  color  of  the  flesh  will  be  found  pretty  constant  and  char- 
acteristic of  the  variety. 

Texture  and  Flavor.  The  terms  commonly  used  in  describing  the  tex- 
ture and  flavor  are  firm,  hard,  tender,  tough,  crisp,  breaking,  dry,  juicy,  sour, 
subacid,  sweet,  sprightly,  aromatic,  astringent.  Various  intermediate  modifi- 
cations of  easily  recognized  significance  are  also  used. 

General  Rating.  The  gradations  in  the  general  rating  on  all  points 
combined  are  expressed  by  the  terms  poor  or  inferior,  fair,  good,  very  good, 
best.  One  who  is  unaccustomed  to  the  technical  significance  of  these 
words  should  observe  that  the  word  good  here  signifies  a  class  of  apples 
of  medium  quality  only.  Above  it  are  the  higher  classes  very  -good  and 
best.  The  quality  varies  somewhat  in  a  variety  so  that  it  is  often  necessary 
to  use  more  than  one  term  to  indicate  its  proper  rating.  Thus  Baldwin 
rates  good  to  very  good,  and  Red  Canada  from  good  to  best.  The  quality 
of  the  fruit  corresponds  in  a  general  way  with  the  development  of  the 
color  of  both  its  skin  and.  its  flesh.  It  has  already  been  observed  in 
speaking  of  the  color  of  the  flesh  that  under  certain  conditions  it  is  not 
normally  developed.  When  the  color  of  either  the  skin  or  the  flesh  is 
not  properly  developed,  there  is  a  corresponding  lack  of  development  of 
the  quality  of  the  fruit.  This  statement  may  be  easily  verified,  as  already 
noticed,,  by  testing  highly  colored  Northern  Spy  apples  in  comparison 
with  poorly  colored  fruit  of  the  same  variety.  It  will  be  found  that  the 
poorly  colored  fruit,  even  though  it  may  have  been  produced  on  the  same 
tree  as  that  which  bore  the  highly  colored  fruit,  is  decidedly  inferior  in 
quality. 

Use.  The  uses  for  which  the  fruit  is  particularly  suitable  is  indicated 
by  customary  terms.  Market  signifies  that  it  is  suitable  for  general 
market.  Local  market  indicates  either  that  it  does  not  stand  handling  well 
enough  or  is  not  appreciated  for  general  market  uses  but  is  acceptable 
for  local  trade.  Dessert  or  table  signifies  that  the  fresh  fruit  is  desirable 


40  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

for  serving  at  the  table.  Culinary,  cooking  or  kitchen  are  ^errns  used  to 
indicate  that  the  fruit  is  suitable  for  either  general  or  special  culinary 
uses. 

Season.  The  term  season  is  used  to  indicate  the  period  during  which 
the  variety  is  in  good  condition  for  use.  This  varies  with  the  same 
variety  in  different  latitudes.  Even  in  the  same  location  the  fruit  may 
ripen  later  and  keep  later  in  some  years  than  in  others.  Unless  other- 
wise stated  the  season  of  winter  apples  as  here  given  refers  to  the  fruit 
kept  in  ordinary  fruit  houses  or  in  cellars.  In  cold  storage  the  season 
may  be  prolonged  several  weeks  beyond  its  natural  limit.  The  reader 
should  bear  in  mind  that  the  manner  of  handling  fruit  before  it  goes  into 
storage  has  an  important  influence  upon  the  length  of  the  period  during 
which  it  will  keep  in  good  condition.! 

1  Beach  and  Clark,  Bull.  N.  Y.  Exp.   Sta.,  2*8:92.     1904. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  41 


AKIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892 1234.  2.  Rich),  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1897:137.  3.  Taylor,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Yr.  Bk.,  1903:268.  col.  pi.  4. 
///.  State  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890. 

SYNONYMS. l  Akin  Red,  Akin  Seedling,  Akins  Seedling,  Aikin's  Red,  Aiken, 
Aken — not  "Aiken's  Winter  "  of  Downing  which  is  a  crab  of  Minnesota  origin. 
(3).  Akin's  Red.  (4). 

When  the  Akin  is  well  developed  it  is  a  beautiful,  dark  red,  winter 
apple  of  pretty  good  quality.  It  appears  to  be  specially  adapted  for 
fancy  trade  and  for  dessert  use.  Although  it  has  not  been  suffi- 
ciently tested  to  determine  its  value  for  cultivation  in  New  York, 
it  promises  to  be  hardy,  healthy  and  reliably  productive.  It  seems 
to  be  best  suited  to  more  southern  localities,  but  it  has  usually  devel- 
oped well  at  Geneva,  although  in  occasional  seasons  its  fruit  has  not 
attained  good  color  here.  With  ordinary  care  the  fruit  does  not 
average  much  above  medium  size.  In  ordinary  storage  it  keeps  well 
till  midwinter  and  in  cold  storage  till  March  or  later.  It  is  suffi- 
ciently promising  to  be  worthy  of  testing  for  commercial  purposes. 

Historical.  Taylor  gives  an  excellent  account  of  the  origin  of  the  Akin  (3) 
from  which  it  appears  that  the  original  tree  was  grown  from  seed  brought 
from  Tennessee  and  planted  in  1831  near  Lawrenceville,  111.,  on  the  farm 
now  owned  by  W.  J.  Akin.  It  was  first  propagated  for  sale  in  1868.  Mr. 
Akin  exhibited  it  in  December,  1890,  at  the  Cairo  meeting  of  the  Illinois  State 
Horticultural  Society,  where  it  was  awarded  first  premium  both  as  a  "  Seed- 
ling "  and  a  "  New  Variety  good  enough  to  be  recommended."  Taylor  says 
(3),  "  It  has  now  been  fruited  in  several  states,  and  is  one  of  the  most  promis- 
ing of  the  recently  introduced  sorts  for  the  apple  growers  who  desire  a  variety 
well  adapted  to  the  needs  of  the  fancy  trade  in  the  larger  cities.  It  succeeds 
well  in  the  Middle  West  and  in  the  winter  apple  districts  of  the  Allegheny 
Mountain  region,  and  is  worthy  of  thorough  test  on  rich,  warm  soils  in  the 
northern  apple  districts  from  New  York  westward." 

TREE. 

Tree  upright,  becoming  somewhat  spreading,  dense,  medium  in  size,  moder- 
ately vigorous.  Branches  long,  moderately  stout.  Twigs  long,  straight, 
stocky,  with  thick  tips;  internodes  short  to  medium  in  length.  Bark  olive- 
green  varying  to  dull  purplish-brown,  largely  covered  with  a  gray  pubescence 
that  becomes  thicker  and  heavier  towards  the  tips.  Lenticels  numerous,  con- 
spicuous, oblong  or  roundish,  raised.  Buds  medium  size,  obtuse,  broad  ap- 
pressed,  quite  pubescent.  Leaves  large,  broad. 

1  Numbers  in  parentheses  designate  authors  or  publications  cited  in  the  preceding  list. 
This  plan  is  followed  with  all  of  the  formal  descriptions  given  in  this  report. 


42  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  medium  or  above,  sometimes  large.  Form  oblate  to  roundish 
oblate,  often  irregular,  slightly  ribbed,  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Fairly  uni- 
form in  size  and  shape.  Stem  medium  to  long,  slender.  Cavity  obtuse, 
broad,  rather  shallow  to  deep,  often  distinctly  furrowed,  not  often  russeted. 
Calyx  small  to  medium,  usually  closed.  Basin  medium  in  width  and  depth, 
usually  somewhat  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed  and  corrugated. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  rather  attractive  yellow,  blushed  and  striped  with 
bright  deep  red;  in  well  colored  specimens  almost  completely  red.  Dots  small, 
whitish  or  with  russet  point,  sometimes  conspicuous  in  contrast  with  the  dark 
red  skin.  Prevailing  effect  attractive  bright  red  with  contrasting  clear  yellow 
or  greenish-yellow. 

Calyx  tube  conical,  sometimes  approaching  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  abaxile,  medium,  open  or  partly  closed ;  core  lines  meeting.  Carpels 
elliptical  or  approaching  roundish  obcordate,  slightly  emarginate.  Seeds 
moderately  dark  brown,  long,  rather  narrow,  acute,  numerous. 

Flesh  whitish,  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  crisp,  moderately  coarse, 
moderately  tender,  very  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  aromatic,  good  to  very  good 
for  dessert 

Season  January  to  June. 

(I)  ALLINGTON. 

This  is  a  late  winter  apple  of  medium  size,  yellow  with  a  bronze  blush, 
subacid.  It  was  originated  by  S.  A.  Ailing  of  Homer,  Minnesota.  As  a  seed- 
ling it  was  awarded  first  premium  by  the  Minnesota  Horticultural  Society  in 
ipoi.1  We  have  received  no  reports  of  its  being  grown  in  New  York  State. 

(II)  ALLINGTON. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Bunyard,  Jour.  Royal  Hort.  Soc.,  21:356.    1898.     2.  Jour. 
Royal  Hort.  Soc.,  27:217.    1903.    fig. 
SYNONYM.     ALLTNGTON  PIPPIN   (i,  2). 

This  is  a  new  English  variety  which  was  awarded  a  first  class  certificate 
by  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society  in  1894.  (i)  Although  it  is  of  good  size 
and  of  good  quality  it  is  not  attractive  enough  in  color  to  make  it  a  promising 
commercial  variety  for  New  York.  It  has  not  been  tested  here  sufficiently  to 
show  how  well  it  is  adapted  to  New  York  conditions. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  spreading,  rather  open.  Tivigs  long  to  below  medium, 
irregular,  crooked,  rather  slender ;  internodes  above  medium  to  below  medium 
in  length.  Bark  rather  dull  brownish-red  and  dull  green ;  on  older  wood 
rather  light  green.  Lenticels  scattering,  large,  roundish,  sometimes  raised. 
Buds  large,  roundish,  rather  obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent.  Leaves  somewhat 
narrow. 

As  grown  at  the  Geneva  Station  it  comes  into  bearing  young  and  gives 
promise  of  being  quite  productive. 

,  S.  Dv  Expt.  St<i.  BuL  76:22.     190?, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  43 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size.  Form  roundish,-  often  some- 
what inclined  to  oblong  conic  varying  to  slightly  oblate,  sides  unequal,  some- 
times slightly  ribbed,  rather  uniform  in  shape.  Stem  medium  to  long.  Cavity 
rather  obtuse  to  acute  or  slightly  acuminate,  rather  shallow  to  moderately 
deep,  moderately  narrow,  usually  russeted,  sometimes  prominently  lipped. 
Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes  very  long,  acuminate, 
reflexed.  Basin  rather  obtuse,  moderately  wide,  medium  to  shallow,  often 
slightly  corrugated,  nearly  symmetrical. 

Skin  thick,  smooth,  greenish-yellow  almost  entirely  overspread  with  some- 
what dull  red,  indistinctly  striped  and  mottled  with  carmine,  sprinkled  with 
gray  dots;  occasionally  rather  large  russet  dots  and  fecks  are  seen.  Not 
particularly  attractive  in  color. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  rather  short  and  wide  to  sometimes  long,  funnel- 
form  with  short  truncate  cylinder  and  fleshy  projection  of  pistil  point  into  its 
base. 

Core  medium  or  below,  open  or  partly  closed,  nearly  axile ;  core  lines  meet- 
ing or  when  the  tube  is  funnel-form,  clasping  the  cylinder  of  the  tube. 
Carpels  roundish  ovate  to  pointed  ovate,  deeply  emarginate.  Seeds  below 
medium,  very  numerous,  dark,  short,  obtuse  to  acute,  plump. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  coarse,  rather  crisp,  tender,  rather 
firm,  very  juicy,  briskly  subacid  to  nearly  acid,  pleasantly  aromatic,  rich  in 
flavor,  good  in  quality. 

Season  November  to  midwinter. 

Uses.     Acceptable  for  dessert.     Particularly  suitable  for  culinary  use. 

ALLISON. 

REFERENCES,     i.  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1895:19.     2.  Watts,  Tenn.  Sta.  Bui,  9:6. 
1896.  fig.     3.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1897:35. 
SYNONYM.     Jones  Seedling  (i,  2,  3). 

This  is  a  variety  of  Tennessee  origin.  Watts  (2)  calls  it  a  valuable  winter 
apple  for  Tennessee.  Although  it  has  not  been  tested  here  sufficiently  to 
show  its  adaptability  to  New  York  conditions,  so  far  as  it  has  been  tested  it 
does  not  promise  to  be  as  valuable  as  it  is  in  more  southern  latitudes. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  vigorous,  productive ;  branches  long  and  slender.  Form  up- 
right spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  long,  slightly  curved,  medium  stout; 
internodes  below  medium  to  short.  Bark  bright  reddish-brown  varying  to 
reddish-green  with  light  scarf-skin;  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  small, 
roundish.  Buds  medium  size,  broad,  obtuse,  pubescent  Leaves  medium  in 
size,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  above.  Form  oblate,  rather  strongly  ribbed,  sides  unequal, 
rather  uniform.  Stem  short  to  medium.  Cavity  wide,  rather  shallow,  irreg- 
ular, sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  below  medium  to  large,  closed  or  somewhat 
open.  Basin  moderately  deep  or  rather  shallow,  moderately  wide,  slightly 
wrinkled.  Skin  rather  thick,  greenish,  sometimes  faintly  blushed  and  splashed 


44  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

with  rather  dull  unattractive  red,  heavily  splashed  with  large  and  small  russet 
patches.  Dots  usually  russet,  rather  large,  scattering.  General  appearance 
not  attractive. 

Core  rather  small  to  above  medium ;  closed  or  very  slightly  open.  Seeds 
medium,  rather  broad. 

Flesh  greenish-white,  firm,  rather  fine-grained,  slightly  crisp,  not  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  or  nearly  sweet.  As  grown  at  this  Station 
it  is  not  more  than  fair  in  flavor  and  quality. 

Season  late  winter. 

AMASSIA. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hogg,  1884:6.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234.  3.  Beach 
and  Close,  N.-  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  15:269.  1896. 

Hogg  (i)  speaks  of  Amassia  as  a  very  beautiful  and  ornamental  apple  and 
states  that  it  is  tiie  apple  most  generally  grown  in  Asia  Minor  on  the  shores 
of  the  Mediterranean.  When  fruited  here  under  favorable  conditions  Amassia 
is  attractive  in  form  and  color,  having  a  bright  red  blush.  It  has  a  pleasant, 
sweet  or  nearly  sweet  flavor  and  is  very  good  in  quality  for  dessert  use.  Under 
less  favorable  conditions  it  is  not  uniformly  well  colored  and  is  apt  to  fall 
below  medium  size.  These  characteristics  together  with  the  fact  that  the 
variety  would  be  classed  among  the  sweet  apples,  make  it  doubtful  whether 
it  will  ever  be  grown  in  this  state  to  any  considerable  extent  in  commercial 
orchards. 

TREE. 

Tree  is  a  moderately  vigorous  or  slow  grower.  Form  upright  spreading. 
Twigs  vary  from  short  to  rather  long,  straight  or  nearly  so ;  moderately  stout ; 
internodes  medium  to' long.  Bark  dull  dark  reddish-brown  with  light  streaks 
of  scarf-skin;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  rather  inconspicuous, 
oblong  or  roundish  in  shape,  medium  size.  Buds  medium  in  size,  broad, 
obtuse,  rather  prominent,  pubescent,  almost  free.  Leaves  moderately  long  and 
narrow. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  medium  or  below,  sometimes  nearly  large.  Form  ovate  or 
roundish  conic,  slightly  ribbed ;  sides  sometimes  compressed ;  fairly  uniform 
in  shape  and  size.  Stem  medium  to  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  to 
acuminate,  narrow,  medium  to  rather  deep,  often  compressed,  smooth  or 
partly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  very  small,  usually  closed.  Basin  small, 
varying  from  obtuse  and  very  shallow  to  moderately  deep  and  abrupt;  often 
furrowed  and  corrugated. 

Skin  smooth,  somewhat  waxy ;  clear  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  in  well  colored 
specimens  largely  covered  with  a  bright  deep  blush,  and  somewhat  striped 
with  carmine.  Dots  whitish,  small  but  rather  conspicuous.  Although  the 
apple  is  somewhat  striped,  the  general  effect  when  it  is  well  colored  is  that  of 
a  solid  deep  blush,  which  in  contrast  with  the  pale  green  or  yellow  gives  a 
decidedly  attractive  appearance. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form,  moderately  wide  and  deep,  with  pistil  point  pro- 
jecting into  its  base.  Stamens  median  or  nearly  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  abaxile,  closed  or  sometimes  slightly  open :  core 
lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  ovate  to  oblong  ovate,  emarginate.  Seeds 
few,  medium  to  small,  plump,  obtuse,  light  brown. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  45 

> 

Flesh  nearly  white,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  rather  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
with  pleasing  aroma,  mild  subacid,  becoming  sweet  or  nearly  so ;  good  to 
very  good. 

Season  December  to  March  or  April. 

AMERICAN  BEAUTY. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,   1857:115.     2.  Warder,   1867:711.     3.  Downing, 
1872:75.     4.  Barry,  1883:341.     5.  Thomas,  1903:689. 
SYNONYMS.     Beauty  of  America  (4).     Sterling  Beauty  (i,  3,  4,  5). 

So  far  as  we  can  learn  the  American  Beauty  is  not  now  grown  in  New 
York.  It  is  not  listed  in  Bailey's  inventory  of  apples  offered  by  nurserymen 
in  North  America  in  1892.!  It  is  an  old  variety  which  originated  in  Sterling, 
Mass.  Downing'  describes  it  as  a  large  red  apple,  mildly  subacid,  aromatic, 
very  good  in  quality.  In  season  from  December  to  April. 

AMERICAN  BLUSH. 

The  Hubbardston  has  long  been  known  in  some  portion  of  Seneca  and 
Tompkins  counties  under  the  name  American  Blush,  and  has  been  dissemi- 
nated from  there  under  that  name.  It  is  not  surprising  that  the  Hubbardston 
has  been  disseminated  under  other  names  because  it  shows  such  remarkable 
variations  with  changes  in  environment.  Whether  the  variations  which  have 
appeared  are  all  due  to  differences  in  environment  or  whether  distinct  strains 
of  the  Hubbardston  have  arisen  under  cultivation  has  not  been  definitely  de- 
termined. Some  fruit  growers  are  very  positive  in  the  opinion  that  American 
Blush  is  different  from  the  Hubbardston.  If  this  be  true  and  if  these  differ- 
ences are  maintained  under  propagation  it  should  be  regarded  as  a  distinct 
strain  of  the  Hubbardston. 

AMERICAN  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:147.  2.  Downing,  1845:98.  3.  Thomas,  1849: 
163.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:74.  1851.  5.  Hooper,  1857:42.  6. 
Elliott,  1859:184.  7.  Warder,  1867:420.  8.  Downing,  1872:77.  9.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:288.  10.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.  1892:234.  n.  Thomas, 
1903:689. 

SYNONYMS.     GRINDSTONE  (5).     Grindstone  (3,  7,  8,  9,  10).     Stone  (8). 

The  American  Pippin  is  an  old  variety.  Coxe  gives  it  a  very  high  reputa- 
tion both  for  cider  and  for  keeping  late  (i).  Lyon  says  of  it  (9)  "keeps  a 
year,  cooks  well,  but  otherwise  scarcely  eatable." 

Coxe  describes  the  tree  as  very  open,  remarkably  spreading  with  hanging 
crooked  shoots. 

The  fruit  is  medium,  regular,  oblate,  "  without  any  hollow  at  the  ends  " 
(Coxe)  ;  calyx  small,  open;  skin  dull  red,  shaded  and  streaked  with  dull  green, 
the  surface  being  rough,  sometimes  with  slight  russet  markings,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  gray  or  coarse  russet  dots ;  core  wide,  irregular,  closed ;  seeds 
numerous,  plump,  brown;  flesh  white  or  yellowish,  hard,  rather  coarse, 
moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Variously  rated  by  pomologists  from  poor 
to  good  in  quality. 

'An.  Hort.,  1882:234. 


46  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

There  is  a  variety  grown  under  the  name  of  American  Pippin  in  Northern 
New  York  and  Canada  which  is  valued  on  account  of  its  hardiness  and  late 
keeping  qualities.  Macoun1  describes  the  fruit  of  this  variety  as  large,  round- 
ish; greenish-yellow  with  pink  or  orange  blush;  dots  not  prominent;  basin 
rather  deep ;  calyx  large,  open ;  cavity  deep ;  flesh  yellow,  subacid,  good. 

I  have  not  determined  whether  this  is  identical  with  the  American  Pippin 
of  Coxe  but  it  does  not  appear  to  be  that  variety. 

AMOS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:313,  326.  1896.  2.  Powell  and  Fulton, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:36.  1903.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  ,V.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:111. 
1904. 

SYNONYMS.     JACKSON   (i).     Amos  Jackson   (i,  2,  3). 

This  variety  was  received  for  testing  at  the  Geneva  Experiment  Station 
from  Benjamin  Buckman  of  Farmingdale,  Illinois.  It  is  supposed  to  be  of 
southern  origin.  The  tree  is  moderately  productive.  The  fruit  is  of  medium 
size,  attractive  deep  yellow,  subacid,  fair  to  good.  Season  November  to 
March.  It  is  not  recommended  for  cultivation  in  New  York. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  averages  below  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate,  almost  truncate, 
usually  symmetrical;  uniform  in  form  and  size.  Stem  long  to  very  long, 
slender,  sometimes  bracted,  often  reflexed  in  a  characteristic  way  to  one  side. 
Cavity  acute,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  moderately  wide,  usually  russeted, 
often  lipped.  Calyx  large,  open;  lobes  long  and  reflexed.  Basin  obtuse, 
shallow  or  moderately  deep,  broad,  sometimes  corrugated. 

Skin  yellow,  often  with  blush,  not  striped,  sprinkled  with  scattering  russet 
dots.  Prevailing  effect  attractive  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  short,  cone-shaped,  with  tendency  to  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  basal. 

Core  sessile,  turbinate.  axile,  small  to  medium,  closed  or  slightly  open. 
Carpels  elliptical,  inclined  to  obcordate,  emarginate,  mucronate. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  hard,  rather  coarse,  breaking,  moderately  juicy,  sprightly 
subacid,  fair  to  good  in  quality. 

Season  November  to  March. 

ANDREWS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Beach  and  Close,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  15:270.  1896.  2. 
Beach  and  Clark,  .V.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:111.  1904.  3.  Not  listed  by  Bailey  in 
An.  Hort.,  1892:234. 

SYNONYMS.     ANDREWS  WINTER  (i).     Andrews  Winter  (2). 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  not  very  attractive  in  form  or  color  and  therefore 
not  desirable  for  market.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York 
state. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading,  rather  dense ;  branches  rather 
small  and  crooked.  Tzvigs  medium  size,  curved,  stout ;  internodes  medium 

1  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Bui.  37:42.     1901. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  47 

to  rather  long.  Bark  clear  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green,  partly 
covered  with  streaked  scarf-skin;  quite  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous, 
medium  to  below,  oblong.  Buds  medium  size,  plump,  acute,  appressed, 
pubescent.  Leaves  medium  size,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small.  Form  roundish  conic  to  oblong  conic,  often  unsymmetrical ; 
sides  often  compressed.  Stem  short,  thick,  often  obliquely  inserted.  Cavity 
acute,  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  furrowed  or  compressed,  sometimes 
lipped,  usually  smooth.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  medium  in  width 
and  depth,  distinctly  furrowed. 

Skin  tough,  somewhat  waxy,  dull  yellowish-green  partly  overlaid  with  a 
dull,  rather  dark  red  having  narrow,  indistinct,  carmine  stripes.  Dots  numer- 
ous, pale,  rather  conspicuous. 

Calyx  tube  narrow,  elongated,  cone-shape  or  funnel-form.  Stamens  median 
to  marginal. 

Core  abaxile,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  decidedly 
concave,  broadly  ovate,  slightly  emarginate,  distinctly  tufted.  Seeds  medium 
to  large,  rather  narrow,  long,  acute,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  greenish-white,  firm,  moderately  fine,  somewhat  crisp,  moderately 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

Season  March  to  June. 

ARKANSAS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Van  Deman,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1891:123.  2.  Babcock, 
Amer.  Card.,  1891:118.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Plort.,  1892:234,  244.  4.  Babcock,  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895:190.  5.  Amer.  Gard.,  1895:419.  6.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta. 
Bui.,  43:103.  1896.  7.  Amer.  Card.,  1896:29,  65,  146,  152,  210,  306.  8.  Watts, 
Tenn.  Sta.  Bui,  9:24.  1896.  fig.  g.  U.  S.  Pom.  Bui.,  6:9.  1897.  10.  Stinson, 
Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  49:5,  7.  1898.  figs,  of  trees  and  fruit,  n.  Powell,  Del.  Sta. 
Bui.,  38:19.  1898.  fig.  12.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui,  60:124.  1899.  13.  N.  C. 
Bd.  of  Agr.  Apple  Bui,  1900:9.  14.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui,  130:127.  1901. 
15.  Stinson,  Mo.  State  Fruit  Sta.  Bui,  3:26.  1902.  16.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:39. 
fig.  17.  Thomas,  1903:322.  690,  708. 

SYNONYMS.  ARKANSAW  (4,  10,  12).  Arkansaw  (16).  MAMMOTH  BLACK 
Twro  (6).  Mammoth  Black  Twig  (9,  10,  n,  12,  14,  15,  16).  PARAGON 
(erroneously)  (i).  ARKANSAS  BLACK  and  Arkansas  Black  Twig  (17)  but 
erroneously. 

The  Arkansas  is  a  late  keeping  winter  apple,  rather  large,  of 
good  red  color,  and  good  quality.  It  is  not  a  desirable  variety  for 
growing  in  New  York  state  because  it  is  not  sufficiently  productive 
and  because  in  this  northern  latitude  the  seasons  are  not  always 
favorable  to  the  proper  development  of  its  fruit.  It  keeps  later 
than  the  Baldwin  but  it  is  inferior  to  that  variety  in  productiveness 
and  also  in  the  color  and  quality  of  its  fruit. 


48  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

During  trfe  last  quarter  century  Arkansas  has  been  quite  exten- 
sively planted  in  the  South  and  Southwest,  but  even  as  grown  in 
these  regions,  the  variety  has  not  been  satisfactory  in  commercial 
orchards  because  it  is  a  shy  bearer. 

Arkansas  and  Paragon  resemble  each  other  so  closely  that  at  one 
time  many  regarded  these  two  varieties  as  identical,  and,  in  conse- 
quence, the  stock  of  the  two  kinds  became  badly  mixed  in  nurseries 
and  orchards. 

Arkansas  Black  is  decidedly  distinct  from  Arkansas  both  in  tree 
and  fruit.  Sometimes  these  two  varieties  have  been  erroneously 
listed  as  identical  (17).  This  mistake  doubtless  arose  because  of  the 
similarity  of  the  two  names,  rather  than  from  any  marked  resem- 
blance between  the  varieties. 

Historical.  Arkansas  was  grown  from  seed  (4,  10)  planted  about  1833 
near  Rhea  Mills,  Arkansas,  where  the  original  tree  still  stands.  It  bears  a 
marked  resemblance  to  the  Winesap  of  which  it  is  said  to  be  a  seedling  (4). 
Nurserymen  began  to  propagate  it  about  1868.  In  succeeding  years  it  became 
pretty  generally  disseminated  in  Arkansas  and  surrounding  states. 

As  previously  stated,  this  variety  has  been  confused  with  the  Paragon,  an 
apple  of  Tennessee  origin  which  it  much  resembles.  It  is  now  conceded  that 
Paragon  and  Arkansas  are  two  distinct  varieties  (4,  7>  8,  9,  10). 

TREE. 

free  rather  large,  vigorous;  branches  large,  crooked,  stout.  Form  upright 
spreading,  rather  open.  Tzvigs  medium  to  long,  sometimes  drooping,  some- 
what curved,  thick;  internodes  short.  Bark  very  dark  brownish-red  with 
some  dull  olive-green,  thickly  mottled  with  thin  gray  scarf-skin ;  somewhat 
pubescent  toward  the  tips.  Eventually  it  becomes  almost  black.  Lenticels 
scattering,  rather  conspicuous,  mostly  roundish,  medium  or  sometimes  small, 
often  slightly  raised.  Buds  somewhat  pubescent;  towards  the  tip  and  base 
of  the  twig  they  are  appressed  and  often  obtuse,  but  on  the  intermediate 
portion  they  stand  out  prominently  and  are  large,  broad,  plump,  acute,  free. 
Foliage  rather  dense;  leaves  medium  to  large,  often  broad. 

The  mature  young  twigs  of  Arkansas  much  resemble  those  of  Paragon  but 
they  are  somewhat  darker  and  stockier.  The  mature  Paragon  twigs  have 
comparatively  more  of  a  reddish-brown  tinge. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium,  pretty  uniform  in  size.  Form  roundish  inclined  to 
conic,  sometimes  slightly  oblate,  broadly  ribbed,  pretty  uniform  in  shape. 
Stem  long  to  almost  short,  rather  stout.  Cavity  acute,  rather  wide,  medium 
in  depth,  green,  often  much  russeted,  sometimes  indistinctly  furrowed.  Calyx 
small  to  medium,  usually  closed.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  rather  wide,  moderately 
deep,  broadly  furrowed  or  wavy. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  49 

Skin  nearly  smooth,  dull  green,  often  becoming  good  deep  yellow,  largely 
overspread  with  a  dr.ll  deep  red,  obscurely  striped  with  darker  red.  Dots 
generally  small,  russet,  inconspicuous;  sometimes  medium  and  whitish. 

Calyx  tube  medium,  conical,  sometimes  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  to 
nearly  basal. 

Core  usually  axile,  usually  closed;  core  lines  slightly  cla-sping.  Carpels 
broadi>  ovate,  deeply  emarginate,  tufted;  not  always  well  developed.  Seeds 
few  and  variable,  not  always  well  developed;  if  plump  they  are  long,  rather 
narrow,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  me  lerately  fine-grained,  rather  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  subacid,  crisp,  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

ARKANSAS  BEAUTY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  60:124.  1899.  2.  Bailey,  An. 
HorL,  1892:234.  3.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:40.  4.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui,  48:36.  1903. 

The  Arkansas  Beauty  is  a  variety  of  Arkansas  origin.  Stinson  ( i )  says 
that  it  is  grown  to  some  extent  in  a  few  sections  of  that  state  but  has -not 
proven  valuable.  A.S  grown  in  this  latitude  the  fruit  does  not  always  attain 
good  color  or  good  quality. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous;  branches  long,  stout,  crooked.  Form  wide  spreading  with 
a  rather  open  top.  Tivigs  rather  long,  moderately  stout,  often  crooked;  inter- 
nodes  usually  short.  Bark  olive-green  with  reddish-brown  markings,  dull, 
mottled  thickly  with  scarf-skin ;  somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  scatter- 
ing, roundish  or  somewhat  oblong,  medium  size  to  rather  small.  Buds  large 
to  medium,  plump,  rather  obtuse,  pubescent.  Leaves  rather  long  and  narrow. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium.  Form  roundish  inclined  to  conic.  Stem  long  to 
medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity  small,  acute,  deep,  broad,  nearly  symmetrical, 
slightly  furrowed.  Calyx  medium,  closed  or  partly  open,  pubescent.  Basin 
small,  medium  in  depth  and  width,  rather  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  rather  glossy,  pale  green  or  yellow,  blushed  with  pinkish- 
red,  and  marked  with  rather  faint  stripes  of  carmine. 

Calyx  tube  long,  funnel-shaped. 

Core  open.  Carpels  much  concave,  broadly  roundish,  emarginate  inclined 
to  obcordate,  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  dark,  medium  or  below,  rather  wide, 
plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  fine,  moderately  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  good. 

ARKANSAS  BLACK. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1886:268.  col.  pi.  &  fig.  2. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234.  3.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui,  43:103.  1896.  4.  Ib. 
Bui,  49:7.  1898.  5.  Ib.  Bui,  60:126.  1899.  6.  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:51.  1902. 
7.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:40.  8.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:36. 
1903.  9.  Thomas,  1897:272.  fig.  Ib.,  1903:322,  690,  708.  -.-.A.  , 


5O  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

SYNONYMS.  Arkansas  Black  Twig  (9).  Mammoth  Black  Twig  (9)  but 
erroneously. 

The  Arkansas  Black  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  apples.  It  is 
a  good  keeper  and  commands  a  good  price  in  market.  The  color 
is  a  lively  red  deepening  on  the  exposed  side  to  purplish-red  or 
nearly  black.  The  tree  is  unproductive  and  not  desirable  for 
general  planting. 

Arkansas  Black  is  distinct  from  the  Arkansas  or  Mamti.oth 
Blacktwig. 

Historical.  According  to  Stinson  (4)  the  Arkansas  Black  originated  in 
Benton  county,  Arkansas,  and  bore  its  first  fruit  about  1870.  The  first  descrip- 
tion of  it  which  I  find,  is  that  given  by  Van  Deman  (i)  in  1886. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long,  slender.  Form  upright  spreading, 
rather  open.  Twigs  short,  stout ;  internodes  short.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown, 
mottled  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  small  to  below 
medium,  round.  Buds  large,  broad,  acute,  appressed,  pubescent.  Leases 
medium  in  size. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  as  grown  here  is  medium  or  below,  rarely  large,  pretty  uniform  in 
size  and  shape.  Form  nearly  round.  Stem  medium.  Cacity  acute,  rather 
small,  sometimes  lipped,  not  deep,  partly  russeted.  Calyx  rather  small,  closed. 
Basin  obtuse,  very  shallow,  slightly  furrowed,  faintly  corrugated. 

Skin  smooth,  somewhat  waxy;  yellow  covered  with  a  lively  red  deepening 
to  purplish-red  or  almost  black  on  the  exposed  side.  Dots  small,  inconspicu- 
ous. Prevailing  effect  bright  very  dark  red. 

Calyx  tube  conical,  approaching  funnel-form.     Stamens  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  abaxile,  closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  concave,  roundish,  emarginate.  Seeds  plump,  rather  short,  obtuse, 
moderately  dark  brown. 

Flesh  decidedly  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  rather  fine-grained,  crisp, 
moderately  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  April  or  later.  In  cold  storage  (7)  it  keeps  well 
through  the  storage  season. 

ARNOLD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1876:  app.  43.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234. 
3.  Thomas,  1897:626.  4.  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  177:48.  1899.  5.  Ib.  Bui,  187:85. 
1901.  6.  Ib.  Bui.,  194:62.  1901.  7.  Ib.  Bui,  205:43.  1903.  8.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:40. 

SYNONYMS.     ARNOLD'S  BEAUTY  (i,  3).    Arnold's  Beauty  (8). 

The  Arnold  was  raised  from  seed  produced  by  pollinating 
Northern  Spy  with  pollen  from  Wagener  and  Esopus  Spitzenberg 
by  Charles  Arnold,  Paris,  Ontario  (i).  Fulton  reports  (4,  5,  6) 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  51 

that  "  it  is  too  light  in   color  and  almost  too  tender  for  market, 
promising-  for  home  use."     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  in  size.  Form  oblate,  slightly  ribbed.  Stem  medium,  slender. 
Cavity  broad,  deep,  usually  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin 
deep,  slightly  corrugated.  Skin  yellowish-white,  netted  russet,  sometimes  with 
a  little  bright  red.  Prevailing  effect  light  yellow.  Calyx  tube  funnel-shape. 
Core  small.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  mild  subacid,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic,  very 
good. 

Season  November  to  March. 

ARTHUR. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hansen,  5.  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:26.  1902.  fig.  2.  Budd- 
Hansen,  1903:41. 

The  Arthur  originated  as  a  chance  seedling  in  Northern  Iowa  where  hardi- 
ness of  tree  is  a  prime  consideration  and  where  it  is  reported  to  have  endured 
for  many  years  better  than  any  other  variety  except  the  Oldenburg.1  It  is 
not  desirable  for  planting  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  is  a  moderate  or  rather  slow  grower  with  stocky  branches  and  droop- 
ing branchlets,  forming  an  upright  roundish  head.  Twigs  short,  stout;  inter- 
nodes  medium.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown  covered  with  light  scarf-skin; 
somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticcls  scattering,  brownish,  small  to  medium,  slightly 
elongated,  raised.  Buds  small,  deeply  inserted  in  the  bark,  obtuse,  pubescent. 
Leaves  medium  size,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  below  medium.  Form  oblong  narrowing  towards  the  stem, 
varying  to  roundish  obovate ;  hardly  symmetrical ;  sometimes  slightly  ribbed. 
Stem  medium  to  long,  slender,  .often  bracted.  Cavity  acuminate,  deep,  rather 
narrow,  thinly  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed  or  nearly  so ;  lobes  reflexed. 
Basin  rather  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  moderately  wide,  usually  smooth. 

Skin  rather  pale  dull  yellowish-green,  thinly  washed  with  dull  red  and 
faintly  striped  with  carmine  splashes.  Dots  numerous,  dull  russet,  incon- 
spicuous. Prevailing  effect  striped. 

Calyx  tube  narrow,  funnel-shaped.     Stamens  medium  to  marginal. 

Core  medium,  abaxile,  slightly  open  to  wide  open,  sometimes  with  four  cells 
instead  of  five;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to  obcordate,  decidedly 
concave.  Seeds  thick,  rather  short  to  medium. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  not  tender, 
juicy,  subacid.  somewhat  aromatic,  fair  to  good  in  flavor  and  quality. 

Season  October  to  January. 

Uses.  Suitable  for  culinary  purposes.  It  is  not  desirable  for  market  be- 
cause it  is  not  particularly  attractive  in  form,  size  or  color,  it  is  not  a  good 
keeper  and  it  is  inferior  to  standard  varieties  in  quality. 

1  Patten,  C.  G.,  Charles  City,  la.,  Cat.  1892. 


52  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

AUCUBA. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Leroy,  1873:301.  fig.  2.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.An.Rpt.,  14:586. 
1892.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234.  4.  Thomas,  1903:689.  5.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:36.  1903.  6.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:111.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  ACUBA-LEAVED  REINETTE  (4).  ACUBA-LEAF  REINETTE  (2). 
FEUILLES  D' AUCUBA  (i).  AUCUB^FOLIA  (3).  Reinette  a  feuille  d'Acuba  (2). 

The  Aucuba  is  a  moderately  attractive  apple  of  medium  size  and 
pretty  good  quality.  The  tree  is  hardy,  healthy  and  bears  regularly 
and  abundantly.  It  is  in  season  from  October  to  January.  The 
variety  is  not  recommended  for  general  planting  because  the  fruit  is 
second  rate  in  size,  appearance  and  quality. 

Historical  Leroy  (i)  states  that  Aucuba  was  described  as  early  as  1839 
in  Jardin  fruitier  p.  216,  but  that  its  origin  is  still  unknown.  In  New  York 
state  it  has  been  disseminated  but  sparingly  and  is  not  commonly  known. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  moderately  long  and  stout.  Form 
rather  open,  upright  spreading.  Twigs  long,  slightly  curved,  moderately 
slender ;  internodes  below  medium  to  short.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown  with 
light  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  small,  round.  Buds  medium, 
rather  long,  acute,  pubescent,  often  free.  Leaves  large  and  broad. 

Aucuba  begins  bearing  rather  young  and  usually  bears  annual  crops.  There 
is  some  tendency  for  the  fruit  to  drop  before  the  crop  is  ready  to  be  gathered. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  above,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
inclined  to  conic,  sometimes  a  little  oblate,  sides  occasionally  unequal.  Stem 
usually  long  and  slender.  Cavity  acuminate,  sometimes  acute,  deep,  moder- 
ately narrow  to  rather  broad,  nearly  symmetrical,  seldom  russeted.  Calyx 
small,  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes  long,  acuminate.  Basin  usually  narrow 
and  shallow,  sometimes  moderately  wide  and  moderately  deep,  obtuse  to  rather 
abrupt,  often  somewhat  furrowed  and  corrugated. 

Skin  smooth,  waxen  yellow,  rather  pale  but  bright,  often  nearly  covered 
with  bright  pinkish-red  indistinctly  marked  with. narrow  carmine  stripes.  In 
well  colored  fruit  the  red  rather  predominates  over  the  yellow.  Dots  very 
inconspicuous,  gray  or  russet.  General  appearance  is  rather  attractive. 

Calyx  tube  either  rather  short,  narrow,  cone-shaped,  with  core  lines  nearly 
meeting,  or  narrowly  funnel-form,  in  which  case  the  core  lines  clasp  the 
cylinder  of  the  calyx  tube.  Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile,  partly  open  or  sometimes  closed. 

Carpels  smooth,  slightly  emarginate,  roundish  cordate,  sometimes  distinctly 
narrowing  toward  the  apex.  Seeds  numerous,  small  to  medium,  narrow,  acute 
or  acuminate. 

Flesh  whitish  with  yellow  tinge,  firm,  breaking,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly 
subacid,  with  distinct  aroma,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  October  to  January;  some  of  the  fruit  may  keep  till  spring  but  it 
is  apt  to  deteriorate  in  flavor  and  quality  after  midwinter. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  53 

BABBITT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Gano,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1889:130.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:234.  3.  U.  S.  Agr.  Rfit.,  1893:286.  4.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  169:180. 
1899.  5.  Fulton,  Ib.,  194:62.  1901.  6.  Thomas,  1903:322  7.  Budd-Hansen, 

1903:41- 
SYNONYM.     Western  Baldwin  (3,  6,  7). 

Babbitt  is  a  very  handsome  large  apple,  red  and  striped,  of  about 
the  same  season  as  the  Tompkins  King.  It  is  excellent  for  cooking 
but  too  sour  for  dessert.  It  is  hardy,  healthy  and  very  vigorous. 
In  Western  New  York,  so  far  as  tested,  it  appears  to  be  productive, 
comes  into  bearing  rather  young,  and  bears  heavy  biennial  crops. 
In  fact  some  report  that  the  fruit  sets  so  abundantly  that  it  is  apt 
to  be  rather  small  unless  attention  be  given  to  pruning  and  thinning. 
Further  testing  is  required  to  determine  its  merits  for  this  region. 
It  has  been  found  very  productive  in  Michigan  (5),  and  is  reported 
as  generally  productive  in  the  central  states  (3).  In  Eastern  New 
York,  although  it  blooms  abundantly,  it  has  been  found  to  be  a  shy 
bearer.  On  this  account  and  because  the  fruit  is  very  acid,  it  is  not 
there  considered  worthy  of  cultivation. 

Historical.  Babbitt  originated  from  seed  of  Baldwin  about  1845  with  C  W. 
Babbitt  of  Woodford  county,  Illinois  (3). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  to  very  vigorous.  Form  roundish  spreading,  rather  open; 
branches  ?tout,  often  crooked,  tough,  with  strong  joints  which  hold  heavy 
loads  without  splitting.  Twigs  moderately  long,  rather  stocky,  varying  from 
curved  to  nearly  'straight;  internodes  very  short.  Bark  bright  olive-green 
with  dull  reddish-brown  markings,  thickly  mottled  with  scarf-skin;  quite 
pubescent.  Lenticels  irregularly  scattering,  medium  to  small,  usually  roundish 
or  somewhat  elongated.  Buds  medium  to  large,  broad,  obtuse,  pubescent. 
Leaves  medium  to  large,  rather  broad,  dark  green,  with  thick  texture. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  somewhat  resembles  Wagener  in  form,  being  large,  roundish  oblate, 
slightly  angular  and  somewhat  irregular.  Stem  short.  Cavity  obtuse  to  acute, 
moderately  shallow,  medium  to  broad,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  nearly  closed. 
Basin  somewhat  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  somewhat  furrowed,  slightly  corru- 
gated. 

Skin  bright  pale  yellow  with  mottled  red  cheek,  striped  with  bright  carmine. 
When  well  grown  the  fruit  has  good  size,  bright  attractive  color  and  fine 
general  appearance. 

Calyx  tube  conical  approaching  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  rather  small,  axile,  closed  ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broad,  roundish, 
nearly  truncate.  Seeds  dark  brown,  medium  or  below, 


54  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Flesh  whitish,  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  fine-grained,  moderately 
crisp,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid  or  sour;  too  sour  for  dessert,  excellent  for 
cooking. 

Season.  It  is  in  season  about  with  Tompkins  King  but  sometimes  keeps 
well  till  late  spring,  and  is  then  especially  desirable  for  cooking  because  it 
retains  well  its  sprightly  subacid  flavor. 

BAILEY  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Thomas,  1849:159.  2.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:59. 
1851.  3.  Downing,  1857:116.  4.  Elliott,  1858:121.  5.  Warder,  1867:633.  fig. 
6.  Downing,  1872:84.  7.  Barry,  1883:342.  8.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:288.  9.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234.  10.  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  1901:287. 
ii.  Fulton,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  187:85.  1901.  12.  Hansen,  6".  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:27. 
1902.  13.  Thomas,  1903:319.  14.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:42.  fig.  15.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.iY.  Sta.  Bui,  248:111.  1904.  16.  Cole,  123.  17.  Hooper,  12. 

SYNONYMS.  BAILEY'S  GOLDEN  SWEET  (16).  BAILEY  SWEET  (i,  4,  5,  12,  13, 
17).  Bailey  Sweet  (8,  10).  BAILEY'S  SWEET  (2,  3,  7,  16).  Bailey's  Sweet 
(9).  Edgerly  Sweet  (i,  4,  13).  Edgerly's  Sweet  (3,  6).  Howard's  Sweet 
(3,  6).  Pater  son's  Sweet  (3,  6).  Patterson  Sweet  (13).  Patterson's  Sweet 

(1,2). 

This  is  a  very  beautiful  red  apple,  distinctly  sweet  and  of  very 
good  quality.  It  is  in  season  from  October  to  January  or  sometimes 
later.  It  is  not  a  very  good  keeper.  In  some  localities  the  fruit  is 
apt  to  be  rather  scabby  and  knotty,  and  unless  it  is  well  sprayed 
the  percentage  of  unmarketable  and  low-grade  fruit  runs  rather 
high.  The  tree  is  reliably  productive  but  it  does  not  excel  either 
in  vigor,  health  or  hardiness.  It  is  not  recommended  for  cultivation. 

Historical.  Bailey  Sweet  was  introduced  under  this  "name  from  Perry, 
Wyoming  county,  New  York,  more  than  60  years  ago  (i).  Whether  it  orig- 
inated there  or  was  an  old  variety  brought  in  from  the  East  is  uncertain  (3). 
Although  it  has  long  been  known  and  widely  disseminated,  there  is  no  section 
of  the  state  where  it  is  grown  in  large  quantities. 

TREE. 

Tree  upright,  somewhat  spreading,  rather  open,  not  dense ;  branches  moder- 
ately stout  or  slender.  Twigs  rather  slender,  nearly  straight ;  internodes 
medium  to  short.  Bark  rather  dark  brownish-red  marked  with  thin  gray 
scarf-skin;  sparingly  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  medium  to  below,  usually 
oblong,  conspicuous,  somewhat  raised.  Buds  medium  to  large,  broad,  acute 
to  somewhat  obtuse,  appressed ;  somewhat  pubescent.  Leaves  often  rather 
broad  and  large;  foliage  not  dense. 

In  the  nursery  the  development  of  the  root  system  is  rather  light  or  weak. 
In  the  orchard  the  tree  makes  a  rather  slow  or  moderately  vigorous  growth 
and  does  not  become  large.  It  is  a  reliable  cropper  with  a  tendency  to  annual 
bearing.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  55 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  sometimes  as  large  as  Baldwin  or  larger  and  averages  above  medium. 
Form  roundish  to  roundish  conic,  or  somewhat  oblate,  ribbed  obscurely  if  at 
all,  rather  symmetrical,  sides  somewhat  elliptical ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and 
shape.  Stem  short  to  medium,  rather  slender  to  thick.  Cavity  acute,  usually 
rather  deep,  somewhat  furrowed,  sometimes  with  sides  compressed  or  lipped, 
often  partly  covered  with  a  thin  golden-brown  russet.  Calyx  closed  or  some- 
times partly  open,  small  to  medium  \vith  short  obtuse  to  acute  lobes.  Basin 
somewhat  shallow  to  very  ^shallow,  medium  to  narrow,  obtuse  to  rather  abrupt, 
often  slightly  furrowed  or  slightly  corrugated,  with  a  tendency  to  develop 
mammiform  protuberances. 

Skin  rather  tender,  nearly  smooth,  clear  bright  yellow  largely  covered  with 
deep  red,  mottled  or  obscurely  striped  with  darker  red.  Often  irregularly 
netted  markings  and  dots  of  whitish  or  russet-gray  contrast  conspicuously 
with  the  red  surface.  Whitish  scarf-skin  sometimes  radiates  from  the  cavity. 
Prevailing  effect  attractive  bright  red. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape,  medium  length  with  a  rather  wide  limb.  Stamens 
median. 

Core  axile,  medium  in  size,  closed;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  elliptic  to 
roundish  cordate,  emarginate.  Seeds  medium  to  rather  large,  long,  acute. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  moderately  crisp,  rather 
tender,  moderately  juicy  to  juicy,  decidedly  sweet,  agreeable  in  flavor,  very 
good  in  quality. 

Season  October  to  January  or  later. 

BAKER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Horticulturist,  15:92.  1860.  2.  Downing,  1872:84.  3. 
Thomas,  1885:502.  4.  Not  listed  by  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234.  5.  Taylor, 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895:193.  6.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:43.  7.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:3?-  1903. 

SYNONYM.    Scott  (2). 

This  is  a  red  apple  of  good  size,  'pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape  and  of 
fairly  good  quality.  It  is  not  so  good  a  keeper  as  Baldwin  and  is  inferior 
to  it  in  quality  and  hardly  equal  to  it  in  color.  The  tree  is  hardy,  healthy, 
vigorous  and  reliably  productive  with  a  tendency  to  biennial  bearing.  There 
is  a  considerable  loss  from  the  dropping  of  the  fruit.  Although  it  has  been 
known  in  cultivation  for  more  than  a  century  (i),  it  appears  to  have  practically 
passed  out  of  the  lists  offered  by  the  nurserymen  in  North  America  (4)  and 
evidently  is  nearly  obsolete. 

Historical.  It  is  stated  that  the  original  tree  was  in  full  bearing  in  its  native 
place,  Richfield,  Ct,  during  the  Revolutionary  War.  Forty  years  ago  it  was 
but  little  known  outside  the  vicinity  of  its  origin  (i). 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous,  productive;  branches  stout,  crooked.  Form  upright 
spreading,  open.  Twigs  below  medium  to  long,  erect,  slightly  curved,  stout, 
blunt  at  the  tips;  internodes  medium.  Bark  rather  clear  olive-green  partly 
covered  with  dark  brownish-red,  with  light  streaked  scarf-skin ;  quite  pubescent. 


56  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Lenticels  scattering,  roundish,  medium  sized,  raised.     Buds  prominent,  large, 
broad,  plump,  obtuse,  pubescent,  free  or  nearly  so.     Leaves  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  sometimes  large ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape. 
Form  roundish  to  roundish  conic,  sometimes  slightly  oblate,  generally  sym- 
metrical. Stem  medium  to  short,  rather  thick.  Cavity  acuminate,  rather 
shallow  to  moderately  deep,  broad,  often  with  radiating  russet,  sometimes 
lipped.  Calyx  large,  usually  open,  sometimes  closed ;  lobes  often  reflexed, 
acute  to  obtuse.  Basin  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  moderately  wide  to  wide, 
somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  yellow  or  greenish-yellow,  largely  overlaid  or  mottled  with  red  and 
striped  and  splashed  with  carmine,  but  not  conspicuously  so.  Dots  numerous, 
russet,  mingled  with  some  broken  lines  or  flecks  of  russet,  yet  the  skin  is 
rather  smooth.  Prevailing  effect  when  highly  colored  is  bright  red,  otherwise 
yellowish. 

Calyx  tube  wide,  conical  sometimes  with  short  funnel  tube  extension. 
Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  comparatively  small,  axile,  closed  or  sometimes  open ;  core  lines  slightly 
clasping.  Carpels  flat,  elongated  ovate  approaching  cordate,  tufted.  Seeds 
medium,  moderately  wide,  moderately  long,  acute,  tufted,  medium  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  or  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  moderately  coarse, 
breaking,  moderately  tender,  rather  juicy,  mild  subacid  becoming  somewhat 
sweet,  agreeable  in  flavor,  good  or  nearly  good  in  quality. 

Season  October  to  February. 

Baker's  Eastern  Pippin  Apple  is  a  distinct  variety  of  Canadian  origin.1 

BALDWIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Thacher,  1822:121.  2.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831. 
3.  Kenrick,  1833:41.  4.  Mag.  Plort.,  1:360.  1835.  5.  Manning,  1838:59.  6. 
Dittrich,  3:53.  7.  Downing,  1845:98.  fig.  1847.  col.  pi.  8.  French,  Horticul- 
turist, 1:315.  1846.  9.  Thomas,  1849:163.  10.  Cole,  1849:128.  u.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:75.  1851.  fig.  12.  Hovey,  1:11.  1852.  fig.  and  col.  pi.  13. 
Bivort,  An.  de  Pom.  Beige,  1855:147.  14.  Hooper,  1857:14.  15.  Elliott,  1858: 
66.  fig.  16.  Flotow,  ///.  Handb.  Obstk.,  1:427.  1859.  17.  Mas,  Lc  Verger, 
5:163.  col.  pi.  18.  Warder,  1867:42.  fig.  19.  Downing,  1872:85.  fig.  20. 
Leroy,  1873:89.  fig.  21.  Barry,  1883:342.  22.  Hogg,  1884:13.  23.  Wickson, 
1891:2:45.  24.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234.  25.  Woolverton,  Out.  Fruit 
Stas.  Rpt.,  1895:7.  fig.  26.  Taylor,  U.  S.  Div.  Pom.  Bui,  7:350.  1897.  27. 
Amer.  Card.,  1899:546.  28.  Eneroth- Smirnoff,  1901:261.  29.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:43.  fig.  30.  Thomas,  1903:323.  fig.  31.  Fr.  Lucas,  187. 

SYNONYMS.  BALDWIN  ROSENAPFEL  (31).  BALDWIN'S  ROTHER  PIPPIN  (6). 
Cahille  Butter  (18).  Felch  (7,  18,  19).  Late  Baldwin  (12,  18).  Pecker  (i, 
7,  18,  19).  Red  Baldwin  Pippin  (18).  Steele's  Red  Winter  (7,  12,  18,  19). 
Woodpecker  (7,  18,  19,  21). 

The  Baldwin  is  a  bright  red  winter  apple,  above  medium  in 
size  or  large,  and  very  good  in  quality  when  grown  under  favor- 

1  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.   Rpt.,  8:20.    1877. 


GROUP  OF   FRUIT   PICKERS  IN   THE  BALDWIN  ORCHARD  OF  FOSTER  UDELL, 
BROCKPORT,  MONROE  COUNTY,  N.  Y. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  57 

able  conditions.  It  stands  handling  well  because  of  its  firm 
texture  and  thick  skin.  It  is  a  favorite  market  variety  because 
of  its  desirable  season,  good  size,  attractive  red  color  and  good 
quality. 

The  Baldwin  is  preeminently  the  leading  variety  in  the  com- 
mercial orchards  in  New  York,  New  England,  certain  regions  in 
Southern  Canada,  in  the  southern  peninsula  of  Michigan  and  on 
the  clay  soils  of  Northern  Ohio.  In  many  localities  in  Northern 
New  York  it  is  apt  to  winter-kill,  especially  in  the  higher  alti- 
tudes. For  the  same  reason  it  also  fails  in  portions  of  Michigan 
and  west  of  the  Great  Lakes.  In  the  South  and  Southwest  it  is 
not  desirable  because  it  there  becomes  a  fall  apple  and  also  be- 
cause it  does  not  attain  as  good  quality  as  it  does  in  the  Baldwin 
belt.  From  Colorado  to  Washington  it  is  more  or  less  grown  in 
many  localities. 

Not  only  is  the  Baldwin  a  standard  fruit  in  American  markets 
but  it  is  one  of  the  leading  apples  used  for  export  trade.  It  is 
one  of  the  principal  varieties  handled  in  cold  storage.  The  apples 
of  this  variety  which  are  unsuitable  for  barrelling  supply  a  large 
part  of  the  evaporator  stock  in  New  York  state,  and  are  also  used 
to  some  extent  by  canneries. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  grower,  long-lived  and  vigorous.  The 
accompanying  view  illustrates  the  vigorous  development  of 
mature  Baldwin  trees,  as  also  does  the  frontispiece.  It  is  some- 
what slow  in  reaching  bearing  maturity,  but  when  mature  it 
bears  very  abundantly.  In  fact,  one  of  the  faults  of  this  variety 
is  its  habit  of  producing  an  overload  of  fruit  biennially  and  bear- 
ing little  or  none  on  alternate  years.  On  rather  light,  sandy  or 
gravelly  soils  the  fruit  is  apt  to  have  a  better  color,  or  at  least  to 
color  earlier  in  the  season,  than  it  does  when  grown  on  heavy 
clay  lands.  Some  hold  that  fruit  from  the  lighter  or  more  grav- 
elly soils  ripens  earlier  and  consequently  scalds  earlier  in  storage 
than  do  the  duller  colored  Baldwins  grown  on  heavier  soils.  The 
Baldwin  is  grown  successfully  on  various  soils  and  under  various 
climatic  conditions.  Besides  the  other  good  points  of  the  Bald- 
win which  have  been  noticed  above,  it  has  the  advantage  of  yield- 


58  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

ing  a  pretty  uniform  grade  of  fruit  with  a  low  percentage  of  culls, 
when  kept  free  from  injurious  insects  and  fungous  diseases. 

The  Baldwin  foliage  and  fruit  are  often  much  injured  by  the 
apple  scab  fungus.  It  has  often  been  remarked  that  the  preven- 
tion of  fungus  diseases  and  of  the  attacks  of  insects,  by  proper 
spraying,  not  only  increases  the  yield  of  marketable  fruit  but 
improves  the  quality  as  well.  The  Baldwin  Spot  is  the  name 
given  to  brown  flecks  in  the  flesh  of  Baldwin  apples.  This  is 
not  caused  by  either  insects  or  fungi.  It  is  a  physiological  defect 
which  is  more  apt  to  appear  in  overgrown  than  in  medium-sized 
fruit.  No  remedy  is  known.1 

Historical.  Soon  after  1740  the  Baldwin  came  up  as  a  chance  seedling  on 
the  farm  of  Mr.  John  Ball,  Wilmington,  near  Lowell,  Mass.,  and  for  about 
40  years  thereafter  its  cultivation  was  confined  to  that  immediate  neighbor- 
hood. The  farm  eventually  came  into  the  possession  of  a  Mr.  Butters,  who 
gave  the  name  Woodpecker  to  the  apple  because  the  tree  was  frequented  by 
woodpeckers.  The  apple  was  long  known  locally  as  the  Woodpecker  or 
Pecker.  It  was  also  called  the  Butters.2  Deacon  Samuel  Thompson,  a  sur- 
veyor of  Woburn,  brought  it  to  the  attention  of  Col.  Baldwin  of  the  same 
town,  by  whom  it  was  propagated  and  more  widely  introduced  in  Eastern 
Massachusetts  as  early  as  1/84.  From  Col.  Baldwin's  interest  in  the  variety 
it  came  to  be  called  the  Baldwin. 3 

In  1817  the  original  tree  was  still  alive  but  it  perished  between  1817  and 
1832.4  A  monument  to  the  Baldwin  apple  now  marks  the  location. 

Coxe  in  his  work  on  fruits  in  1817  makes  no  mention  of  the  Baldwin. 
Thacher's  American  Orchardisl,  published  in  Boston  in  1832,  gives  it  very 
brief  but  favorable  mention.  Floy  in  his  American  edition  of  Lindley,  Guide 
to  the  Orchard,  New  York,  .1833,  does  not  mention  it,  but  in  the  appendix  to 
the  1846  edition  he  describes  the  Baldwin  and  states  that  "in  the  Eastern  States 
(New  England)  it  is  well  known,  highly  esteemed,  and  extensively  cultivated." 
Kenrick's  New  American  Orchardist,  Boston,  1833,  says,  "  No  apple  in  the 
vicinity  of  Boston  is  so  popular  as  this,  at  the  present  day.  It  is  raised  in 
large  quantities  for  the  market  *  *  *  and  is  recommended  for  extensive 
cultivation." 

Hovey  in  1852  published  an  extended  description  of  Baldwin  with  colored 
plate  (12).  He  remarks,  "The  Baldwin  is  the  most  popular  apple  of  New 
England,  and  is  cultivated  to  a  much  greater  extent  than  any  other  variety. 
Several  large  and  fine  orchards  are  to  be  found  in  the  vicinity  of  Boston,  some 
of  which  produce  about  one  thousand  barrels  of  fruit  every  bearing  year.  For 
exportation  it  is  much  sought  after ;  and  the  large  number  of  fifteen  hundred 
barrels  have  been  sent  to  the  East  Indies  in  one  season." 

'Jones,  L.  R.     Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  12:  159-164.      1899. 

2French,  B.  V.      Downing  Hort.,  1:315.      1846. 

3  Mass.  Ploughman,  cited  in  Mich.  Hort.,  1:335. 

*Amer.  Gard.  Mag.  1836:360.     New  Eng.  Homestead,  1886:228. 


BALDWIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  59 

Prior  to  1850  the  Baldwin  was  but  little  known  in  New  York  state.  After 
that  date,  with  the  extension  of  the  planting  of  commercial  orchards,  it  came 
rapidly  into  popularity  and  gained  the  supremacy  among  the  commercial  apples 
of  New  York  which  it  still  holds. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  very  vigorous;  branches  large,  strong.  Form  upright  spread- 
ing, eventually  becoming  rather  round  and  somewhat  dense.  Twigs  long, 
straight,  or  somewhat  crooked,  moderately  stout;  internodes  medium  to 
long.  Bark  dark  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green  and  faintly 
marked  with  thin  scarf-skin;  somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous, 
conspicuous,  raised,  usually  oblong,  sometimes  large.  Buds  medium  to 
large,  broad  or  roundish,  acute,  pubescent,  free  or  nearly  so.  Leaves  often 
broad  and  large  to  very  large;  foliage  rather  dense. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  sometimes  large  to  very  large;  usually  above  medium;  pretty 
uniform  in  size.  Form  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  varying  to  roundish 
oblong;  often  faintly  ribbed  or  somewhat  irregular;  symmetrical;  fairly 
uniform  in  shape.  Stem  usually  medium,  to  long.  Cavity  acute,  medium 
to  rather  deep,  rather  broad,  often  somewhat  furrowed,  sometimes  com- 
pressed, sometimes  lipped,  often  russeted,  with  outspreading  rays  of  russet 
or  deep  green.  Calyx  small  to  rather  large;  closed  or  somewhat  open; 
lobes  long,  acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  abrupt,  narrow  to  moderately  wide; 
often  distinctly  furrowed;  slightly  corrugated. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  light  yellow  or  greenish,  blushed  and  mottled  with 
bright  red,  indistinctly  striped  with  deep  carmine.  Flecks  of  russet,  or  even 
broken  russet  lines,  may  occasionally  be  seen  on  the  base  of  the  fruit.  Dots 
gray  or  whitish,  depressed,  small  and  numerous  toward  the  basin,  more  scatter- 
ing, conspicuous,  large,  irregular,  or  elongated  towards  the  cavity.  Prevailing 
effect  is  bright  red. 

Calyx'  tube  conical,  rather  short  and  wide  with  projection  of  fleshy  pistil 
point  into  its  base.  Stamens  basal. 

Core  medium  or  below,  nearly  axile,  closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines 
meeting.  Carpels  roundish  ovate,  emarginate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds 
variable,  often  abortive;  when  normally  developed  they  are  large,  long, 
acute,  and  dark  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy  to 
very  juicy,  agreeably  subacid,  sprightly,  somewhat  aromatic,  good  to  very 
good. 

Season  November  to  March  or  April  in  common  storage;  to  May  or 
later  in  cold  storage.1 

Uses.     Well  adapted  for  general  market,  dessert  and  culinary  uses. 

OTHER  BALDWIN  TYPES. 

Besides  the  general  type  of  the  Baldwin  apple  above  described,  mention 
siiould  be  made  of  the  following: 

Russet  Baldwins.  Cases  have  been  reported  where  the  Baldwin  has 
sported  and  developed  fruit  with  russet  skin.  Since  these  apples  appear 

aUeach  and  Clark.     N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.  248 :i  11-112.   1904. 


60  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

to  show  no  advantage  over  the  smooth-skinned  Baldwins,  they  are  seldom 
propagated. 

Gray  Baldwin,  Blue  Baldwin,  Black  Baldwin  and  Dark  Baldwin  are  indefi- 
nite terms  sometimes  applied  to  what  appears  to  be  a  distinct  type  of  the 
Baldwin.  Scattering  trees  of  it  are  occasionally  found  mingled  in 
orchards  with  Baldwins  of  the  ordinary  type.  The  Dark  Baldwin  as  com- 
pared with  the  common  type  has  fruit  that  is  slower  in  maturing  on  the 
tree,  and  keeps  longer.  The  flesh  has  more  of  a  greenish  tinge  and  is 
firmer.  The  skin  also  shows  dull  green  where  the  common  type  is 
yellow,  and  the  red  is  dull  and  darker  than  the  red  of  the  common  Bald- 
win. So  far  as  we  know  the  Dark  Baldwin  is  not  being  intentionallv 
propagated. 

In  speaking  of  the  Dark  Baldwin  as  a  distinct  type  the  fact  is  here 
recognized  that  the  ordinary  Baldwin  when  grown  on  sandy  or  gravelly 
soil  generally  gives  brighter  colored  fruit  than  when  grown  on  heavy  clay 
soil.  But  the  above-mentioned  occurrence  of  a  type  called  Dark  Baldwin, 
mingled  as  it  sometimes  is  in  orchards  with  Baldwins  of  the  common 
type,  does  not  seem  to  be  satisfactorily  accounted  for  by  attributing  its 
apearance  to  a  difference  in  soil.  It  is  more  probable  that  a  distinct 
strain  has  arisen  and  been  disseminated  unwittingly  in  place  of  the 
common  type. 

Olympia  is  a  sport  of  the  Baldwin  which  differs  from  the  type  in  having 
larger  and  better  colored  fruit.  It  is  described  under  "  Olympia." 

BANANA  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Rural  N.  Y.,  1885:278.  fig.  2.  Hexamer,  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1895:69. 

This  is  a  sweet  winter  apple,  attractive  in  appearance.  Color  greenish-yellow, 
highly  colored  specimens  are  blushed.  Season  January  to  March  in  New 
Jersey.  So  far  as  we  know  it  has  not  been  fruited  in  New  York.  This  should 
not  be  confused  with  the  Winter  Banana  introduced  by  Greening  Brothers  of 
Monroe,  Michigan,  in  1890,  which  is  not  a  sweet  apple. 

Historical.  Banana  originated  as  a  chance  seedling  with  C.  E.  Blackwell, 
Titusville,  N.  J.,  about  1867. 

TREE. 

Tree  spreading,  upright,  vigorous,  rather  dense.  Tivigs  rather  slender ; 
internodes  short.  Bark  reddish-brown.  Buds  not  prominent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  roundish  conical,  sometimes  one-sided.  Stem  medium 
to  large,  long,  slender.  Cavity  rather  small,  moderately  deep,  often  with  out- 
spreading, irregularly  broken,  russet  patches.  Calyx  rather  small,  closed. 
Basin  small  to  medium,  somewhat  irregularly  corrugated,  rather  deep. 

Skin  greenish-yellow  with  a  pale  blush  on  the  exposed  side.  Dots  minute, 
scattering.  Prevailing  effect  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  conical,  approaching  funneUform. 

Core  medium  size,  axile.     Carpels  roundish.     Seeds  medium  size,  obtuse. 

Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  good. 

Season,  January  to  March  or  April. 


BALDWIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  61 

BAPTIST. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1876:  app.  44.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234. 
3.  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1895:20.  4.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1897:36. 

As  fruited  at  the  Geneva  Experiment  Station,  Baptist  lacks  distinctive  char- 
acter both  in  appearance  and  quality.  In  early  winter  its  prevailing  effect  is 
dull  dark  red  overspreading  a  dull  greenish  background,  but  it  holds  its  color 
well  until  very  late  in  the  season  and  eventually  the  yellow  tones  become 
brighter  making  the  fruit  rather  attractive.  It  is  not  recommended  for  culti- 
vation in  New  York. 

Historical.  Baptist  originated  at  Clinton,  Kentucky  (i),  and  was  received 
for  testing  at  the  Geneva  Experiment  Station  from  W.  M.  Samuels  of  that 

place. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous;  branches  rather  stout.  Form  roundish,  spreading,  dense. 
Twigs  rather  long  to  below  medium,  somewhat  curved,  moderately  thick ; 
internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  rather  dull,  dark  reddish-brown;  some- 
what pubescent.  Lcnticels  numerous,  very  irregular  in  size,  shape  and  dis- 
tribution, generally  small,  slightly  elongated,  and  very  thickly  set,  but  some 
are  large  and  narrow.  Buds  medium  or  below,  often  rather  prominent,  gen- 
erally acute,  very  pubescent  and  free.  Leaves  moderately  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  below ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  oblate 
to  roundish,  truncate  at  base,  sides  sometimes  unequal,  often  obscurely  ribbed. 
Stem  short  to  medium,  thick.  Cavity  obtuse,  moderately  shallow  to  rather 
deep,  broad,  sometimes  russeted,  greenish,  occasionally  lipped.  Calyx  closed 
or  sometimes  slightly  open,  medium,  or  below,  pubescent.  Basin  rather  shallow 
to  moderately  deep,  wide,  rather  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed  and  corrugated. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  green  or  yellowish  blushed  with  red,  deepening 
to  very  dark  red  in  the  sun,  indistinctly  marked  with  narrow  deep  crimson 
stripes.  Dots  conspicuous,  small,  pale  yellow  or  russet.  Prevailing  effect 
very  dark  red. 

Calyx  tube  long,  conic  to  funnel-shaped.    Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  closed  or  partly  open,  axile  or  nearly  so,  very  broadly 
turbinate ;  core  lines  clasp  the  cylinder.  Carpels  elliptic  or  inclined  to  obcor- 
date,  emarginate.  Seeds  few,  about  medium  size,  rather  wide,  obtuse,  some- 
what tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  very  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  not  crisp,  moderately  tender, 
not  very  juicy,  mild  subacid,  eventually  becoming  nearly  sweet,  hardly  good. 

Season  at  Geneva,  January  to  June,  in  Kentucky,  December  to  February. 

BARBEL. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Gibb,  la.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1883.    2.  Budd,  la.  Agr.  College 
Bui.,  1885:18.     3.  Beach  and  Close,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  1896:275-276.  fig.    4. 
Beach  and  Clark,  N.  V.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:112.    1904. 
.SYNONYMS.     Dept.  No.  467  (2).     Sugar  Barbel  (4).     SUGAR  BARBEL  (3). 

This  is  an  attractive,  dark  red,  winter  apple  of  no  special  value  in  this  region 
(3).  It  ranks  good  for  dessert  but  only  fair  to  good  for  culinary  uses. 


62  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  It  was  imported  from  Russia  by  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agri- 
culture under  No.  467  about  1870  (2).  Stock  was  received  for  testing  at  this 
Station  from  Dr.  T.  H.  Hoskins,  Newport,  Vt,  1888. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  rather  open.  Tivigs  long  to  medium,  rather 
slender  to  moderately  stout ;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  dark 
brownish-red  mottled  with  light  scarf-skin.  Lenticels  numerous,  small  to 
medium,  round  or  somewhat  elongated ;  pubescent.  Buds  medium  in  size, 
plump,  broad,  obtuse  to  acute,  appressed;  pubescent.  Leaves  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  oblate  to  oblate  conic,  slightly  ribbed,  pretty 
symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  medium,  often  thick.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate, 
deep,  rather  wide,  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx'  rather  large,  broad, 
open  or  partly  closed.  Basin  broad,  rather  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  corru- 
gated. 

Skin  dull  yellow,  overspread  with  dark  red,  sparingly  marked  with  yellowish 
dots  and  russet  flecks.  Prevailing  effect  good,  dark  red. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form  with  long  cylinder.  Stamens  median.  Core  axile, 
closed.  Seed  medium  size  to  rather  large,  tufted,  obtuse. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  coarse,  firm,  crisp,  moderately  juicy,  moder- 
ately subacid,  eventually  becoming  sweet  or  nearly  so,  slightly  aromatic,  good. 

Season  October  to  February  or  later. 

BARRINGER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hexamer,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rj>t.,  1899:89.  2.  Hexamer, 
Amer.  Agric.,  62:569.  Dec.  3,  1898.  figs.  3.  Fancier's  Review  and  Fruit 
Groiver,  Chatham,  N.  Y.,  Nov.,  1899:5  4.  Johnson,  Amer.  Agric.,  75-79- 
1905.  figs.  5-  Beach,  West.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1901:76. 

SYNONYMS.  PRIDE  OF  THE  HUDSON  (1,2,4).  Pride  of  Hudson  (5).  Coon 
(locally). 

This  variety  has  been  known  for  many  years  in  Clermont,  Colum- 
bia county,  where  a  few  trees  of  it  were  in  their  prime  fifty  years 
ago.  Mr.  Jacob  Barringer  of  Germantown,  N.  Y.,  was  the  first  to 
propagate  it  from  these  old  trees  (i,  4).  Columbia  county  fruit 
growers  report  that  it  is  worthy  of  a  place  in  the  commercial 
orchard,  the  tree  very  thrifty,  long-lived  and  productive,  the  fruit 
good  in  size,  showy  and  of  excellent  quality.  At  the  American 
Institute  in  New  York  in  1898  the  fruit  was  exhibited  under  the 
name  Pride  of  the  Hudson,  but  in  1899  this  name  was  changed  to 

Barringer. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous ;  branches  long  and  moderately  stout.  Form  upright  spread- 
ing, rather  open.  Tzvigs  long,  slightly  curved,  with  thick  tips ;  internodes 
short.  Bark  reddish-brown,  with  light  streaks  of  scarf-skin;  pubescent. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  63 

Lenticels  numerous,   small,   roundish.     Buds  of  medium  size,  broad,  obtuse, 
free,  pubescent.     Leaves  medium,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  conical,  slightly  ribbed,  some- 
times flattened.  Stem  long.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  moderately  deep, 
rather  broad,  somewhat  furrowed  and  partly  russeted,  often  lipped. 

Skin  bright  red  handsomely  striped  with  dark  red  and  slightly  dotted,  un- 
usually attractive  (4).  Calyx  tube  cone-shaped.  Core  rather  large.  Core 
lines  clasping.  Flesh  white,  tinged  with  yellow,  very  fine,  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
very  good. 

Season  ordinarily  early  winter  but  it  may  keep  till  spring  (i,  4). 

BARRY. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Ellwanger  &  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  Catalogue,  1895. 

Resembles  the  Greening  type  of  apples  in  color  and  in  the  acidity 
of  the  flesh. 

The  Barry  originated  about  1880,  in  the  nurseries  of  Ellwanger  & 
Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  and  has  been  recently  introduced  by  that 
firm  after  having  been  thoroughly  tested  by  them.  It  has  their 
recommendation  as  a  novelty  of  sterling  merit,  and  one  which  they 
believe  will  prove  valuable  for  commercial  orchards  (i). 

TREE. 

Tree  a  good  grower;  well  branched  with  long  upright  branches.  Form  up- 
right, becoming  spreading  and  somewhat  open.  Tzvigs  curved  and  often 
crooked,  long,  medium,  stout;  internodes  long.  Bark  rather  light  olive-green 
shading  to  reddish-brown  and  overlaid  with  thin  gray  scarf-skin ;  quite  pubes- 
cent. Lenticels  scattering,  usually  small,  round,  slightly  raised.  Buds  large, 
broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent.  Leaves  large  or  very  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium,  sometimes  large.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish  conic, 
obscurely  ribbed,  somewhat  irregular.  Stem  medium.  Cavity  acute,  deep, 
rather  broad,  usually  with  some  thin  greenish  russet,  broadly  furrowed. 
Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed;  lobes  acute.  Basin  abrupt,  rather  shallow  to 
rather  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  with  narrow  furrows  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  clear  pale  yellow  or  greenish  with  faint  shade  of  red 
on  the  exposed  cheek.  Dots  numerous,  minute,  pale,  submerged,  and  a  few 
show  a  brown  or  russet  point.  Prevailing  effect  green  or  greenish  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  medium  size,  conical  or  funnel-shaped.    Stamens  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  abaxile,  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
elliptical,  much  concave,  emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  medium,  obtuse, 
medium  to  dark  brown. 

Flesh  firm,  moderately  fine  to  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  sprightly, 
good. 

Season.     Late. 


64  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

BATULLEN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Lucas,  ///.  Handb.  der  Obstk.,  4:559.  1864.  2*  Leroy, 
1873:92.  fig.  3.  Budd,  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  8:49.  1881-2.  4.  Budd,  la. 
Sta.  Bui.,  19:542.  1892.  5.  Gaudier,  Pomologie,  1894.  co/.  M  6.  Fulton,  Mich. 
Sta.  Bui,  187:85.  1901.  7.  Hansen,  5".  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:28.  1902.  8.  Budd- 
Hansen,  1903 :44. 

SYNONYM.     Pomme  de  Transylvania  (2). 

An  attractive  yellow  apple  sometimes  blushed,  desirable  for  market  and 
culinary  uses  and  acceptable  for  dessert.  If  productive  enough  it  is  doubtless 
worthy  of  a  place  in  the  commercial  orchards.  As  tested  at  the  Geneva  Station 
it  has  not  yet  proved  very  productive.  It  has  made  a  similar  record  at  the 
Michigan  Station. 

Origin,  Transylvania  (i,  2). 

TREE. 

Tree  a  poor  grower  in  the  nursery  (4),  moderately  vigorous;  branches 
short,  moderately  stout.  Form  upright  spreading  or  roundish,  dense.  Twigs 
long  to  medium  in  length,  nearly  straight,  medium  stout ;  internodes  rather 
short.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown,  mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  slightly  pubescent. 
Lenticels  numerous,  small,  generally  roundish,  raised.  Buds  medium  or  below 
medium  in  size,  narrow,  acute,  appressed,  rather  pubescent.  Leaves  large, 
broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
to  slightly  roundish  conic,  sometimes  a  little  inclined  to  oblong,  rather  regular. 
Stem  medium  to  short,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acuminate,  moderately  broad 
to  rather  narrow,  wavy,  bright  green  with  whitish  spots,  sometimes  russeted. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  rather  narrow,  some- 
times furrowed  and  wrinkled,  sides  sometimes  compressed. 

Skin  smooth,  clear,  bright,  almost  waxen  yellow,  often  with  no  shade  of  red 
but  sometimes  having  a  distinct  blush.  Dots  small  and  inconspicuous,  usually 
submerged.  Prevailing  effect  attractive  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  long,  rather  narrow,  conical  or  approaching  funnel-form. 
Stamens  median. 

Core  small  to  medium,  axile,  closed  or  open ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
roundish,  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  emarginate.  Seeds  small  to  medium, 
plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  dark. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy, 
subacid,  aromatic,  sprightly,  very  good. 

Season  November  to  March. 

BAXTER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Ont.  Fr.  Gr.  Assn.,  1881:92.  2.  Ib.,  1882:83.  3.  Bridge, 
Can.  Hort.,  1884:59.  4.  Woolverton,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1889:155.  5.  Nicol, 
Ont.  Fr.  Gr.  Assn.,  1891:89.  6.  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:287.  1901. 

SYNONYMS.     BAXTER'S  RED   (3).     La  Rue  (3).    Red  Pound   (3). 

A  large  red  apple  decidedly  attractive  in  appearance.  Some  see 
in  it  a  resemblance  to  Tompkins  King,  but  there  is  more  evidence 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  65 

of  a  relationship  with  the  Blue  Pearmain  group  of  apples.  This 
is  seen  in  the  form  and  color  of  the  fruit,  the  bloom,  the  areolar 
dots  and  the  character  of  the  flesh.  It  does  not  rank  high  in  quality. 
In  the  St.  Lawrence  valley  it  is  said  to  be  a  strong  grower,  hardy, 
productive  and  not  subject  to  the  scab.  It  is  there  regarded  as  a 
desirable  apple  to  grow  for  commercial  purposes.  At  Geneva  it 
has  proved  vigorous  and  productive,  but  because  it  is  inferior  in 
quality  to  other  varieties  of  its  season,  such  as  Tompkins  King, 
Mclntosh  and  Hubbardston,  it  is  doubtful  whether  Baxter  is  worthy 
of  a  place  in  the  commercial  orchards  of  Western  and  Southern 
New  York. 

Origin.  It  was  known  near  Brockville,  Canada,  one  hundred  years  or  more 
ago.  It  gradually  found  its  way  into  nurseries  and  within  the  last  twenty- 
five  years  has  been  quite  extensively  propagated  (3). 

TREE. 

Tree  productive,  very  vigorous ;  branches  long,  medium  stout.  Form  up- 
right spreading,  open.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  straight,  rather  stout,  thick  at 
the  tips;  internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  clear  brownish-red  streaked  with 
olive-green ;  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  numerous,  conspicuous,  small,  some- 
times large,  round,  raised.  Buds  moderately  prominent,  imbedded  in  the  bark, 
acute,  appressed.  Leaves  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large.  Form  roundish  to  conic  flattened  at  the  base  or 
varying  to  somewhat  oblong,  often  faintly  ribbed,  somewhat  irregular,  sides 
often  unequal  and  also  often  compressed;  axis  sometimes  oblique.  Stem 
usually  short.  Cavity  large,  deep,  acute,  broad,  usually  partly  russeted,  often 
somewhat  furrowed.  Calyx  small  to  above  medium,  sometimes  closed  or 
partly  open.  Basin  often  oblique,  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  rather 
narrow  to  wide,  obtuse  to  moderately  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed,  corrugated, 
sometimes  compressed. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  slightly  roughened  by  russet  dots ;  pale  yellow  or  whitish 
largely  mottled  and  blushed  with  rather  bright  red  often  deepening  to  purplish 
shades  characteristic  of  the  Blue  Pearmain  group,  distinctly  splashed  and 
striped  with  purplish-red.  Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  areolar,  whitish  or 
with  russet  point.  A  bluish  bloom  gives  the  skin  a  rather  dull  appearance  but 
when  polished  it  is  bright  and  glossy.  Highly  colored  specimens  show  but 
little  of  the  yellow  ground  color.  Prevailing  effect  attractive  red  or  striped 
red. 

Calyx  tube  large,  elongated,  cone-shape  or  funnel-form.  Stamens  medium 
to  marginal. 

Core  medium,  usually  abaxile,  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping. 
Carpels  roundish  varying  to  elongated  ovate,  slightly  emarginate,  tufted. 
Seeds  numerous,  below  medium,  rather  wide,  plump,  obtuse,  tufted,  dark 
brown. 


66  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Flesh  yellowish,  sometimes  stained  with  red,  firm,  breaking,  rather  coarse, 
tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  fair  to  good. 

Season  November  to  January. 

Baxter's  Pearmain  of  Downing,  p.  89  and  of  Hogg,  p.  16  is  distinct  from 
Baxter  above  described. 

BEACH. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  49:9.  1898.  fig.  2.  Ib.,  60:126. 
1899.  3.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1899:15.  4.  N.  C.  State  Bd.  Agr.  Bui,  1900:9. 
5.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:287.  1901.  6.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:44.  7. 
Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:37.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  Apple  of  Commerce  (i,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7).  Lady  Pippin  (i). 
Richardson's  Red  (i,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7). 

A  red  Arkansas  apple,  which  as  yet  has  been  but  little  tested  either  in  New 
York  or  adjacent  states.  In  New  York  ordinarily  the  season  is  not  long 
enough  for  the  proper  development  of  apples  of  the  group  to  which  the  Beach 
belongs.  For  this  reason  that  variety  can  hardly  be  expected  to  prove  valu- 
able here.  Waugh  reports  that,  as  grown  in  Vermont,  it  appears  to  be  superior 
in  all  respects  to  Ben  Davis,  and  is  really  good  in  quality  (5).  It  is  a  very 
late  keeper. 

Historical.  Stinson  reports  that  this  variety  has  been  grown  to  a  consider- 
able extent  in  Benton  and  Washington  counties,  Arkansas,  under  the  names 
Lady  Pippin  and  Richardson's  Red.  It  has  also  been  introduced  under  the 
name  Apple  of  Commerce  (i).  He  has  found  the  variety  productive  and  a 
good  keeper,  but  because  it  is  only  fair  in  quality  he  advises  against  the  plant- 
ing of  it  in  Arkansas  (2). 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  large,  vigorous,  productive,  comes  into  bearing  rather  young, 
and  has  a  tendency  to  produce  moderate  crops  annually;  branches  somewhat 
stocky.  Form  round,  dense.  Twigs  moderately  stout,  with  long  internodes, 
somewhat  crooked.  Bark  nearly  smooth,  clear,  bright  light  reddish-brown, 
becoming  dull  dark  brown  approaching  black,  thinly  mottled  with  scarf-skin, 
somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  numerous,  conspicuous,  usually  round- 
ish, above  medium  to  very  large,  raised  slightly  or  not  at  all.  Buds  small  to 
medium,  deep  set,  obtuse,  pubescent.  Leaves  large,  long,  often  broad ;  petioles 
red  at  base;  foliage  rather  dense. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  as  grown  in  this  region  appears  not  to  ripen  properly.  It  is  about 
medium  in  size  and, pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  usually  roundish, 
slightly  obovate,  or  sometimes  somewhat  oblate,  regular,  symmetrical.  Stem 
medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep  to  medium  depth, 
moderately  wide,  green  or  with  outspreading  russet,  symmetrical.  Calyx 
medium,  closed.  Basin  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  obtuse  .to  rather 
abrupt,  moderately  wide,  furrowed,  corrugated,  often  with  some  mammiform 
protuberances. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  smooth,  bright  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with 
red  and  striped  with  dark  carmine.  Dots  inconspicuous,  small,  gray  or  whitish. 
Prevailing  effect  red  or  red  striped,  decidedly  attractive. 

Caly.v  tube  rather  narrow,  deep,  conical  or  funnel-form,  with  fleshy  pro- 
jection of  pistil  point  into  its  base.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  67 

Core  axile,  medium  to  rather  large,  closed;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
broadly  ovate,  emarginate.  Seeds  large,  rather  narrow,  long,  acute. 

Flesh  somewhat  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  moderately  coarse,  not  very 
juicy,  subacid,  fair  to  nearly  good  in  quality. 

Season  very  late;  it  is  one  of  the  latest  keeping  varieties. 

BELLE  ET  BONNE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1857:118.  2.  Downing,  1872:91.  3.  Hogg,  (?) 
1884:18.  4.  Thomas,  1885:242.  5.  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Kept.,  1890:288.  6.  111. 
Sta.  Bui,  45:314.  1896.  7.  Thomas,  1903:337. 

SYNONYMS.  Bellyband  (?)  (3).  Rolland  (?)  (3).  Tenon  Hills  (i,  2). 
Winter  Belle  Bonne  (?)  (3). 

This  old  Connecticut  variety  (i,  2)  is  found  occasionally  in  Southeastern 
New  York.  The  fruit  is  large,  handsome,  smooth,  uniform  in  size  and  of 
about  the  same  season  as  Hubbardston.  It  is  rather  too  mild  in  flavor  to  be 
desirable  for  general  purposes.  Although  an  old  variety  it  has  never  become 
a  standard  kind  in  the  markets  of  this  state.  In  hardiness,  health  and  lon- 
gevity it  ranks  about  with  Baldwin.  The  trees  are  moderately  productive, 
usually  bearing  biennially.  They  are  a  little  slow  about  coming  into  bearing. 
It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Downing  regards  it  as  probably  identical  with  the  Belle  Bonne  of  Hogg 
(i,  2,  3)  which  was  first  described  by  Parkinson  in  1629.  It  is  quite  distinct 
from  Billy  Bond. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous.  Form  roundish,  spreading.  Twigs  rather  long,  stout, 
somewhat  pubescent.  Bark  dull  reddish-brown. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large.  Form  roundish  oblate.  Stem  short.  Cavity 
wide,  deep,  thinly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  medium  in  width  and  depth. 
Skin  deep  yellow  or  greenish.  Dots  small.  Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm, 
rather  coarse,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  good.  Season,  early  winter. 

BELMONT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:142.  2.  Thomas,  1849:177.  3.  Cole,  1849: 
120.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:80.  1851.  2  figs,  and  col.  pi.  No.  76. 
5.  Hooper,  1857:16.  6.  Downing,  1857:74.  7.  Elliott,  1858:69.  fig.  8.  Warder, 
1867:529.  fig.  g.  Chamberlain,  Country  Gentleman,  1885:1054.  10.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:288.  u.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235.  12.  Barry, 
1896:342.  13.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:288.  1901.  14.  Thomas,  1903: 
337.  fig.  15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:45. 

SYNONYMS.  BELMONT  LATE  (4).  Belmont  (i).  Gate  (i,  6,  7,  8,  n,  12). 
Gait  (13).  Golden  Pippin  of  some  (6,  7).  Kelley  White  (6,  7).  Mamma 
Beam  (6,  7).  Mamma  Bean  (8).  WAXEN  APPLE  (i,  4).  Waxen  of  some 
(6,  7).  White  (6).  White  Apple  (7). 

Fruit  waxen,  yellow  with  beautiful  bright  blush ;  excellent  either  for  dessert 
or  cooking.  It  makes  a  fine  appearance  on  the  tree  but  appears  somewhat 
dull  in  the  barre.1  or  package.  It  is  handled  satisfactorily  in  local  markets 


68  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

but  it  is  not  a  good  shipper.  Because  of  its  tender  skin  and  delicate  color 
it  shows  bruises  readily,  so  that  with  ordinary  methods  of  handling  it  is  apt 
to  be  damaged  in  appearance.  It  has  not  always  kept  well.  When  the  trees 
are  overloaded,  a  good  deal  of  the  fruit  is  either  too  small  for  market  or  grades 
second  class  in  size.  For  these  reasons  and  because  there  are  other  commer- 
cial sorts  larger  in  tree  and  in  fruit,  more  reliable  croppers  and  less  subject 
to  scab,  Belmont,  although  it  is  known  in  various  parts  of  the  state,  is  grown 
to  a  limited  extent  only  in  New  York  commercial  orchards.  The  tree  is  gen- 
erally hardy  except  in  the  more  elevated  or  more  northern  portions  of  the  state. 
In  trying  locations  it  is  sometimes  injured  by  sunscald  Or  canker.  It  usually 
bears  biennially  and  yields  good  to  heavy  crops.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to 
the  tree. 

Historical.  Downing  at  first  regarded  Belmont  as  identical  with  Waxen 
of  Coxe  (i),  but  in  the  first  revised  edition  this  error  is  corrected  with  the 
statement  that  the  variety  originated  in  the  garden  of  a  Mrs.  Beam,  near 
Strasburgh,  Lancaster  county,  Pennsylvania,  from  whence  it  was  taken  to 
Belmont  county,  Ohio,  where  it  became  very  popular  and  received  the  name 
of  Belmont. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  size,  usually  moderately  vigorous,  in  some  places  rather 
dwarfish  but  on  rich  soils  and  in  favorable  locations  it  becomes  large.  Form 
upright  spreading.  Tzvigs  medium  in  length  or  rather  short,  rather  slender. 
Bark  light  reddish-brown  or  olive-green  becoming  rather  dark ;  partly  covered 
with  gray  pubescence. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  sometimes  large ;  fairly  uniform  in  size  and  shape. 
Form  varies  from  rounded  oblong  to  oblate  conic  but  is  usually  roundish,  some- 
what broadly  and  indistinctly  ribbed,  somewhat  irregular.  Stern  medium  to 
short,  often  slender.  Cavity  rather  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  rather  deep, 
moderately  broad,  wavy,  irregular,  usually  with  thin  brown  russet,  sometimes 
lipped.  Calyx  rather  small,  usually  closed.  Basin  rather  shallow  to  deep, 
moderately  abrupt  to  abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  waxen,  clear  bright  yellow  with  bright  orange- 
red  blush.  Dots  whitish  with  minute  russet  point,  often  submerged,  on  the 
blushed  portion  becoming  red  areolar.  Prevailing  color  yellow,  not  striped. 

Caly.v  tube  long,  elongated  cone-shape  or  funnel-form.     Stamens  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  axile,  sometimes  closed ;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  roundish,  pointed  cordate,  tufted.  Seeds  rather  long,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  very  good. 

Season  October  to  February. 

Uses.     Cooking,  dessert  and  local  market. 

BEN  DAVIS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1857:119.  fig.  2.  Elliott,  1859:124.  3.  Adair, 
Horticulturist,  15:226.  1860.  2  figs.  4.  Downing,  Horticulturist,  16:40.  1861. 
5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  i852.  6.  Warder,  1867:585.  fig.  7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1869:40.  8.  Downing,  1872:93.  fig.  9.  Leroy,  1873:126.  fig.  10.  Barry, 
3.  n.  Thomas,  1885:230.  12.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:288. 


BEN   DAVIS 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  69 

13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235.  14.  Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Gr.  Assn.,  26:170. 
1894.  15.  Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  3:4.  1896.  fig.  16.  Watts, 
Tenn.  Sta.  Bui,  1896:7.  17.  Amer.  Card.,  18:746.  1857.  *8.  Waugh,  Vt. 
Sta.  Bui,  61:30.  1897.  19.  Taylor,  U.  S.  Div.  Pom.  Bui,  7:351.  1898.  20. 
Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  6:36.  1899.  21.  Waugh,  Gardening, 
7:278.  1899.  22«  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui,  130:130.  1901.  fig.  of  tree.  23. 
Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:288.  1901.  24.  Hansen,  5".  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:29. 
1902.  fig.  25.  Stinson,  Mo.  State  Fruit  Sta.  Bui,  3:24.  1902.  26.  Ont.  Fr.  Gr. 
Assn.  An.  Rpt.,  34:108.  1902.  27.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui, 
48:38.  1903.  28.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:45.  fig.  29.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui,  248:112.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Baltimore  Pippin  (8,  9).  Baltimore  Red  (8,  9).  Baltimore 
Red  Streak  (8,9).  Carolina  Red  Streak  (8,9,  11).  Funkhouser  (8).  Ken- 
tucky Pippin  (8).  Kentucky  Streak  (n).  NEW  YORK  PIPPIN  (3,  4,  5). 
New  York  Pippin  (6,  8,  8,  9,  10,  11).  Pep-in  de  New-York  (9).  Red  Pippin 
(S).  Victoria  Pippin  (8,  9).  Victoria  Red  (8,  n). 

The  Ben  Davis  reigns  over  a  much  greater  extent  of  country  than 
does  the  Baldwin.  It  is  unquestionably  the  leading  commercial  sort 
and  the  most  popular  apple  grown  south  of  the  Baldwin  region. 
Generally  speaking,  it  is  the  most  important  variety  known  in  the 
apple  districts  of  the  vast  territory  which  stretches  from  the  Atlantic 
to  the  Pacific  between  parallels  32  and  42.  It  is  preeminently  suc- 
cessful in  the  Virginias,  Kentucky,  Tennessee,  Illinois,  Missouri, 
Arkansas  and  portions  of  adjoining  states. 

In  the  more  elevated  and  more  northern  portions  of  New  York 
it  is  not  usually  regarded  with  favor,  but  in  Southeastern  New  York 
the  planting  of  it  for  commercial  purposes  has  extended  until,  in 
many  sections,  it  now  ranks  in  importance  next  to  Baldwin  and 
Rhode  Island  Greening.  It  is  grown  to  a  considerable  extent  in 
various  other  parts  of  the  state,  but  in  many  cases  less  successfully 
because  too  often  the  seasons  are  less  favorable  to  the  best  develop- 
ment of  the  fruit.  Some  find  it  acceptable  for  home  use  after  the 
Baldwin  season  has  closed,  but  here  it  is  generally  regarded  as  not 
good  enough  in  quality  for  home  use.  It  is  often  criticised  dis- 
paragingly on  the  point  of  quality.  When  grown  in  the  South  or 
Southwest,  at  its  best  it  is  but  of  second  rate  quality,  and 
unquestionably  in  most  portions  of  New  York  state  the  seasons  are 
usually  too  short  to  mature  the  variety  properly.  When  grown  in 
the  South,  the  period  when  it  is  at  its  best  is  comparatively  short. 
As  fruited  in  New  York,  it  ripens  later  and  keeps  later  than  when 


70  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

grown  farther  south.  It  often  keeps  here  in  ordinary  storage  till 
May,  and  in  cold  storage  till  June,  or  often  till  July.  In  the  Ben 
Davis  belt  the  fruit  becomes  large  and  handsomely  colored,  but  in 
many  portions  of  New  York  state  it  does  not  range  much  above 
medium  in  size  and  color.  The  fruit  is  thick-skinned,  does  not 
show  bruises  easily,  and  presents  a  good  appearance  in  the  package 
after  being  handled  and  shipped  in  the  ordinary  way., 

Nurserymen  like  it  because  of  its  free-growing  habit  and  the  ease 
and  rapidity  with  which  trees  of  marketable  size  can  be  grown.  In 
the  orchard  the  tree  is  very  hardy,  healthy  and  vigorous.  Although 
it  does  not  appear  to  be  as  long-lived  as  Baldwin,  it  comes  into 
bearing  at  an  early  age,  and  usually  bears  annually  and  abundantly. 
Often  it  makes  a  good  growth,  even  while  bearing  good  crops.  The 
top  is  rather  dense,  and  in  pruning,  particularly  in  the  case  of  young 
trees,  especial  care  should  be  taken  to  keep  it  open  and  spreading 
so  as  to  give  the  best  possible  opportunity  for  the  fruit  to  color  well. 
Its  habit  of  blossoming  late  in  the  spring  is  an  advantage  in  some 
regions  because  the  weather  is  then  more  apt  to  be  favorable  during 
the  pollinating  period,  and  the  result  is  that  Ben  Davis  in  such  cases 
often  bears  good  crops,  when  with  other  varieties  there  is  more  or 
less  of  a  crop  failure. 

Historical.  The  origin  of  this  apple  will  probably  never  be  definitely  known. 
It  has  been  variously  credited  to  Tennessee  (16, 19),  Kentucky  (i),  and  Virginia 
(7,  1 6.  19).  It  is  supposed  to  have  originated  about  the  beginning  of  the  last 
century.  This  view  is  supported  by  the  fact  that  before  the  Civil  War  it  had 
spread  throughout  the  states  just  mentioned,  and  following  the  routes  of 
migration  had  been  carried  into  Southern  Indiana,  Illinois  and  pretty  gener- 
ally disseminated  throughout  Missouri  and  Arkansas.  Downing  does  not 
mention  it  in  his  first  edition,  but  it  is  described  in  the  first  revision  (i)  of 
his  book  on  The  Fruits  and  Fruit  Trees  of  America.  Warder  (6)  refers  to 
it  as  a  comparatively  new  sort  in  Ohio  and  the  Northwest  but  common  in  the 
South  and  Southwest.  During  the  last  quarter  century  it  has  been  dissemi- 
nated extensively  through  all  the  apple-growing  portions  of  the  United  States. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  rather  rank- growing,  especially  when  young,  forming 
coarse  strong  wood  which  seldom  breaks  under  heavy  crops ;  branches  strong, 
with  numerous  rather  short  laterals  and  spurs,  often  inclined  to  bend  or  droop. 
Form  upright  becoming  roundish,  and  in  old  trees  rather  spreading.  Twigs 
long  or  very  long,  straight  or  slightly  curved,  moderately  stout;  internodes 
long.  Bark  bright,  rather  dark  brownish-red,  continuously  mottled  with  fine, 
thin  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  round,  sometimes  oblong. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  71 

raised,  of  a  clear  straw  color,  moderately  conspicuous.  Buds  medium  to  large 
or  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  sunken  in  the  bark,  very  sparingly  pubescent. 
Leaves  large,  long,  rather  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  above  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish,  varying  from  some- 
what conic  to  somewhat  oblong,  broad,  rounded  at  the  base,  often  somewhat 
elliptical  or  slightly  irregular,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  pretty  uniform  in 
shape  and  in  size.  Stem  medium  to  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute, 
moderately  deep  to  deep,  of  medium  width,  nearly  symmetrical,  often  partly 
russeted  or  with  outspreading  rays  of  thin  greenish  russet.  Calyx  medium, 
closed  or  sometimes  partly  open;  lobes  rather  short,  of  medium  width,  acute. 
Basin  abrupt,  medium  in  width  and  depth,  varying  to  shallow  and  narrow 
and  rather  obtuse,  sometimes  furrowed,  usually  oblique. 

Skin  tough,  waxy,  bright,  smooth,  usually  glossy,  clear  yellow  or  greenish, 
mottled  and  washed  with  bright  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  bright  dark 
carmine.  Dots  inconspicuous,  small,  scattering,  light,  whitish  or  brown.  Pre- 
vailing effect  bright  deep  red  or  red  striped. 

Calyx  tube  varies  from  short  and  cone-shaped  to  rather  wide  and  funnel- 
form  with  rather  long  cylinder  and  frequently  with  fleshy  projection  of  pistil 
point  into  its  base.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium,  axile,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping  when  the  tube 
is  funnel-form,  meeting  or  slightly  clasping  when  it  is  cone-shaped.  Carpels 
rather  fiat,  roundish  or  inclined  to  obovate,  very  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds 
large,  long,  irregular,  rather  wide,  plump,  acute,  dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish,  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  not  very 
crisp,  somewhat  aromatic,  juicy,  mildly  subacid,  good. 

Season  January  to  June. 

DIFFERENT  TYPES  OF  BEN  DAVIS. 

Some  assert  that  it  is  possible  to  recognize  as  many  as  four  distinct  types 
or  strains  of  Ben  Davis.  So  far  as  we  know  none  of  these  types,  if  such 
exist,  is  being  kept  separate  under  propagation.  It  is  certain  that  Ben  Davis 
shows  great  variations  in  fruit  in  different  parts  of  the  country,  in  some 
cases  so  much  so  that  those  unfamiliar  with  it  would  not  recognize  fruit  of  it 
from  different  regions  as  being  of  the  same  variety. 

Various  seedlings  of  Ben  Davis  which  have  been  introduced  into  cultivation 
show  more  or  less  resemblance  to  the  parent  and  to  each  other.  In  the  case 
of  Gano  and  Black  Ben  Davis  a  notable  controversy  has  arisen  among  nursery- 
men and  fruit  growers  as  to  whether  these  are  distinct  varieties  or  identical. 
The  Gano  is  known  to  some  extent  in  New  York.  It  resembles  its  parent 
Ben  Davis  very  closely  in  the  nursery,  but  it  is  unmistakably  distinct  from 
it  in  fruit.  So  far  as  we  have  tested  it,  it  seems  to  be  better  adapted  to  New 
York  conditions  than  is  the  Ben  Davis. 

Rutledge,  Arkansas  Belle,  Etris  and  Eicke  also  belong  in  the  Ben  Davis 
group. 

BENTLEY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:100.  1851.  fig.  2.  Downing, 
1857:121.  3.  Elliott,  1858:122.  4.  Warder,  1867:558.  5.  Thomas,  1885:227. 
6.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:288.  7.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:47. 

SYNONYMS.     BENTLEY  SWEET   (4).     BENTLEY'S  SWEET  (i,  2,  3,  5). 


72  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Tree  hardy,  varies  from  moderately  productive  to  very  productive  and 
comes  into  bearing  rather  young.  The  fruit  is  very  sweet  and  keeps  very  late 
but  is  not  attractive  in  color  and  ranks  second  rate  in  size  and  quality.  It  is 
not  recommended  for  planting. 

Historical.     It  is  supposed  to  have  originated  in  Virginia.     It  is  but  little 

known  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  size,  spreading,  a  rather  slow  grower. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  variable,  sometimes  above  medium  to  large,  averages  below  medium. 
Form  roundish  to  oblong,  often  inclined  to  conic,  sometimes  irregular  and 
obscurely  ribbed,  sides  often  unequal ;  fairly  uniform  in  shape.  Stem  short 
to  medium.  Cavity  deep,  wide,  often  slightly  furrowed  or  compressed,  some- 
times with  greenish  russet  rays.  Calyx  large,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin 
abrupt,  often  oblique,  moderately  wide,  moderately  deep,  often  furrowed  and 
somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  rather  clear  pale  yellow,  mottled  with  red  and  striped  with 
bright  carmine.  Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  dark  brown.  Prevailing  color 
thin  striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  sometimes  long  and  funnel-shaped  with  core  lines 
clasping,  but  sometimes  short  with  core  lines  meeting.  Stamens  medium  to 
marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile,  closed  or  partly  open.  Carpels  roundish  to 
obovate,  emarginate.  Seeds  large,  rather  wide,  plump,  obtuse,  black. 

Flesh  whitish  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  fine,  moderately  juicy, 
sweet,  crisp,  good. 

Season.     December  to  May  or  June. 

BERGEN. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,  1876:44  of  app. 

But  little  known  in  New  York.  Originated  on  the  farm  of  Jessie  Griswold, 
Bergen,  N.  Y.  Fruit  medium  sized,  partly  red,  mild  subacid,  good  either  for 
dessert  or  culinary  use  (i). 

BESS  POOL. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,   1872:95.     2.  Hogg,   1884:21. 
SYNONYM.    Best  Pool  (i). 

An  old  English  apple  but  little  known  in  this  country.  Above  medium  size ; 
clear  yellow,  washed  and  striped  with  red;  attractive  in  appearance.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  subacid.  Season  November  to  March.  Not  a  reliable  cropper. 
Esteemed  in  England  both  for  culinary  and  dessert  uses  (2). 

BETHEL. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hoskins,  U.  S.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1886:274.  2.  Hoskins,  Rural 
N.  Y.,  47:249-  1888.  figs.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235.  4.  An.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1899:15.  5.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rcpt.,  14:288.  1901.  -6.  Munson,  Me. 
Sta.  Bui,  82:83.  1902..  7.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:48. 


BETHEL 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  73 

This  shows  its  kinship  to  the  Blue  Pearmain  in  the  quality,  tex- 
ture, form,  conspicuous  dots  and  color  of  its  fruit.  Sometimes  it 
has  a  rather  dull  appearance,  but  it  may  attain  a  bright  and 
attractive,  though  dark  red,  color.  The  quality  is  fairly  good.  It 
will  not  bear  rough  handling,  and  is  suitable  rather  for  local  markets 
than  for  shipping  long  distances.  The  tree  shows  a  rather  weak 
development  of  roots  in  the  nursery,  but  in  the  orchard  becomes 
moderately  vigorous  and  generally  quite  productive.  It  has  proved 
very  hardy  in  Northern  New  York,  and  is  recommended  for  planting 
for  home  use  and  local  markets  in  that  section  and  in  the  more 
elevated  regions  of  the  state,  where  varieties  of  the  grade  of  hardi- 
ness of  Baldwin  are  apt  to  show  winter  injury.  In  such  localities 
some  prefer  to  grow  it  on  warm  soil  or  sod,  to  favor  the  development 
of  better  color.  It  is  locally  profitable.  It  is  healthy,  long-lived 
and  a  reliable  cropper,  usually  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and 
bears  annually.  There  is  apt  to  be  considerable  loss  from  dropping 
of  the  fruit. 

Some  have  thought  that  it  is  identical  with  an  apple  grown  in 
Northern  New  York  under  the  name  Stone.  The  two  varieties,  as 
we  have  received  them,  are  certainly  distinct,  but  both  belong  to 
the  Blue  Pearmain  group. 

Historical.  It  originated  in  Bethel,  Vermont  (i).  During  the  last  twenty- 
five  years  it  has  become  scattered  throughout  Northern  New  York,  Northern 
New  England  and  portions  of  Canada. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  rather  large,  moderately  vigorous  or  vigorous.  Form 
round,  spreading.  Twigs  spreading,  below  medium  in  length,  usually  curved, 
somewhat  slender;  internodes  medium.  Bark  brownish-red,  exceptionally 
mingled  with  olive-green,  blotched  with  gray ;,  sparingly  pubescent.  Lenticels 
not  very  conspicuous,  moderately  abundant,  rather  small,  roundish.  Buds 
rather  small,  obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  roundish,  slightly  conic,  somewhat  angular  or  irregularly 
elliptical.  Stem  short,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep, 
rather  broad,  rather  symmetrical,  with  red  russet  often  outspreading.  Calyx' 
pubescent,  medium  to  rather  large,  partly  open  or  closed ;  lobes  rather  narrow, 
acute.  Basin  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  moderately  wide,  slightly 
furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth;  good  deep  yellow,  washed  and  mottled  with  red 
and  striped  with  purplish  carmine,  becoming  very  dark  red  in  highly  colored 


74  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

specimens.  Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  russet  or  light,  many  small,  many 
large  and  areolar.  Prevailing  effect  somewhat  striped. 

Calyx  tube  very  large,  wide,  somewhat  funnel-shaped  with  a  short  cylinder. 
Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  large,  somewhat  abaxile,  open  or  sometimes  closed;  core  lines  some- 
what clasping.  Carpels  broad,  roundish  ovate,  emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds 
large,  rather  wide,  long,  acute  to  acuminate,  tufted,  medium  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

Season  November  to  midwinter  or  possibly  March 

Uses.     Baking,  dessert  and  local  market. 

BETHLEHEMITE. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Elliott,    1858:69.    fig.     2.  Warder,    1867:423.    fig.      3.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871:6.     4.  Downing,  1872:96.  fig.     5.  Thomas,  1885:231. 
SYNONYM.     BETHLEMITE  (2,  4). 

This  is  an  apple  of  the  Newtown  Spitzenburg  type  but  it  is  inferior  to 
that  variety  in  size  and  color  and  is  not  better  in  quality.  When  well  grown 
it  ranks  good  to  very  good  for  either  dessert  or  culinary  uses,  but  it  does  not 
always  develop  good  quality.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New 
York. 

Origin.  It  was  first  brought  to  notice  in  Bethlehem,  Ohio  (i)  from  which 
town  it  takes  its  name.  Its  origin  is  obscure.  It  is  but  little  known  in  New 
York  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading,  somewhat  open.  Tzvigs 
short,  stout ;  internodes  short.  Bark  olive-green,  mingled  with  dark  red, 
covered  with  light  scarf-skin,  very  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  large, 
oblong,  raised,  conspicuous.  Buds  large,  bread,  obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent. 
Leaves  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  rarely  above  medium  size.  Form  oblate  to  roundish 
conic,  often  obscurely  ribbed,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  fairly  uniform  in 
shape  and  size.  Stem  medium  to  rather  long,  rather  thick.  Cavity  acute  to 
acuminate,  wide,  deep,  often  symmetrical,  sometimes  appressed  or  lipped  and 
covered  with  thin  greenish,  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  rather  large,  closed 
or  partly  open ;  lobes  often  separated  at  the  base,  often  erect,  wide,  long,  acute, 
conspicuous.  Basin  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  moderately  wide,  some- 
what abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  smooth,  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  washed,  mottled  and  striped 
with  red.  Color  rather  dull  and  unattractive.  Dots  distinct,  large  to  very 
small,  gray  or  russet  and  near  the  basin  very  numerous  and  often  submerged. 

Calyx  tube  wide,  large,  cone-shaped,  or  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  basal. 

Core  small,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical  and  partly  open ; 
core  lines  meeting.  Carpels  short,  concave,  sometimes  slightly  tufted,  wide 
Seeds  short,  plump,  obtuse,  dark  reddish-brown,  sometimes  tufted,  numerous. 

Flesh  whitish  with  slight  green  or  yellow  tinge,  firm,  fine-grained,  tender, 
crisp,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  November  to  March. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  75 

BILLY   BOND. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:90.  2.  Thomas,  1885:503.  3.  Not  listed 
by  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:234. 

SYNONYMS.     BELLE  BONDE  (i).     BELLE  BONNE  (2).  Billy  Bond  (i,  2). 

Fruit  rather  attractive,  being  mottled,  shaded  and  splashed  with 
red  over  a  yellow  background.  It  is  quite  uniform  in  size  and 
shape.  It  is  desirable  for  cooking  and  evaporating,  but  is  not  much 
esteemed  for  dessert  because  it  ranks  but  second  rate  in  quality. 
In  Wayne  county  it  is  regarded  by  many  as  a  profitable  commercial 
variety.  It  comes  into  bearing  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper  with 
a  marked  tendency  to  bear  annually.  The  tree  is  a  good  grower, 
both  in  orchard  and  nursery. 

Historical.  Downing  mentions  a  report  that  this  apple  had  its  origin  in 
France  in  1/90,  but  in  Wayne  county  where  it  was  first  brought  to  notice,  it 
is  claimed  by  some  that  it  originated  in  the  town  of  Lyons  with  a  man  whose 
name,  Billy  Bond,  became  attached  to  the  variety.  After  it  was  disseminated 
this  name  evidently  became  confused  with  that  of  Belle  et  Bonne  or  Belle 
Bonne  a  very  different  apple,  and  so  it  came  to  be  called  variously  Belle  Bonde, 
the  name  which  Downing  accepted  as  correct  (i),  Belle  Bonne,  which  Thomas 
sanctioned  (2),  Belle  Bend,  Billy  Bend,  etc.  It  has  been  grown  to  a  limited 
extent  in  Wayne  county,  and  scattering  trees  of  it  are  occasionally  found  in 
other  parts  of  Western  New  York.  Bailey  does  not  list  it  in  his  inventory 
of  North  American  Apples  in  1892  (3).  It  has  never  received  much  attention 
from  nurserymen  nor  has  it  gained  a  prominent  place  in  commercial  orchards. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  rather  vigorous.  Form  upright  or  somewhat  spreading.  Twigs 
medium  in  length,  rather  erect,  thick.  Bark  reddish-brown  mingled  with 
olive-green ;  internodes  short,  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous  to  medium  size, 
usually  roundish,  conspicuous.  Buds  medium  to  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse, 
slightly  pubescent.  Foliage  moderately  dense ;  leaves  medium  to  large,  often 
broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  above  medium  to  rather  large.  Form  roundish  inclined  to 
oblong,  or  sometimes  to  conic,  somewhat  elliptical  or  irregular ;  sides  some- 
times unequal,  often  broadly  or  obscurely  ribbed,  axis  often  oblique.  Stem 
medium  to  rather  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute,  deep,  moderately  wide, 
compressed  or  furrowed,  often  partly  russeted  or  with  outspreading  rays  of 
thin  russet,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  partly  open. 
Basin  often  oblique,  moderately  wide,  rather  abrupt,  indistinctly  furrowed, 
varying  from  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep. 

Skin  smooth,  somewhat  waxy,  bright  yellow,  mottled  and  shaded  with  red, 
splashed  with  lively  deep  purplish-red.  Dots  whitish,  or  russet,  rather  numer- 
ous. Prevailing  effect  striped  red,  attractive. 

Calyx  tube  long,  rather  narrow,  funnel-form.    Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasp- 


76  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

ing  the  cylinder  of  the  calyx  tube.  Carpels  roundish  to  roundish  ovate,  slightly 
emarginate.  Seeds  rather  broad,  acute  to  obtuse,  light  brown,  medium  size, 
plump. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  with  slight  yellow  tinge,  sometimes  stained  with  red, 
firm,  moderately  coarse-grained,  rather  tender,  rather  crisp,  juicy,  with  a 
peculiar  rather  pleasant  but  not  high  flavor,  subacid,  becoming  mild  subacid 
when  fully  ripe,  good. 

Season  October  to  January.  The  fruit  is  sometimes  kept  till  March  but 
after  midwinter  it  deteriorates  in  quality  and  color. 

BLACK  ANNETTE. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:30.  1902. 

A  variety  which  in  1886  was  introduced  under  this  name  from  Marietta, 
O.,  into  Northern  Iowa  has  proved  very  hardy  there.  Because  of  its  hardiness 
it  is  considered  worthy  of  attention  in  the  Northwest  (i).  Its  season  extends 
into  the  spring.  Possibly  it  is  distinct  from  the  Black  Annette  formerly 
grown  in  some  parts  of  New  York,  which  is  a  late  fall  apple. 

BLACK  BEN  DAVIS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Amcr.  Card.,  23:403.  1902.  2.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y., 
61:717.  1902.  3.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  62:500.  1903.  4.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:50.  5.  Ark.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1904.  6.  Nat.  Nurseryman,  12:18,  19.  1904. 
7.  Wickson,  Western  Fruit  Grower,  1904:124. 

This  is  a  variety  of  the  Ben  Davis  type,  very  brilliant  in  color 
and  decidedly  attractive  in  appearance.  In  size  and  color  it  is  inter- 
mediate between  Jonathan  and  Ben  Davis.  It  is  sometimes  obscurely 
striped,  but  more  often  it  shows  a  solid,  deep  red  color  somewhat 
like  that  of  the  Jonathan.  As  grown  in  this  state  it  is  but  little 
better  than  Ben  Davis  in  quality.  It  appears  to  be  as  good  a  keeper 
as  Ben  Davis.  It  has  not  yet  been  sufficiently  tested  in  New  York 
state  to  demonstrate  whether  or  not  it  will  be  valuable  in  this  region, 
but  it  appears  sufficiently  promising  for  commercial  purposes  to 
merit  attention  in  those  parts  of  the  state  where  Ben  Davis  succeeds 
best. 

Historical.  It  is  said  to  have  originated  about  1880  on  the  farm  of  M.  Black 
in  Washington  county,  Arkansas  (5,  7).  It  has  been  claimed  by  some  that 
it  is  identical  with  Gano.  It  certainly  resembles  Gano  very  closely,  but  the 
preponderance  of  evidence  seems  to  favor  the  opinion  that  these  two  varieties 
are  of  distinct  origin  (7). 

TREE. 

Young  trees  are  upright  and  vigorous,  becoming  somewhat  spreading,  rather 
dense;  branches  moderately  stout,  curved.  Does  not  resemble  Ben  Davis  so 
closely  in  tree  as  Gano  does,  being  more  upright  and  having  less  willow-like 


BLACK  BEN  DAVIS 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  77 

lateral  twigs.  Twigs  medium  in  length,  straight,  stout;  internodes  medium. 
Bark  dark  brown,  tinged  with  olive-green,  mottled  with  scarf-skin;  pubescent. 
As  grown  here  is  darker  than  Gano.  Lenticels  scattering,  large,  round,  raised, 
conspicuous.  Buds  large,  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  set  deep  in  bark,  pubescent. 
Leaves  medium,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  above,  sometimes  large,  averaging  marketable  size.  Form 
roundish  ovate  to  roundish  conic,  pretty  regular.  Stem  medium  to  rather 
long  and  slender.  Cavity  acute,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  of  medium  width, 
nearly  symmetrical,  usually  with  some  greenish  or  orange-red  russet  which 
often  spreads  beyond  the  cavity  in  broken  rays.  Calyx  rather  large,  usually 
open  or  partly  so ;  lobes  rather  broad,  obtuse.  Basin  often  somewhat  oblique, 
rather  shallow  and  obtuse  to  moderately  deep  and  abrupt,  often  slightly  fur- 
rowed and  somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  somewhat  glossy,  brilliant  red  almost  completely 
overspreading  a  clear  pale  yellow  ground  color,  becoming  dark  purplish-red 
on  the  exposed  cheek.  Dots  numerous,  very  small,  red  or  gray,  sometimes 
with  russet  point.  Prevailing  effect  brilliant  red,  often  with  some  contrasting 
clear  pale  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  varies  from  short  cone-shape  to  somewhat  funnel-form,  with 
fleshy  pistil  point  projecting  into  the  base.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping 
the  funnel  cylinder,  or  when  the  calyx  tube  is  cone-shaped,  nearly  meeting. 
Carpels  roundish,  elongated,  emarginate.  Seeds  rather  long,  obtuse  to  acute, 
dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish,  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  moderately  crisp,  not  tender,  moder- 
ately juicy,  mild  subacid,  a  little  aromatic,  good  in  quality. 

Season  January  to  April  or  May. 

BLACK  GILLIFLOWER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:49.  1841.  2.  Mag.  Hort.,  13:106. 
1847.  3.  Thomas,  1849:164.  4.  Cole,  1849:126.  5.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  16:64, 
198.  1850.  fig.  6.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:61.  1851.  col.  pi.  &  fig.  7. 
Downing,  1857:208.  8.  Hooper,  1857:18,  76.  9.  Elliott,  1858:167.  10.  Warder, 
1867:662.  fig.  ii.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:288.  12.  Bailey,  An. 
Hort.,  1892:235.  13.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:289.  1901.  14.  Powell 
and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:38.  1903.  15-  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:113.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Black  Gilliflower  (5).  Black  Spits  (13).  Gillinower  (14,  15). 
RED  GILLIFLOWER  (i,  5). 

A  dessert  apple  which  is  very  distinct  in  color,  form  and  flavor. 
The  color  is  yellowish  or  greenish,  sometimes  almost  completely 
covered  with  red,  which  in  highly  colored  specimens  becomes  dull 
purplish  and  very  dark,  as  recognized  in  the  name  "  Black  "  Gilli- 
flower. The  color  of  the  fruit  is  often  much  darker  than  it  appears 
in  the  accompanying  plate.  The  flesh  at  its  best  is  but  moderately 


78  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

juicy  and  soon  becomes  dry,  but  it  has  a  peculiar  aroma  which  is 
pleasing  to  many.  It  is  not  sour  enough  to  be  very  valuable  for 
cooking,  but  it  is  sometimes  used  for  baking.  It  is  fast  becoming 
obsolete  in  most  parts  of  the  state,  but  in  some  sections  the  planting 
of  it  in  commercial  orchards  is  being  extended  because  it  is  found 
profitable  to  grow  it  in  limited  quantities  for  southern  markets.  On 
good  soil  the  tree  is  a  good,  vigorous  grower  and  a  reliable  cropper. 
The  apples  grow  fair  and  smooth  and  there  is  little  loss  from 
unmarketable  fruit. 

Historical.  Black  Gilliflower  is  supposed  to  be  an  American  variety.  It 
was  brought  into  the  central  and  western  portions  of  the  state  more  than  a 
hundred  years  ago  by  the  early  settlers.  It  is  evident  that  it  was  known  in 
Connecticut  as  early  as  the  latter  part  of  the  eighteenth  century  (2).!  Manning 
(i)  mentions  it  in  1841  under  the  name  Red  Gilliflower  and  Hovey  (5)  de- 
scribed it  in  1850  under  the  same  name,  giving  Black  Gilliflower  as  a  synonym. 
It  has  generally  been  known  under  the  simple  name  Gilliflower,  which  name 
usually  appears  in  the  market  quotations  of  this  variety. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  rather  upright  spreading  with 
moderately  open  top.  Tzvigs  long,  slender,  pubescent ;  internodes  short  to 
medium.  Bark  dark  olive-green  and  reddish-brown  with  thin  gray  scarf-skin. 
Lenticels  rather  numerous,  small  to  medium,  roundish  or  elongated,  raised. 
Buds  medium,  obtuse  or  acute,  quite  pubescent,  appressed.  Leaves  rather 
long,  medium  to  above  medium  in  size. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  seldom  very  large ;  very  uniform  in  size  and  shape. 
Form  long  ovate  to  oblong  conic,  somewhat  ribbed;  axis  sometimes  a  little 
oblique.  Stem  medium  to  long,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  usually  acuminate, 
rather  wide,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  sometimes  lipped  but  usually  symmetrical 
with  red  russet  or  greenish  outspreading  rays.  Calyx  medium  or  below, 
closed.  Basin  often  oblique,  usually  very  shallow  and  obtuse,  varying  some- 
times to  moderately  deep  and  abrupt,  furrowed  and  much  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  nearly  smooth;  yellow  or  greenish-yellow,  striped  or 
mostly  covered  with  red,  deepening  to  dark  purplish-red  or  almost  black, 
obscurely  striped  with  darker  crimson,  and  with  streaks  of  bluish-gray  scarf- 
skin,  especially  toward  the  cavity,  giving  almost  the  effect  of  a  dull  bloom. 
Dots  numerous,  gray,  rather  small,  not  conspicuous,  somewhat  rough.  Pre- 
vailing effect  in  highly  colored  specimens  dull  dark  purplish. 

Calyx  tube  large,  wide,  cone-shape  or  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  or 
above. 

Core  large,  decidedly  axile.  closed;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels 
very  long  ovate,  tapering  both  ways,  emarginate,  much  tufted.  Seeds  often 

1  Cited  from  Batetnan,  Ohio  Cultivator,  Aug.  i,  1846.  Warder  gives  same  citation. 
1847: 25. 


T 


BLACK  GILLIFLOWER' 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  79 

abortive;  when  well  developed  they  are  above  medium,  acute  to  acuminate, 
somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  or  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  tender,  rather 
coarse,  moderately  juicy  eventually  becoming  dry,  mild  subacid,  rich,  peculiarly 
aromatic,  good  for  dessert  and  special  markets. 

Season  October  to  January  or  February. 

BLACK  JERSEY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:139.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:121.  3.  Downing, 
1845:99.  4.  Horticulturist,  4:470.  1849.  5.  Thomas,  1851:63.  6.  Hooper, 
1857:18.  7.  Elliott,  1858:123.  8.  Warder,  1867:653.  fig.  9.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1873.  10.  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:327.  1896.  n.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:49. 

SYNONYMS.  BLACK  APPLE  (i,  2,  3,  5,  6,  7).  Black  American  (7).  Dodge's 
Black  (7).  JERSEY  BLACK  (4,  10).  Warder  (8)  describes  a  JERSEY  BLACK 
which  he  believes  is  not  the  Black  Apple  of  Coxe  and  Downing..  Jersey 
Black  (7). 

Fruit  medium,  dark  red,  almost  black.     A  pleasant  flavored,  dessert  apple. 

Origin.  There  are  several  varieties  which  have  been  disseminated  under 
the  name  Black  Apple  and  more  or  less  confusion  exists  with  regard  to  their 
correct  names.  Black  Jersey  is  generally  believed  to  be  identical  with  the 
Black  Apple  described  and  disseminated  by  Coxe  (i),  although  Warder  differs 
from  this  view  (8).  It  is  an  old  variety  now  practically  obsolete. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive,  with  slender  branches  eventually  be- 
coming drooping.  Twigs  rather  slender  to  rather  stout,  rather  pubescent, 
clear  olive-green  mingled  with  red,  irregularly  overlaid  with  grayish  scarf- 
skin  ;  internodes  long.  Lenticels  conspicuous,  numerous,  raised,  mostly  below 
medium,  elongated.  Buds  medium,  not  very  prominent,  broadly  acute  to 
obtuse,  adhering  and  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium.  Form  roundish,  somewhat  irregular;  sides  somewhat  un- 
equal ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  variable,  sometimes  knobbed, 
often  inserted  under  a  lip.  Cavity  irregular,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  acute. 
Calyx  rather  small,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  rather  wide,  somewhat 
abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled,  shallow. 

Skin  very  dark  red,  almost  black,  shading  to  a  wine  red  over  yellow,  and 
somewhat  streaked  in  the  lighter  portions ;  sometimes  it  shows  a  whitish 
bloom ;  attractive.  Dots  many,  whitish  or  light,  rather  large,  showing  through 
the  red  skin. 

Calyx  tube  conical. 

Core  medium  or  above,  usually  axile,  closed  or  somewhat  open ;  core  lines 
clasping.  Carpels  elongated  ovate  to  obcordate,  concave,  slightly  tufted. 
Seeds  acute,  plump,  dark. 

Flesh  yellowish-white  often  tinged  with  red,  juicy,  crisp,  a  little  coarse,  sub- 
acid  becoming  mildly  sweet,  aromatic,  agreeable  in  flavor  but  not  high  in 
quality. 

Season  November  to  January  or  February. 


80  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

BLUE  PEARMAIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Kenrick,  1833:42.  2.  Manning,  1838:55.  3.  Manning, 
Mag.  Hort.,  6:172.  1840.  4.  Downing,  1845:122.  5.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist, 
1:361.  1846.  6.  Cole,  1849:120.  7.  Thomas,  1849:164.  8.  Emmons,  Nat. 
Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:69.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  54.  9.  Hooper,  1857:19.  10.  Elliott, 
1858:122.  ii.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  12.  Barry,  1883:343.  13.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:288.  14.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235.  15.  Waugh, 
Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:289.  1901.  16.  Can.  Hort.,  25:49.  1902.  17.  Budd- 
Hansen,  1903:52.  fig.  18.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:113.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     Prolific  Beauty  (18)   incorrectly. 

Occasional  trees  are  found  in  the  oldest  home  orchards  of  the 
state.  It  is  rarely  planted  now.  In  some  localities  it  "bears  well, 
but  more  often  it  is  not  a  reliable  cropper.  It  is  apt  to  have  a  pretty 
high  percentage  of  unmarketable  fruit.  The  fruit  is  of  mild  flavor 
and  does  not  rank  high  in  quality.  The  skin  is  thick.  When  well 
colored  it  is  beautiful,  though  not  brilliant,  being  overcast  with  a 
dull  bluish  bloom.  In  common  storage  it  does  not  keep  late,  and 
by  January  it  often  becomes  shriveled  (18).  It  is  not  a  good  market 
fruit  and  is  not  recommended  for  commercial  planting. 

Historical.  This  is  an  old  variety  of  uncertain  origin  but  it  is  supposed 
to  be  an  American  variety  (13).  On  account  of  its  hardiness  it  has  often  been 
planted  in  the  home  orchards  of  the  more  elevated  regions  of  New  York  and 
New  England  during  the  last  75  years.  Probably  it  has  been  in  cultivation 
for  a  century  or  more.  Kenrick  (i)  mentions  it  as  common  in  the  vicinity 
of  Boston  in  the  early  part  of  the  I9th  century. 

TREE. 

Tree  becomes  moderately  large  to  large,  moderately  vigorous  or  on  rich  soil 
sometimes  vigorous.  Form  spreading.  In  the  nursery  it  is  a  slow,  stiff 
grower  (5).  Twigs  below  medium,  rather  stout,  nearly  straight,  rather  blunt 
at  tips,  with  large  terminal  buds ;  internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  very  dark, 
being  of  a  dull  brownish-red;  scarf-skin  varies  from  thin  to  rather  heavy; 
quite  pubescent.  Lenticels  inconspicuous,  scattering,  below  medium,  roundish, 
raised.  Buds  above  medium,  moderately  projecting,  roundish,  slightly  pubes- 
cent, free.  Leaves  broad,  coarsely  serrated. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  very  large ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  or  inclined  to  oblate,  sometimes  a  little  inclined  to  conic,  irregular, 
often  obscurely  ribbed,  sometimes  distinctly  furrowed  from  the  cavity  nearly 
to  the  basin.  Stem  medium  length  to  rather  short,  rather  thick.  Cavity 
moderately  deep,  obscurely  furrowed,  usually  covered  with  orange-russet  or 
greenish-russet.  Calyx  partly  open ;  lobes  acute.  Basin  medium  in  depth  and 
width,  with  concentric  gray  or  russet  lines,  obscurely  furrowed. 

Skin  a  little  rough;  yellow,  washed  and  mottled  with  red,  often  deepening 
on  one  side  to  nearly  solid  red,  splashed  and  striped  with  deep  purplish-car- 


BLUE  PEARMAIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  81 

mine  and  overspread  with  an  abundant  blue  bloom  from  which  the  variety 
takes  its  name.  Dots  numerous,  small,  pale,  mingled  with  others  which  are 
conspicuous,  very  large,  gray  with  russet  center  and  often  also  mingled  with 
irregular  lines  or  flecks  of  dull  green  or  russet.  The  large  dots  are  character- 
istic of  this  variety  as  also  of  other  varieties  of  the  Blue  Pearmain  group. 

Calyx  tube  elongated  conical  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens  basal  to 
median. 

Core  rather  large,  nearly  axile,  closed  or  somewhat  open ;  core  lines  clasping 
or,  with  modified  calyx  tube,  nearly  meeting.  Carpels  broad,  elongated  or 
roundish,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  medium  or  rather  long,  acuminate,  rather 
light  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  firm,  rather  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid,  decidedly  and  agreeably  aromatic,  good. 

Season.  Comes  into  season  in  October.  It  may  keep  till  March  but  often 
begins  to  shrivel  after  January. 

Use.     Home  and  local  market. 

BOGDANOFF  GLASS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Budd,  la.  Agr.  Coll.  Bui,  1885:39.  2.  Lyon,  U.  S.  Div. 
Pom.  Bui,  2:40.  1888.  3.  Hoskins,  Rural  N.  Y .,  49742.  1890.  figs.  4.  Budd, 
la.  Agr.  Coll.  Bui.,  1892:5.  5.  Budd,  la.  Sta.  Bui.,  19:539.  1892.  6.  Ibid, 
31:332.  1895.  7-  Hansen,  6\  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:33.  1902.  8.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:53-  fig-  9-  Can.  Hort.,  26:12.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  BOGDANOFF  (3,  7,  8,  9).  BOGDANOFF'S  GLASS  (2).  SKLANKA 
(6).  SKLANKA  BOGDANOFF  (4,  5).  STEKLIANKA  BOGDANOFF  (i,  2). 

A  green  or  yellow  apple  sometimes  with  a  faint  blush,  desirable 
in  size  and  attractive  in  appearance,  but  not  ranking  high  in 
quality.  On  account  of  its  hardiness  it  may  have  some  value  in  the 
northern  portions  of  the  apple  belt. 

Professor  Budd  attached  the  name  Bogdanoff  to  several  varieties 
which  he  obtained  from  the  Bogdanoff  estates  in  Russia.  The 
name  Sklanka  is  used  in  Russia  as  a  class  name.  The  adoption  of 
either  name  alone  is  open  to  objection.  We  prefer,  therefore,  to 
follow  Lyon  (2)  in  assigning  to  this  variety  the  name  Bogdanoff 
Glass. 

Historical  Imported  from  Russia  for  the  Iowa  Agricultural  College  by 
Prof.  J.  L.  Budd  about  25  years  ago  and  disseminated  by  him  from  that 
institution. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long,  curved  and  moderately  stout. 
Form  upright  spreading  and  rather  open.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  moderately 
thick ;  internodes  pretty  long.  Bark  clear  dark  reddish-brown  or  nearly  black, 
scarcely  pubescent  but  with  noticeable  scarf-skin.  Lenticels  numerous,  medium 
in  size  to  small,  elongated,  raised.  Buds  large  to  medium,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse,  slightly  pubescent,  free.  Scales  often  parted.  Leaves  large,  broad. 


82  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large;  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  conic  sometimes 
approaching  roundish  oblate,  obscurely  ribbed,  usually  symmetrical,  some- 
times elliptical  or  irregular.  Stem  short,  thick,  often  swollen  at  the  base, 
sometimes  knobbed.  Cavity  acuminate,  moderately  shallow  to  deep,  rather 
broad,  somewhat  furrowed  or  compressed,  often  somewhat  russeted,  with 
narrow  broken  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  medium,  usually  closed ;  lobes 
acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  variable ;  often  abrupt,  medium  in  width  and  depth, 
somewhat  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  waxy,  somewhat  glossy,  green  becoming  bright 
pale  yellow,  occasionally  with  faint  bronze  blush.  Dots  numerous,  inconspicu- 
ous, mostly  submerged,  white  or  green. 

Calyx'  tube  rather  large,  long,  cone-shape  or  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  or  below,  axile,  closed  or  partly  open ;  cells  often  unsymmet- 
rical ;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  smooth,  very  broadly 
obovate,  somewhat  emarginate.  Seeds  moderately  light  reddish-brown,  smooth, 
above  medium,  wide,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  rather  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  moderately  tender, 
juicy,  brisk  subacid,  fair  to  possibly  good. 

Season  November  to  February. 

BOIKEN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Oberdieck,  ///.  Plandb.  der  Obstk.,  1:212.  1859.  2.  Berg- 
huis,  1868:  col.  pi.  No.  80.  3.  Leroy,  1873:144.  4.  Lauche,  i:  col.  pi.  No.  5. 
1882.  5.  Budd,  la.  Sta.  Bui.,  19:542.  1892.  6.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235. 
7.  Bredsted,  1893:205.  8.  Bronson,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.,  1893:113.  9.  Troop, 
Ind.  Sta.  Bui.,  53:124.  1894.  10.  Buckman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  54:806.  1895.  u. 
Willard,  Rural  N.  Y.,  55:751.  1896.  12.  Thomas,  1897:288.  fig.  13.  Rural 
N.  Y.,  57:285.  1898.  14.  la.  Sta.  Bui,  41:70,  85.  1899.  15.  Rural  N.  Y., 
60:342.  1901.  16.  Eneroth- Smirnoff,  1901:274.  17.  Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui, 
76:33.  1902.  18.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Bui,  82:89.  1902.  19.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:53.  20.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:113.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.    BOIKEN  APFEL  (2,  4).     BOIKENAPPLE  (16). 

This  is  a  very  attractive,  bright  yellow  apple,  usually  with  a  beau- 
tiful blush.  It  is  justly  regarded  as  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  the 
recent  introductions  for  growing  in  commercial  orchards,  on  account 
of  the  vigor  and  health  of  the  foliage,  hardiness  and  productiveness 
of  the  tree,  and  the  desirable  size,  attractive  appearance  and  fairly 
good  quality  of  the  fruit.  Its  flavor  is  a  rather  brisk  subacid.  It  is 
hardly  rich  enough  in  quality  or  mild  enough  in  flavor  to  excel 
as  a  dessert  fruit,  but  it  is  desirable  for  culinary  use  and  for  market. 
It  appears  to  be  better  adapted  than  Rhode  Island  Greening  for 
storage  (20).  It  makes  very  light  colored  evaporated  stock.  The 
tree  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and  is  a  good,  reliable  cropper. 


BOIKEN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  83 

The  foliage  is  remarkably  healthy  and  the  fruit  is  pretty  resistant 
to  the  scab. 

Historical.  This  is  a  German  variety  which  has  long  been  known  under 
cultivation  in  Prussia  (i,  2).  It  is  said  to  have  been  named  after  a  former 
dike  warden  (4).  It  has  been  quite  extensively  disseminated  in  this  country 
within  the  last  decade,  having  been  introduced  some  years  earlier  (8).  In 
New  York  commercial  orchards  the  plantings  of  it  are  now  being  gradually 

extended. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  short,  stout  and  crooked.  Form  some- 
what spreading,  rather  dense.  T^vigs  medium  in  length  or  rather  long,  curved, 
pretty  stout,  especially  at  the  tips ;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  brown- 
ish-red, streaked  and  conspicuously  blotched  with  grayish  scarf-skin ;  pubescent. 
Lcnticels  scattering,  rather  conspicuous,  moderately  abundant,  irregular  in 
shape  and  size,  often  large,  oblong,  sometimes  roundish.  Buds  large  or  above 
medium  size,  broad,  rather  plump,  obtuse  to  nearly  acute,  projecting,  free, 
pubescent.  Leaves  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  very  large ;  fairly  uniform  in  shape  but  rather  uneven 
in  size.  Form  somewhat  oblate,  being  broad  at  the  base,  conical,  often  some- 
what ribbed,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  long  to  medium.  Cavity  obtuse  to 
acute,  very  broad,  furrowed,  sometimes  compressed,  partly  colored  with  thin 
brownish-russet.  Calyx  large,  closed  or  somewhat  open ;  lobes  acute.  Basin 
sometimes  oblique,  moderately  wide  to  rather  narrow,  abrupt,  moderately  deep, 
furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  waxy,  clear  bright  pale  yellow,  often  with  sharpty  con- 
trasting brilliant  pinkish-red  blush.  Dots  numerous,  rather  small,  often  red 
areolar,  with  whitish  or  russet  center,  not  very  conspicuous,  often  submerged. 
Prevailing  effect  yellow  relieved  more  or  less  by  pinkish-red,  not  striped.  The 
fruit  is  decidedly  attractive  in  appearance  for  a  yellow  apple. 

Calyx  tube  large,  funnel-form,  or  approaching  cone-shape,  often  extending 
to  the  core.  Stamens  median. 

Core  rather  large,  open  or  partly  so,  abaxile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical ; 
core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  decidedly  concave,  very  broad,  elliptical,  slightly 
emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  medium,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  dark. 

Flesh  white,  firm,  crisp,  tender,  fine-grained,  very  juicy,  sprightly,  brisk 
subacid,  not  high  in  quality,  good. 

Season  November  to  February  or  March.  In  cold  storage  its  season  extends 
to  May  or  later  (20). 

BORSDORF. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Ronalds,  1831:26.  2.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831.  3. 
Kenrick,  1833:72.  4.  Downing,  1845:99.  5.  Thomas,  1849:178.  6.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:72.  1851.  7.  Elliott,  1858:167.  8.  Berghuis,  1868:  col.  pi. 
No.  73.  9.  Downing,  1872:103.  10.  Leroy,  1873:150.  n.  Montreal  Hort. 
Soc.:  7:156.  1881.  12.  Hogg,  1884:26.  13.  Koskins,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1886: 
279.  14.  Hoskins,  Garden  and  Forest,  3:516.  1890.  15.  Budd,  la.  Sta.  Bui., 
19:541.  1892.  16.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235.  17.  Bredsted,  1893:301.  18. 
///.  Sta.  Bid.,  45:315.  1896.  19.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  An.  Kept.,  12:73.  1896. 


84  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

20.  Can.  Hort.,  20:412.  1897.  21.  Eneroth- Smirnoff,  1901:173.  22.  Munson, 
Me.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  18:83,  86.  1902  (also  Bui.  82).  23.  Powell  and  Fulton, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:38.  1903.  24.  Beach  and  Clark,  ,V.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248: 
113.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  BORSDORF  (6).  BORSDORFER  (3,  8,  14,  21).  BORSDORFER  (12). 
Borsdorff  (7).  BORSDORFF  (5).  BORSDORFFER  (2).  BORSDORFFER  (i,  6,  7, 
18).  Borsdorff er  (5).  EDELBORSUORFER  (8).  King  George  the  Third  (7). 
KING  GEORGE  THE  THIRD  (i).  Queen's  (7). 

A  German  variety,  which  is  valued  in  many  parts  of  Europe  as 
a  dessert  fruit  of  first  quality.  The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  very 
productive.  Although  it  was  introduced  into  this  country  many 
years  ago,  it  has  not  won  recognition  either  in  the  home  orchards 
or  in  commercial  orchards.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in 
New  York  state  because  it  is  less  desirable  here  than  other  well- 
known  varieties. 

Historical.  Hogg  states  (12)  that,  "It  is  believed  to  have  originated  either 
at  a  village  of  Misnia,  called  Borsdorf  or  at  a  place  of  the  same  name  near 
Leipsic.  According  to  Forsyth  it  was  such  a  favorite  with  Queen  Charlotte 
that  she  had  a  considerable  quantity  of  them  annually  imported  from  Germany 
for  her  own  private  use.  It  is  one  of  the  earliest  recorded  varieties  of  the 
continental  authors,  but  does  not  seem  to  have  been  known  in  this  country 
before  the  close  of  the  last  century.  It  was  first  grown  in  the  Brompton  Park 
Nursery  in  1785.  It  is  mentioned  by  Cordus,  in  1561,  as  being  cultivated  in 
Misnia,  which  circumstance  has  no  doubt  given  rise  to  the  synonym  '  Reinette 
de  Misnie.' " 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long,  rather  slender,  with  numerous 
small  laterals.  Form  roundish,  dense.  Tzvigs  short,  straight,  slender;  inter- 
nodes  short.  Bark  dull  reddish-brown,  quite  pubescent.  Lenticcls  incon- 
spicuous, scattering,  very  small,  oblong.  Buds  small,  narrow,  acute,  free,  auite 
pubescent.  Leaves  medium  in  size,  rather  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  small.  Form  oblate,  somewhat  ribbed,  sides  slightly 
unequal,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  long  to  very  long,  slender, 
often  inclined  obliquely.  Cavity  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  wide, 
obtuse,  often  a  little  furrowed  and  somewhat  russeted.  Calyx  rather  large, 
usually  partly  open.  Basin  usually  rather  shallow,  wide,  and  obtuse,  some- 
what ridged  and  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  yellow,  partly  washed  with  rather  dull  light  scarlet  and  often  marked 
with  streaks  of  russet  and  inconspicuous  capillary  netted  russet  lines.  Dots 
scattering,  often  large  and  irregular,  gray  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  short,  wide,  cone-shape  or  urn-shape,  with  a  fleshy  projection 
of  the  pistil  into  its  base.  Stamens  marginal  to  median. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile,  closed  or  nearly  so ;  core  lines  meeting. 
Carpels  broad,  narrowing  sharply  towards  the  apex,  nearly  truncate  at  base, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  85 

slightly  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  to  small,  plump,  acute,  com- 
pactly filling  the  cells. 

Flesh  whitish,  tinged  slightly  with  yellow,  rather  coarse,  moderately  crisp, 
rather  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  becoming  nearly  sweet,  aromatic. 

Season  November  to  February. 

BOSTON  RUSSET. 

This  name  is  one  of  the  old  synonyms  for  Roxbury  Russet  but  in  the  vicinity 
of  Albion  it  has  been  applied  to  another  variety  which,  so  far  as  we  can  dis- 
cover, has  not  been  described  in  any  publication.  The  fruit  is  roundish  conic, 
regular,  with  medium  cavity  and  basin.  Skin  pale  yellowish-green,  irregularly 
overspread  with  thin  russet.  Dots  numerous,  small.  Flesh  tinged  slightly 
with  yellow,  moderately  tender,  mild  subacid,  not  more  than  good  in  quality. 
Not  considered  desirable  for  commercial  purposes. 

BOTTLE  GREENING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Amer.  Jour.  Hort.  and  Florists'  Companion,  1:357.  1866-67. 
2.  Downing,  1872:103.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235.  4.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta. 
Bui,  152:220.  1898.  5.  Ibid.,  169:179.  1899.  6.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:290.  7.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:290.  1901. 

Much  esteemed  by  a  few  growers  because  the  tree  is  healthy, 
hardy  and  productive,  and  the  fruit  is  excellent  for  culinary  use 
and  good  for  dessert.  It  is  rather  attractive  in  color  for  an  apple 
of  the  Greening  class.  Because  of  its  tender  skin  and  light  color 
it  shows  the  least  bruise  plainly.  For  this  reason  it  requires  very 
careful  handling.  It  is  even  more  apt  to  scald  in  storage  than 
Rhode  Island  Greening.  Most  growers  and  buyers  find  it  unsatis- 
factory as  a  commercial  apple.  It  is  said  to  succeed  particularly 
well  on  sandy  or  gravelly  loam,  usually  bearing  annually.  The 
fruit  usually  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 

Historical.  It  originated  as  a  chance  seedling  on  a  farm  on  the  dividing 
line  of  New  York  and  Vermont  where  the  original  tree  was  still  standing 
about  a  half  century  ago.  Its  name  is  derived  from  the  fact  that  workmen 
found  the  hollow  in  this  old  tree  a  convenient  place  for  the  "bottle"  (i).  It 
is  still  handled  by  nurserymen  (3)  but  is  not  being  much  planted  in  this  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  moderately  long,  stout, 
crooked,  with  yellowish  bark.  Form  rather  round  and  open.  Twigs  medium 
in  length,  straight,  rather  stout ;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  olive-green 
mingled  with  reddish-brown,  pubescent  and  covered  with  thin  scarf-skin. 
Lenticels  scattering,  very  small  to  medium,  round,  inconspicuous.  Buds  large 
to  medium,  broad,  acute,  appressed,  heavily  pubescent.  Leaves  medium,  broad. 


86  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  ovate,  inclined  to  conic, 
pretty  regular,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed,  fairly  symmetrical,  sides  some- 
times unequal.  Stem  rather  short.  Cavity  acuminate,  moderately  deep,  rather 
broad,  sometimes  lipped,  sometimes  indistinctly  furrowed  or  compressed. 
Calyx  rather  large,  closed  or  somewhat  open.  Basin  abrupt,  medium  in  depth, 
rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  often  slightly  furrowed,  sometimes 
wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  grass-green,  or  yellowish,  thinly  washed  or  often 
deeply  blushed  with  dull  pinkish-crimson,  not  striped.  Dots  few,  usually  sub- 
merged, pale  and  inconspicuous ;  a  few  scattering  ones  are  russet.  Prevailing 
color  green  but  more  blushed  than  Rhode  Island  Greening. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  conical.     Stamens  median. 

Core  rather  small,  somewhat  abaxile;  cells  often  closed  towards  apex  and 
open  at  base ;  core  lines  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  broad,  roundish  to  obcor- 
date.  Seeds  medium,  acute. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  moderately  firm,  very  tender,  very  juicy,  peculiarly 
aromatic,  pleasant  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  October  to  March  or  later.     Commercial  season  October  to  January. 

BOUCKEN. 

Known  locally  for  many  years  in  the  vicinity  of  Buffalo.  We  have  not  seen 
this  variety.  The  following  statement  concerning  it  is  furnished  by  C.  D. 
Zimmerman,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. :  "  Resembles  Maiden  Blush  very  much  in  size 
and  color ;  keeps  till  June ;  flavor  good ;  an  enormous  bearer.  Often  a  large 
apple  is  borne  at  the  extreme  end  of  the  branch." 

BOYS    DELIGHT. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  in  season  from  October  to  midwinter.  It  is 
not  equal  to  either  Fameuse  or  Mclntosh  in  appearance  and  is  apparently 
desirable  only  for  the  home  orchard.  Fruit  medium  or  below,  pale  greenish- 
yellow,  partly  overlaid  with  a  light  shade  of  "  Fameuse  "  red.  Flesh  white, 
of  Fameuse  character  but  more  nearly  sweet.  It  originated  from  Fameuse 
seed  with  S.  P.  Morse,  Lowville,  Ontario. 

BRISTOL. 

The  variety  known  in  Western  Connecticut  and  in  Eastern  New  York  by 
this  name  appears  to  be  identical  writh  Red  Canada. 

BROWNLEES. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:108.  2.  Mas,  Le  Verger,  4:93.  col  pi.  3. 
Hogg,  1884:33.  4.  Bailey,  An,  Hort.,  1892:235.  5.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  Bui,  248:113.  1904. 

.  SYNONYMS.  BROWNLEES' RUSSET  (i,  4).  BROWNLEES'S  RUSSET  (3).  Brown- 
lees'  Russet  (5).  Brownlees'  Seedling  Russet  (i).  REINETTE  GRISE  BROWN- 
LEES'  (2).  Reinette  Grise  Brownlees'  (i). 


BOTTLE  GREENING 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  87 

Fruit  excellent  in  quality,  desirable  in  size,  and  of  good  appear- 
ance for  a  russet  apple,  but  not  sufficiently  productive  here  to  make 
it  profitable  for  commercial  planting. 

Historical.  An  English  variety  introduced  by  Mr.  William  Brownlees,  a 
nurseryman  at  Hemel,  Hempsted,  Herts,  about  the  year  1848  (3).  It  appears 
on  the  lists  of  some  nurserymen  but  is  but  little  known  in  New  York  and  is 
not  being  planted  here  to  any  considerable  extent. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous,  moderately  productive.  Form  upright.  Twigs  numerous, 
rather  short  or  sometimes  long,  generally  slender,  straight  or  slightly  curved 
at  base ;  internodes  long.  Bark  smooth,  cle.ar  reddish-brown  somewhat  shaded 
with  olive-green  and  dull  brownish-red,  often  overlaid  with  heavy  scarf-skin ; 
quite  pubescent.  Lenticels  inconspicuous,  not  raised,  moderately  numerous, 
of  medium  size  or  small,  roundish  or  elongated.  Buds  medium,  more  or  less 
projecting,  obtuse,  somewhat  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large ;  fairly  uniform  in  size,  rather  variable  in  shape. 
Form  oblate,  often  oblique,  sometimes  ribbed,  irregular  often  bulging  or  with 
sides  compressed,  flattened  at  the  base,  rounded  toward  the  basin.  Stem 
usually  short  and  thick,  often  swollen.  Cavity  large,  variable  in  form,  usually 
acute,  deep,  broad,  furrowed,  sometimes  compressed  or  lipped.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Basin  usually  rather  small,  shallow,  abrupt  to  obtuse,  often  some- 
what furrowed  and  finely  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  tender,  entirely  covered  with  russet  or  sometimes  with  patches 
of  smooth  yellow.  Dots  often  conspicuous,  scattering,  pale  gray  or  whitish. 

Calyx  tube  small,  varying  from  funnel-shape  to  conical.  Stamens  median 
to  marginal. 

Core  nearly  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  slightly  open ;  core  lines 
clasping.  Carpels  rather  flat,  rather  pointed  ovate,  broad  and  almost  trun- 
cate at  the  base,  mucronate,  somewhat  tufted. 

Seeds  often  abortive,  rather  dark  reddish-brown,  rather  small  to  above 
medium,  narrow  to  rather  wide,  plump,  acute  to  acuminate,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  more  or  less  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  fine,  moderately 
crisp,  juicy,  sprightly,  with  a  rich  subacid  aromatic  flavor  which  is  found  only 
in  some  russet  apples,  very  good  quality. 

Season  October  to  January  or  later   (3,  5). 

BROWN  SWEET. 

Known  locally  in  Oswego  county.  The  following  statement  concerning  it 
is  furnished  by  D.  D.  Stone  of  Oswego:  "Tree  healthy,  and  a  good  but  not 
a  rampant  grower.  In  alternate  years  it  bears  heavily,  yielding  smooth  fruit 
of  large  size  which  is  excellent  for  baking  or  boiling.  It  withers  or  shrivels 
quickly  in  a  dry  cellar." 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  ovate  to  oblong  conic,  often  narrowing  sharply  towards 
the  apex,  more  or  less  ribbed  and  irregular.  Stem  medium.  Cavity  medium 
to  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  usually  deep  and  somewhat  russeted.  Calyx 


88  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

closed  or  open,  medium  to  small ;  lobes  acuminate.  Basin  often  oblique, 
shallow  to  moderately  deep,  rather  narrow,  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed  and 
wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  green  or  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  red  cheek, 
and  often  much  russe.ted. 

Calyx  tube  small  to  medium,  conical.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  large,  axile  to  usually  decidedly  abaxile;  cells  often  unsymmetrical, 
open ;  core  lines  meeting  to  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  obovate,  some- 
what tufted.  Seeds  medium  or  below,  medium  brown,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  fine,  rather  tender  becoming  tough  when  shriveled, 
juicy,  very  sweet,  good  to  very  good, 

Season  September  to  midwinter. 

BUCKINGHAM. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:147.  fig.  2.  Downing,  1845:144.  3.  Van  Buren, 
Mag.  Hort.,  23:256.  1857.  4.  Elliott,  1858:180.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1858. 
6.  Mag.  Hort.,  27:98,  152.  1861.  7.  Warder,  1867:537.  fig.  8.  Downing, 
1872:109.  9.  Leroy,  1873:87.  10.  Barry,  1883:343.  n.  Thomas,  1885:217. 
12.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:290.  13.  Wickson,  1891:246.  14. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:236.  15.  Massey,  A7.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  92:42.  1893.  if- 
Hoskins,  Rural  N.  Y.,  53:278.  1894.  17.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  1894:45. 
18.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  13:579.  1894.  19.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1895:195.  20.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:38.  1903.  21. 
Budd-Hansen,  1903:57.  fig.  22.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:113. 
1904. 

SYNONYMS.  BACHELOR  (9).  Bachelor  (8,  n).  Batchellor  (9).  Blackburn 
(8).  Blackburn,  erroneously  (7).  Buckingham  (9).  Byer's  (8).  Byer's 
Red  (7,  8).  EQUINETELY  (3).  Equinetely  (8,  10,  n,  13,  17).  Fall  Queen 
(7,  8,  10,  15,  17,  21).  Fall  Queen  of  Kentucky  (n,  16).  Frankfort  Queen 
(8).  Henshaw  (7,  8).  Kentucky  Queen  (8,  9,  n,  17).  King  (8,  9).  Ladies' 
Favorite  of  Tenn.  (8).  Lexington  Queen  (8).  Merit  (8,  9).  Ne  Plus  Ultra 
(8,  9).  Ox-Eye  of  some  in  Kentucky  (8).  Queen  (8,  9,  17).  Red  Gloria 
Mundi  of  some  (8,  9).  Red  Horse  (8,  17).  Sol  Carter  (3,  8).  WINTER 
QUEEN  (i,  2,  4).  Winter  Queen  (8,  9,  17,  18).  Winter  Queen  of  Kentucky, 
incorrectly  (8).  Winter  Queening  (2,  4). 

This  variety  has  long  been  favorably  known  in  the  southern 
states.  When  well  grown  it  is  decidedly  attractive  in  appearance, 
but,  as  grown  here,  it  is  not  especially  attractive  and  not  desirable. 
This  location  is  too  far  north  for  the  variety  to  develop  its  best  color 
and  quality.  While  it  occasionally  gives  heavy  crops,  we  find  it  an 
irregular  bearer  and  often  unproductive. 

Historical.  Origin  unknown  (.8),  by  some  said  to  have  come  originally 
from  Louisa  county,  Va.  (7),  by  others,  from  North  Carolina  (3)-  It  has 
long  been  known  from  Southern  New  Jersey  southward  through  Virginia  and 
westward  through  the  Ohio  valley. 


BUCKINGHAM 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  89 

TREE. 

Tree  a  moderate  grower.  Twigs  short,  rather  slender,  rather  crooked  con- 
sidering the  length ;  internodes  short.  Bark  smooth,  clear  light  reddish-brown 
mingled  with  olive-green,  not  pubescent.  Lenticcls  rather  scattering,  below 
medium,  generally  elongated,  raised.  Buds  medium  or  below,  rather  promi- 
nent, rather  acute,  slightly  pubescent,  lightly  attached  to  the  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  somewhat  irregular,  usually 
broadly  and  obscurely  ribbed ;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  rather  stout, 
short  to  medium.  Cavity  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  wide,  deep,  usually  with 
heavy  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed  or  open.  Basin 
large,  abrupt,  wide,  moderately  deep,  obscurely  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  pale  yellow  or  pale  green  washed  and  mottled  with  red, 
striped  and  blushed  with  bright  carmine.  Dots  numerous,  small,  light  or 
russet,  mingled  with  others  which  are  large,  gray  and  areolar.  Prevailing 
effect  in  well  colored  specimens,  beautiful  red  striped. 

Calyx  tube  medium,  varying  from  conical  to  funnel-form.  Stamens  median 
or  approaching  basal. 

Core  below  medium  to  small,  varying  from  decidedly  abaxile  to  nearly 
axile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical  and  open  or  sometimes  closed ;  core  lines 
clasping.  Carpels  much  concave,  elliptical  to  roundish,  emarginate,  usually 
smooth.  Seeds  rather  dark,  medium  to  rather  large,  plump,  wide  and  obtuse. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  moderately  coarse,  rather  tender, 
crisp,  juicy  with  distinct  aroma,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

Season  November  to  April  (20,  22). 

BULLOCK. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:125.  2.  Thacher,  1822:122.  3.  Buel,  N.  Y. 
State  Bd.  of  Agr.  Memoirs,  3:476.  Cat.  No.  34.  1826.  4.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc. 
London,  1831:35.  5.  Kenrick,  1833:33.  6.  Manning,  1838:54.  7.  Dittrich, 
Syst.  Handb.  der  Obstk.,  1:504.  1839.  8.  Downing,  1845:131.  1847.  col.  pi. 
g.  Thomas,  1849:178.  fig.  10.  Mag.  Hort.,  15:250.  1849.  n.  Emmons,  Nat. 
Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:94.  1851.  fig.,  col.  pi.  No.  52.  12.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852. 
13.  Mag.  Hort.,  19:126.  1853.  14.  Biedenfeld,  1854:223.  15.  Mag.  Hort., 
21:300,  398.  1855.  16.  Hooper,  1857:11,  20.  17.  Elliott,  1858:71.  fig.  18. 
Flotow,  ///.  Handb.  der  Obstk.,  1:337.  1859.  19.  Warder,  1867:521.  20.  Regel, 
1:440.  1868.  21.  Mas,  Le  Verger,  4:33.  col.  pi.  22.  Lauche,  i:  col.  pi.  No.  73. 
1882.  23.  Barry,  1883:341.  24.  Hogg,  1884:7.  25.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1890:288.  26.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:236.  27.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  An. 
Rpt.,  1893:132.  28.  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  2:32.  1895.  29.  N.  C.  Bd. 
of  Agr.  Bui.,  1900:6.  30.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:286.  1901.  31.  Macoun, 
Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Bui.,  37:42.  1901.  32.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:57.  fig. 

SYNONYMS.  AMERICAN  GOLDEN  RUSSET  (9,  16,  19,  20,  21,  23,  24,  25,  26, 
28,  30,  31).  American  Golden  Russet  (17,  27,  29,  32).  Bullock  (30).  BUL- 
LOCK'S PEPPING  (18,  22).  Bullock's  Pippin  (8).  BULLOCK'S  PIPPIN  (i,  2, 
9,  10,  13,  15,  1 6,  17,  21 ).  Fall  Winesap  (17),  erroneously.  GOLDEN  RUSSET 
(5,  6).  Golden  Russet  (8,  9,  17).  GOLDEN  RUSSET,  AMERICAN  (8).  Little 
Pearmain  (17).  PIPPIN  BULLOK  (7,  14).  SHEEPNOSE  (i).  Sheepnose  (8, 
9,  17).  SHEEP'S  NOSE  (4).  SHEEP'S  SNOUT  (2). 


90  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Early  in  the  last  century  Coxe  described  this  as  one  of  the  finest 
apples  in  New  Jersey  in  autumn  and  early  winter  (i).  In  1826 
Buel  characterized  it  as  "tender,  juicy  and  high  flavored;  among 
the  best  fruit  for  table  "  (3).  A.  J.  Downing  called  it  *'  one  of  the 
most  delicious  and  tender  apples  "  (8).  Thomas  remarks  that  it  is 
too  small  to  become  popular  (9). 

The  fruit  is  below  medium  size,  light  yellow,  marbled  with  thin 
russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  very  tender,  with  a  mild,  rich,  spicy, 
slightly  subacid  flavor.  It  is  still  grown  to  a  limited  extent  in  some 
portions  of  the  state,  particularly  in  the  Hudson  and  Champlain 
valleys.  It  may  be  recommended  for  the  home  orchard,  but  it  has 
not  been  found  profitable  as  a  commercial  sort.  Some  have  found 
that  it  succeeds  best  on  sandy  or  gravelly  soil.  Some  nurserymen 
have  reported  that  when  grown  on  clay  soil  the  bark  of  the  trees 
is  apt  to  split  at  the  collar,  and  for  this  reason  they  prefer  not  to 
grow  the  trees  in  the  nursery  on  their  own  trunks. 

Historical.  Originated  in  Burlington  county,  New  Jersey,  more  than  a 
century  ago  (i).  It  has  been  favorably  known  in  the  West  and  the  South  (19) 
and  as  far  north  as  Ontario  and  Quebec  (31).  In  New  England  and  the  West 
it  has  been  known  as  Golden  Russet  (5,  6,  8).  To  distinguish  it  from  the 
English  Golden  Russet,  Downing  called  it  American  Golden  Russet  (8).  There 
are  so  many  Golden  Russets  we  prefer  to  follow  the  Catalogue  of  the  Ameri- 
can Pomological  Society  (12)  and  Hovey  (10)  and  retain  Coxe's  name 
Bullock,  believing  this  will  be  less  liable  to  lead  to  confusion. 

TREE. 

Tree  not  large  but  a  fairly  strong  grower.  Form  upright  or  roundish. 
Twigs  short  to  medium,  moderately  stout,  rather  blunt  at  tip,  nearly  straight ; 
internodes  medium.  Bark  dull  brownish-red  or  olive-green  with  a  grayish 
hue  due  to  the  rather  heavy  scarf-skin;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  only 
moderately  numerous,  inconspicuous,  raised,  below  medium,  elongated.  Buds 
small  to  medium,  moderately  projecting,  acute,  sparingly  pubescent,  free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium.  Form  roundish  conic  to  ovate,  pretty  regular  in  out- 
line, uniform.  Stem  long,  slender.  Cavity  acuminate  to  acute,  moderately 
deep  to  deep,  rather  narrow,  funnel-shape  or  compressed.  Calyx  rather  small, 
closed.  Basin  small,  often  oblique,  rather  shallow,  narrow,  wrinkled,  not 
ridged. 

Skin  attractive,  pale  yellow  or  greenish-yellow,  more  or  less  overspread  and 
splashed  with  thin  russet.  Dots  numerous,  small,  obscure,  russet.  General 
appearance  attractive. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  axile,  slightly  open;  core  lines  nearly  meeting. 
Carpels  roundish.  Seeds  rather  large,  plump. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  91 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  fine,  crisp,  very  tender,  juicy  with 
an  agreeable  rich,  aromatic,  mild  subacid  flavor ;  very  good  to  best. 
Season  October  to  January. 

CABASHEA   (WINTER). 

The  variety  recognized  by  Downing,  Lyon,  Woolverton  and  some  other 
pomologists  as  Cabashea,  so  far  as  we  can  learn,  is  not  known  to  New  York 
fruit  growers  and  fruit  dealers  under  that  name  but  by  them  is  commonly 
called  Twenty  Ounce  Pippin.  It  is  in  season  with  Tompkins  King  and  a  little 
later.  Sometimes  it  is  called  King.  The  variety  which  is  generally  called 
Cabashea  in  Western  New  York  is  a  large,  flat  apple  somewhat  marked  with 
dull  red.  It  comes  in  season  about  with  the  true  Twenty  Ounce  but  is  not 
so  good  a  keeper. 

We  prefer  to  follow  Thomas,  Warder  and  Emmons  in  retaining  the  name 
Cabashea  for  the  fall  apple  above  mentioned  and  in  recognizing  Twenty  Ounce 
Pippin  as  the  correct  name  for  the  later  variety.  The  Twenty  Ounce  Pippin 
should  not  be  confused  with  the  true  Twenty  Ounce  nor  with  the  Tompkins 
King. 

For  more  extended  notice  of  these  varieties  the  reader  is  referred  to 
CABASHEA  (fall)  in  the  succeeding  volume  and  to  TWENTY  OUNCE  PIPPIN 
in  this  volume. 

CAMPFffiLD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:149.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:122.  3.  Floy- 
Lindley,  1833:88.  4.  Downing,  1845:144.  5.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:64. 
1851.  fig.  6.  Downing,  1857:226.  7.  Elliott,  1858:126.  8.  Warder,  1867:382. 
fig.  g.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871:6.  10.  Barry,  1883:336.  n.  Rural  N.  Y., 
49:251.  1890. 

SYNONYMS.  CANFIELD  (n).  Newark  Siveeting  (i,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10). 
Szveet  Maiden's  Blush  (6). 

An  old  variety  recommended  by  Coxe  (i)  for  cider.  Downing  (6)  calls 
it  good  for  baking  and  stock  feeding.  Warder  (8),  who  gives  a  very  good 
description  of  the  variety,  ranks  it  poor  in  quality.  The  tree  is  very  hardy, 
healthy,  a  biennial  bearer.  It  is  apt  to  overbear  causing  the  fruit  to  be  small. 
It  has  the  merit  of  being  a  good  keeper  but  as  there  is  not  much  demand  for 
fruit  of  this  character  it  is  fast  becoming  obsolete. 

Historical.     Originated  in  Eastern  New  Jersey  and  named  after  a  family 

by  the  name  of  Campfield  (i). 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  very  vigorous.     Form  spreading.     Tzvigs  long,  rather  slender, 

light  colored. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large ;  uniform  in  size.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish 
ovate  or  roundish  conic.  Stem  below  medium.  Cavity  acute,  rather  narrow, 
deep,  regular.  Calyx  closed  or  somewhat  open.  Basin  somewhat  abrupt, 
shallow  to  moderately  deep,  narrow,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  yellow,  blushed  and  striped  with  red.  Dots  small,  white  or 
russet. 

Calyx  tube  long  funnel-form. 


92  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Core  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broad,  emarginate,  somewhat 
tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  short,  plump,  dark. 

Flesh  whitish,  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  dry,  tender,  moder- 
ately fine,  not  crisp,  decidedly  sweet,  good. 

Season  November  to  July. 

CANADA  BALDWIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  An.  Rpt.,  2:28.  1876.  2.  Ib.,  4:120. 
1878.  3.  Amer.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1881 :6.  4.  Downing,  1881:79.  app.  5. 
Thomas,  1885:505.  6.  Can.  Hort.,  12:337.  1889.  7.  Ib.,  15:337.  1892.  8. 
Rural  N.  Y.,  52:51.  1893.  g.  Mtmson,  Me.  S ta.  An.  Rpt.,  1893:132.  10.  Amer. 
Card.,  15:288.  1894.  n.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895:193.  12.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  169:179.  1899.  13.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  Bui.,  83:90.  1900.  14. 
Macoun,  Can.  Dcpt.  Agr.  Bui.,  37:43.  1901.  15.  Rural  N.  Y.,  61:800.  1902. 
16.  Stone  and  Wellington,  Rural  N.  Y.,  62:36.  1903.  17.  Budd-Hansen,  1903: 
59.  18.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:114.  1904. 

The  name  is  an  unfortunate  selection,  since  this  variety  does  not 
resemble  Baldwin,  but  belongs  in  the  Fameuse  group.  It  yields 
moderately  heavy  crops,  and  under  favorable  conditions  tends  to 
become  an  annual  bearer.  It  is  a  better  keeper  than  Fameuse,  but 
is  less  attractive;  yet  highly  colored  specimens  are  beautiful  and 
attractive.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting,  except  in  those 
regions  where  a  hardy  variety  of  the  Fameuse  type  is  desired  to 
extend  the  Fameuse  season. 

Historical.  "  Said  to  have  originated  from  seed  of  Pomme  de  Per  on  the 
farm  of  Alexis  Dery,  St.  Hilaire,  Que.  It  was  given  its  name  by  N.  C.  Fisk, 
Abbotsford,  Que.,  who  propagated  it  in  1855."  (I4)- 

TREE. 

Tree  in  the  nursery  is  a  moderate  grower,  with  good  hard  wood  and  strong 
deep  roots.  In  the  orchard  it  is  a  moderate  grower,  upright,  becoming  rather 
open  and  spreading  with  age ;  branches  long,  moderately  stout.  Twigs  medium 
to  short,  somewhat  curved,  moderately,  stout;  internodes  short  to  above 
medium  in  length.  Bark  dull  dark  browrn,  tinged  with  reddish-brown,  mingled 
with  olive-green,  and  lightly  streaked  with  gray  scarf-skin;  slightly  pubescent 
near  tips.  Lenticels  rather  numerous,  medium  to  small,  roundish  or  oblong, 
raised.  Buds  of  medium  size,  plump,  acute,  free,  quite  pubescent  Leaves 
medium  in  size,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  averages  below  medium.  Form  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  or  some- 
times slightly  oblate,  obscurely  ribbed,  usually  symmetrical,  regular,  sides  some- 
times unequal ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  pubescent,  sometimes 
long,  moderately  slender  and  bracted,  but  more  often  short  and  thick.  Cavity 
rather  large,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  moderately 
broad,  smooth  or  partly  covered  with  thin  greenish  russet,  often  slightly 
furrowed  or  compressed ;  pubescent  near  base  of  stem.  Calyx  closed  or  partly 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  93 

open,  pubescent;  lobes  often  long  and  acuminate,  reflexed.  Basin  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  medium  in  width,  obtuse  or  somewhat  abrupt,  often  furrowed 
or  compressed,  irregularly  wrinkled,  often  with  a  tendency  to  mammiform 
protuberances. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  mottled  and  blushed  with 
bright  red,  splashed  and  striped  with  purplish-carmine,  conspicuously  marked 
with  areolar  dots  and  covered  with  a  thin  whitish  bloom  which  makes  the 
fruit  somewhat  dull  in  color.  Dots  large,  numerous,  whitish,  areolar  with 
russet  or  gray  center.  Prevailing  effect  in  highly  colored  specimens  beautiful 
and  attractive,  the  color  being  a  deep  dark  red,  but  as  grown  in  Western  New 
York  the  color  effect  is  that  of  pale  yellow  striped  with  red.  The  skin  takes 
a  brilliant  polish. 

Calyx  tube  generally  tends  toward  funnel-shape  but  is  sometimes  conical. 
Stamens  marginal  to  median. 

Core  medium  or  above,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping ;  often  part 
of  the  cells  are  not  well  developed  because  of  abortive  seeds.  Carpels  smooth, 
ovate  to  roundish,  or  obovate,  slightly  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds  medium 
to  large,  plump,  acute,  numerous,  rather  narrow,  long,  smooth  or  sometimes 
slightly  tufted,  variable  in  color. 

Flesh  white,  often  tinged  with  red,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  moderately 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  sometimes  slightly  astringent,  with  a  Fameuse-like 
aroma,  pleasant,  good  or  possibly  very  good  in  quality. 

Season  November  to  January  but  often  some  portion  of  the  fruit  may  keep 
till  April. 

Use  similar  to  Fameuse,  suitable  for  dessert.  Cooks  quickly  but  the  color 
and  texture  of  the  cooked  fruit  are  not  good. 

CANADA  REINETTE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Duhamel,  2:299.  1768.  2.  Andrieux,  Catalogue  raisonnee 
des  meilleures  sortes  d'arbres  fruitiers,  1771:56.  3.  Diel,  1:133.  i?99-  4-  Ib., 
1800:64.  5.  Ib.,  9:81.  1807.  6.  Ib.,  10:86.  1809.  7.  Lindley,  1841:40.  8.  Cat. 
Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831:30.  9.  Ronalds,  1831:21.  fig.  10.  Kenrick,  1833:73. 
ii.  Pom.  Mag.  2:77.  1841.  col.  pi.  12.  Mag.  Hort.,  7:44.  1841.  13.  Downing, 
1845:129.  14.  Cole,  1849:134.  15.  Thomas,  1849:178.  16.  Emmons,  Nat. 
Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:82.  1851.  17.  Biedenfeld,  1854:193.  18.  Elliott,  1858:72.  fig. 
19.  Ib.,  1859:69.  20.  Lucas,  1:119.  21.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  22. 
Warder,  1867:479.  fig.  23.  Regel,  1868:470.  24.  Mas,  Le  Verger,  4:31.  25. 
Leroy,  1873:637.  26.  Lauche,  1882:260.  col.  pi.  27.  Barry,  1883:344.  28. 
Hogg,  1884:191.  29.  Cat.  Cong.  Pom.  France,  1887:329.  30.  Lyon,  Mich. 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:290.  31.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:236.  32.  Can.  Hort., 
16:17,  115.  1893.  33.  Bredsted,  1893:86.  34.  Gaucher,  Pomologie,  1894:  col. 
pi.  No.  15.  35.  Taft,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  105:108.  1894.  36.  Eneroth-Smirnoff, 
1901:231.  27.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:59.  fig.  38.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui,  48:39.  1903.  39.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:114.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  CANADA  PIPPIN  (18).  CANADIAN  REINETTE  (7,  10,  n,  12,  32). 
Canadian  Reinette  (13,  15,  18).  CANADISK  REINET  (33).  Canada  Reinette 
(18,  28).  De  Bretagne  (13,  18).  DIE  HAARLEMER  REINETTE  (4).  DIE  WEIB- 
ERREINETTE  (3).  German  Green  (18).  GROSSE  REINETTE  D'ANGLETERRE  (i). 
Grosse  Reinette  d'Anglcterre  (10,  13,  18).  Januarea  (13,  18).  KANADA- 


94  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

RENETT  (36).  KANADA  REINETTE  (34).  Mela  Januera  (10).  PARISER  RAMBOUR 
REINETTE  (6,  20,  26).  PARISER  RAMBOUR  REINET  (33).  PARISER  RAMBOUR- 
RENETT  (36).  Pommc  dc  Caen  (13,  18).  Portugal  (10,  13,  18,  28).  REINETTE 
DE  CANADA  (9,  28).  RENETTE  GROSSE  DE  ANGLETERRE  (17).  REINETTE 

MONSTREUSE   D£  CANADA   (2).      REINETTE  Du  CANADA  (8,24,25,29).      REINETTE 

VON  CANADA  (23).  Reinette  du  Canada  (10,  15,  18).  Reinettc  Grosse  du 
Canada  (10,  13,  18).  Reinette  du  Canada  Blanche  (10,  13,  18).  Reinette  du 
Canada  a'Cortes  (13,  18).  Reinette  Canada  (27).  Reinette  de  Caen  (10). 
Reinette  dc  Canada  a  Cotes  (10).  St.  Helena  Russet  (28).  Walir  Reinette 
(13,  18).  WESSE  ANTILLISCHE  WINTERREINETTE  (5).  White  Pippin  (18). 
Yellow  Newtown  Pippin  (18),  erroneously. 

An  irregular  bearer,  in  some  years  very  productive,  but  more 
often  only  moderately  productive  or  unproductive.  It  appears  to 
be  much  esteemed  in  Europe,  where  it  has  been  grown  under 
numerous  synonyms.  It  is  not  much  in  demand  in  America  because 
it  is  easily  excelled  by  other  varieties,  both  for  home  use  and  for 
market. 

Historical.  Origin  unknown.  It  was  listed  in  France  as  the  Canada 
Reinette  at  least  as  early  as  1771  (2). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long,  stout,  crooked.  Form  spreading 
and  drooping.  Ttvigs  medium  to  long,  straight,  rather  stout ;  internodes 
medium  or  below.  Bark  dull  brown,  tinged  with  dark  olive-green,  irregularly 
mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  very  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  numerous,  con- 
spicuous, large,  roundish  to  oblong,  raised.  Buds  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse, 
appressed,  rather  deeply  set,  pubescent.  Leaves  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  variable  in  size,  averages  above  medium  and  is  frequently  very  large. 
Form  oblate  or  roundish,  inclined  to  conic,  often  irregular,  broadly  angular, 
sometimes  with  furrows  extending  from  base  to  apex ;  not  uniform  in  shape. 
Stem  short.  Cavity  rather  acute,  moderately  broad,  wavy,  sometimes  russeted. 
Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  abrupt,  usually  rather 
deep,  moderately  wide,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  yellow,  sometimes  with  decided  blush  but  not  striped,  marked  more 
or  less  with  dots,  flecks  or  irregular  patches  of  russet. 

Calyx  tube  medium,  rather  wide,  cone-shaped.  Stamens  median  or  ap- 
proaching basal. 

Core  medium  or  below,  abaxile  to  nearly  axile,  open  or  partly  open ;  core 
lines  meeting.  Carpels  roundish  inclined  to  obovate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds 
few,  large,  long,  tufted,  dark. 

Flesh  has  a  decided  yellow  tinge  and  is  firm,  moderately  tender,  coarse, 
breaking,  not  crisp,  juicy,  subacid,  very  good. 

Season.  Early  winter  till  March  or  April  or  perhaps  later  (39).  Late  in 
the  season  the  fruit  begins  to  lose  in  flavor  although  it  may  apparently  be  still 
in  good  condition. 


CANADA  REINETTE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  95 

CANNON  PE  ARM  A  IN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:102.  1851.  fig.  2.  Downing, 
1857:126.  3.  Elliott,  1858:126.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1860.  5.  Mag.  Hort., 
27:99.  1861.  6.  Warder,  1867:676.  fig.  7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1871:38.  8. 
Barry,  1883:344.  g.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:236.  10.  Ala.  Sta.  Bui,  47:7. 
1893.  ii.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:39.  1903. 

SYNONYM.     CANNON  PEARMAIN  (8). 

Valued  in  the  South  as  a  long  keeping  apple  of  fairly  good  quality.  Not 
adapted  to  New  York  conditions. 

Historical     Originated  in  Virginia  or  North  Carolina  (2,  3,  6,  7). 

TREE. 
Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  spreading. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  nearly  large,  ovate  varying  to  roundish,  regular,  symmet- 
rical ;  pretty  uniform.  Skin  greenish-yellow,  mottled  and  washed  with  bright 
red  faintly  striped  with  carmine.  Dots  yellowish,  often  areolar  with  russet 
point.  Core  medium,  axile,  closed;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping.  Flesh 
tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  crisp,  juicy,  aromatic,  subacid, 
good. 

Season  January  to  April. 

CARLOUGH. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Fulton,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  177:49.  1899.  2.  Farrand,  Ib., 
205:44.  1903.  3.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:60.  4.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P. 
I.  Bui,  48:39.  1903. 

Said  to  have  originated  in  New  York  (2)  but  it  is  practically  unknown  in 
this  state.  It  is  being  grown  to  a  limited  extent  in  some  portions  of  the  West 
and  South.  Its  general  appearance  is  good  for  a  green  apple. 

TREE. 
Tree  vigorous.     Form  roundish  spreading.     Twigs  reddish-brown. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  very  large.  Form  roundish  conic  to  oblong  conic, 
often  truncate  at  base ;  axis  oblique.  Stem  short  and  slender.  Cavity  acute 
to  nearly  acuminate,  very  deep,  moderately  broad,  russeted,  often  somewhat 
furrowed  or  compressed.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  partly  open. 
Basin  small  to  medium,  medium  in  depth  and  width,  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  smooth,  glossy,  rather  pale  greenish-yellow,  often 
with  faint  brownish-pink  blush.  Dots  russet  or  submerged  and  whitish. 

Calyx  tube  medium  in  width  and  length,  conical  or  funnel-shape. 

Core  axile,  closed  ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  large,  obovate,  much  tufted. 
Seeds  dark,  large,  rather  narrow,  long,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish,  somewhat  coarse,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  agreeable,  mild  subacid, 
sprightly,  good. 

Season  November  to  April. 


96  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

CARPENTIN. 

REFERENCES.  I.  Downing,  1872:120.  2.  Leroy,  1873:205.  fig.  3.  Hogg, 
1884:190. 

SYNONYMS.  Carnation  Apple.  CARPENTIN  REINETTE  (i).  Dcr  Carpentin 
(i).  Klein  Graue  Rcinette  (i).  Petite-Reinette  Grise  (2).  REINETTE 
CARPENTIN  (3),  Reinette  Carpentin  (2). 

A  little  dessert  fruit  of  about  the  size  of  the  Lady  apple,  with 
red-russet  skin  and  highly  aromatic  flavor.  The  following  descrip- 
tion is  made  from  fruit  furnished  by  C.  D.  Zimmerman,  Buffalo, 
N.  Y.,  who  states  that  the  variety  has  been  marketed  locally  under 

the  name  Carnation  apple. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous,  with  long,  slender  shoots  (3). 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  very  small ;  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  conic 
to  somewhat  oblate,  regular  and  symmetrical;  occasionally  sides  unequal. 
Stem  very  long,  slender.  Cavity  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  broad, 
symmetrical,  often  with  concentric  broken  russet  lines.  Calyx  small,  closed ; 
lobes  short,  broad,  nearly  obtuse.  Basin  abrupt,  shallow  to  moderately  deep, 
narrow  to  moderately  wide,  nearly  smooth  or  sometimes  very  lightly  furrowed, 
symmetrical,  marked  with  concentric  broken  lines  of  russet. 

Skin  thick,  rather  tough,  dull  yellow  or  with  bright  red  blush,  partly  smooth 
but  more  or  less  netted  or  covered  with  cinnamon-russet.  Dots  scattering, 
gray. 

Calyx  tube  small,  short,  narrow  to  rather  wide,  conical  or  funnel-shape. 
Stamens  nearly  basal. 

Core  axile,  medium,  often  closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping. 
Carpels  elliptic  to  round  or  broadly  obovate,  emarginate.  Seeds  dark,  medium 
to  below,  moderately  wide,  rather  short,  obtuse  to  broadly  acute. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  sometimes  with  reddish  tinge  next  the  skin,, very  firm, 
fine,  crisp,  tender,  very  juicy,  acid  until  fully  ripe  when  it  becomes  subacid, 
brisk,  strongly  aromatic,  with  high  flavor  and  very  good  quality. 

Season  December  to  April  (3). 

CAYWOOD. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,   1857:128.     2.  Thomas,   1885:506. 

A  long  keeping,  medium-sized,  flat  apple ;  color,  bright  yellow  with  tinge  of 
red  on  the  cheek.  Flesh  firm,  mild  flavored.  The  variety  originated  in  Ulster 
county  (i).  It  is  now  practically  obsolete. 

CLAYTON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Warder,  1867:512.  fig.  2.  Downing,  1872:128.  3.  Ib., 
1872:6  of  app.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:36,  134.  5.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:236.  6.  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  105:108.  1894.  7.  Thomas,  1897:632.  8.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  169:180.  1899.  9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:64. 


CLAYTON 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  97 

Tree  hardy,  a  good  grower  and  fairly  productive.  Fruit  of  good 
size,  good  quality  and  fairly  good,  red  color,  but  not  brilliant 
enough  to  be  especially  attractive.  As  grown  at  the  Geneva  Station 
it  has  come  into  bearing  young  and  been  very  productive.  Accord- 
ing to  L.  A.  Goodman,  it  is  being  planted  in  the  Ozark  region  of 
Southwestern  Missouri,  especially  where  a  late  keeping  fruit  is 
desired  for  export  trade.  It  originated  in  Indiana  (i,  4). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous;  branches  long,  moderately  stout.  Form  upright  spreading, 
open.  Twigs  medium  in  length,  curved,  generally  stout;  internodes  short  to 
medium.  Bark  brown  or  reddish-brown  mingled  with  olive-green,  partly 
mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent.  Lenticels  vary  from  moderately  numer- 
ous to  scattering,  medium  to  large,  roundish  or  oval,  raised,  conspicuous. 
Buds  medium  to  large,  broad,  obtuse,  free,  somewhat  pubescent.  Leaves 

large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish  inclined 
to  conic.  Stem  medium,  often  obliquely  set  under  a  very  prominent,  fleshy 
lip.  Cavity  acute  to  sometimes  obtuse,  rather  deep,  broad,  sometimes  symmet- 
rical but  often  furrowed,  usually  with  conspicuous  outspreading  russet. 
Calyx  small  to  medium,  partly  open  or  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  medium  in  width 
and  depth,  usually  symmetrical,  often  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  smooth,  yellow  blushed  and  mottled  with  a  dark, 
usually  rather  dull  red,  with  splashes  and  stripes  of  carmine,  often  marked 
with  grayish  scarf-skin  near  the  cavity.  Well  colored  specimens  are  nearly 
covered  with  red.  Dots  medium,  pale  or  russet,  scattering. 

Calyx  tube  rather  long,  narrow,  funnel-shape.     Stamens  marginal. 

Core  abaxile,  medium ;  cells  usually  unsymmetrical,  open ;  core  lines  clasp- 
ing. Carpels  much  concave,  elliptical,  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  dark, 
medium  or  below,  plump,  roundish,  obtuse. 

Flesh  tinged  with  greenish-yellow,  firm,  rather  coarse,  crisp,  neither  tender 
nor  very  juicy,  mild  subacid,  good  for  either  cooking  or  market. 

Season  January  to  May  or  June. 

COFFELT. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:236.     2.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui, 
60:127.  1899.     3.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:39.   1903. 
SYNONYM.     Coffclt  Beauty  (3). 

As  grown  at  this  Station  the  fruit  is  too  small  to  be  valuable  for 
an  apple  of  the  Ben  Davis  class,  to  which  this  apparently  belongs. 
Like  Ben  Davis,  it  is  quite  liable  to  be  roughened  by  spray.  It  is  a 
little  superior  to  Ben  Davis  for  eating.  Some  nursery  catalogues 
state  that  it  is  a  seedling  of  Ben  Davis. 


98  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous;  branches  long,  slender  and  drooping.  Form 
somewhat  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  in  length,  curved,  slender ; 
internodes  long.  Bark  brown,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent. 
Lenticels  numerous,  small,  oblong.  Buds  small,  acute,  deeply  set  in  the  bark, 
appressed,  pubescent.  Leaves  medium,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
oblate.  Stem  variable.  Cavity  acute,  deep,  rather  broad,  slightly  furrowed, 
often  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly 
open.  Basin  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  medium  to  rather  wide,  dis- 
tinctly abrupt,  often  somewhat  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  nearly  smooth,  yellow  overlaid  with  bright,  dark  red  and  with  distinct 
narrow  stripes  of  carmine.  Color  decidedly  attractive.  Dots  variable,  small 
to  rather  large,  often  russet. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape.     Stamens  medium  to  nearly  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  closed ;  core 
lines  clasping.  Carpels  rather  concave,  broadly  roundish,  deeply  emarginate 
approaching  broad  obcordate,  usually  smooth.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  to 
rather  large,  rather  wide,  obtuse,  dark. 

Flesh  whitish,  firm,  rather  fine,  rather  tender,  moderately  juicy,  subacid 
becoming  mild  subacid,  rather  sprightly,  slightly  aromatic,  not  high  in  flavor, 
good. 

Season  January  to  May. 

COGSWELL. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  15:252.  1849.  fig.  2.  Hovey,  2:31. 
1851.  col.  pi.  3.  Cabot,  Mag.  Hort.,  17:69.  1851.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1854. 
5.  Clift,  Mag.  Hort.,  22:76.  1856.  6.  Downing,  1857:75.  fig.  7.  Elliott,  1858: 
469.  8.  Downing,  Mag.  Hort.,  27:59.  1861.  9.  Warder,  1867:589.  10.  Down- 
ing, 1872:130.  fig.  ii.  Barry,  1883:344.  12.  Thomas,  1885:232.  13.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:290.  14.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:237.  15.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  169:179.  1899.  *6.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:65.  fig.  17.  Beach 
and  Clark,  Ar.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:115.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  COGGESWELL  (9).  COGGSWELL  (3).  Cogswell  Pearmain  (2,  6, 
10).  Cogswell's  Pearmain  (7).  Not  identical  with  Ohio  Nonpareil  (8). 

Tree  hardy  and  rather  vigorous,  but  not  reliably  productive, 
although  sometimes  it  bears  heavy  crops.  Fruit  about  medium  size, 
yellowish-green  more  or  less  overlaid  with  red;  in  well  colored 
specimens,  nearly  covered  with  red.  It  is  not  equal  to  standard 
varieties  of  its  season  in  quality  and  general  appearance.  Not 
recommended  for  planting. 

Historical.  Introduced  into  cultivation  in  Connecticut  about  one  hundred 
years  ago  (5).  It  has  been  widely  disseminated  but  in  no  section  of  the 
country  has  it  come  to  occupy  a  prominent  position  as  a  commercial  variety. 


COLLINS 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  99 

TREE. 

Tree  small,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  rather  open,  wide-spreading  and 
drooping,  livigs  short  to  medium  in  length,  rather  slender,  a  little  crooked; 
internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  reddish-brown  tinged  with  olive-green, 
rather  heavily  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  rather 
numerous,  medium  to  large,  oblong  or  roundish,  sometimes  raised.  Buds 
medium  in  size,  plump,  acute,  free,  slightly  pubescent.  Leaves  large,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  above;  rather  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
conic,  occasionally  slightly  oblate  conic,  rather  symmetrical.  Stem  short, 
moderately  thick.  Cavity  acuminate  to  acute,  medium  in  width  and  depth, 
heavily  russeted,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  medium  to  rather  small,  usually 
slightly  open.  Basin  nearly  obtuse,  shallow  to  medium  in  depth,  medium  in 
width  to  rather  narrow,  smooth  or  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  yellow  mottled  or  covered  with  red,  marked  with  narrow  splashes  and 
stripes  of  carmine.  Dots  very  numerous,  russet,  small,  prominent.  Prevail- 
ing effect  striped  red;  rather  attractive. 

Calyx  tube  medium  in  size,   funnel-shape.     Stamens  medium  to  marginal. 

Core  medium,  axile  or  nearly  so,  slightly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  nearly 
so.  Carpels  nearly  round,  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  size,  plump, 
nearly  obtuse. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  very  firm,  moderately  fine,  moderately 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  March. 

COLLINS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1895:21.  2.  Thomas,  1897:468.  3.  Van 
Deman,  Amer.  Card.,  19:823.  1898.  4.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  49:10.  1898. 
5.  Ib.,  60:127.  1899.  6.  Brackett,  Amer.  Card.,  22:190.  1901.  7.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:65. 

SYNONYMS.  Champion  (3,  4,  5,  6,  7).  Champion  Red  (3,  4,  5,  6).  Collins' 
Red  (3,  4,  5,  6).  Coss  Champion  (6).  Coss's  Champion  (4,  5). 

An  Arkansas  variety  of  recent  introduction.  It  has  not  yet  been 
sufficiently  tested  in  New  York  to  determine  whether  it  is  desirable 
for  planting  in  this  region.  As  fruited  here  it  is  of  good  size  and 
form  but  decidedly  inferior  to  Baldwin  in  color  and  quality,  in  these 
respects  ranking  even  below  Rome  (Beauty)  and  sometimes  below 
Ben  Davis  and  Cooper  Market.  When  well  grown  the  color  is 
attractive,  being  yellow,  contrasting  sharply  with  the  bright  red  with 
which  it  is  more  or  less  overspread  and  sometimes  nearly  covered. 
In  many  cases  the  cavity  shows  some  resemblance  to  that  of  Rome. 
The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  hardy,  and  has  the  reputation  of  being 
very  productive.  Evidently  it  requires  a  longer  season  than  Bald- 


100  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

win  to  bring  it  to  perfect  development,  but  it  may  prove  profitable 
in  those  sections  of  the  state  where  Ben  Davis  does  well. 

Historical.  Originated  about  1865  near  Fayetteville,  Arkansas  (i,  4,  6). 
It  has  been  much  planted  in  the  Southwest  and  is  there  especially  valued  on 
account  of  the  productiveness  of  the  tree  and  the  excellent  keeping  quality  of 
the  fruit. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  tall,  very  vigorous ;  branches  long,  moderately  thick,  crooked. 
Form  rather  upright  and  dense,  eventually  becoming  more  open  and  out- 
spreading. Tivigs  moderately  long,  rather  slender,  pubescent;  fruit  often 
borne  on  the  ends  of  the  twigs ;  internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  very  bright 
dark  reddish-brown,  somewhat  mottled  with  thin,  gray  scarf-skin.  Lenticels 
numerous,  conspicuous,  usually  small  but  sometimes  large,  roundish  or  oblong, 
not  raised.  Buds  medium  to  large,  rather  flat,  appressed,  somewhat  acute 
or  tending  to  obtuse,  quite  pubescent.  Foliage  rather  dense;  leaves  medium 
to  large,  rather  long. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  or  above  medium.  Form  globular  or  a  little  oblate  inclined  to 
conic,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  above  medium  to  short.  Cavity  acute,  some- 
times acuminate,  medium  to  rather  broad,  symmetrical  or  obscurely  furrowed, 
smooth  or  with  radiating  russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  to  rather  small,  partly 
open  or  sometimes  closed;  lobes  slightly  separated  at  the  base,  short,  obtuse. 
Basin  round,  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  somewhat  abrupt  to  rather 
obtuse,  symmetrical  or  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  slightly  waxy,  and  partly  covered  with  a  faint  bloom. 
Highly  colored  specimens  are  bright  dark  red,  sparingly  and  indistinctly 
striped  with  purplish-carmine  and  occasionally  showing  contrasting  clear 
yellow  ground  color.  Less  highly  colored  specimens  are  yellow,  more  or  less 
washed  and  striped  with  red.  Dots  inconspicuous,  small,  russet  or  pale  gray. 
Sometimes  a  suture  line  extends  from  cavity  to  basin. 

Calyx  tube  small,  varying  from  long,  narrow  funnel-shape  to  short,  approach- 
ing conic.  Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  abaxile;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  some- 
what open ;  core  lines  clasp  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  much  concave,  ellip- 
tical to  obcordate,  somewhat  tufted  and  deeply  emarginate.  Seeds  dark,  large, 
rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  long,  rather  flat,  acute. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  very  firm,  rather  coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  mod- 
erately juicy,  rather  sprightly  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  fair  to  good. 

Season  January  to  June. 

COOPER  MARKET. 

REFE'RENCES.  i.  Mease,  Willichs  Dom.  Encyc.,  1804.  (cited  by  15).  2. 
M'Mahon,  Amer.  Card.  Cal.,  1806.  (cited  by  13).  3.  Coxe,  1817:137.  fig.  4- 
Horticulturist,  9:291.  1854.  col.  />/.  5.  Downing,  1857:130.  6.  Mag.  Hort., 
25:53.  1859.  7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  8.  Warder,  1867:513.  9.  Barry, 
1883:344.  10.  Thomas,  1885:232.  u.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:290. 
12.  Wickson,  1891:247.  13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:237.  14.  Can.  Hort.,  16: 
33-  1893.  15.  Ragan,  Am.  Pom.  Sec.  Rpt.,  1901:49.  16.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An. 


I 


COOPER  MARKET 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  101 

Rpt.,  14:291.   1901.     17.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:67.     18.  Thomas,   1903:325.     19. 
Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:115.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  COOPER'S  MARKET  (4,  5,  8,  9,  12,  13).  Cooper's  Market  (10, 
18).  COOPER'S  RED  (10).  COOPER'S  RED  incorrectly  (18).  COOPER'S 
REDLING  (6).  Cooper's  Red  ling  (5,  8,  10).  Etowah,  incorrectly  (18).  RED- 
LING  (i,  2,  3).  Redling  (9). 

Attractive  in  color  and  form  but  not  of  high  quality,  often  some- 
what deficient  in  size.  Especially  esteemed  for  its  keeping  qualities 
and  for  holding  a  bright  color  late  in  the  season.  Grown  to  a  lim- 
ited extent  in  commercial  orchards.  Desirable  for  supplying  the 
general  trade  after  the  Baldwin  season  has  closed.  It  may  be  held 
very  late  in  common  storage.  It  improves  in  color  in  the  package 
when  held  in  common  storage,  but  does  not  show  as  great  improve- 
ment of  this  kind  in  cold  storage  (19). 

The  tree  is  hardy,  one  of  the  most  reliable  croppers,  and  not  slow 
in  coming  into  bearing.  In  fact,  it  bears  such  heavy  crops  that  it 
requires  more  than  ordinary  attention  in  pruning  to  make  the  fruit 
uniformly  of  marketable  size.  The  fruit  hangs  to  the  tree  remark- 
ably well. 

Evidently  the  fact  that  Cooper's  Red  is  a  synonym  for  Etowah 
has  led  some  to  confuse  that  variety  with  Cooper  Market  (18). 
The  two  are  quite  distinct. 

Historical.  This  is  now  believed  to  be  of  Pennsylvania  origin  and  identical 
with  the  Redling  of  Coxe  and  others  (i,  2,  3,  15). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous ;  lateral  branches  long,  slender  and 
rather  drooping.  Form  upright.  Twigs  below  medium  to  above,  rather 
slender,  nearly  straight;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  dull,  dark  brown- 
ish-red with  considerable  olive-green  in  some  specimens,  uniformly  overlaid 
with  a  moderately  heavy  scarf-skin,  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  moderately 
conspicuous,  slightly  raised,  numerous,  usually  large  but  varying  to  small, 
roundish  or  elliptical.  Buds  small,  almost  sunk  in  the  bark,  obtuse,  rather 
pubescent.  Scales  sometimes  divided. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  sometimes  nearly  large.  Form  roundish  ovate 
varying  to  roundish  conic,  flattened  at  the  base  and  often  narrowing  sharply 
towards  the  apex,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to  long,  slender.  Cavity 
acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  rather  narrow,  sometimes  slightly  furrowed,  often 
russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed,  pubescent.  Basin  small,  often  oblique,  shallow, 
narrow,  obtuse  to  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  glossy,  greenish-yellow,  mottled  and  blushed  with  red, 
conspicuously  splashed  and  striped  with  bright  carmine  and  partly  covered 


IO2  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

with  a  light  bloom.  Dots  whitish  or  with  russet  point,  numerous  and  small 
towards  the  cavity,  scattering,  large  and  often  irregular  towards  the  basin. 
In  fall  the  color  is  rather  dull  but  in  ordinary  storage  it  improves  noticeably 
as  the  season  advances,  becoming  bright  red  with  a  yellowish-green  back- 
ground. 

Calyx  tube  small,  short,  cone-shape.     Stamens  median  to  nearly  marginal. 

Core  distant,  truncate,  abaxile,  medium;  cells  closed  or  open;  often  part  of 
them  are  unsymmetrical ;  core  lines  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  roundish, 
slightly  emarginate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  dark,  medium  to 
short,  plump,  acute. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  a  little  coarse,  moderately 
tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  fair  to  good.  Although  not  of  high  quality  it  is 
fairly  good  when  compared  with  other  very  late  keeping  varieties. 

Season  January  to  June. 

CROTTS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:39.  1903.  2. 
Beach  and  Clark,  .V.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:116.  1904. 

As  grown  here  the  general  appearance  of  the  fruit  is  not  attractive.  The 
prevailing  color  at  first  is  grass-green  with  faint  and  dull  shades  of  red.  Later 
the  green  changes,  becoming  pale  or  whitish  by  spring  or  early  summer.  The 
tree  is  a  good  grower  and  commonly  bears  well  in  alternate  years.  The  fruit 
does  not  appear  desirable  for  any  use  and  the  variety  is  not  recommended 
even  for  testing. 

Historical.  Said  to  be  a  seedling  of  Rambo.  Received  here  for  testing  from 
J.  J.  Measner,  Hutchinson,  Kansas. 

TREE. 
Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  rather  dense. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  usually  roundish  oblong,  sometimes  roundish 
oblate  or  slightly  ovate,  sometimes  irregular,  sides  often  unequal ;  uniform  in 
size  and  shape.  Stem  short.  Cavity  deep,  acuminate,  usually  russeted ;  often 
russet  rays  extend  out  from  cavity.  Calyx  often  large,  closed.  Basin  shallow 
to  rather  deep,  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  grass-green  or  at  length  becoming  whitish,  faintly  mottled  and  striped 
with  red.  Dots  scattering,  gray  or  russet,  but  whitish  and  numerous  towards 
the  calyx. 

Core  small ;  core  lines  nearly  meeting.  Carpels  roundish,  tufted.  Seeds 
broad,  obtuse,  tufted,  dark  brown. 

Flesh  greenish-white,  rather  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  peculiar  aroma, 
very  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

Season  variable ;  may  extend  to  June  in  common  storage  but  it  often  scalds 
badly  as  early  as  March  or  April  (i,  2). 

CROWNS. 

Fruit  of  the  class  of  the  fall  Holland  Pippin  and  Fall  Pippin.  Uniformly 
large,  green  or  yellowish,  often  a  little  blushed  with  bright  red,  too  acid  for 
dessert  but  excellent  for  cooking  and  evaporating.  It  makes  very  white  stock 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  103 

when  evaporated.  It  is  not  a  good  keeper,  is  apt  to  scald  in  storage,  and  is 
not  in  favor  with  apple  buyers.  The  tree  is  very  vigorous  and  reliably  pro- 
ductive, bearing  regularly  and  abundantly. 

This  variety  appears  to  be  distinct  from  the  Crown  which  Hovey  describes 
as  a  large  red  apple. l 

Historical.  It  was  formerly  planted  to  a  limited  extent  in  portions  of  West- 
ern New  York  but  it  is  now  becoming  obsolete.  In  some  localities  it  is  known 
under  the  name  Royal  Crown. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous.  Form  roundish  spreading.  It  is  a  good  grower  in 
the  nursery. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  conical  to  roundish,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed,  often 
somewhat  irregular,  symmetrical;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem 
short  to  medium,  slender.  Cavity  acuminate,  rather  deep,  broad,  smooth,  green 
with  whitish  dots  or  sometimes  russeted,  gently  furrowed,  sometimes  lipped. 
Calyx  open  or  sometimes  closed,  medium ;  lobes  leafy,  long,  acute.  Basin 
medium  to  shallow,  rather  narrow,  moderately  abrupt,  a  little  furrowed. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  smooth,  bright  green  changing  to  pale  yellow, 
with  faint  blush  which  in  highly  colored  specimens  becomes  clear,  bright 
pinkish-red.  Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  russet,  often  red  areolar  on  the 
exposed  cheek.  Prevailing  effect  green  or  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  rather  long,  moderately  wide,  truncate  conical  or  somewhat 
funnel-shape.  Stamens  basal  to  median. 

Core  axile,  medium  to  rather  large,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting ; 
cells  pretty  symmetrical.  Carpels  thin,  roundish  to  somewhat  ovate,  emargi- 
nate,  somew-hat  tufted.  Seeds  large,  long,  acute,  somewhat  tufted,  light  brown. 

Flesh  whitish,  lightly  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  coarse,  crisp,  moderately 
tender,  juicy,  too  sprightly  subacid  for  eating,  good. 

Season  November  to  January  or  February. 

Use,  cooking,  evaporating. 

DANVERS  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Kenrick,  1833:43  2.  Mag.  Hort.,  1:154.  1835.  3.  Man- 
ning, 1838:60.  4.  Downing,  1845:108.  5.  Thomas,  1849:161.  6.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:86.  1851.  7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  8.  Elliott,  1858:74. 
9.  Mag.  Hort.,  26:101.  1860.  10.  Warder,  1867:550.  n.  Barry,  1883:344.  12. 
Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:290.  13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:237.  14. 
Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:132.  15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:69. 

SYNONYMS.  DANVERS  SWEET  (12).  Danvers  Winter  (14).  DANVERS 
WINTER  SWEET  (i,  2,  3,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9,  10,  n,  13).  Eppes'  Sweet  (i,  2).  Epse's 
Siveet  (A,  8). 

Tree  a  good  grower  and  very  productive.  Fruit  is  of  good 
marketable  size  and  very  good  in  quality,  but  rather  dull  green  and 
not  particularly  attractive  in  color.  It  is  no  longer  recommended 
for  planting. 

'Mag.  Hort.,  10 .'210.      1844. 


IO4  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  About  75  years  ago  this  was  being  recommended  by  Kenrick 
(i)  and  Manning  (3)  as  a  profitable  market  apple,  very  productive  and 
worthy  of  extensive  cultivation.  Danvers  Sweet  was  included  in  the  Ameri- 
can Pomological  Society's  first  list  of  varieties  worthy  of  being  recommended 
(6).  In  New  York  state  it  is  now  nearly  obsolete.  It  originated  at  Danvers, 
Mass.,  where  the  original  tree  was  still  standing  in  1832  (i). 

TREE. 
Tree  a  rapid  grower.     Twigs  dark  brown  with  grayish  scarf-skin,  pubescent. 

.FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  sometimes  large ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  inclined  to  conic,  sometimes  a  little  oblate.  Stem  short  to  medium, 
pubescent,  knobby.  Cavity  rather  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  rather  deep, 
broad,  sometimes  partly  russeted,  often  distinctly  furrowed.  Calyx  small  to 
medium,  usually  closed;  lobes  pubescent,  sometimes  separated  at  the  base. 
Basin  varies  from  large  and  wide  to  rather  small  and  narrow,  moderately 
abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  smooth,  grass-green  somewhat  shaded  with 
yellow,  sometimes  with  faint  bronze  blush.  Dots  conspicuous,  many  sub- 
merged and  whitish,  others  areolar  with  russet  center. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape  with  rather  narrow  limb.  Stamens  median  or 
above. 

Core  axile,  medium ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
rather  flat,  roundish  to  roundish  obovate,  slightly  emarginate,  mucronate, 
smooth.  Seeds  dark,  medium  or  below,  narrow,  acute  to  obtuse. 

Flesh  greenish  with  decided  yellow  tinge,  breaking,  moderately  fine,  very 
tender,  rather  juicy,  very  sweet,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  November  to  April. 

DEACON  JONES. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  BuL,  48:40.  1903.  2. 
Beach  and  Clark,  .V.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:116.  1904. 

Fruit  showy  and  of  good  marketable  size,  averaging  larger  than 
Baldwin.  When  well  colored  it  is  handsome,  the  yellow  ground 
color  being  mostly  overlaid  with  good  red,  relieved  with  dots  of  a 
contrasting  color.  The  tree  is  a  fine  grower  in  the  nursery  and 
"  delivers  "  well.  In  the  orchard  it  is  thrifty,  comes  into  bearing 
young,  is  almost  an  annual  bearer  and  very  productive.  The  fruit 
hangs  well  to  the  tree.  There  is  little  waste  from  drops  and  culls. 
The  flesh  is  rather  coarse ;  the  flavor  is  mild  and  the  quality  is  not 
high,  but  probably  it  would  generally  be  rated  superior  to  Ben  Davis 
for  dessert.  It  has  a  tough  skin  and  firm  texture,  and  stands  hand- 
ling well.  In  ordinary  storage  its  season  for  home  use  extends  from 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  105 

November  to  March.  So  far  as  tested  in  cold  storage,  the  commer- 
cial limit  for  barrel  stock  appears  to  be  March  first,  but  the  fruit 
has  kept  free  from  scald  and  rot  till  May  (i).  It  is  not  good 
enough  in  quality  to  be  recommended  for  home  use,  but  it  may 
possibly  be  of  value  as  a  commercial  variety. 

Historical.  Originated  in  Pennsylvania  as  a  chance  seedling.  Received 
here  in  1892  for  testing  from  J.  S.  Ford,  Pittsford,  N.  Y.,  by  whom  it  is  being 
introduced.  The  form  of  the  fruit  and  the  character  of  the  core  indicate  that 
this  variety  may  be  a  seedling  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branchlets  willowy,  long,  slender,  drooping. 
Form  dense,  upright  spreading.  Twigs  long,  nearly  straight,  moderately  stout, 
with  large  terminal  buds;  internodes  long  to  below  medium.  Bark  clear 
brownish-red,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent.  Lenticels  numer- 
ous, generally  medium  in  size,  roundish  or  oval,  raised,  conspicuous.  Buds 
small  to  medium,  projecting,  obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  appressed,  quite  pubes- 
cent, deeply  set  in  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large ;  pretty  uniform  in  size,  somewhat  variable  in 
shape.  Form  roundish  conic  varying  to  oblong  conic,  ribbed ;  axis  sometimes 
oblique.  Stem  short.  Cavity  obtuse  to  acute  or  sometimes  slightly  acuminate, 
shallow  to  moderately  deep,  usually  smooth,  often  prominently  lipped.  Calyx 
small  to  above  medium,  closed  or  partly  open,  often  leafy ;  lobes  sometimes 
separated  at  the  base.  Basin  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  usually  rather  narrow, 
distinctly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  rough,  waxen  yellow,  mottled  and 
blushed  with  red  and  with  irregular  dashes  of  carmine,  in  highly  colored 
specimens  being  almost  completely  covered  with  an  attractive  deep  red.  It 
is  covered  with  a  whitish  bloom  which  gives  the  fruit  a  somewhat  dull  appear- 
ance. Dots  conspicuous,  mingled  small  and  large,  whitish,  many  areolar  with 
russet  point;  numerous  toward  the  eye. 

Calyx  tube  variable  in  size,  urn-shape  to  conic.     Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  abaxile ;  cells  symmetrical,  wide  open,  very  large ;  core  lines  nearly 
meeting.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  to  small,  rather  dark  brown,  plump, 
obtuse,  somewhat  irregular.  Carpels  much  tufted,  emarginate,  mucronate, 
elongated  and  rather  broadly  ovate. 

Flesh  whitish,  somewhat  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  coarse,  somewhat 
crisp,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  not  high 
in  quality,  fair  to  possibly  good. 

Season  November  to  March  or  later  (i,  2). 

DEMOCRAT. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Warder,    1867:505.     2.  Downing,    1872:143,    144.    fig.     3. 
Thomas,  1885:508. 
SYNONYM.     Varick  (2). 


io6  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

An  early  winter  apple  of  medium  size,  yellow,  blushed  and  striped  with  red, 
handsome  and  of  very  good  quality,  formerly  grown  to  some  extent  in  Western 
New  York  (2,  3),  but  now  practically  obsolete.  We  have  not  bsen  able  to 
determine  whether  the  variety  given  by  Warder  under  this  name  ( i )  is  identi- 
cal with  the  Democrat  described  by  Downing  and  Thomas. 

DICKINSON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Pa.  Dept.  Agr.,  Rpt.  Hort.  Assn.,  1884:49.  col.  pi.  2. 
Chase,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:25.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:237.  4. 
Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  12:600.  1893.  5.  Richman,  Utah  Sta.  Bui,  45:15. 
1896.  6.  Beach,  Western  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1896:52.  7.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:40.  1903.  8.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:116.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     DICKENSON  (5,  7),  but  incorrectly. 

Tree  not  a  good  grower,  but  very  productive.  Fruit  resembles 
Yellow  Bellflawer  in  shape,  but  the  color  is  red.  It  is  of  good  size 
and  attractive  enough  in  appearance  to  make  a  good  market  apple, 
but  it  is  not  above  second  rate  in  quality. 

Historical.  Grown  from  seed  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower  by  Sarah  Dickinson, 
Westchester,  Pennsylvania  (i,  2). 

TREE. 

Tree  not  large,  not  very  vigorous ;  branches  short,  stout,  crooked.  Form 
roundish,  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  small  to  medium,  crooked,  moder- 
ately stout;  internodes  short  to  above  medium.  Bark  clear,  light  olive-green 
tinged  with  reddish-brown,  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent. 
Lenticcls  rather  inconspicuous,  rather  numerous,  small  or  below  medium, 
usually  roundish,  not  raised.  Buds  medium  in  size  or  below,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent.  Leaves  medium  in  size,  moderately 
broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  somewhat  variable  in  size.  Form  oblong-conic, 
sometimes  compressed  or  broadly  angular ;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem 
medium  to  long.  Cavity  moderately  broad,  moderately  deep,  acute  to  acumi- 
nate, symmetrical  or  sometimes  compressed,  usually  smooth.  Calyx  medium, 
closed  or  sometimes  open.  Basin  shallow  to  moderately  deep  and  abrupt, 
often  oblique,  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  light  yellow  or  green,  blushed  and  mottled  with  bright  red, 
striped  with  darker  red,  sprinkled  with  inconspicuous,  small,  green  and  whitish 
dots.  Prevailing  effect  red  with  well-colored  fruit. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form.     Stamfns  median  to  basal. 

Core  large,  abaxile;  cells  not  always  symmetrical,  usually  open;  core  lines 
usually  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  oblong.  Seeds  numerous, 
medium  or  above,  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  yellowish,  juicy  to  very  juicy,  moderately  fine-grained,  slightly  aro- 
matic, subacid,  moderately  firm,  tender,  fair  to  good. 

Season  November  to  April. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  107 

DISHAROON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1857:135.  2.  Elliott,  1859:73.  3.  Warder,  1867: 
717.  4.  Leroy,  1873:260.  fig.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  6.  Barry,  1883: 
344.  7.  Thomas,  1885:223.  8.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:237. 

A  yellowish-green  apple,  rather  large,  subacid  with  an  aromatic  flavor  some- 
what like  that  of  the  Green  Newtown.  It  is  a  southern  apple  which  is  but 
little  known  in  this  region.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York 
state. 

DOCTOR. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:119.  fig.  2.  Wilson,  1828:136.  3.  Cat.  Hort. 
Soc.  London,  1831.  4.  Downing,  1845:107.  5.  Thomas,  1849:147.  6.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:62.  1851.  7.  Hooper,  1857:29.  8.  Elliott,  1858:130.  9. 
Warder,  1867:717.  10.  Livingston,  Amer.  Card.,  21:204.  1900.  n.  Munson, 
Me.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  18:89.  1902.  12.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui., 
48:40.  1903.  13.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:115.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  COON  (13).  Coon  Red  (13).  DEWIT  APPLE  (i).  De  Witt 
(3,  4,  5,  8).  DOCTOR  DEWITT  (9).  Newby  (12).  Red  Doctor  (4,  8). 

Fruit  attractive  because  of  its  good  color,  desirable  size  and  uni- 
formity in  size  and  shape.  In  texture,  flavor  and  general  quality 
it  is  inferior  to  Baldwin.  It  is  of  value  chiefly  for  market,  although 
acceptable  for  either  dessert  or  culinary  uses.  The  tree  is  vigorous, 
or  moderately  so,  and  has  the  reputation  of  being  generally  a  regular 
and  abundant  bearer.  It  is  not  slow  in  coming  into  bearing.  Not 
recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  An  old  variety  which  originated  at  Gerrnantown,  Pa.  Named 
in  honor  of  a  physician  who  brought  it  into  notice  (i,  4).  It  has  been  grown 
to  a  considerable  extent  in  Pennsylvania,  Ohio  and  other  portions  of  the 
Central  West,  but  it  has  gained  only  slight  recognition  in  New  York.  It  has 
been  reintroduced  in  Indiana  under  the  name  Newby.  It  has  also  been  dis- 
seminated under  the  name  Coon  Red,  or  Coon. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  very  open  and  spreading.  Twigs  long  to 
medium,  straight,  moderately  stout;  internodes  medium  or  above.  Bark  clear 
reddish-brown  with  some  olive-green,  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  but  slightly 
pubescent.  Lenticcls  scattering,  medium  or  below  medium  size,  roundish  or 
oblong,  raised.  Buds  medium  size,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so, 
somewhat  pubescent.  Leaves  medium  size,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  oblate, 
symmetrical,  angular.  Stem  short  or  medium.  Cavity  acute,  deep,  wavy,  not 
russeted,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  large,  somewhat  open ;  lobes  long,  acute. 
Basin  variable,  somewhat  obtuse  to  abrupt,  often  wide,  deep,  ridged  and 
wrinkled. 


io8  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  smooth,  waxen  yellow,  overspread  with  a  bright  light  red  blush,  in- 
distinctly marked  with  narrow  carmine  splashes.  Dots  green  or  grayish. 
Prevailing  effect  attractive  red  and  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  rather  short  urn-shape  to  truncate  funnel-form. 
Stamens  basal  to  above  median. 

Core  medium  to  small,  abaxile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  open  or  some- 
times closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  smooth, 
broadly  elliptical,  quite  concave.  Seeds  medium  in  size,  wide,  obtuse. 

Flesh  a  little  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  rather 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  good  to  nearly  very  good. 

Season  December  to  April  or  later. 

DOCTOR  WALKER. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,   1881:83.   app.     2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,   1892:237. 
3.  Thomas,  1897:633. 
SYNONYM.    Litsey  (i). 

As  grown  here  the  fruit  is  only  moderately  attractive,  being  dull 
in  color  and  scarcely  medium  in  size.  The  tree  does  not  come  into 
bearing  very  early,  but  is  quite  productive,  and  the  fruit  keeps  very 
late.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  A  seedling  of  Rails  which  originated  on  the  farm  of  John 
Litsey  near  Springfield,  Ky.,  in  which  locality  it  is  said  to  be  superior  to  its 
parent,  being  hardy,  productive  and  blooming  late  in  the  season  (i). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous;  branches  short,  moderately  stout. 
Form  upright  spreading  and  rather  open.  Twigs  below  medium  or  short, 
straight,  rather  stout  with  large  terminal  buds ;  internodes  below  medium  or 
short.  Bark  clear  dark  olive-green  somewhat  tinged  with  reddish-brown, 
little  or  no  scarf-skin,  decidedly  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  medium  to 
small,  roundish  to  oblong,  not  raised.  Buds  often  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse, 
free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  below.  Form  roundish  inclined  tj  conic,  sometimes 
roundish  oblate.  Stem  short  to  medium.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  rather 
deep,  moderately  broad,  somewhat  furrowed,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx 
medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  often  leafy,  long,  acuminate. 
Basin  abrupt,  medium  in  width  and  depth,  somewhat  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  somewhat  glossy,  pale  green  or  yellowish,  deeply 
blushed  or  mottled  with  purplish-red,  with  distinct  narrow  dull  carmine  stripes. 
Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  pale  yellow  or  grayish. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape. 

Core  medium  to  small,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly 
clasping.  Carpels  roundish  inclined  to  obcordate,  emarginate,  slightly  tufted. 
Seeds  medium  or  above,  dark,  wide,  obtuse,  slightly  tufted. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  109 

Flesh  whitish,  firm,  rather  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  becoming 
nearly  sweet,  somewhat  aromatic,  good. 
Season  January  to  May. 

DOMINE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831.  2.  Downing,  1845:107.  3. 
Kirkland,  Horticulturist,  2:545.  184?-  4-  Thomas,  1849:165,173.  5.  Humrick- 
house,  Mag.  Hort.,  15:27.  1849.  fig.  6.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:470.  1850. 
7.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:68.  1851.  fig.  8.  Hooper,  1857:96.  9.  Elliott, 
1858:130,  161.  10.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  n.  Warder,  1867:430.  fig.  12. 
Downing,  1872:147.  fig.  13.  Barry,  1883:345.  14.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1890:290.  15.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:237.  16.  Rural  N.  Y.,  54:744. 

1895.  17.  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:319-   1896.     18.  Richman,   Utah  Sta.  Bui.,  45:16. 

1896.  19.  Waugh,  VI.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:292.  1901.     20.  Budd-Hansen,  1903: 
70.  fig.     21.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:117.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Cheat  (12).  Cling  Tight  (12).  DOMINI  (6).  DOMINIE  (4, 
10,  16,  17,  18,  19).  English  Beauty  of  Pa.  (12).  English  Rambo  of  some 
(12).  English  Red  Streak  (12,  13,  21).  English  Winter  Red  Streak  of  some 
(9).  Hogan  (9,  12).  Holland  Pippin,  incorrectly  (19).  Ramboulrette  (3). 
Striped  R.  I.  Greening  (9,  12).  Well  Apple  (9).  WELLS  (4,  7,  8,  9).  Wells 
(12,  21 ).  WILLIAMSON  (7). 

A  striped  apple  of  the  Rambo'  class  which  much  resembles  Rambo 
in  appearance.  While  it  does  not  rank  as  high  in  quality  it  is  a 
much  better  keeper,  its  season  extending  till  March ;  commercial 
limit,  February.  When  well  grown  it  is  large  and  of  good  color,  but 
too  often  the  fruit  sets  so  abundantly  that  it  does  not  average  much 
above  medium  size.  In  western  New  York,  although  in  some 
seasons  it  is  very  productive,  it  is  not  as  reliable  a  bearer  as  are 
some  of  the  kinds  which  outrank  it  in  the  commercial  orchards,  and 
often  the  color  is  not  well  developed.  It  has  been  more  extensively 
planted  along  the  Hudson  than  in  any  other  part  of  the  state,  but  it 
is  not  now  grown  so  much  there  as  it  was  formerly.  It  is  chiefly 
valued  for  dessert,  being  generally  considered  inferior  for  culinary 
uses,  except  possibly  for  baking. 

It  is  evidently  not  identical  with  the  Domine  described  by  Coxe.1 

Historical.  Origin  uncertain.  Supposed  to  be  a  native  of  this  country  (n, 
12).  Elliott  states  that  it  probably  came  originally  from  Maryland  (9). 

TREE. 

Tree  is  vigorous  to  moderately  vigorous,  "  with  long,  stout,  spreading 
branches  which  are  very  liable  to  be  broken  by  the  heavy  crops  of  fruit"  (14). 

1  Fruit  Trees,  1817: 115. 


no  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Form  upright  spreading  "  with  a  straggling,  open  head  and  bearing  its  fruit 
crowded  along  the  smaller  branches"  (n).  Twigs  above  medium  to  long, 
moderately  stout;  internodes  long.  Bark  smooth,  clear  reddish-brown,  some- 
times with  a  slight  undertone  of  yellowish-green  uniformly  overlaid  with  a 
thin  scarf-skin,  rather  pubescent.  Lenticcls  rather  inconspicuous,  raised,  mod- 
erately numerous,  above  medium,  generally  roundish.  Buds  above  medium, 
roundish  to  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  quite  pubescent.  Leaves  long,  drooping 
and  characteristically  twisted. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  about  medium  in  size,  sometimes  large  or  very  large.  Form 
usually  oblate,  sometimes  inclined  to  oblong  and  distinctly  flattened  at  the  base, 
sides  often  somewhat  unequal,  ribbed.  Stem  medium  to  long,  slender  at  the 
base.  Cavity  obtuse,  wide,  deep,  often  distinctly  furrowed,  usually  with  out- 
spreading brown  russet  rays.  Calyx  below  medium  to  large,  closed  or  slightly 
open ;  lobes  long,  acute.  Basin  pubescent,  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep, 
wide  or  compressed,  abrupt,  usually  distinctly  furrowed. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  bright,  whitish-yellow  or  green  mottled  and 
splashed  with  deep  pinkish-red,  striped  with  bright  carmine  and  overlaid  with 
thin  whitish  bloom.  Dots  pale  or  yellow,  numerous  toward  the  basin,  but 
toward  the  cavity  they  are  scattering,  large,  often  irregular  and  with  russet 
center. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape  with  a  wide  limb  and  short  truncate  cylinder. 
Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  small,  somewhat  abaxile;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  closed  or  partly 
open ;  core  lines  nearly  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  elliptical,  slightly 
emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  large,  plump,  moderately  narrow,  long,  acute, 
dark. 

Flesh  whitish  or  tinged  with  light  yellow,  very  firm,  breaking,  somewhat 
coarse,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid  with  a  peculiar  aromatic  flavor,  good  to 
very  good. 

Season  November  to  March. 


DOUBLE  ROSE. 

The  tree  is  exceedingly  productive  and  comes  into  bearing  young.  The  fruit 
is  beautiful,  being  almost  wholly  overspread  with  a  bright  deep  red  but  it  is 
too  small  to  be  valuable  for  ordinary  market  uses  and  it  does  not  rank  high 
enough  in  quality  to  be  classed  with  fruit  suitable  for  fancy  trade.  It  is  not 
recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Received  from  Jaroslav  Niemetz,  Winnitza,  Podolia,  Russia,  in  1898,  for 
testing  at  this  Station. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  or  oblong  conic.  Stem  long  to  medium,  set  in  a  deep, 
rather  wide,  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  abrupt, 
moderately  deep.  Skin  smooth  yellow  overspread  with  light  red  sometimes 
deepening  to  dark  red.  Core  medium,  nearly  closed.  Flesh  tinged  with  yellow, 
moderately  coarse,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  possibly  good. 

Season  November  to  February. 


DOMINE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  HI 

DU  BOIS. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1894:19. 

A  red-striped  winter  apple  described  by  Heiges  (i)  in  1894  from  specimens 
received  from  Columbia  county,  N.  Y.,  as  above  medium  size,  oblate,  yellow 
washed  with  mixed  red  and  striped  with  crimson;  flesh  yellowish- white, 
stained  with  red,  mild  subacid,  good.  Mr.  F.  P.  Studley,  who  furnished 
Heiges  with  the  fruit  from  which  the  above  description  was  made  reports 
further  concerning  this  variety  that  it  originated  as  a  chance  seedling  in  the 
town  of  Claverack,  and  that  it  is  a  very  showy  apple  of  the  Blue  Pearmain 
type  although  the  fruit  is  not  so  large  as  that  of  Blue  Pearmain.  It  ap- 
parently would  stand  shipping  well  for  the  skin  is  tough  and  the  fruit  is  firm. 
It  is  a  very  late  keeper  sometimes  being  kept  till  July.  The  tree  is  very  hardy, 
a  good  grower,  forming  a  round  compact  head.  It  is  productive  in  alternate 
years. 

DUKE  OF  DEVONSHIRE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:150.  2.  Hogg,  1884:65.  3.  Bailey,  An. 
Hort.,  1892:237.  4.  N.  Y.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1892:588,  592.  5.  Bunyard,  Jour.  R.  H. 
S.,  21:356.  1898.  6.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:117.  1904. 

A  yellow  apple,  partly  russeted,  medium  in  size,  desirable  either 
for  dessert  or  culinary  use.  The  tree  does  not  come  into  bearing- 
very  young,  but  when  mature  is  quite  productive.  The  fruit  is  apt 
to  drop  badly.  It  cannot  be  recommended  as  superior  to  other  well- 
known  varieties  of  its  class. 

Historical.  Originated  in  England  and  introduced  to  commerce  there  about 
T875  (5)-  It  is  there  esteemed  as  an  excellent  dessert  apple  and  a  good  keeper 
(2).  It  is  but  little  known  in  New  York. 

TREE. 
Tree  large,  vigorous.     Form  spreading. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  small.  Form  oblate  to  roundish  conic,  sometimes  obscurely 
ribbed;  pretty  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Stem  very  short  to  medium,  some- 
times swollen.  Cavity  rather  narrow  to  moderately  broad,  shallow  to  moder- 
ately deep,  acute,  often  nearly  acuminate,  often  lipped,  usually  covered  with 
green  russet.  Calyx  rather  large,  flat,  partly  open.  Basin  variable,  usually 
shallow  and  obtuse,  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  partly  smooth,  dull  yellow,  often  with  a  faint  orange  or 
bronze  blush,  more  or  less  covered  with  russet,  roughened  with  large  russet 
dots.  Dots  gray  or  russet,  conspicuous.  Prevailing  effect  greenish-yellow 
mingled  with  russet. 

Calyx  tube  small,  short,  rather  wide,  conical  or  urn-shape.  Stamens 
marginal. 

Core  axile  or  nearly  so,  medium  in  size;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  closed; 
core  lines  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to  somewhat  oblong,  slightly 


\i2  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

emarginate,  mucronate,  sometimes  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  rather  light  brown, 
medium  to  small,  wide,  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  yellowish  or  tinged  with  green,  moderately  juicy,  moderately  crisp, 
firm,  somewhat  coarse,  with  a  pleasant  subacid  flavor  characteristic  of  certain 
russet  apples,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  April  or  later. 

DUMELOW, 

REFERENCES,  i.  Lindley,  1831:81.  2.  Ronalds,  1831:37.  fig.  3.  Cat.  Hort. 
Soc., London,  1831.  4.  Diel,  27:55.  1832.  5.  Kenrick,  1833:101.  6.  Floy-Lindley, 
!833:32.  7.  Thomas,  1849:165.  8.  Rivers,  Horticulturist,  4:40.  1849.  9. 
Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:85.  1851.  10.  Downing,  1857:212.  n.  Elliott, 
1858:1^9.  12.  Lucas,  E.,  ///.  Handb.  der  Obstk.,  1:187.  1859.  13.  Warder, 
1867:717.  14.  Leroy,  1873:864.  figs.  15.  Hogg,  1884:65.  16.  Bredsted,  1893: 
274.  17.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:237.  18.  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:320.  1896.  19. 
Eneroth- Smirnoff,  1901:480.  20.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:117. 
1904. 

SYNONYMS.  DUKE  OF  WELLINGTON  (2,  5).  Dumelow's  Crab  (6,  10,  n, 
14,  15).  Dumelow's  Pippin  (14).  DUMELOW'S  SEEDLING  (i,  2,  3,  6,  7,  9,  10, 
n,  15,  16).  Dumelow's  Seedling  (5,  14,  17,  18).  Normanton  Wonder  (3,  14, 
15).  Sutton  Beauty  (14).  but  erroneously.  WELLINGTON  (12,  14,  16,  19,  20). 
Wellington  (6,  10,  n,  15).  WELLINGTON'S  REINETTE  (4). 

Fruit  of  good  marketable  size,  rather  attractive  for  a  yellow 
apple,  and  a  good  keeper  (15,  20).  It  is  excellent  for  culinary 
use,  but  too  acid  to  be  agreeable  for  dessert.  The  tree  is  a  very 
strong  grower  and  quite  productive  in  alternate  years.  Possibly  it 
is  worthy  of  growing  to  a  limited  extent  for  market,  but  it  is  inferior 
to  good  red  apples  like  Baldwin  and  Sutton  both  in  appearance  and 
for  dessert  uses.  In  England  it  is  esteemed  as  one  of  the  most 
valuable  culinary  apples  (15). 

Historical.  First  exhibited  to  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society,  London,  in 
1820  under  the  name  Wellington,  but  prior  to  that  it  had  been  extensively 
cultivated  under  the  name  of  Dumelow's  Crab,  taking  its  name  from  the 
farmer  with  whom  it  originated  (15).  • 

TREE. 

Tree  very  vigorous.  Form  upright  becoming  rather  round  with  spreading 
and  somewhat  drooping  branches.  Twigs  medium  or  rather  long,  nearly 
straight,  somewhat  stocky,  somewhat  pubescent;  internodes  medium  or  above. 
Bark  rather  clear  light  brownish-red  over  olive-green  with  slight  scarf-skin. 
Lenticels  characteristically  conspicuous,  very  numerous,  medium  to  very  large, 
usually  elongated,  raised.  Buds  large  to  below  me-dium,  plump,  rather  acute, 
somewhat  appressed,  decidedly  pubescent.  Leaves  medium  to  large,  long  and 
rather  broad.  Petioles  red  at  base. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  113 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish,  somewhat  oblate,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed.  Stem  medium  to 
rather  short.  Cavity  rather  narrow,  acute  to  acuminate,  moderately  shallow 
to  deep,  symmetrical,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  large,  open ;  lobes  separated 
at  the  base.  Basin  variable,  obtuse  to  abrupt,  shallow  to  moderately  deep, 
irregularly  furrowed  and  somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  rather  pale  bright  yellow,  sometimes  blushed  with  light  red 
and  striped  with  thin  carmine.  Dots  often  submerged,  dark  gray  or  with 
russet  point.  Prevailing  color  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  conical  or  funnel-form  with  broad  limb  and  short  truncate 
cylinder.  Stamens  basal. 

Core  below  medium  to  rather  small,  usually  more  or  less  abaxile;  cells 
not  always  symmetrical,  partly  closed  particularly  toward  the  apex,  or  open ; 
core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  cordate,  emargi- 
nate.  Seeds  small  to  medium,  wide,  plump,  acute  to  obtuse,  dark. 

Flesh  whitish  with  slight  yellow  tinge,  firm,  crisp,  moderately  fine,  tender, 
very  juicy,  brisk  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  good  for  cooking. 

Season  November  to  March  or  April. 

DUNCAN. 

-  REFERENCES,  i.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831.  2.  Downing,  1872:151.  3. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238.  4.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:117. 
1904. 

An  apple  of  the  Newtown  Spitzenburg  class  which  closely  resembles  that 
variety  in  the  appearance  and  quality  of  its  fruit.  When  well  developed  it  is 
rather  attractive  in  color  and  very  good  in  quality  for  dessert  use.  It  is  an 
excellent  keeper,  but  as  grown  at  this  Station  it  averages  too  small  for  a  good 
commercial  apple.  The  tree  comes  into  bearing  young  and  is  almost  an 
annual  bearer,  but  yields  heavier  crops  in  alternate  years.  It  is  not  recom- 
mended for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Received  for  testing  here  from  B.  Buckman,  Farmingdale,  111. 
It  has  been  disseminated  to  some  extent  in  portions  of  the  Ohio  valley  (3). 
We  have  not  determined  whether  or  not  it  is  identical  with  the  English 
variety  of  this  name  (i,  2). 

TREE. 

Tree  small,  moderately  vigorous;  branches  short,  stout,  crooked;  laterals 
willowy  and  small,  slender.  Form  upright  spreading  to  roundish,  dense. 
Twigs  short  to  above  medium,  rather  slender,  straight,  moderately  stout; 
internodes  short.  Bark  dull  reddish-brown,  mingled  with  olive-green,  with 
thin  coat  of  scarf-skin;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  small,  round, 
not  raised.  Buds  small,  plump,  obtuse,  appressed,  deeply  set  in  bark;  some- 
v/hat  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  or  small,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish,  pretty  symmetrical,  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  medium.  Cavity 
acuminate  to  acute,  symmetrical,  moderately  deep,  sometimes  furrowed,  rarely 


H4  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

russeted.  Calyx  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes  long,  acute.  Basin  obtuse, 
shallow,  irregularly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  green  or  pale  yellow,  striped  with  carmine  over  a  thin  dull  blush  and 
conspicuously  marked  with  large,  irregular,  whitish  dots.  Often  the  color  is 
not  well  developed  and  not  particularly  attractive. 

Calyx  tube  short  to  long,  moderately  wide,  cone-shape  or  somewhat  funnel- 
form.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium,  axile  or  somewhat  abaxile ;  core  lines  meeting  or  clasping; 
cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  closed  or  partly  open.  Carpels  broad,  roundish, 
smooth,  emarginate.  Seeds  medium  or  below,  broad,  dark,  acute  to  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish,  with  yellow  tinge,  moderately  firm,  fine-grained,  tender,  crisp, 
very  juicy,  agreeable  mild  subacid  mingled  with  sweet,  good  to  very  good 
when  well  grown. 

Season  January  to  May. 

DUTCH  MIGNONNE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Diel,  4:140.  1801.  2.  Ronalds,  1831:51.  3.  Cat.  Hort. 
Soc.  London,  1831:30.  4.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:33.  5.  Dittrich,  1839:429.  6. 
Lindley,  Pom.  Mag.,  1839:84.  col.  pi.  7.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:72. 
1851.  8.  Bivort,  An.  de  Pornol.  Beige,  1853:83.  9.  Elliott,  1858:74.  10. 
Lucas,  Ed.,  ///.  Handb.  dcr  Obstk.,  1:163.  1859.  n.  Berghuis,  1868:  col.  pi. 
No.  ii.  12.  Regel,  1868:466.  13.  Downing,  1872:151,  331.  /&.,  1876:3.  app. 
14.  Leroy,  1873:644.  2  figs.  15.  Lauche,  1:257.  1882.  16.  Hogg,  1884:66.  17. 
Cat.  Cong.  Pom.  France,  1887:322.  18.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.  1892:238,  248.  19. 
Bredsted,  1893:182.  20.  Beach  and  Close,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  15:275.  1896. 
2  figs.  21.  Eneroth-Smirnoff,  1901:195.  22.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:114.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  CAUX  (22).  Christ's  Golden  Reinette  (16).  Copmanthorpe 
Crab  (13,  14,  16).  DUITSCH  MIGNONNE  (8).  DUTCH  MIGNOME  (7).  Dutch 
Mignonne  (14).  DUTCH  MINION  (2).  GROSSE  CASSELER  REINETTE  (10,  12, 
15).  Grosser  Casselar  Reinette  (13).  GROSSE  ODER  DOPPELTE  CASSELER 
REINETTE  (i,  5).  Paternoster  Apple  (4,  13,  14).  Pomme  de  Laak  (4,  13,  14). 
REINETTE  DE  CAUX  (3,  14,  17,  20).  Reinette  de  Caux  (16,  22).  REINETTE 
D'OR  (11).  REINETTE  DOREE  (2).  Reinette  Doree  (4,  13).  Stettin  Pippin 
(13,  14,  16).  STOR  CASSELER  REINET  (19).  STOR  KASSELRENETT  (21). 

Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive  on  alternate  years.  Fruit 
medium  or  above,  not  very  attractive  in  color  but  excellent  for 
cooking,  good  for  dessert  and  a  good  keeper.  It  is  recommended 
for  the  home  orchard,  but  because  the  color  of  the  fruit  lacks  decided 
character  it  is  not  a  good  commercial  variety,  except  for  canning 
or  evaporating. 

Historical.  This  apple  has  been  known  in  Holland  for  more  than  a  century. 
It  was  introduced  from  that  country  into  England  abou.t  1771  (4,  !4)- 
Although  it  was  brought  into  New  York  state  many  years  ago  and  has  been 
imported  at  various  times  both  under  the  name  Dutch  Mignonne  and  that  of 
Reinette  de  Caux  it  has  not  won  favorable  recognition  among  commercial 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  115 

orchardists  and  has  nowhere  been  planted  to  any  considerable  extent  Leroy 
(14)  states  that  Grosse  Reinette  de  Cassel  and  Reinette  Doree  are  distinct 
from  this  variety  although  they  have  been  listed  by  some  as  identical. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  rather  wide-spreading,  inclined  to  droop, 
pretty  dense ;  branches  short,  stout,  curved.  Twigs  medium  in  length,  nearly 
straight,  moderately  stout  to  rather  slender;  internodes  medium  or  above. 
Bark  clear  reddish-brown,  mostly  overlaid  or  mottled  with  rather  heavy  scarf- 
skin,  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  moderately  numerous,  small  to  medium, 
round  or  somewhat  oblong,  sometimes  raised.  Buds  moderately  prominent, 
medium  in  size,  plump,  acute,  free,  somewhat  pubescent.  Leaves  medium  in 
size,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium,  pretty  uniform  in  size.  Form  roundish  oblate  to 
roundish,  sometimes  inclined  to  conic,  often  somewhat  elliptical  and  broadly 
ribbed.  Stem  often  characteristically  long  and  slender  and  obliquely  inserted. 
Cavity  acute,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  rather  broad,  often  with  outspreading 
russet  rays  and  faint  lines  and  flecks  of  dull  grayish  scarf-skin,  furrowed  or 
sometimes  compressed,  occasionally  lipped.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed 
or  open.  Basin  usually  rather  shallow,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide, 
often  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  yellow  with  thin  orange  blush,  in  highly  colored  specimens  deepening 
to  orange-red,  mottled  and  sparingly  splashed  or  striped  with  carmine.  Dots 
numerous,  whitish  or  russet,  often  areolar.  Prevailing  effect  dull  orange- 
yellow  partly  covered  with  thin  dull  red;  not  particularly  attractive. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  long,  conical  or  sometimes  approaching  urn-shape. 
Stamens  marginal. 

Core  axile,  medium  to  small,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly 
roundish,  rather  flat,  slightly  emarginate.  Seeds  few,  often  some  are  abortive, 
rather  long,  irregular,  flat,  obtuse  or  somewhat  acute. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  nearly  fine,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy,  sub- 
acid,  sprightly,  good  for  dessert,  excellent  for  cooking. 

Season  somewhat  variable;  often  extending  till  May.  Commercial  limit 
usually  March  (20,  22). 

DUZENBURY. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Downing,  1872:152. 

A  medium  sized,  late  winter  apple,  described  by  Downing  (i)  as  greenish 
overspread  with  dull  red,  very  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet,  very  good  in  quality. 
It  originated  at  Phillipstown,  Putnam  county,  N.  Y.  It  appears  to  be  but  little 
known  outside  of  the  locality  where  it  originated. 

EDWARDS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:159.  2.  Beach  and  Close,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Rpt., 
15:271.  1896.  3.  Massey,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  149:317.  1898.  4.  Powell  and  Fulton, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:40.  1903.  5.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:118. 
1904. 

SYNONYM.     Edwards  Favorite  (2). 


n6  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Fruit  good  in  quality  and  one  of  the  latest  keepers,  but  as  grown  here  it 
barely  reaches  medium  size  at  its  best  and  often  is  small,  and  the  color  is 
usually  rather  dull.  It  is  not  well  adapted  for  growing  as  far  north  as  New 
York  state. 

Historical.  Edwards  is  said  to  have  originated  in  Chatham  county,  N.  C, 
as  a  seedling  of  the  Hall. 

TREE. 

Tree  not  vigorous,  small,  stunted.  Form  flat,  open,  spreading  and  inclined 
to  droop.  Tzvigs  short  to  medium,  straight,  slender ;  internodes  medium. 
Bark  olive-green  tinged  with  brownish-red,  mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  only 
pubescent  near  the  tips.  Lenticels  conspicuous,  numerous,  medium  to  large, 
roundish,  raised.  Buds  medium  in  size,  broad,  plump,  acute,  free,  not 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  oblate  to  roundish 
oblate  inclined  to  conic,  often  slightly  ribbed.  Stem  long,  slender.  Cavity 
obtuse  to  acute,  medium,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin 
variable,  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide, 
often  abrupt,  nearly  smooth. 

Skin  smooth,  thick,  tough,  yellowish-green,  blushed  with  dull  brownish-red, 
faintly  striped  with  carmine,  in  highly  colored  specimens  becoming  deep, 
bright  red.  Dots  large  and  small,  pale  and  russet.  Prevailing  effect  rather 
dull  green,  blushed  with  dull  dark  red. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  or  somewhat  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  to 
marginal. 

Core  below  medium,  abaxile ;  cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  partly  open ; 
core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  rather  flat,  roundish  obovate 
to  roundish  obcordate.  Seeds  few,  dark,  medium  to  large,  plump,  acute ; 
often  some  are  abortive. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  coarse,  tender,  breaking,  moderately 
juicy,  somewhat  astringent,  sprightly  subacid,  aromatic,  good. 

Season  February  to  May  or  later ;  sometimes  keeps  through  the  summer. 

EISER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Diel,  Kernobstsorten,  5:175.  1802.  (cited  by  3).  2.  Ober- 
dieck,  ///.  Handb.  der  Obst.,  4:353.  1865.  (cited  by  3).  3.  Leroy,  1873:285. 
fig.  4.  Lauche,  i:  col.  pi.  No.  10.  1882.  5.  Eneroth- Smirnoff,  1901:170.  6. 
Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:54.  1902. 

SYNONYMS.  ARSAPPLE  (5).  EISER  ROUGE  (3).  Durable  Trois  ans  (3). 
RED  EISEN  (6).  ROTHER  EISER  (2).  Rother  Riser  (3).  ROTHER  EISER- 
APFEL  (4).  Rouge  Rayee  (i,  3). 

Fruit  very  attractive,  of  good  size,  very  beautiful  color  and  good 
quality;  suitable  for  general  uses.  It  has  a  tough  skin  which  does 
not  readily  show  bruises.  It  stands  shipping  well  and  is  an  excel- 
lent keeper,  being  much  superior  to  Baldwin  in  this  respect.  At  the 
Kansas  Station  it  has  not  been  a  good  cropper  (6),  but  Leroy  states 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  117 

that  it  is  satisfactorily  productive  (3).  As  tested  at  this  Station 
the  tree  is  a  good  grower  and  almost  an  annual  bearer,  but  only 
moderately  productive.  There  is  comparatively  little  loss  from 
drops  and  culls.  It  has  not  been  tried  here  long  enough  to  justify 
an  unqualified  recommendation,  but  it  shows  merit  enough  to  make 
it  worthy  of  further  testing. 

Historical.  A  German  variety  which  has  been  in  cultivation  more  than  a 
century  (i,  2,  3).  Our  stock  came  from  Prof.  Budd  who  imported  the  variety 
frorr^  Austria  for  the  Iowa  Agricultural  college,  in  1884  and  1885. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous;  branches  long,  moderately  stout.  Form  upright 
spreading,  or  roundish,  open.  Twigs  long,  moderately  stout,  nearly  straight ; 
internodes  long.  Bark  olive-brown,  tinged  with  red,  streaked  with  grayish 
scarf-skin ;  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  small,  round,  raised.  Buds 
large,  broad,  obtuse,  free,  pubescent.  Foliage  dense,  dark  green. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  nearly  large.  Form  conical,  broad  at  the  base,  often 
elliptical,  sides  unequal,  somewhat  ribbed.  Stem  short  and  thick  to  long  and 
rather  slender.  Cavity  very  large,  to  large,  acute,  deep,  broad,  sometimes 
symmetrical,  often  compressed  or  furrowed,  with  outspreading  green  russet. 
Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  acute  to  acuminate. 
Basin  often  oblique,  irregular,  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  narrow, 
abrupt,  roughly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  slightly  waxy,  yellow  mottled  with  orange-red 
and  almost  covered  with  bright  pinkish-red,  sometimes  deepening  to  purplish, 
inconspicuously  striped  with  deep  carmine,  covered  with  a  thin  whitish  bloom. 
Dots  conspicuous,  numerous  toward  the  eye,  larger,  more  irregular  and  more 
scattering  towards  the  cavity,  grayish-white  or  yellow,  sometimes  russet 
areolar.  Prevailing  effect  attractive  bright  red. 

Calyx  tube  long,  funnel-shape  or  approaching  conical.  Stamens  median  to 
basal. 

Core  medium  or  above  with  hollow  cylinder,  nearly  axile ;  cells  symmetrical, 
closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  roundish 
or  elongated,  not  emarginate  or  but  slightly  so,  tufted.  Seeds  medium  to 
above,  rather  wide,  long,  somewhat  acute,  tufted,  often  somewhat  abortive. 

Flesh  whitish,  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp, 
breaking,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  good. 

Season  January  to  June  or  later. 

ELLSWORTH. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Downing,  1872:160. 

Described  by  Downing  as  medium  in  size,  yellow  netted  with  russet.  Flesh 
tender,  juicy,  rich,  sprightly  subacid,  very  good  to  best  in  quality.  In  season 
from  January  to  March.  Origin,  Columbia  county. 

We  have  not  seen  this  variety. 


n8  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

ENGLISH  RUSSET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:132.  fig.  2.  Thomas,  1849:180,  190.  fig.  3. 
Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  1850:470.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:99.  1851. 
fig.  5.  Elliott,  1858:98.  6.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  7.  Downing,  1872: 
162.  fig.  8.  Downing,  C,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:36.  9.  Barry,  1883:345. 
10.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238.  n.  Mtmson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:132.  12. 
Budd-Hansen,  1903:75.  13.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:118.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  English  Russet  (5).  POUGHKEEPSIE  RUSSET  (5).  Pough- 
keepsie  Russet  (2,  7,  9,  n).  Winter  Russet  (3,  5). 

A  greenish-yellow  russet  of  medium  size  or  rather  small,  pretty 
uniform  in  size,  not  especially  attractive  in  color  nor  high  in  quality, 
but  one  of  the  best  keeping  apples  known.  In  ordinary  cellar 
storage  it  has  often  been  kept  till  the  next  crop  has  ripened.  Late 
in  the  season  it  is  apt  to  shrivel  some.  Fruit-dealers  report  that  the 
fruit  from  Southern  and  Southwestern  New  York  is  larger  and  has 
poorer  keeping  quality,  while  that  from  Northern  and  Western  New 
York  is  smaller  and  keeps  better. 

Within  recent  years  it  has  been  in  good  demand  for  export  trade, 
bringing  relatively  better  prices  in  Europe  than  in  America.  It  is 
not  very  good  for  cooking,  but  has  the  reputation  of  making  excep- 
tionally good  cider.  It  is  acceptable  for  dessert  following  the  season 
of  E'sopus  Spitzeriburg  and  Baldwin.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the 
tree,  but  there  is  apt  to  be  considerable  loss  because  a  relatively  large 
percentage  of  the  apples  are  too  small  for  market.  Where  insects 
are  not  controlled  the  fruit  is  often  knotty.  The  trees  commonly 
bear  biennially  and  only  moderately,  heavy  crops  being  rare. 

ENGLISH  RUSSET  AND  GOLDEN  RUSSET  COMPARED. 
It  may  be  distinguished  from  the  Golden  Russet,  which  is  also 
called  by  some  English  Golden  Russet,  by  its  straight-growing  habit, 
with  erect  shoots  forming  an  upright  or  round  top.  The  Golden 
Russet  trees  are  more  vigorous,  spreading,  irregular  and  bushy. 
The  English  Russet  twigs  of  one  season's  growth  have  more  of  a 
clear  reddish-brown  color,  and  the  lenticels,  being  comparatively  dull 
in  color  and  only  moderately  numerous,  are  not  very  conspicuous, 
although  they  are  sometimes  large,  while  the  Golden  Russet  twigs 
when  highly  colored  are  darker  brown,  varying  towards  olive-green 
where  the  color  is  less  strongly  developed.  They  are  finely  mottled 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  119 

with  grayish  scarf-skin,  and  the  roundish  lenticels,  although  they  are 
usually  small,  are  numerous  and  conspicuous,  having  a  clear,  pale 
color.  On  the  bark  of  the  second  season's  growth  the  lenticels  are 
elongated  transversely,  still  numerous  and  decidedly  conspicuous. 
In  the  English  Russet  the  tendency  of  the  fruit  to  become  narrow 
towards  the  eye  is  more  marked  than  in  the  Golden  Russet,  and  its 
calyx  is  more  often  open,  with  the  lobes  reflexed.  The  Golden 
Russet  basin  is  often  the  wider  and  markedly  saucer-shaped,  with 
the  calyx  set  in  a  narrow,  green  or  yellowish  circle  which  contrasts 
sharply  with  the  surrounding  russet.  The  stem  of  the  Golden 
Ruseet  is  usually  the  shorter  and  stouter,  while  that  of  the  English 
Russet  often  has  a  brownish-red  streak  not  found  on  the  other. 
The  cavity  of  the  Golden  Russet  is  somewhat  larger  and  wider,  but 
on  the  average  is  hardly  as  deep  as  that  of  the  English  Russet.  It  is 
often  marked  with  grayish  dots,  while  that  of  the  English  Russet 
is  not.  The  skin  of  the  Golden  Russet  varies  from  a  dull  greenish 
russet  to  golden  russet ;  and  when  grown  under  favorable  conditions 
sometimes  has  a  bronze  blush,  but  it  does  not  take  a  polish.  The 
skin  of  the  English  Russet  shows  no  sign  of  a  blush,  but  it  is  some- 
what the  smoother,  paler  and  brighter  in  color,  and  takes  a  good 
polish.  The  flesh  of  the  Golden  Russet  is  richer  in  flavor,  more 
tender,  and  of  higher  quality  than  that  of  the  English'  Russet;  its 
seeds  have  a  more  marked  red  tinge ;  its  core  is  more  distinctly 
abaxile ;  its  cells  are  more  often  unsymmetrical ;  its  carpels  are  more 
concave  and  its  seeds  are  broader,  more  irregular  in  form  and 
size,  less  acute  and  more  distinctly  tufted. 

Historical.  Although  this  has  long  been  extensively  grown  under  the  name 
English  Russet  it  has  not  been  identified  with  any  European  variety  and  its 
origin  is  unknown.  It  is  much  grown  in  Westchester  and  Putnam  counties 
and  is  found  in  old  orchards  throughout  the  State.  It  is  distinct  from  the 
English  Russet  of  Warder,1  also  from  that  described  by  Burrill  and  McCluer2 
as  the  "  English  Russet  of  England." 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size  to  rather  large,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous. 
Form  upright.  Twigs  erect,  medium  or  above  medium  in  length,  moderately 
stout  to  rather  slender,  often  with  large  terminal  bud ;  internodes  short.  Bark 
rather  dark  clear  brownish-red  or,  on  the  shaded  side,  brownish-green,  covered 

*Amcr.  Pom.  1867:62S.     *Ill.  Sta.  Bui,  45:32o.     1896. 


120  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

sparingly  with  gray  scarf-skin;  somewhat  pubescent.  Leniicels  moderately 
abundant,  not  particularly  conspicuous  but  rather  dull  colored,  often  roundish, 
sometimes  large.  Buds  often  short,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  moderately  pubes- 
cent, rather  deeply  set  in  the  bark,  free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  rather  small ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Perm 
roundish,  more  or  less  inclined  to  conic,  pretty  regular  and  symmetrical, 
sometimes  faintly  ribbed,  occasionally  sides  unequal.  Stem  moderately  thick 
to  rather  slender,  medium  in  length  to  short,  often  streaked  on  one  side  with 
brownish-red,  ^usually  not  exserted.  Cavity  acute  to  somewhat  acuminate, 
rather  narrow  to  medium  in  width,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  symmetrical  or 
slightly  compressed,  occasionally  lipped,  furrowed  obscurely  if  at  all.  Calyx 
small  to  medium,  usually  open,  sometimes  closed ;  segments  often  long,  acute 
and  reflexed.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  moderately  wide  to  rather 
narrow,  symmetrical. 

Skin  tough,  takes  a  good  polish,  varies  from  pale  green  to  yellow  more 
or  less  covered  with  russet,  the  base  often  being  entirely  russeted.  Highly 
colored  specimens  become  clear  golden  russet  but  have  no  perceptible  shade 
of  red.  Dots  inconspicuous,  round  or  irregular,  dark  russet. 

Calyx  tube  rather  narrow,  cone-shape,  sometimes  funnel-form.  Stamens 
basal  to  median. 

Core  rather  small,  abaxile ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  open,  sometimes  closed ; 
core  lines  usually  meeting,  but  with  a  funnel-form  calyx  tube  they  are  clasp- 
ing. Carpels  rather  flat,  roundish  to  broadly  ovate,  slightly  tufted,  but 
slightly  emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  in  size,  plump,  rather 
narrow,  acute  to  acuminate,  rather  light  brown,  sometimes  slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish-white,  firm,  rather  crisp,  moderately  tender,  fine-grained, 
not  very  juicy,  somewhat  aromatic,  pleasant,  rather  mild  subacid,  good. 

Season  January  to  May  or  later. 

ESOPUS  SPITZENBURG. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:127.  2.  Thacher,  1822:137.  3.  N.  Y.  Ed.  of 
Agr.  Mem.,  1826:477.  4.  Wilson,  1828:136.  5.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831: 
368.  6.  Kenrick,  1832:40.  7.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:45.  8.  Downing,  1845:138. 
9.  Thomas,  1849:171,  172.  fig.  10.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  16:62.  1850.  fig.  n. 
Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:  col.  pi.  No.  23.  1851.  12.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1852.  13.  Elliott,  1858:76.  fig.  14.  Bivort,  An.  Pom.  de  Beige,  1859:75.  15. 
Flotow,  ///.  Handb.  der  Obstk.,  1:525.  1859.  16.  Warder,  1867:539,  fig.  17. 
Mas,  Le  Verger,  4:141.  col.  pi.  18.  Leroy,  3:54.  1873.  19.  Barry,  1883:345. 
20.  Hogg,  1884.73.  21.  Wickson,  1889:247.  22.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:290.  23.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238.  24.  Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas. 
An.  Rpt.,  3:14.  1896.  fig.  25.  Eneroth-Smirnoff,  1901:452.  26.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:76.  fig.  27.  Massey,  .V.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:20.  1903.  28.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:40.  1903.  29.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui,  248:118.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  ^Esopus  SPITZEMBERG  (7).  ^sopus  Spitzemberg  (8,  10,  18). 
yEsopus  SPITZENBERG  (6).  ^Esopus  Spitzenberg  (20).  JEsopus  Spitzenburg 
(8).  ESOPUS  SPITZENBURGH  (18).  JEsopus  Spitzenburgh  (10).  ESOPUS 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  121 

(28).  ESOPUS  SPITZEMBERG  (i).  ESOPUS  SPITZENBERG  (3,  10,  16,  21).  ESOPUS 
SPITZENBURG  (13,  22,  23).  Esopus  Spitzenburg  (28).  ESOPUS  SPITZENBURGH 
(n,  19,  20).  Esopus  Spitzenburgh  (24).  SPITSZENBURGH  (2).  SPITZENBERG 
(4).  Spitzenburg  (29).  SPITZENBURGH  (24).  SPITZENBURGH,  ESOPUS  (8,  9). 
True  Spitzenburgh  (8,  18,  20). 

The  Esopus  Spitsenburg,  commonly  known  as  the  Spitzenburg,  is 
the  standard  of  excellence  for  apples  of  the  Baldwin  class,  to  which 
it  naturally  belongs.  When  well  grown  it  is  handsomely  colored 
and  unexcelled  in  flavor  and  quality.  It  is  a  choice  dessert  fruit 
and  also  one  of  the  best  apples  known  either  for  canning  or  for 
general  culinary  uses.  It  is  well  adapted  for  handling  in  cold 
storage,  ships  well,  has  long  had  a  well-established  reputation  in 
market,  always  sells  well,  is  well  suited  for  marketing  in  boxes  or 
fancy  packages  and  often  brings  fancy  prices.  It  is  in  season 
between  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Baldwin.  It  is  quite  variable 
in  keeping  quality  in  different  seasons  and  in  different  localities  (29). 
The  fruit  is  quite  susceptible  to  the  attacks  of  the  scab  fungus,  as 
also  are  the  blossoms  and  the  foliage.  It  is  often  injured  by  the 
apple-canker,  and  therefore  it  is  advisable  to  graft  or  bud  it  upon 
a  healthier  variety.  Special  attention  n^eeds  to  be  given  to  protecting 
both  the  tree  and  the  fruit  from  the  diseases  just  mentioned.1  As 
one  means  for  accomplishing  this  result  and  also  for  the  purpose  of 
increasing  the  yield  of  high-grade  fruit,  it  is  wise  to  prune  regularly 
but  moderately,  and  to  give  the  trees  enough  room  in  the  orchard 
so  that  they  do  not  crowd  each  other,  thus  permitting  free  movement 
of  air  and  access  of  ample  light  around  and  among  all  of  the 
branches.  Especial  care  should  be  taken  to  favor  a  free  and  vigor- 
ous growth  of  the  tree  by  keeping  the  soil  highly  fertile,  well  sup- 
plied with  humus,  well  drained  and  yet  well  supplied  with  moisture 
throughout  the  growing  season. 

Under  favorable  conditions  Esopus  Spitzenburg  bears  pretty  regu- 
larly, but  it  is  commonly  rated  as  being,  on  the  average,  a  rather 
moderate  cropper.  For  this  reason  and  because  of  its  susceptibility 
to  the  diseases  above  mentioned  it  is  not  largely  planted  in  com- 
mercial orchards,  being  found  less  profitable  than  Baldwin,  Rhode 

1  Descriptions  of  these  diseases  and  approved  methods  of  dealing  with  them  are  set  forth 
in  bulletins  of  this  Station  168:1899,  170:i90O,  186:1900,  248:1903,  and  in  the  Station's 
corresponding  annual  reports. 


122  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Island  Greening  and  certain  other  standard  commercial  sorts.  The 
fruit  develops  good  color  and  quality  in  most  of  the  apple-growing- 
regions  of  the  State  but  it  does  particularly  well  in  favorable  locali- 
ties in  Schoharie  and  Greene  counties  and  along  Lake  Champlain. 

Historical.  Originated  at  Esopus,  Ulster  county.  We  find  no  authentic 
account  of  the  date  of  its  origin  but  it  is  scattered  throughout  the  State  in 
the  oldest  orchards  and  was  well  known  in  cultivation  in  this  and  adjoining 
states  more  than  a  century  ago.  It  is  known  in  cultivation  in  Europe,  and  is 
one  of  the  recognized  commercial  varieties  in  certain  apple-growing  districts 
of  the  Rocky  Mountain  region,  Washington  and  Oregon. 

TREE. 

Tree  in  the  nursery  makes  a  rather  slow  root  development,  and  in  the 
orchard  is  a  moderately  slow  grower;  the  lateral  branches  are  rather  slender 
and  eventually  somewhat  drooping.  Form  rather  open  and  spreading,  moder- 
ately upright.  Tzvigs  rather  long  and  slender.  Bark  dark,  rather  clear,  red- 
dish-brown, and  dark  green,  finely  mottled  with  thin  gray  scarf-skin;  but 
slightly  pubescent  if  at  all.  Lenticels  medium  size  or  below,  numerous,  irreg- 
ular, elongated,  conspicuous.  Buds  medium  size,  appressed,  obtuse,  pubescent. 
Leaves  inclined  to  be  narrow ;  foliage  not  dense. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  large";  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
rather  broad  and  flat  at  the  base,  varying  from  oblong  rounding  towards  the 
cavity  to  roundish  ovate  or  to  roundish  inclined  to  conic;  somewhat  irregular 
and  obscurely  ribbed.  Stem  medium.  Cavity  acute  or  somewhat  acuminate, 
deep,  wide,  red  or  yellow  or  with  outspreading  rays  of  thin  yellowish-russet. 
Calyx'  medium  to  small,  closed  or  somewhat  open.  Basin  not  large,  often 
oblique  at  brim,  abrupt,  moderately  narrow,  shallow  to  medium  in  depth,  some- 
times compressed,  usually  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  sometimes  waxy,  slightly  roughened  by  the  russet  dots,  deep 
rich  yellow  often  almost  completely  covered  with  bright  red  inconspicuously 
striped  with  darker  red,  in  the  sun  deepening  to  a  very  dark,  almost  purplish 
blush,  marked  with  pale  yellow  and  russet  dots  which  are  small  and  numerous 
toward  the  basin,  but  are  apt  to  be  larger  and  much  elongated  toward  the 
cavity. 

Calyx  tube  not  very  large,  often  elongated,  cone-shape.  Stamens  below 
medium  to  above. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  abaxile ;  cells  often  unsymmetrical  and  open 
but  sometimes  closed ;  core  lines  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  large,  roundish 
ovate,  mucronate,  tufted.  Seeds  large,  long,  wide,  acute,  dark  shaded  with 
light  brown. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy, 
aromatic,  sprightly  subacid,  very  good  to  best. 

Season  November  to  February  or  later.  In  cold  storage  may  be  held  till 
June. 


ESOPUS  SPITZENBURG 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  123 

ETOWAH. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1876:51.  app.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1881.  3. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238.  4.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:118. 
1904. 

SYNONYM.     COOPER'S  RED  (3).     Cooper's  Red  (i). 

This  is  a  variety  of  Georgia  origin  which  is  regarded  with  favor  in  some 
parts  of  the  South  (i,  2,  3).  So  far  as  we  know  it  is  not  being  grown  in 
New  York.  The  variety  described  under  the  name  Etowah  in  Bulletin  248 
of  this  Station  is  not  true  to  name. 

ETRIS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  49:11.  1898.  2.  Ib.,  60:128.  1899. 
3.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:77. 

The  variety  which  has  been  propagated  under  this  name  in  Arkansas  may 
be  a  new  variety  but  it  appears  to  be  identical  with  Gano  (i,  2). 

EVENING  PARTY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Brinckle,  Horticulturist,  10:539.  1855.  col.  pi.  2.  Downing, 
1857:77.  fig.  3.  Elliott,  1859:137.  4.  Warder,  1867:433.  fig.  5.  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  6.  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpl.,  1881:310.  7.  Thomas,  1885:233. 
8.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238.  9.  Buckman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  54:806.  1895.  10. 
Budd-Hansen,  1903:78.  fig. 

A  pleasant  flavored  dessert  fruit  which  is  in  season  at  Christmas.  Some 
find  the  tree  unproductive  but  others  report  that  it  is  a  biennial  bearer  pro- 
ducing so  abundantly  that  the  fruit  is  small  if  it  is  not  thinned  and  the  tree 
well  pruned.  When  highly  colored  it  is  decidedly  attractive  but  often  it  does 
not  color  well  and  usually  is  below  medium  in  size.  It  is  not  recommended 
for  commercial  planting. 

Historical.  Origin,  Berks  county,  Pa.  (4).  It  has  been  known  in  cultiva- 
tion for  fifty  years  but  it  is  but  little  grown  in  New  York  and  its  cultivation 
is  not  being  extended.  i 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  roundish  with  long 
spreading  branches.  Tzvigs  dark  reddish-brown,  slender  to  rather  stout, 
curved  at  base;  internodes  long  to  very  long.  Bark  generally  dull  brownish- 
red  with  a  rather  strong  undertone  of  olive-green  in  places;  scarf-skin  uni- 
form, moderately  light.  Lenticels  inconspicuous,  raised,  numerous,  above 
medium  to  rather  small,  roundish.  Buds  medium  size,  moderately  obtuse, 
quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  rather  small.  Form  oblate  to  roundish,  pretty  sym- 
metrical, uniform.  Stem  short,  medium  in  thickness,  seldom  exserted. 
Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  moderately  broad,  usually  smooth,  occasion- 
ally with  outspreading  russet  rays,  symmetrical.  Calyx  medium  to  large, 


124  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

open  or  partly  closed;  lobes  long,  acuminate,  somewhat  separated  at  the  base. 
Basin  abrupt,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  moderately  wide,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  rather  tough,  smooth,  glossy,  greenish  or  pale  yellow 
mottled  and  blushed  with  red  and  indistinctly  and  sparingly  striped  with 
carmine  becoming  a  dark,  almost  purplish,  red  in  the  sun ;  the  deep  red  color 
is  apt  to  overspread  the  basin  while  the  yellow  ground  color  is  conspicuous 
around  the  cavity.  Dots  large,  pale,  mingled  with  many  that  are  small,  whitish 
and  submerged  or  with  minute  russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  short,  broad,  conical.     Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  somewhat  abaxile  to  axile ;  cells  usually  pretty  sym- 
metrical, partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  roundish 
to  elliptical,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  medium  in  size,  moderately  wide,  plump, 
obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  fine,  rather  crisp,  tender,  very 
juicy,  mild  subacid  mingled  writh  sweet,  somewrhat  aromatic,  very  good  to  best. 

Season  December  and  January. 

EWALT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1857:141.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  3. 
Warder,  1867:640.  4.  Downing,  1872:166.  5.  Thomas,  1885:509.  6.  Pa.Hort. 
Assoc.  Rpt.,  1885:25.  7.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238.  8.  Powell  and  Fulton, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:40.  1903.  9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:78.  10.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:118.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     Bullocks  Pippin  of  some  (4). 

Fruit  of  good  marketable  size  and  attractive,  having  a  clear  yellow  skin 
usually  somewhat  blushed  with  bright  red.  It  is  not  a  first-class  dessert 
apple,  being  rather  too  acid  and  not  high  in  quality,  but  it  is  good  for  culinary 
use.  The  tree  occasionally  bears  good  crops  but  commonly  it  is  a  moderate 
or  rather  shy  bearer. 

Historical  Origin,  Bedford  county,  Pa.  (3,  4).  Although  it  has  been 
known  in  cultivation  for  many  years  it  has  not  gained  recognition  as  a  com- 
mercial variety. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous;  branches  long,  moderately  stout,  curved.  Form  upright 
spreading,  round,  rather  dense.  Tivigs  medium  or  above,  straight,  stout; 
internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  clear  dark  brownish-red  or  tinged  with 
olive-green,  heavily  pubescent;  scarf-skin  rather  thin  or  none.  Lenticels  con- 
spicuous, rather  numerous,  small  to  medium,  oblong,  or  roundish,  not  raised. 
Buds  small  to  medium,  flat,  obtuse,  free,  imbedded  in  the  bark,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  varies  from  roundish  conic  to  roundish  oblate,  some- 
times irregularly  elliptical  with  sides  unequal  or  compressed,  usually  pretty 
symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity  not  large,  acute 
to  acuminate,  deep,  rather  narrow  to  broad,  sometimes  partly  russeted  with 
narrow  broken  outspreading  russet  rays,  often  furrowed  or  compressed. 
Calyx  usually  large  and  leafy,  sometimes  rather  small,  closed  or  partly  open; 


EWALT 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  125 

lobes  long,  acute.  Basin  not  large,  sometimes  oblique,  rather  shallow  to  mod- 
erately deep,  rather  narrow,  abrupt,  often  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  waxy,  but  not  glossy,  clear  yellow  usually  with  a  thin  brownish 
blush  which  sometimes  deepens  to  bright  red  with  a  slight  tendency  to  become 
striped,  often  marked  with  suture  lines  extending  from  cavity  toward  the 
basin.  Dots  numerous,  small,  inconspicuous,  whitish  or  with  minute  russet 
point,  usually  submerged. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  to  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  abaxile,  medium  or  below ;  cells  often  unsymmetrical,  closed  or  open ; 
core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  variable,  roundish  to  roundish 
ovate  or  obovate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  to  large,  rather  long,  moderately 
wide,  obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  rather  tender, 
juicy,  brisk  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  good. 

Season  November  to  April.     Commercial  limit  February  or  March  (10). 

FALIX. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:119.  1904. 

Fruit  of  medium  size  with  tender  flesh,  sprightly  mild  subacid,  good  but 
not  excellent  in  quality.  In  form  and  also  in  the  ground  color  and  striping 
it  reminds  one  of  the  St.  Lawrence,  being  oblate  conic  and  dull  green  or  light 
yellow  mottled  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red.  It  is  less  attractive  than 
St.  Lawrence.  Season  November  to  April.  Received  for  testing  here  from 
Benjamin  Buckman,  Farmingdale,  Ills.  It  does  not  excel  as  a  dessert  fruit 
and  is  not  attractive  enough  to  be  a  good  market  apple.  It  is  not  recom- 
mended even  for  trial. 

FALLAWATER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:109.  2.  Horticulturist,  2:482,  570.  1848. 
3.  Thomas,  1849:180.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:44.  1851.  col.  pi.  5. 
James,  Horticulturist,  8:247.  1853.  6.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  22:556.  1856.  fig. 
7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1856.  8.  Elliott,  1858:79.  fig.  g.  Norris,  Horticul- 
turist, 15:183.  1860.  10.  Warder,  1867:495.  fig.  n.  Downing,  1872:167.  12. 
Barry,  1883:345.  13.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:290.  14.  Wickson, 
1891:248.  15.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238,  251.  16.  Dempsey,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas. 
An.  Rpt.,  1:24.  1894.  17.  N.  C.  Bd.  of  Agr.  Bui.,  1900:10.  col.  pi.  18.  Waugh, 
Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:293.  1901.  19.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:78.  fig.  20.  Beach 
and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:119.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Faldwaldcr  (6).  Fallawater  (2,  5,  8).  Fall  de  W aides  (9). 
FALLENWALDER  (5,  8).  Fallenwalder  (6).  Fornwalder  (5).  Green  Moun- 
tain Pippin  (6,8,  n).  Mountain  Pippin  (8,  n).  Pirn's  Beauty  of  the  West 
(8).  Pine's  Beauty  of  the  West  (6).  Pound  (2,  n).  Tulpahocken  (6,  8). 
TULPEHOCKEN  (2).  Tulpehocken  (10,  TI,  12,  14,  18,  19,  20).  Winter  Blush 
(ii). 

Fruit  large  or  very  large,  globular,  attractive  in  size  and  form, 
but  as  grown  in  Western  New  York  it  is  often  rather  dull  in  color. 
The  accompanying  colored  plate  was  made  from  a  highly  colored 


126  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

specimen  grown  in  the  Hudson  valley.  In  favorable  localities  on 
Long  Island  it  colors  well  and  develops  better  quality  than  it  com- 
monly does  north  of  Orange  county.  The  flesh  is  coarse  and  at  best 
but  second  rate  in  quality.  It  is  well  knDwn  in  market,  and  is  often 
handled  at  satisfactory  prices  in  domestic  and  also  in  export  trade. 
The  tree  is  usually  a  good,  regular  bearer,  producing  biennially 
or  in  some  localities  almost  annually.  Sometimes  the  larger  branches 
break  under  their  load  of  fruit.  The  fruit  being  large,  there  is  apt 
to  be  a  considerable  loss  from  dropping,  but  considering  its  size  it 
generally  hangs  to  the  tree  pretty  well.  It  is  variable  in  season, 
ranking  as  a  keeper  sometimes  with  Hubbardston  and  sometimes 
with  Rhode  Island  Greening.  Although  it  has  long  been  dissemi- 
nated throughout  New  York,  it  has  not  generally  been  regarded  with 
favor  by  New  York  orchardists,  except  possibly  in  some  parts  of 
Long  Island. 

Historical.  Origin  Bucks  county,  Pennsylvania.  Hovey  referred  to  it  in 
1856  as  having  been  known  and  cultivated  for  many  years  under  the  name 
Fallawater  (6).  Warder  in  1867  remarked  that  it  was  then  a  great  favorite 
in  Pennsylvania  and  "  extensively  cultivated  through  the  West." 

TREE. 

Tree  makes  a  moderately  light  root  growth  in  the  nursery.  In  the  orchard 
it  becomes  large  and  vigorous.  Form  upright  to  roundish.  Twigs  medium 
in  length  to  short,  moderately  stout,  thick  at  the  tips,  erect;  internodes 
medium.  Bark  smooth,  bright  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green,  finely 
mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  moderately  conspicuous, 
rather  abundant,  medium  in  size,  usually  roundish.  Buds  medium  or  above, 
roundish,  obtuse,  sparingly  pubescent,  free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large.  Form  globular,  sometimes  a  little  oblate,  usually 
symmetrical,  sometimes  slightly  irregular,  and  faintly  ribbed,  but  it  is  pretty 
uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  very  short.  Cavity  distinctly  acuminate, 
deep,  rather  narrow  to  broad,  usually  somewhat  furrowed.  Calyx  medium  to 
large,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  variable.  Basin  shallow  to  moderately 
deep,  moderately  abrupt  to  abrupt,  often  nearly  symmetrical,  sometimes  dis- 
tinctly furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  a  little  waxy,  often  dull  grass-green  with  dull  blush, 
but  highly  colored  specimens  eventually  become  distinctly  yellow  and  largely 
blushed  with  bright  deep  pinkish-red,  often  considerably  streaked  with  thin 
grayish  scarf-skin.  Dots  conspicuous,  whitish,  often  large  areolar  with  russet 
point. 


FALLAWATER 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  127 

tube  wide,  rather  short,  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel-form. 
Stamens  basal  to  median. 

Core  decidedly  abaxile  to  nearly  axile,  medium  to  large,  cells  unsymmetrical, 
open  or  closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  distinctly 
tufted,  long,  narrowly  ovate,  mucronate,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all. 
Seeds  often  are  very  few,  long,  narrow,  acute  to  acuminate,  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  green,  firm,  coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender, 
juicy,  subacid  to  mildly  sweet,  without  distinct  or  high  flavor,  quality  good  or 
nearly  so. 

Season  November  to  March  or  April,  being  quite  variable  in  different  locali- 
ties and  in  different  seasons.  On  Long  Island  it  is  commonly  in  season  in 
October  and  out  of  season  in  January. 

Use.     Desirable  only  for  cooking  and  market. 

FAMILY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Warder,  1867:515.  2.  Downing,  1872:172.  fig.  3.  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  4.  Barry,  1883:333.  5.  Thomas,  1885:509.  6.  Bailey,  An. 
h'ort.,  1892:239.  7.  Clayton,  Ala.  Sta.  Bui.,  47:8.  1893.  8.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:83. 

SYNONYMS.     McCi.ouDS  FAMILY   (i).     McLouds  Family   (2,  4). 

As  grown  at  this  Station  the  Family  does  not  agree  closely  with  the  descrip- 
tions of  this  variety  given  by  various  pomologists  (2,  4,  5,  8),  particularly  in 
regard  to  its  season  of  ripening.  Nevertheless  we  believe  that  we  have  the 
variety  true  to  name.  We  have  traced  our  stock  back  to  W.  M.  Samuels, 
Clinton,  Kentucky,  a  careful  nurseryman.  In  Georgia,  where  it  originated, 
Family  is  a  summer  apple  and  according  to  some  nursery  catalogue  descrip- 
tions "  keeps  ripening  for  six  weeks."  In  Central  Illinois  it  is  in  season  in 
September.  Here  at  Geneva  some  of  the  fruit  may  keep  through  the  winter 
although  its  season  would  best  be  described  as  extending  from  October  to 
January.  It  is  not  a  desirable  variety  for  planting  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous,  with  short,  moderately  stout  branches ;  does  not  come  into 
bearing  young  but  is  an  annual  bearer  and  a  moderately  good  cropper.  There 
is  a  considerable  loss  from  the  dropping  of  the  fruit.  Form  upright  spread- 
ing, rather  dense.  Tivigs  short,  straight,  moderately  stout ;  internodes  below 
medium  to  short.  Bark  olive-green,  tinged  with  red,  covered  with  a  light 
coat  of  grayish  scarf-skin,  quite  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  not  clear  in 
color,  inconspicuous,  scattering,  medium  in  size,  roundish.  Buds  medium,  flat, 
obtuse,  very  pubescent,  deeply  set  in  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  medium.  Form  roundish  ovate  to  roundish  conic,  faintly 
ribbed,  rather  symmetrical,  sides  often  unequal ;  pretty  uniform  in  shape  and 
size.  Stem  long  to  medium,  usually  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acumi- 
nate, medium  in  depth  to  deep,  narrow,  usually  symmetrical,  sometimes  lipped, 
often  smooth  but  sometimes  overspread  with  russet.  Calyx  medium,  usually 


128  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

slightly  open ;  lobes  rather  long  and  reflexed.  Basin  shallow  to  very  shallow, 
narrow,  abrupt,  narrowly  furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  mottled  and  washed  with  red  over  a  rather  pale 
yellow  ground,  shading  to  deep  dark  red  in  the  sun,  marked  with  many 
narrow  and  broken  stripes  of  dull  purplish-carmine,  sprinkled  with  rather 
conspicuous  pale  yellowish  or  russet  dots  and  overspread  with  whitish  bloom. 

Calyx  tube  long,  rather  wide,  funnel- form  or  conical,  often  extending  to 
the  core.  Stamens  median  to  nearly  basal. 

Core  abaxile,  large ;  cells  usually  symmetrical  and  wide  open ;  .core  lines 
somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  rather  concave,  round  to  broadly  elliptical. 
Seeds  numerous,  medium  to  rather  large,  acute  to  obtuse,  plump. 

Flesh  yellowish  sometimes  tinged  with  red  near  the  skin,  firm,  rather  crisp, 
fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid  becoming  mild,  pleasant  in  flavor, 
good. 

FARRIS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Churchill,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  8:355.  1889.  2.  Beach, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:259.  1895.  3-  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248: 
1 20.  1904. 

Fruit  resembles  Rambo  somewhat.  As  grown  at  this  Station  its  quality  is 
good  but  not  as  high  as  it  is  rated  in  Kentucky  where  it  was  first  introduced 
into  cultivation.  The  tree  does  not  come  into  bearing  very  young.  It  is 
usually  moderately  productive  and  sometimes  very  productive,  but  it  is  too 
unattractive  in  color  and  too  small  to  be  desirable  for  commercial  purposes. 

Historical.  Farris  was  introduced  by  a  Mr.  Reeves  of  Allen  county,  Ken- 
tucky, and  afterwards  brought  more  prominently  into  notice  by  W.  M. 
Samuels,  Clinton,  Ky.  It  was  granted  first  premium  as  the  best  fall  apple 
at  a  fruit  exhibition  in  St.  Louis  in  1876. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  rather  small,  with  short  stout  branches.  Form 
spreading,  flat,  open.  Ttvigs  medium  in  length  to  rather  short,  straight,  mod- 
erately stout ;  internodes  short.  Bark  clear,  reddish-brown,  with  some  olive- 
green  and  streaked  with  gray  scarf-skin ;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  clear 
in  color,  scattering,  small,  or  very  small,  generally  round,  not  raised.  Buds 
deeply  set  in  bark,  medium  in  size,  flat,  obtuse  or  acute,  appressed,  slightly 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  below.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish  conic,  faintly 
ribbed.  Stem  rather  stout.  Cavity  acute,  sometimes  nearly  obtuse,  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  narrow,  sometimes  lipped,  sometimes  slightly  russeted.  Calyx 
often  flat,  small  to  above  medium,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  often  somewhat  furrowed  and 
wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  waxy,  somewhat  glossy,  yellow,  largely  overspread  with  rather 
dull,  deep  red,  in  highly  colored  specimens  becoming  purplish,  sometimes 
obscurely  striped  with  purplish-carmine  Dots  yellowish,  sometimes  with 
russet  point,  numerous,  small  to  large,  often  conspicuous. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  129 

Calyx  tube  usually  rather  narrow  and  cone-shape,  sometimes  funnel-shape. 
Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  axile,  medium,  closed ;  core  lines  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  roundish 
or  roundish  obcordate,  tufted.  Seeds  large  to  below  medium,  narrow,  long, 
acuminate  to  acute,  tufted,  often  some  are  abortive. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  coarse,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid,  good. 

Season  variable,  usually  extending  from  December  to  March  or  April,  some- 
times later. 

FERDINAND. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Summer,  Horticulturist,  4:275.  1849.  fig.  2.  Elliott,  1858: 
133-  3-  Warder,  1867:533.  4.  Downing,  1872:175.  5.  Leroy,  1873:300.  6. 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  7.  Thomas,  1885:510.  8.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1895:193- 

Fruit  of  good  form  and  size  and  rather  attractive  in  color  for  a  yellow 
apple.  It  is  a  fine  dessert  fruit  and  a  good  keeper.  As  grown  at  this  Station 
it  is  rather  slow  in  coming  into  bearing  and  at  best  is  only  moderately  pro- 
ductive but  it  bears  some  fruit  nearly  every  year.  It  is  not  recommended  for 
commercial  planting.  Because  it  is  excellent  in  quality  and  a  good  keeper  it 
may  be  worthy  of  a  place  in  the  home  orchards  in  the  lower  Hudson  valley 
and  on  Long  Island. 

Historical.  Ferdinand  originated  with  Mr.  Adam  Minnick  near  Pomaria, 
S.  C.  It  bore  its  first  fruit  in  1848.  In  that  locality  it  is  a  late  autumn 
variety.  In  1873  it  was  given  a  place  in  the  American  Pomological  Society's 
Catalogue  of  recommended  apples  but  was  dropped  from  that  list  in  1899. 

TREE. 

Tree  a  strong  upright  grower  in  the  nursery.  In  the  orchard  at  this  Station 
it  is  a  rather  slow  grower  with  short,  moderately  stout  branches.  Form 
spreading  and  open,  flat  at  the  top.  Tzvigs  upright,  small  to  medium,  straight, 
stout;  internodes  vary  from  long  to  short.  Bark  olive-green  tinged  with 
brownish-red,  in  part  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  somewhat  pubescent  near  tips. 
Lenticcls  scattering,  medium  to  large,  oblong  to  roundish,  raised.  Buds 
medium  to  large,  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  slightly  pubescent. 


Fruit  above  medium  to  nearly  large.  Form  flattened  at  the  base,  roundish 
conic  to  oblate  conic,  often  somewhat  ribbed,  somewhat  irregular.  Stem  short, 
often  with  a  fleshy  protuberance.  Cavity  acute,  moderately  shallow  to  rather 
deep,  rather  narrow,  often  obscurely  furrowed  or  compressed,  often  overspread 
with  russet,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  above  medium  to  small,  partly  open  or 
closed ;  lobes  acuminate.  Basin  often  oblique,  usually  narrow  and  shallow  but 
varies  to  moderately  wide  and  deep. 

Skin  rather  thin,  moderately  tender,  deep  yellow  or  greenish  with  an  orange 
blush  which  sometimes  deepens  to  red,  sometimes  partly  covered  with  russet. 
Dots  numerous,  sometimes  whitish,  but  usually  rough  russet,  variable  in  size 
and  irregular  in  form.  Prevailing  effect  greenish-yellow.  ' 


130  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Calyx  tube  wide,  cone-shape  or  sometimes  rather  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median. 

Core  small  to  above  medium,  abaxile;  cells  fairly  symmetrical,  closed  or 
somewhat  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  emarginate, 
slightly  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  above  medium  to  below,  flat,  obtuse,  dark. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  fine,  crisp,  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
aromatic  with  a  rich  agreeable  flavor  similar  to  that  of  some  russet  apples, 
sprightly  becoming  mild  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

FERRIS. 

REFERENCES.  i.  Elliott,  1854:170.  2.  Downing,  1857:165.  3.  Warder, 
1867:517.  4.  Downing,  1872:175.  5.  Thomas,  1885:220. 

SYNONYMS.  Ferris  (2,  5).  LONG  ISLAND  SEEK-NO-FURTHER  (2,  3,  5). 
Rhode  Island  Seek-No-Further  (5).  Westchester  Seek-No-Further  (2,  3,  5). 

A  large,  red  striped  apple,  formerly  grown  in  Westchester  county,  and  there 
considered  profitable  for  market  (4).  The  tree  is  described  as  vigorous  and 
an  annual  bearer,  producing  alternately  light  and  heavy  crops  (3,  4).  Its 
season  extends  from  October  to  December  or  later  (i,  2,  5).  The  variety  is 
not  now  listed  by  nurserymen,  but  another  variety  of  the  same  name  which 
originated  in  Delaware  is  still  offered  in  some  southern  nurseries.1  Neither  of. 
these  varieties  is  recommended  for  growing  in  New  York. 

FLORENCE. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  60:129.     1899. 

As  grown  at  this  Station  from  stock  received  from  M.  Butterfield,  Lee 
Summit,  Missouri,  the  fruit  is  of  the  Ben  Davis  type,  strongly  resembling 
Gano,  very  attractive  in  size  and  appearance  and  a  good  keeper.  As  compared 
with  Gano  it  is  more  angular,  and  more  conspicuously  striped  with  purplish- 
carmine;  the  basin  is  more  often  oblique;  and  the  pistils  do  not  persist  in 
the  form  of  a  fleshy  projection  into  the  base  of  the  calyx  tube.  As  tested  at 
this  Station  it  is  a  moderately  vigorous  grower,  comes  into  bearing  young, 
bears  annually  and  is  only  moderately  productive,  but  it  has  been  grown  here 
under  rather  unfavorable  conditions.  .Stinson  (i)  observes  that  it  is  in  season 
with  Jonathan,  but  we  find  it  keeps  much  better  than  Jonathan.  It  has  not 
been  tested  here  sufficiently  to  indicate  whether  or  not  it  promises  to  be  a 
valuable  variety  in  New  York.  Should  it  prove  to  be  sufficiently  productive 
it  may  prove  valuable  in  those  portions  of  the  state  where  Ben  Davis  does 
well 

Historical.     Originated  in  Benton  county,  Ark. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous;  branches  short,  rather  slender.  Form  roundish, 
upright,  rather  dense.  Twigs  rather  short,  straight,  slender;  internodes  rather 
short  to  medium.  Bark  bright,  rather  dark  brownish-red;  scarf-skin  hardly 
noticeable ;  pubescence  scarce  or  none.  Lenticels  not  numerous,  clear  and 

1Bailey,   An.   Hort.,  1882:239.     Ragan,    U.   S.  B.  P.   I.   Bui.,  SQuog.    1905.     Am.   Pom. 
«  Soc.   Cat.,  1875:8. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  131 

bright  in  color,  small,  roundish  to  elongated.     Buds  medium,  rather  flat,  acute 
to  obtuse,  pubescent,  free,  appressed,  point  often  deflected. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium,  sometimes  large.  Form  roundish  ovate  to  roundish  conic, 
flattened  at  the  base,  irregular,  often  broadly  ribbed  or  angular,  sides  unequal, 
sometimes  compressed ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  but  somewhat  variable  in  shape. 
Stem  medium.  Cavity  acute  or  obtuse,  deep,  wide,  often  furrowed,  sometimes 
lipped,  seldom  symmetrical,  usually  with  outspreading  rays  of  yellow  russet. 
Calyx  medium  to  small,  partly  open  or  sometimes  closed ;  lobes  rather  narrow, 
acuminate.  Basin  very  abrupt,  usually  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  moderately 
broad,  often  somewhat  furrowed,  sometimes  compressed,  usually  oblique. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  clear,  pale  or  whitish-yellow,  washed  and  blushed  with 
a  bright  deep  pinkish-red,  in  well  colored  specimens  becoming  solid  red, 
mottled  and  striped  with  purplish-carmine,  overspread  with  a  thin  bluish 
bloom  which  gives  it  a  slightly  dull  appearance,  but  when  polished  the  pre- 
vailing effect  is  glossy  bright  red.  Dots  whitish,  scattering. 

Calyx  tube  large,  cone-shaoe. 

Core  rather  small,  closed  or  slightly  open;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly 
clasping.  Carpels  concave,  roundish  inclined  to  obcordate.  Seeds  few,  below 
medium  to  above,  rather  dark,  irregular,  obtuse  or  sometimes  acute. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  crisp,  not  very  tender,  moderately 
fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic,  pleasant,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

FLORY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:179.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:239.  3. 
Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  205:42.  1903.  4.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui., 
248:120.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  FLORY  BELLFLOWER  (3).  Flory's  Bellnower  (i).  Sheep 
Shire  (i). 

An  attractive  deep  yellow  apple  of  good  size  and  good  quality.  The  tree 
does  not  come  into  bearing  very  early  and  is  but  moderately  productive.  It 
is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.     Origin,  Montgomery  county,  Ohio. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading.  Twigs  below  medium  to 
above,  rather  slender,  irregularly  curved,  very  slightly  pubescent ;  internodes 
short  to  nearly  long.  Bark  dull  brownish-red,  mostly  overlaid  with  thick 
scarf-skin.  Lenticels  very  numerous,  raised,  not  very  conspicuous,  medium, 
narrow,  elongated.  Buds  medium,  slightly  acute,  lightly  attached  or  partly 
free  from  the  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above.  Form  ovate  to  roundish  conic,  often  faintly  ribbed, 
pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  in  length,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acumi- 
nate, variable  in  depth,  rather  narrow,  pretty  symmetrical,  sometimes  lipped. 
Basin  medium  in  width,  moderately  deep  to  shallow,  abrupt,  somewhat  fur- 
rowed. Calyx  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  rather  narrow  and  acute. 


132  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  tough,  beautiful  clear  yellow,  becoming  deeper  yellow  as  the  ripening 
season  advances,  roughened  with  capillary  netted  russet  lines  and  russet  dots. 

Calyx  tube  not  large,  conical  to  elongated  funnel-form,  sometimes  meeting 
the  core.  Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  medium  to  very  large,  abaxile ;  cells  fairly  symmetrical,  partly  open  to 
wide  open ;  core  lines  meeting  when  the  calyx  tube  is  conical,  clasping  when  it 
is  funnel-form.  Carpels  long,  ovate.  Seeds  very  numerous,  often  irregular 
in  form,  small  to  rather  large,  rather  wide,  obtuse,  dark  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  hard,  moderately  coarse,  juicy,  agreeably  subacid,  good 
in  flavor  and  quality. 

Season  October  and  November  in  Southern  Ohio  (i);  in  Western  New 
York  it  extends  to  February,  and  often  some  portion  of  the  fruit  may  be  kept 
till  spring  (4). 

FLUSHING  SPITZENBLTRG. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Thacher,  1822:137.  2.  Kenrick,  1832:44.  3.  Downing, 
1845:139.  4.  Thomas,  1849:173.  5.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:71.  1851. 
6.  Elliott,  1858:133.  fig.  7.  Warder,  1867:515.  8.  Downing,  1881:11.  app. 
index.  9.  Hogg,  1884:78.  10.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:292.  n. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:239.  12.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:85. 

SYNONYMS.  Black  Spitzenberg  (8).  FLUSHING  (10).  FLUSHING  SPITZEN- 
BERG  (2,  6,  7).  FLUSHING  SPITZENEURGH  (i,  3,  4,  5,  9). 

Fruit  of  good  color  but  not  very  good  in  quality.  There  is  considerable 
loss  from  the  dropping  of  the  fruit  before  it  is  fully  mature.  The  tree  gen- 
erally has  the  reputation  of  being  a  shy  bearer. 

Historical.  This  variety  probably  originated  in  America.  Although  it  has 
long  been  known  in  cultivation  (i,  2)  it  is  not  regarded  favorably  by  com- 
mercial orchardists  and  is  now  seldom  planted. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous.  Form  round-headed  or  spreading.  Tzvigs  stout,  red- 
dish-brown, quite  distinct  from  the  small  yellowish  gray  shoots  of  Esopus 
Spitzenburg  with  which,  on  account  of  the  similarity  of  the  names,  this  variety 
has  sometimes  been  confounded. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  nearly  large.  Form  roundish  conic  or  sometimes  oblate 
conic,  obscurely  ribbed,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  medium.  Cavity 
acuminate,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  narrow  to  rather  broad,  smooth  and  red 
or  greenish,  sometimes  more  or  less  overspread  with  greenish  or  red  russet. 
Calyx  medium  to  rather  small,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  broad,  obtuse. 
Basin  varying  from  narrow  and  shallow  to  medium  in  width  and  depth,  obtuse 
to  abrupt,  sometimes  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  yellow  or  greenish  overspread  with  orange-red,  becoming  a 
bright  deep  red  on  the  exposed  side,  coated  with  a  light  bloom.  Dots  con- 
spicuous, whitish,  scattered  over  the  base  but  very  numerous  around  the  basin. 

Calyx  tube  long,  funnel-form,  extending  to  the  core.    Stamens  median. 

Core  distant,  abaxile  with  a  wide  hollow  cylinder  at  the  center,  varying  to 
nearly  axile ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  partly  open  or  closed ;  core  lines  clasping 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  133 

the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  roundish,  wide,  mucronate,  slightly  emarginate, 
somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  dark,  medium  to  large,  wide,  plump,  acute  to  obtuse, 
sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  sometimes  streaked  with  red,  firm,  moder- 
ately coarse,  crisp,  not  very  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  not  high 
in  flavor,  good  in  quality. 

Season  October  to  February. 

FOREST. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,  1872:180.     2.  Goff,  Wis.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1896:212. 

SYNONYM.     Red  Codlin  (i). 

Fruit  above  medium,  yellow  mostly  overspread  with  faint  crimson ;  aromatic, 
•mild  subacid,  toward  the  last  becoming  sweet  or  nearly  so.  Tree  an  upright 
grower,  an  annual  bearer,  very  hardy  and  very  productive.  In  season  from 
December  to  March  (i,  2). 

Historical.  This  is  supposed  to  be  a  chance  seedling  from  Oneida  county, 
N.  Y.,  which  originated  about  a  half  century  ago.  We  do  not  find  that  it  has 
been  grown  in  New  York  to  any  considerable  extent,  but  it  appears  to  have 
gained  a  favorable  record  in  Southeastern  Wisconsin  (2). 

FRAKER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Brackett,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:157.  2.  Kansas  Hort. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1886:70. 

SYNONYM.     FRAKER'S  SEEDLING  (2). 

As  grown  at  this  Station  the  fruit  is  medium  to  large  and  when  well  colored 
has  an  attractive  deep  red  blush,  but  too  often  it  does  not  develop  proper 
color  in  this  climate.  The  tree  has  not  come  into  bearing  very  early  and  thus 
far  has  been  but  moderately  productive.  The  fruit  is  of  mild,  pleasant  flavor 
and  keeps  well  into  the  spring.  It  does  not  equal  the  standard  commercial 
varieties  of  this  region  either  in  general  appearance  or  in  quality  and  is  not 
recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Originated  near  Garnet,  Anderson  county,  Kansas.  Described 
in  the  report  of  the  Kansas  Horticultural  Society  for  1886  as  promising  for 
commercial  purposes  (2). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous;  branches  rather  short  and  moderately  stout. 
Form  upright  spreading  with  open  top.  Twigs  medium  in  length,  stout,  blunt 
at  the  tips;  internodes  medium  or  below.  Bark  bright  brownish-red  tinged 
with  olive-green,  streaked  with  gray  scarf-skin ;  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels 
numerous,  medium,  oblong,  raised,  conspicuous.  Buds  medium,  plump,  broad, 
obtuse,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  conic  or  sometimes  roundish  oblate,  nearly  truncate  at  the  base, 
often  obscurely  ribbed,  rather  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to  rather  short. 
Cavity  acute,  deep,  rather  broad,  often  distinctly  furrowed.  Calyx  medium  to 
large,  somewhat  open  or  closed.  Basin  often  oblique,  shallow,  narrow  to 
rather  wide,  obtuse  to  rather  abrupt,  furrowed,  wrinkled. 


134  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  yellow  with  orange-red  blush,  in  highly  colored 
specimens  deepening  to  a  bright  deep  red  mottled  and  striped  with  dull 
carmine.  Dots  pale  or  russet,  not  conspicuous. 

Calyx  tube  long,  narrow,  funnel-form,  often  extending  to  the  core.  Stamens 
median. 

Core  somewhat  abaxile,  medium  or  below  ;  cells  often  unsymmetrical,  closed 
or  partly  open  ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish  to  obcordate, 
somewhat  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  or  above,  plump, 
obtuse,  rather  light  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  rather  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy, 
mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  slightly  aromatic,  good. 

Season  December  to  April. 

FRENCH  PIPPIN. 

The  name  French  Pippin  has  been  applied  to  several  varieties  of  the  Fall 
Pippin  group.  These  vary  in  season  from  autumn  till  late  spring  or  early 
summer  and  are  characterized  by  rather  large,  roundish  or  oblong  fruit  which 
at  first  is  green  but  later  assumes  more  or  less  of  a  yellowish  tone.  It  is  some- 
times slightly  blushed  and  has  yellowish  subacid  flesh. 

An  apple  of  this  class  is  described  on  a  following  page  as  the  Lehigh  Green- 
ing, the  name  under  which  it  has  been  disseminated  within  recent  years  from 
Allentown,  Pennsylvania.  Some  believe  that  the  Lehigh  Greening  is  identical 
with  an  old  variety  grown  in  portions  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  under 
the  name  French  Pippin. 

An  apple  which  is  grown  in  some  parts  of  New  York  under  the  name 
French  Pippin  is  described  below.  It  is  a  very  late  keeper  being  in  season 
from  January  to  May  or  June.  The  fruit  is  large,  brightly  colored  and  at- 
tractive for  a  yellow  apple.  It  bears  a  very  close  resemblance  to  Lehigh 
Greening  and  possibly  is  identical  with  it.  Comparisons  of  the  fruit  from 
various  localities  have  been  made  but  as  yet  we  have  been  unable  to  decide 
whether  JDT  not  these  two  are  identical.  We  have  not  determined  definitely 
whether  the  variety  described  below  is  the  French  Pippin  of  Southeastern 
Pennsylvania  above  mentioned,  nor  whether  it  is  the  variety  referred  to  by 
Warderl  and  Downing2  as  the  French  Pippin  of  Pennsylvania. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size  to  rather  large,  moderately  vigorous,  a  biennial  or 
in  some  cases  an  annual  bearer,  a  reliable  cropper  and  productive.  Form  up- 
right, somewhat  spreading.  Twigs  medium  in  length;  erect,  moderately 
stout;  bark  rather  dark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
to  roundish  oblate,  faintly  ribbed,  pretty  regular,  sides  sometimes  slightly 
unequal.  Stem  short,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  moder- 
ately deep  to  deep,  narrow  to  rather  wide,  thinly  russeted,  sometimes  com- 
pressed or  lipped.  Calyx  medium  in  size,  somewhat  open  ;  lobes  acuminate. 


,  1867:7i9. 
2  Downing,  1857  .'144. 


FRENCH  PIPPIN 


GANO 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  135 

Basin  abrupt,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  medium  in  width  to  rather  wide, 
smooth  or  gently  furrowed  and  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  thin,  smooth,  bright  pale  yellow  or  greenish-yellow  with  numer- 
ous, conspicuous  russet  or  green  dots,  often  with  thin  brownish  blush. 

Calyx  tube  long,  funnel-form,  sometimes  approaching  cone-shape,  with  very 
wide  limb.  Stamens  median. 

Core  rather  small,  slightly  abaxile ;  cells  fairly  symmetrical,  closed  or  partly 
open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  slightly  emarginate.  Seeds 
broad,  obtuse. 

Flesh  nearly  as  yellow  as  that  of  Fall  Pippin,  firm,  rather  fine-grained, 
tender,  crisp,  juicy,  sprightly  with  an  agreeable  subacid  flavor,  good  to  very 
good  in  quality. 

Season  January  to  May  or  June. 

GANG. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:156.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1889:6.  3.  Stayman,  Am.  Card.,  11:272.  1890.  4.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:239. 
5.  Van  Deman,  Am.  Card.,  20:81.  1899.  6.  Mo.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  43:187,  270, 
271.  1900.  7,  Caston,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  8:40.  1901.  8.  Va.  Sta.  Bui, 
130:132.  1901.  fig.  of  tree.  9.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Bui.,  37:43,  44.  1901. 
10.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui,  3:24.  1902.  n.  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:53.  1902. 
12.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:86.  fig.  13.  Thomas,  1903:326.  14.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:42.  1903.  15.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui,  248:121.  1904.  16.  Wickson,  Western  Fruit  Grower,  1904:124.  17. 
Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:116.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Black  Ben  Davis  (17).  Jacks  Red  (5).  Ozark  (13).  Paytcn 
(17).  Reagan  (13).  Red  Ben  Davis  (17). 

This  is  a  variety  of  the  Ben  Davis  type.  In  the  nursery  the  tree 
resembles  Ben  Davis  very  closely.  As  grown  in  Western  New 
York  the  fruit  is  more  highly  colored  but  on  the  average  is  some- 
what smaller  than  that  of  Ben  Davis.  It  is  less  striped  in  appear- 
ance and  more  of  a  solid,  deep  red  color,  often  with  a  contrasting 
spot  of  clear  yellow  where  it  has  been  closely  covered  by  a  leaf  or 
twig.  In  this  respect  and  in  its  deep,  abrupt  basin  it  suggests 
Jonathan,  as  at  times  it  also  does  by  its  brilliant,  deep  red  or  purplish 
color.  It  is  very  attractive  in  appearance,  stands  handling  well  and 
is  a  good  keeper.  In  quality  it  is  perhaps  a  little  superior  to  Ben 
Davis.  The  tree  comes  into  bearing  young  and  is  an  excellent 
cropper,  bearing  regularly  and  abundantly.  It  has  not  been  tested 
very  many  years  in  New  York,  but  it  appears  to  be  adapted  to  about 
the  same  region  as  Ben  Davis. 

Historical  Origin  obscure.  Brought  to  notice  in  Missouri  about  twenty- 
five  years  ago  and  disseminated  under  the  name  Gano  (i,  5,  6).  It  is  sup- 
posed by  some  that  the  original  stock  came  from  Kentucky  (5).  Some 


136  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

believe  that  Gano  is  the  same  as  Black  Ben  Davis.  It  certainly  resembles 
Black  Ben  Davis  very  closely  but  the  preponderance  of  evidence  at  present 
seems  to  favor  the  opinion  that  it  is  of  distinct  origin  (16). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long,  moderately  stout  and  inclined  to 
droop ;  laterals  willowy,  short,  slender.  Form  like  that  of  Ben  Davis,  upright 
spreading  becoming  somewhat  drooping,  rather  dense.  Tivigs  short  to  rather 
long,  slightly  curved,  markedly  geniculate,  moderately  stout ;  internodes  short 
to  rather  long.  Bark  bright  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly 
overcast  with  mottled  and  streaked  gray  scarf-skin ;  pubescent.  Lenticels  not 
conspicuous,  scattering,  medium,  round  to  ovate  or  often  elongated,  slightly 
raised.  Buds  small  to  medium  with  prominent  shoulder,  plump,  obtuse,  ap- 
pressed,  decidedly  pubescent,  deeply  set  in  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  sometimes  large.  Form  roundish  co-nic,  usually  regular, 
symmetrical ;  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  medium  to  long  and  slender. 
Cavity  acute,  deep,  rather  broad,  symmetrical,  sometimes  slightly  furrowed 
or  compressed,  usually  with  radiating  green  russet  or  red  russet.  Calyx 
medium  or  above,  closed  or  partly  open;  pubescent;  lobes  rather  broad,  acute 
to  acuminate.  Basin  abrupt,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  often  deep. 

Skin  smooth,  waxy,  clear  light  yellow,  mottled  and  blushed  with  bright 
light  pinkish-red  often  deepening  to  a  purplish-red,  more  or  less  obscurely 
striped.  Dots  numerous,  small,  inconspicuous.  Prevailing  color  fine  red. 

Caly.r  tube  short,  cone-shape  with  fleshy  pistil  point  projecting  into  its 
base,  or  sometimes  elongated  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  below  medium  to  large,  somewhat  abaxile  with  a  comparatively  rather 
wide  hollow  cylinder  at  the  axis;  cells  closed,  or  partly  open,  usually  sym- 
metrical but  often  not  uniformly  developed;  core  lines  meeting  when  the  calyx 
tube  is  cone-shape  but  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder  when  it  is  funnel-form. 
Carpels  broadly  roundish  or  elongated,  slightly  tufted,  emarginate.  Seeds 
numerous,  broad,  obtuse,  large,  dark,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  tender,  rather 
coarse,  moderately  crisp,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  good  or  nearly  good  in  quality. 

Season  about  the  same  as  that  of  Ben  Davis,  extending  from  December  to 
May  in  Western  New  York.  Commercial  limit  in  common  storage  March, 
in  cold  storage  April. 

GENEVA  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,      i.  Downing,    1857:111.      2.  Ib.,    1872:189.    fig.      3.  Thomas, 
1885:250. 
SYNONYM.     WINTER  PIPPIN  OF  GENEVA  (i,  3).     Winter  Pippin  of  Geneva 

(2). 

Resembles  Fall  Pippin  in  tree  and  fruit  but  a  much  better  keeper,  being  in 
season  from  January  to  May.  Found  growing  in  the  garden  of  Mrs.  Crit- 
tenden,  Geneva,  many  years  ago  (i).  Evidently  it  is  no  longer  listed  by 
nurserymen1  and  so  far  as  we  can  discover  has  become  obsolete. 

listed  by  Bailey  in  An.  Hort.,  1892:239. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  137 

GIDEON  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  205:42.  1903.  2.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:121.  1904. 

Received  for  testing  at  this  Station  in  1888  from  Peter  M.  Gideon, 
Excelsior,  Minn.  It  is  clearly  of  the  Blue  Pearmain  class.  This  is 
shown  by  the  form  and  colors  of  the  fruit,  the  characteristic  large 
dots,  the  blue  bloom,  the  color,  texture  and  quality  of  the  flesh,  and 
the  tendency  of  the  fruit  to  shrivel  when  held  too  long  in  storage. 

It  has  been  fruited  at  the  Geneva  Station  for  several  years,  and 
appears  to  be  worthy  of  planting  for  trial  where  a  sweet  apple  of 
the  Blue  Pearmain  type  is  desired.  It  colors  well,  is  quite  attractive 
in  appearance,  desirable  in  size,  good  in  quality,  and  a  good  keeper. 
The  flesh  is  yellowish,  juicy,  aromatic,  mild  subacid  mingled  with 
sweet,  eventually  becoming  sweet ;  good  to  very  good.  It  is  in 
season  from  November  to  April.  The  tree  is  vigorous,  wide- 
spreading  or  roundish,  almost  an  annual  bearer,  alternating  lighter 
with  heavier  crops.  On  the  average  it  is  satisfactorily  productive. 

The  fruit  resembles  that  of  Bethel  very  closely,  but  we  have  not 
yet  been  able  to  determine  definitely  whether  or  not  the  two  are 
identical,  not  having  had  the  privilege  of  comparing  them  when 
grown  under  similar  conditions.  Bethel  from  Northern  New  York 
and  Northern  New  England,  as  compared  with  fruit  of  Gideon 
Sweet  from  the  orchard  at  this  Station,  shows  no  constant  differ- 
ences from  Gideon  Sweet  in  the  form  of  the  fruit  or  in  the  charac- 
teristics of  either  the  cavity  or  the  basin,  but  the  skin  is  redder  and 
the  flesh  is  sometimes  tinged  with  red  while  the  Gideon  Sweet  has  a 
yellower  skin,  its  flesh  is  not  tinged  with  red,  is  sweeter  and  better  in 
quality  and  the  core  is  more  widely  abaxile.  In  both  the  Gideon 
Sweet  and  the  Bethel  the  stem  is  characteristically  curved  to  one  side. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous ;  branches  short,  moderately  stout,  crooked.  Form  roundish 
to  wide-spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  short  to  below  medium  length, 
straight,  rather  slender  to  moderately  stout ;  quite  pubescent  towards  the  tips ; 
internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  clear  reddish-brown  over  olive-green,  very 
lightly  coated  with  gray  scarf-skin ;  slightly  pubescent  Lenticcls  moderately 
numerous,  scattering,  small,  roundish  or  elongated ;  the  elongated  ones  are 
raised.  Buds  small  to  medium,  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  quite  pubescent, 
deeply  set  in  bark. 


138  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  sometimes  inclined  to  conic, 
often  slightly  oblate,  elliptical  or  broadly  and  obscurely  ribbed;  sides  some- 
times unequal,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  medium  to  rather  long, 
curved  towards  one  side.  Cavity  moderately  broad  to  broad,  acuminate  or 
acute,  deep,  indistinctly  furrowed,  often  with  greenish  or  red  russet  spreading 
out  upon  the  base  of  the  fruit.  Calyx  small  or  medium,  closed  or  slightly 
open;  lobes  long,  acuminate  or  acute.  Basin  shallow  to  moderately  deep, 
broad,  obtuse  to  somewhat  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  nearly  smooth  at  base  except  where  the  russet  spreads  out 
from  the  cavity  but  somewhat  rough  towards  the  apex,  attractive  deep  yellow 
or  greenish  mottled  and  blushed  with  orange-red  sometimes  deepening  to  a 
purplish  hue,  irregularly  splashed  and  striped  with  deep  carmine  and  over- 
spread with  a  thin  bloom  which  produces  a  rather  dull  effect.  When  polished 
the  colors  become  clear  yellow  and  bright  dark  red  and  carmine.  Dots  con- 
spicuous, yellow  or  russet,  small  and  very  numerous  toward  the  calyx,  more 
scattering,  larger,  irregular  and  more  often  grayish  areolar  toward  the  base. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  broad,  conical  or  sometimes  inclined  to  funnel- 
form.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  irregular,  abaxile,  medium  to  large ;  cells  often  unsymmetrical,  open 
or  partly  closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  roundish 
or  inclined  to  cordate,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  below  medium  to  large,  light 
brown,  rather  narrow,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  firm,  crisp,  somewhat  coarse,  juicy,  aromatic, 
mild  subacid  mingled  with  sweet  eventually  becoming  sweet,  good  to  very 
good. 

Season  November  to  April. 

GILLIFLOWER. 

The  old  variety  which  is  correctly  known  among  pomologists  as  the  Black 
Gilliflower  is  commonly  known  to  fruit  growers  by  the  simple  name  Gilli- 
flower.  For  an  account  of  this  variety  the  reader  is  referred  to  Black  Gilli- 
flower. 

The  Cornish  Gilliflower  is  a  very  old  English  variety  quite  distinct  from 
the  Black  Gilliflower.  It  was  formerly  somewhat  grown  but  it  is  now  practi- 
cally obsolete  in  New  York. 

GILPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:155.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:122.  3.  Wilson, 
1828:136.  4.  Kenrick,  1832:42.  5.  Downing,  1845:144.  6.  Thomas,  1849:164, 
189.  fig.  7.  Cole,  1849:135.  8.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:66.  1851.  9. 
Hooper,  1857:39.  10.  Elliott,  1858:135.  n.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  12, 
Warder,  1867:559.  fig.  13.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpl,  1890:292.  14.  Bailey, 
An.  Hort.,  1892:239.  15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:89.  16.  Powell  and  Fulton, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:42.  1903.  17.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248: 
121.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  CARTHOUSE  (i,  2,  3,  4,  6,  8).  Carthouse  (5,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13, 
15,  16).  Gilpin  (6).  Little  Red  Romanite  (12,  15,  17).  Red  Romanite  of 
Ohio  (6).  Romanite  (7).  Romanite  of  the  West  (9,  10). 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  139 

As  grown  in  New  York  Gilpin  is  not  a  good  commercial  variety 
because  it  is  rather  small  and  does  .not  rank  high  in  quality.  Its  color 
is  rather  dark  red  over  a  clear  yellow  background.  In  ordinary 
cellar  storage  it  usually  keeps  till  June  or  later  and  is  then  accept- 
able for  dessert  and  very  good  for  certain  culinary  uses,  particularly 
for  boiling.  It  makes  excellent  cider.  The  tree  is  hardy,  healthy,1 
moderately  productive  and  a  biennial  bearer.  The  fruit  hangs  firmly 
to  the  tree  till  loosened  by  the  frost. 

Historical.  "  This  apple  is  said  to  have  been  brought  from  Virginia.  It 
obtained  its  name  from  a  family  in  the  Delaware  state"  (i).  "It  was  culti- 
vated and  distributed  by  Coxe  and  has  found  its  way  into  the  orchards  and 
into  favor  all  over  the  country  on  account  of  its  productiveness  and  early 
bearing"  (12). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  or  slow  growing.  Form  round,  open,  spreading 
with  rather  short  and  somewhat  drooping  laterals.  Twigs  short,  slender, 
straight ;  internodes  medium.  Bark  rather  dull  reddish-brown  overlaid  with 
thin  to  rather  thick  scarf-skin;  somewhat  pubescent.  Leniicels  moderately 
numerous,  small,  elongated,  raised,  of  clear  color,  conspicuous.  Buds  rather 
small,  prominent,  heavily  pubescent,  adhering.  Foliage  not  very  dense,  some- 
what curled. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  rather  small ;  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  to  ovate  truncate,  sometimes  nearly  cylindrical,  often  obscurely 
ribbed,  symmetrical  or  sides  slightly  unequal,  sometimes  oblique.  Stem  short. 
Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  sometimes  shallow  but  usually  deep,  rather  broad, 
obscurely  furrowed  or  compressed,  sometimes  lipped,  often  partly  russeted. 
Calyx  large,  open,  rarely  closed ;  lobes  leafy,  reflexed,  long,  acute  or  acuminate, 
sometimes  separated  at  base.  Basin  often  oblique,  usually  deep,  wide,  abrupt 
and  prominently  furrowed  but  sometimes  rather  shallow  and  moderately 
narrow  or  compressed,  often  distinctly  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  rather  glossy,  greenish-yellow  becoming  clear  deep 
yellow,  with  brownish-red  cheek  often  deepening  to  an  attractive  clear  dark 
red.  Prevailing  effect  dark  red  mingled  with  good  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  wide  varying  from  short  truncate  funnel-shape  to  urn-shape. 
Stamens  basal. 

Core  axile,  below  medium  to  above ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  usually  closed 
or  sometimes  partly  open;  core  lines  meeting  or  sometimes  slightly  clasping. 
Carpels  round  to  ovate,  narrowing  towards  apex,  mucronate,  slightly  emargi- 
nate.  Seeds  numerous,  dark  brown,  large  to  medium  or  below,  plump,  acute, 
slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  very  firm,  rather  coarse,  at  first  hard  but  becoming  some- 
what crisp  and  tender  as  the  season  advances,  moderately  juicy,  nearly  sweet 
or  mild  subacid,  pleasant,  good. 

Season  February  to  June. 


140  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

GIVENS. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Stinson,   Ark.   Sta.   Bui,  49:12.    1898.   fig.     2.  Ib.,   60:129. 

1899- 

SYNONYM.     Arkansas  Baptist  (2). 

A  late  keeping  red  winter  apple  fully  equal  to  Ben  Davis  in  quality.  At 
the  Geneva  Station  it  has  come  into  bearing  very  young  and  so  far  as  tested 
has  been  quite  productive.  The  tree  is  a  moderate  grower.  In  the  nursery 
it  is  a  poor  grower  being  "  crooked  and  willowy  something  after  the  style 
of  the  Willow  Twig."1  It  may  be  worthy  of  testing  for  commercial  purposes 
in  regions  where  Ben  Davis  succeeds. 

Historical.  Originated  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Givens,  Benton  county,  Ark. 
Noticed  by  Professor  Stinson  in  1898  as  one  of  the  promising  new  Arkansas 
seedlings  (i). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous;  branches  rather  long,  moderately  stout.  Form 
upright  spreading,  rather  open.  Twigs  long,  straight,  stout;  internodes 
medium.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown,  streaked  lightly  with  grayish  scarf-skin ; 
pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  large,  oval,  raised.  Buds  medium,  broad, 
obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent,  deeply  set  in  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  rather  small.  Form  oblate  or  truncate  to  roundish 
conic,  ribbed  broadly  and  faintly  if  at  all,  sides  often  slightly  unequal.  Stem 
long  to  very  long.  Cavity  somewhat  furrowed,  wide,  deep,  acute,  with  green 
or  thin  russet  outspreading  rays.  Calyx  large  to  very  large,  closed  or  partly 
open;  lobes  leafy,  long,  wide,  acute.  Basin  moderately  deep  to  deep,  medium 
in  width  to  wide,  somewhat  obtuse  to  very  abrupt,  wrinkled,  symmetrical. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  yellow  or  greenish  nearly  covered  with  dark  red 
inconspicuously  mottled  and  striped  with  deeper  red.  Sometimes  a  suture 
extends  from  cavity  to  basin.  Dots  small,  whitish  or  with  russet  points,  in- 
conspicuous. Prevailing  effect  red. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form,  often  meeting  the  cylinder  of  the  core.  Stamens 
median  or  below. 

Core  medium  to  large,  slightly  abaxile  with  a  rather  wide  hollow  cylinder 
in  the  axis ;  cells  somewhat  unsymmetrical,  closed  or  slightly  open ;  core  lines 
clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  broadly  roundish.  Seeds  numerous, 
medium  to  large,  wide,  dark,  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  fine-grained,  not  very  crisp 
nor  very  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  good. 

Season  January  to  May  or  June. 

GLENLOCH. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Watts,  Tenn.  Sta.  Bui.,  1:12.  1896.  fig. 

Fruit  large,  closely  resembling  York  Imperial.  Tree  very  productive.  A 
variety  of  Tennessee  origin  which  probably  is  not  well  adapted  for  growing 
in  New  York  except  possibly  in  the  southeastern  part  of  the  state  (i). 

1  Letter  Stark  Bros.,  Louisiana.,  Mo, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  141 

GOLDEN  MEDAL. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Goff,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:90.  1888.  2.  Beach,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  15:280.  1896.  3.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:42. 
1903.  4.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:121.  1904.  5.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui.,  56:124.  1905. 

SYNONYM.     GOLD  MEDAL  (3,  5). 

Fruit  attractive  for  a  green  or  yellow  apple  and  a  remarkably  good  keeper. 
The  tree  comes  into  bearing  moderately  early,  is  an  annual  bearer,  bears 
regularly  and  is  satisfactorily  productive.  It  is  worthy  of  planting  for  trial 
where  a  late  keeping  sweet  apple  is  desired  (4). 

Historical.  Received  here  for  testing  from  J.  R.  and  A.  Murdock,  Pitts- 
burg,  Pa.,  1888. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  upright.  Twigs  short  to  medium,  of  average  thick- 
ness, bowed  and  irregular ;  rather  pubescent.  Bark  brownish-red  overlaid 
with  rather  thin  scarf-skin;  internodes  medium.  Lenticels  inconspicuous, 
rather  scattering,  small,  round.  Buds  medium,  roundish,  pubescent,  adhering 
to  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  to  roundish  oblate,  somewhat 
ribbed.  Stem  rather  short.  Cavity  acute,  deep,  rather  broad,  usually  dis- 
tinctly furrowed,  sometimes  compressed,  sometimes  slightly  russeted.  Calyx 
small,  sometimes  medium,  usually  closed.  Basin  often  somewhat  oblique, 
round,  shallow  and  narrow  varying  to  rather  wide  and  moderately  deep, 
usually  rather  abrupt,  obscurely  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  attractive  pale  yellow  marbled  with  green,  or 
greenish,  sometimes  faintly  blushed.  Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  whitish  or 
sometimes  with  russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape. 

Core  rather  large ;  cells  open  or  partly  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
roundish  obcordate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  large  to  very  large, 
wide,  obtuse,  somewhat  tufted,  dark. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  slightly  astringent,  firm,  moderately  fine,  some- 
what crisp,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  May  or  June. 

GOLDEN  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Forsyth,  1803:52.  2.  Coxe,  1817:138.  fig.  3.  Thacher, 
1822:125.  4.  N.  Y.  Ed.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:477.  5.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:12.  6. 
Mag.  Hort.,  1:265.  1835-  7-  Downing,  1845:112.  fig.  8.  Thomas,  1849:181, 
189.  fig.  g.  Cole,  1849:128.  10.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:82.  1851.  n. 
Hooper,  1857:41.  12.  Elliott,  1858:171.  13.  Warder,  1867:720.  14.  Leroy, 
1873:510.  15.  Hogg,  1884:91.  16.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:240. 

SYNONYMS.  D'OR  D'ANGLETERRE  (14).  ENGLISH  GOLDEN  PIPPIN  (8).  Eng- 
lish Golden  Pippin  (7,  12,  14).  Old  Golden  Pippin  (7,  12,  14).  Pepin  d'Or 
(5,  7). 

A  rather  small,  smooth,  white  or  yellowish  apple  with  a  shade  \  of  red 
towards  the  base.  In  season  from  November  to  March.  In  England  it  has 


142  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

long  been  esteemed  as  a  very  valuable  dessert  and  culinary  apple  (7,  14,  15). 
It  does  not  succeed  well  here  (7)-  There  are  many  varieties  of  the  English 
Golden  Pippin,  the  fruit  of  which  differs  but  little  from  that  of  the  old 
variety  but  the  trees  are  more  vigorous  (7).  None  of  these  appear  to  have 
gained  favorable  recognition  in  this  country.  Floy  says,  "  The  English  Golden 
Pippin  grows  with  delicate  small  shoots  and  is  not  calculated  for  an  orchard; 
but  if  properly  managed  it  makes  a  beautiful  espalier  tree  and  is  an  abundant 
bearer.  *  *  *  The  apple  is  not  much  known  in  this  country ;  the  kind 
called  here  Golden  Pippin  is  a  very  different  fruit"  (5). 

The  Golden  Pippins  of  New  York  and  New  England  are  fall  apples.  For 
an  account  of  them  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  succeeding  volume. 

GOLDEN  RED. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,   1872:195.     2.  Conn.  Bd.   Agr.,   1889:356. 

A  variety  formerly  grown  on  Long  Island  but  now  apparently  obsolete. 
Downing  describes  it  as  medium  or  below,  yellow  nearly  overspread  with  red, 
subacid.  Season  December  and  January.  Fruit  liable  to  rot  on  the  tree  (i). 

GOLDEN  REINETTE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Forsyth,  1803:51.  2.  Coxe,  1817:152,  fig.  3.  Thacher, 
1822:125.  4.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:37.  5.  Pom.  Mag.,  2:69.  1841.  col.  pi.  6. 
Downing,  1845:129.  7.  Thomas,  1849:167.  8.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y., 
3:63.  1851.  9.  Warder,  1867:720.  10.  Leroy,  1873:591.  fig.  n.  Hogg, 
1884:92. 

SYNONYMS.  English  Pippin  (4,  5,  6,  10,  n).  GOLDEN  REINETTE,  of  all  Eng- 
lish writers  on  Gardening.  Hort.  Soc.  Fruit  Cat.  No.  905  (5).  GOLDEN 
RENNET  (i,  2,  3).  Kirke's  Golden  Reinette  (6,  n).  PRINCESSE  NOBLE  (10). 
Yellow  German  Reinette  (4,  5,  6,  10,  n). 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  but  rather  small.  In  season  from  October  to 
midwinter.  It  has  long  been  highly  esteemed  in  England  (4,  5,  n)  but  is 
little  known  in  New  York. 

The  Russian  varieties  which  have  been  imported  under  the  name  Golden 
Reinette  ripen  in  autumn.  They  will  be  considered  in  Volume  II. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  slow  growing,  below  medium  in  size,  spreading,  bears  annually 
and  is  productive.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small.  Form  roundish,  somewhat  oblate ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and 
shape.  Stem  medium  in  length,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  regular,  deep. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  broad,  shallow. 

Skin  usually  smooth  with  a  few  minute,  triangular,  russet  spots ;  greenish- 
yellow  on  the  shaded  side  but  golden-yellow  in  the  sun,  with  a  dull  blush 
lightly  streaked  with  brighter  red. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape.    Stamens  marginal. 

Core  axile.     Carpels  obovate. 

Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  crisp,  brisk,  rich,  subacid,  excellent  (5,  6,  n). 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  143 

GOLDEN  RUSSET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:132.  2.  Thomas,  1849:179.  3.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Plist.  N.  Y.,  3:96.  1851.  4.  Elliott,  1858:131.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1862.  6.  Warder,  1867:624.  7.  Thompson,  Mich.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1871:30-34. 
8.  Waring.  Ib.,  1871:41.  9.  Downing,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:36.  10. 
Downing,  1876:196,  54  app.  n.  Barry,  1883:346.  12.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1890:292.  13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:238,  240.  14.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:90.  15.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:42.  1903.  16.  Beach 
and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:122.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  ENGLISH  GOLDEN  (6).  English  Golden  (10).  ENGLISH 
GOLDEN  RUSSET  (i,  2,  4,  13).  English  Golden  Russet  (10,  14).  GOLDEN 
RUSSET  OF  N.  Y.  (3,  5,  10).  Golden  Russet  of  N.  Y.  (2,  4).  GOLDEN 
RUSSET  OF  WESTERN  N.  Y.  (10,  n).  Russet  Golden  (6,  10). 

Among  the  russets  which  are  grown  in  Central  and  Western  New 
York  the  Golden  Russet  ranks  second  only  to  Roxbury  in  com- 
mercial importance.  In  other  portions  of  the  state  it  has  been  less 
extensively  planted.  In  recent  years  the  season  o*f  good  red  winter 
apples  has  been  extended  by  means  of  cold  storage  with  the  result 
that  long  keeping  russet  apples  are  less  profitable  than  they  were 
formerly.  This  is  undoubtedly  one  reason  why  Golden  Russet  is 
now  grown  less  extensively  than  it  formerly  was.  It  is  an  excellent 
storage  variety,  sells  well  in  the  general  market  and  is  particularly 
in  demand  for  shipment  to  Northwestern  and  Southern  markets  and 
for  export.  The  fruit  is  not  large  but  is  pretty  smooth  and  uniform. 
When  grown  in  favorable  locations  and  properly  treated  for  the 
control  of  injurious  insects  and  diseases  there  is  comparatively  little 
loss  from  culls.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree  till  loosened  by 
frost.  It  is  borne  on  the  ends  of  the  branches  making  it  hard  to  pick. 
This  habit  and  the  smallness  of  the  fruit  make  the  picking  and  pack- 
ing comparatively  expensive. 

The  fruit  is  particularly  desirable  for  home  use  during  the  spring 
months  before  small  fruits  ripen,  being  then  excellent  for  dessert  and 
culinary  uses.  It  makes  good  evaporated  stock  and  is  excellent  for 
cider  and  stock  food.  The  tree  is  hardy.  In  favorable  locations  it 
is  a  reliable  cropper,  bearing  regularly  after  it  reaches  maturity.  It 
is  usually  classed  as  a  biennial  bearer,  but  in  some  cases  it  is  nearly 
an  annual  bearer. 

The  notable  points  of  distinction  between  this  variety  and  the 
English  Russet  are  set  forth  in  the  description  of  English  Russet. 


144  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Thompson  compares  these  two  varieties  with  each  other  and  with 
the  Roxbury  Russet  in  an  excellent  article  presented  to  the  Michigan 
Horticultural  Society  in  1870  (7). 

Historical.  Downing  calls  this  identical  with  the  old  English  variety 
described  by  Ronalds  and  Lindley  as  Golden  Russet  (9).  It  has  sometimes 
been  catalogued  under  the  name  English  Golden  Russet  and  has  been  con- 
fused with  the  English  Russet,  a  distinct  variety.  It  has  also  been  called 
Golden  Russet  of  New  York  or  of  Western  New  York  in  distinction  from 
the  Golden  Russet  of  Massachusetts,  or  Hunt  Russet,  and  from  the  various 
other  apples  which  have  been  disseminated  under  the  name  Golden  Russet. 

TREE. 

Tree  varies  from  medium  to  large  and  from  moderately  vigorous  to  vigor- 
ous; branches  long,  moderately  stout,  with  rather  long,  slender  laterals  which 
after  bearing  heavily  become  rather  drooping,  but  the  young  growth  is  more 
upright.  Form  upright  roundish  becoming  rather  spreading,  rather  dense. 
T^vigs  erect,  rather  slender  to  moderately  stout,  often  with  large,  blunt  terminal 
bud ;  internodes  short.  Bark  on  the  younger  branches  smooth,  yellowish  or 
olive ;  on  the  new  growth  olive-green  or  rather  dull  reddish-brown  lightly 
mottled  with  grayish  scarf-skin ;  pubescent  toward  the  tips.  Lenticels  con- 
spicuous, becoming  more  so  on  the  two-year-old  wood,  of  a  clear  pale  color, 
quite  numerous,  seldom  large,  usually  below  medium,  roundish,  sometimes 
raised.  "  It  is  distinguished  among  other  russets  by  its  peculiar,  light  colored, 
speckled  shoots"  (10).  Buds  medium  in  size  or  below,  deeply  set,  free, 
obtuse,  pubescent. 

It  develops  but  a  moderately  strong  root  system  in  the  nursery. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  above.  Form  roundish,  varying  from  a  little  oblate 
to  somewhat  conic,  sometimes  rather  elliptical,  sometimes  obscurely  angular, 
usually  smooth ;  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Stem  short  to  very  short,  rather 
stout,  not  often  exserted.  Cavity  wide  to  medium,  medium  in  depth  to  rather 
deep,  somewhat  acuminate  to  acute,  usually  not  furrowed,  often  deep  green 
with  numerous  paler  green  or  grayish  dots.  Calyx  usually  rather  large  to 
medium,  closed  or  sometimes  partly  open;  lobes  long,  rather  acute,  often 
reflexed,  sometimes  separated  at  the  base.  Basin  sometimes  oblique  or  irreg- 
ular, often  saucer-shaped,  round,  rather  abrupt,  rather  shallow  to  moderately 
deep,  sometimes  plaited  or  slightly  ribbed. 

Skin  thick,  moderately  tender,  sometimes  only  partly  covered  with  patches 
and  flecks  of  russet  but  more  often  almost  entirely  covered  with  green  or 
yellowish  russet,  in  highly  colored  specimens  becoming  golden  russet  with 
bronze  cheek.  Dots  grayish  or  russet,  rather  inconspicuous  on  the  smooth  skin 
but  on  the  russet  skin  often  clear  pale  gray  and  conspicuously  scattered  over 
the  base.  Often  decidedly  attractive  for  a  russet  apple. 

Calyx  tube  rather  short,  wide,  conical  or  sometimes  funnel-form.  Stamens 
basal  or  nearly  so. 

Core  medium  to  below,  distinctly  abaxile,  or,  at  least,  having  a  rather  wide 
hollow  cylinder  for  the  axis ;  cells  often  unsymmetrical,  usually  open ;  core 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  145 

lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  ovate,  elongated,  sometimes 
tufted,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  rather  light  brown  with 
decided  red  tone,  medium  to  small,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  rather  fine-grained,  moderately  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rich, 
agreeably  subacid,  aromatic,  very  good. 

Season  December  to  April  or  later. 

GRANITE  BEAUTY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hcrt.,  26:65,  T49-  1860.  fig.  2.  Mead,  Horti- 
culturist, 18:83.  1863.  fig.  3.  Lothrop,  Mag.  Hort.,  32:362.  1866.  4.  Warder, 
1867:720.  5.  Downing,  1872:199.  6.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  7.  Barry, 
1883:346.  8.  Thomas,  1885:233.  •  9.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:132.  ic. 
Hoskins,  Ar.ier.  Card.,  15:299.  1894. 

SYNONYMS.  Aunt  Dorcas  (5).  Clothes-yard  Apple  (5).  Grandmother's 
Apple  (5). 

Fruit  about  the  size  of  Baldwin,  yellow  mostly  overspread  with  red,  mild 
subacid,  good  to  very  good  in  quality.  In  season  from  November  to  Feb- 
ruary. Tree  hardy  and  a  good  bearer. 

Historical.  A  local  variety  brought  to  notice  in  1860  by  Z.  Breed,  Weare, 
N.  H.  (i).  In  some  portions  of  New  England  it  is  still  much  esteemed,  both 
for  home  use  and  for  market  (9),  but  it  is  little  known  in  New  York. 

GREAT  BARBE. 

Fruit  uniform,  symmetrical,  red  and  yellow,  of  good  size,  attractive,  but 
ranking  only  fair  to  good  in  quality.  Season  midwinter.  The  tree  comes  into 
bearing  early,  is  vigorous  and  apparently  productive.  So  far  as  tested  at  this 
Station  it  does  not  appear  to  be  worthy  of  introduction  into  New  York. 

Historical.  A  Russian  variety  received  here  for  testing  in  1898  from 
J.  Niemetz,  Podolia,  Russia. 

GREENING. 

The  apple  commonly  known  by  the  name  Greening  among  New  York  fruit 
growers  and  fruit  dealers  is  the  Rhode  Island  Greening  to  which  the  reader 
is  referred  for  an  account  of  this  variety.  The  name  Greening  has  also  been 
used  to  some  extent  as  a  class  name  for  certain  types  of  green  or  yellowish- 
green  winter  apples  and  it  enters  into  the  names  of  several  well  recognized 
pomological  varieties  prominent  among  which  are  Bottle  Greening,  North- 
western Greening  and  Patten,  or  Patten  Greening. 

GREEN  NEWTOWN  AND  YELLOW  NEWTOWN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Forsyth,  1803:53.  2.  Coxe,  1817:142,  143.  figs.  3.  Thacher, 
1822:125.  4.  N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:477.  5.  Wilson,  1828:136.  6. 
Ronalds,  1831:33.  7.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831:22.  8.  Kenrick,  1832:45, 
55.  9.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:37,  40.  10.  Downing,  1845:118,  119.  fig.  n.  Bar- 
rett, Horticulturist,  3:240.  1848.  12.  Cole,  1849:133.  fig.  13.  Thomas,  1849: 
172,  177,  182,  187.  fig.  14.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:83.  1851.  col.  pis. 


146  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Nos.  23  and  53.  15.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  16.  Mag.  Hort.,  19:171.  1853. 
17.  Hooper,  1857:64,  102.  18.  Elliott,  1858:93,  118,  120.  figs.  19.  Oberdieck, 
///.  Handb.  der  Obstk.,  4:99.  20.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  21.  Warder, 
1867:637,  649,  711,  720.  fig.  22.  Regel,  1868:463,  464.  23.  Downing,  1872: 
201.  fig.  24.  Leroy,  1873:486,  871.  figs.  25.  Barry,  1883:350,  358.  26.  Hogg, 
1884:155,  252.  27.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:292,  300.  28.  Wickson, 
1891:249.  29.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:240,  253.  30.  Massey,  Rural  N.  Y., 
51:462.  1892.  31.  Hicks,  Ib.,  53:205.  1894.  32.  Taylor,  U.  S.  Pom.  Bui.,  7: 
358.  1898.  33.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui.,  130:126,  140.  1901.  figs,  of  trees.  34. 
Eneroth-Smirnoff,  1901  .'392.  35.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:94,  211.  figs.  36.  Powell 
and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:43,  62.  1903.  37.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  Bui,  248:123,  152.  1904.  38.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  BuL,  56:23,  55,  129, 
210,  346.  1905. 

NOMENCLATURE.  ALBEMARLE  (21,  38).  Albemarle  (36,  38).  ALBEMARLE 
PIPPIN  (13,  1 8,  33)-  Albemarle  Pippin  (30,  32,  35,  37,  38).  American  Neiv- 
town  Pippin  (9,  10,  18,  23,  24,  26,  38).  Back  Creek  (38).  BROOKE  PIPPIN 
(38).  Brooke  Pippin  (20).  BROOKES  PIPPIN  (16,  21).  Brooke's  Pippin 
(?23,  38).  GREEN  NEWTON  PIPPIN  (2,  3,  4).  GREEN  NEWTOWN  (27,  35, 
36,  37).  GREEN  NEWTOWN  PIPPIN  (8,  14,  17,  21,  23,  28,  29,  probably  incor- 
rectly 9).  Green  Newtown  Pippin  (10,  13,  18,  24,  25,  26,  37,  38).  Green 
Winter  Pippin  (10,  18,  23,  24,  26,  38).  Hunt's  Fine  Green  Pippin  (23,  38). 
Hunt's  Green  Newtown  Pippin  (  ?  23,  38).  Large  Newtoivn  Pippin  (24,  38). 
LARGE  YELLOW  NEWTON  PIPPIN  (2).  Large  Yellow  Newton  Pippin  (26). 
Large  Yellow  Newtoivn  Pippin  (8,  26,  38).  Mountain  Pippin  (38).  NEU- 
STADT'S  GELBER  PEPPING  (19).  NEWTON'S  PIPPIN  (22).  NEWTON  YELLOW 
PIPPIN  (34).  NEWTOWN  PIPPIN  (i,  5,  6,  7,  9,  10,  n,  12,  13,  15,  18,  23,  24, 
25,  26,  30,  31).  Newtown  Pippin  (36,  37,  38).  New  York  Greening  (38). 
New  York  Pippin  (38).  Petersburgh  Pippin  (10,  18,  23,  24,  26,  38).  Pippin 
(13).  Reinette  de  New-York  (24).  Virginia  Pippin  (38).  YELLOW  NEW- 
TON'S PIPPIN  (22).  YELLOW  NEWTOWN  (21,  27,  32,  35,  36,  37).  YELLOW 
NEWTOWN  PIPPIN  (4,  7,  8,  10,  13,  14,  17,  18,  20,  25,  26,  28,  29).  Yellow 
Newtown  Pippin  (24,  36,  38).  YOPP'S  FAVORITE  (24),  but  incorrectly. 

The  Green  Newtown  and  the  Yellow  Newtown  are  here  discussed 
together  because  they  are  so  much  alike  that  it  is  highly  probable  that 
one  is  but  a  sport  or  strain  of  the  other.  At  this  ^t'ime  it  is  impossible 
to  determine  which  of  the  two  was  the  original  Newtown  Pippin. 
It  is  now  believed  that  Albemarle  is  Yellow  Newtown  and  Brooke 
Pippin  is  possibly  identical  with  Green  Newtown.  In  pomological 
literature  the  name  Newtown  Pippin  has  often  been  used  in  such  a 
way  that  it  is  uncertain  whether  the  writer  had  in  mind  the  Yellow 
Newtown  or  the  Green  Newtown,  and  the  correct  synonymy  cannot 
be  accurately  determined  in  all  cases.  On  this  account,  the  names 
as  given  by  the  different  writers  are  stated  in  the  above  nomen- 
clatural  list  without  indicating  whether  or  not  they  are  used  cor- 
rectly except  in  the  case  of  Leroy  (24).  Both  the  Green  Newtown 


GREEN  NEWTOWN 


YELLOW  NEWTCWN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  147 

and  the  Yellow  Newtown  differ  markedly  in  size,  color  and  quality 
in  different  locations  and  their  successful  cultivation  is  probably 
more  limited  by  local  conditions  than  is  the  case  with  any  other 
standard  commercial  variety  grown  in  this  state.  They  are  success- 
fully and  extensively  grown  in  certain  localities  in  the  Hudson  valley 
and  along  the  north  shore  of  Long  Island,  but  usually  neither  of 
them  is  regarded  as  desirable  for  commercial  planting  west  of  the 
Hudson  valley. 

Under  favorable  conditions  the  trees  come  into  bearing  young  and 
are  reliable  croppers  yielding  good  crops  biennially  or  sometimes 
oftener.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  It  is  quite  susceptible  to 
the  scab  and  requires  thorough  treatment  to  hold  this  disease  in  check 
particularly  when  grown  on  heavy  clay  soils.  Unless  grown  on  fer- 
tile soils  and  under  good  cultivation  with  insect  pests  and  fungous 
diseases  kept  well  under  control  there  is  often  a  comparatively  high 
percentage  of  ill-shaped,  uneven  and  low-grade  fruit.  Under  favor- 
able conditions  the  fruit  grows  large  or  sometimes  very  large  and 
is  fairly  uniform  in  size  although  somewhat  variable  in  form  and 
coloring.  It  has  a  long  established  reputation  in  Europe  and  com- 
mands the  best  prices  paid  there  for  American  apples.  It  is  firm, 
keeps  very  late  and  ships  well.  The  crop  is  largely  exported.  In 
ordinary  storage  its  commercial  season  is  February  to  March ;  in  cold 
storage  March  to  May.  The  fruit  is  of  the  highest  quality  for  des- 
sert and  excellent  for  culinary  uses.  Cider  made  from  it  is  very 
clear  and  of  high  quality,  and  in  the  early  days  large  quantities  of 
the  fruit  were  used  for  this  purpose. 

Historical.  The  excellent  historical  account  of  the  Yellow 
Newtown  and  the  Green  Newtown  given  by  Taylor  (32)  is 
reproduced  here : 

The  "  Newtown  Pippin  "  was  the  first  American  apple  which  attracted  atten- 
tion in  Europe.  After  the  receipt  of  specimens  by  Franklin  while  in  London 
in  1/59,  and  -the  subsequent  sending  of  grafts  to  Collinson  by  John  Bartram, 
numerous  attempts  were  made  to  grow  the  variety  in  England.  As  early  as 
1768  it  was  cultivated  in  the  Brompton  Park  nursery  under  the  name  "  New- 
town  Pippin  of  New  York."1 

It  is  probable  that  the  large  apple  exports  of  1773  included  considerable 
quantities  of  the  Newtown,  for  it  was  at  that  time  quite  generally  distributed 
through  the  apple-growing  districts  of  the  Atlantic  slope.  Thomas  Jefferson 
recorded  in  his  "Garden  Book"  that  in  March,  1773,  grafts  of  "Newtown 

1Hogg,  The  Apple  and  Its  Varieties,  1859: 143. 


148  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Pippin,''  received  from  Mordecai  Debnam,  at  Sandy  Point,  were  "  ingrafted 
by  P.  Morton,"  and  in  March,  1778,  he  noted  that  the  grafted  trees  were 
planted  out  at  Monticello. 

Prior  to  1803  Forsyth  said  of  the  variety  in  England,1  "  The  New-Town 
Pippin  is  a  fine  apple  in  good  season,  but  seldom  ripens  with  us.  It  is  held 
in  great  esteem  in  America."  McMahon,2  in  1806  included  Newtown  Pippin 
in  his  select  list  of  "  Long-keeping  apples "  and  also  in  a  list  of  "  Cyder 
apples." 

Previous  to  1817  we  have  no  record  that  more  than  one  type  of  the  New- 
town  was  recognized,  but  Coxe,3  whose  work  appeared  in  that  year,  described 
as  distinct  varieties  the  "  Large  Yellow  Newtown  Pippin  "  and  the  "  Green 
Newtown  Pippin,"  characterizing  the  latter  as  "  a  variety  of  the  preceding 
kind."  Since  the  time  of  Coxe  the  two  types  have  been  recognized  as  distinct 
by  our  leading  American  pomologists,  though  fruit  growers  are  by  no  means 
unanimous  on  this  point. 

The  original  seedling  tree  of  Newtown  Pippin  is  alleged  to  have  stood 
near  a  swamp  on  the  estate  of  Gershom  Moore,  in  Newtown,  Long  Island, 
until  about  1805,  when  it  died  from  excessive  cutting  of  cions  and  exhaustion. 
Its  origin  is  credited  to  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century.  It  is  not 
clear  at  this  time  whether  the  original  tree  was  of  the  "green"  or  the  "yellow" 
type,  nor  has  any  record  of  a  distinct  origin  of  the  two  been  discovered. 

The  Yellow  Newtown  has  for  many  years  been  considered  the  better  apple 
for  exportation,  however,  and  in  commercial  orchards  has  almost  superseded 
the  Green  Newtown  on  account  of  its  larger  size,  brighter  color,  and  better 
keeping  quality. 

Both  sorts  are  exceedingly  variable  and  susceptible  to  the  influence  of  soil, 
climate,  elevation  above  sea  level,  etc.  They  are  successfully  grown  in  but 
few  portions  of  the  apple-producing  area  of  the  United  States  at  the  present 
time,  the  principal  localities  being  the  lower  portion  of  the  Hudson  River 
valley  in  New  York,  the  Piedmont  and  mountain  regions  of  Virginia  and 
North  Carolina,  and  portions  of  California,  Oregon  and  Washington. 

Though  first  grown  in  commercial  orchards  in  New  York,  New  Jersey 
and  Pennsylvania,  the  excellent  quality  of  the  fruit  from  "  some  of  the  Patow- 
mack  counties  of  Virginia  "  was  noted  as  early  as  the  time  of  Coxe. 4 

In  Albemarle  county,  Va.,  where  it  reached  a  high  degree  of  perfection,  it 
became  known  as  the  "Albemarle  Pippin"  at  an  early  day,  and  was  for  many 
years  considered  a  distinct  variety,  of  local  origin,  and  was  so  propagated. 

An  export  trade  in  the  fruit  from  Albemarle  county  was  inaugurated  under 
favorable  auspices  by  a  happy  circumstance  which  occurred  in  the  first  year 
of  the  reign  of  Queen  Victoria.  The  account  below^  is  kindly  furnished  by 
Mr.  Samuel  B.  Woods,  president  of  the  Virginia  Horticultural  Society. 

^"obbett,  A  Treatise  on  the  Culture  and  Management  of  Fruit  Trees,  Edition  with 
American  Notes,  1803 -.58. 

2 McMahon,  B.,   The  American  Gardener's  Calendar,  1806:585. 

3  Coxe,  1817:i42,  143. 

*  Coxe,  1817: 1 43. 

5  Letter  April  30,  1898.  The  true  history  of  the  matter  is  that  in  the  first  year  of 
Queen  Victoria's  reign  Andrew  Stevenson)  whose  home  was  on  a  mountain  side  in 
Albemarle,  was  minister  to  the  Court  of  St.  James.  He  had  Albemarle  Pippins  sent 
over  for  his  own  use  and  presented  the  Queen  with  several  barrels.  She  was  delighted 
with  the  perfect  flavor  and  excellence  of  the  fruit,  and,  as  a  graceful  acknowledgment  of 
the  courtesy  of  Mr.  Stevenson,  removed  from  Albemarle  Pippins  a  small  tax  which  then 


YELLOW   NEWTOWN 


GREEN   NEWTOWN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  149 

The  identity  of  Albemarle  and  Yellow  Newtown  seems  to  have  been  re- 
corded first  by  the  late  Franklin  Davis  in  a  letter  from  Staunton,  Va.,  which 
was  published  in  the  Horticulturist  in  1857.!  Since  that  time  most  pomolo- 
gists  have  accepted  their  identity,  ascribing  the  slight  variations  which  are 
observable  to  local  soil  or  climatic  conditions.  But  in  the  absence  of  an 
authentic  record  of  the  introduction  of  Yellow  Newtown  to  Albemarle  county, 
many  orchardists  in  the  Piedmont  and  mountain  regions  have  continued  to 
believe  the  Albemarle  a  distinct  variety  of  local  origin.  Recent  investigation 
by  Messrs.  H.  L.  Lyman  and  Samuel  B.  Woods,2  prominent  citizens  and  fruit 
growers  of  Charlottesville,  Va.,  have  resulted  in  an  apparent  clearing  up  of 
the  historical  uncertainty  and  establishing  a  clear  connection  between  the 
supposed  original  Albemarle  tree  and  the  older  variety. 

GREEN   NEWTOWN. 
TREE. 

Tree  a  rather  slow  grower  ar  moderately  vigorous,  of  medium  size  or  some- 
times becoming  large.  Laterals  shorter,  twisted,  spreading  and  drooping 
more  than  those  of  the  Yellow  Newtown.  Form  spreading  or  roundish, 
rather  dense.  Tzvigs  medium  in  length  and  thickness,  pubescent  near  tips ; 
kiternodes  medium  to  rather  long.  Bark  clear  dark  brownish-red,  lightly 
streaked  with  scarf-skin.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  medium  or  below,  some- 
what elongated,  raised,  rather  conspicuous.  Buds  medium,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  very  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  but  rather  variable  in 
form  and  coloring.  Form  usually  roundish  oblate  and  more  o-r  less  angular. 
As  grown  in  Southeastern  New  York  it  often  has  an  oblique  axis  and  is  some- 
times decidedly  elliptical,  but  in  Western  New  York  the  tendency  of  the  fruit 

existed  for  the  benefit  of  the  Crown  on  all  imported  apples.  From  this  time  the  Albe- 
marle Pippin  has  grown  steadily  in  favor  in  the  English  markets.  It  is  not  unusual  to 
see  them  selling  in  the  wholesale  markets  at  Liverpool  for  two  or  three  times  the  price 
other  American  apples  are  bringing.  A  neighbor  last  fall  sold  his  entire  crop  for  $10  per 
barrel,  and  Mr.  Whately,  an  English  gentleman  who  recently  returned  from  abroad,  told 
me  that  he  saw  Albemarle  Pippins  retailing  at  36  cents  a  pound. 

1  Horticulturist,    7:288.     1857. 

2 Letter  of  April  30,  1898.  As  far  back  as  1765  there  was  a  tree  noted  for  its  fine  fruit 
standing  in  a  mountain  hollow  on  what  is  now  Mr.  William  Sutherland's  land,  in  the 
North  Garden  neighborhood.  How  this  tree  came  here  no  one  knows,  but  tradition  has 
it  that  it  was  a  seedling,  and  from  its  stock  came  all  Albemarle  Pippins. 

The  other  account,  and  the  most  authentic  one,  is  that  which  fixes  the  earliest  intro- 
duction at  the  time  of  P>raddock's  defeat.  Dr.  Thomas  Walker,  of  Castle  Hill,  Albemarle 
county,  was  the  commissary  officer  of  the  Virginia  troops  with  Braddock,  and  after  the 
disastrous  defeat,  when  the  remnant  of  the  troops  went  into  winter  quarters  in  Phila- 
delphia, he  returned  home,  carrying  in  his  saddle-bags  cuttings  of  apple  trees.  These  were 
grafted  at  Castle  Hill  and  became  the  famous  Albemarle  Pippin. 

These  two  accounts  I  find  connected  in  this  rather  curious  way.  The  land  on  which 
the  tree  in  the  North  Garden  neighborhood  stood  was  entered  in  the  land  office  in  1741  in 
the  name  of  Mildred  Meriwether,  in  whose  lifetime  parts  of  the  tract  were  improved. 
Mildred  Meriwether  was  the  stepdaughter  of  Dr.  Thomas  Walker,  and  what  is  more 
natural  than  that  the  old  tree  on  her  land,  supposed  to  be  a  seedling,  was  one  of  the 
Walker  grafts?  There  is  little  doubt  that  the  first  appearance  of  the  Albemarle  Pippin 
was  at  Castle  Hill  from  the  grafts  brought  home  from  Pennsylvania  by  Dr.  Walker  after 
Braddock's  defeat  in  1755. 


150  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

to  grow  with  an  oblique  axis  is  less  marked  and  the  fruit  is  less  often  ellip- 
tical and  more  nearly  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  or  short.  Cavity  deep, 
acuminate  to  acute,  broad  or  compressed,  often  sending  out  rays  of  russet. 
Calyx'  rather  small  to  medium,  closed  or  nearly  so;  lobes  rather  small,  acute. 
Basin  medium  in  width  and  depth,  furrowed  and  often  somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  brownish-russet  dots, 
grass-green  at  fruit  harvest  but  sometimes  pretty  yellow  later,  and  often 
showing  some  brownish  or  brownish-pink  color,  especially  near  the  base. 
White  submerged  dots  are  especially  numerous  toward  the  eye  and  whitish 
scarf-skin  stripes  extend  over  the  base. 

Calyx'  tube  long,  funnel-shape  to  nearly  conical.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  fairly  symmetrical,  closed 
or  nearly  so;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish  or  roundish 
obcordate,  emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  tufted,  medium  or  above,  dark,  narrow, 
acuminate. 

Flesh  yellowish  or  tinged  with  green  according  to  the  color  of  the  fruit, 
firm,  crisp,  tender,  moderately  fine-grained,  juicy,  sprightly,  with  a  fine  aro- 
matic subacid  flavor,  best. 

Season  February  to  May. 

YELLOW   NEWTOWN. 
TREE. 

Tree  more  vigorous  and  more  erect  than  that  of  Green  Newtown  the 
branches  growing  more  freely,  the  laterals  showing  less  tendency  to  droop 
and  the  twigs  averaging  somewhat  longer  than  is  the  case  with  the  Green 
Newtown,  otherwise  we  find  that  the  two  varieties,  as  Downing  says  (10) 
"grow-  alike." 

FRUIT. 

The  technical  description  of  the  fruit  of  the  Green  Newtown  applies  well 
to  the  Yellow  Newtown  in  all  points  excepting  the  color  of  the  fruit  and 
the  color  and  flavor  of  the  flesh.  At  fruit  harvest  the  Yellow  Newtown  is 
distinguishable  from  the  Green  Newtown  because  both  the  yellow  and  the 
pink  tones  are  more  highly  developed.  When  they  are  fully  mature  the  more 
highly  colored  apples  are  bright  yellow  often  with  distinct  pinkish  blush, 
especially  about  the  base.  Less  highly  colored  fruit  is  greenish-yellow  shaded 
more  or  less  with  duller  brownish-pink  through  which  narrow  streaks  of  the 
ground  color  often  appear,  combining  with  the  streaks  of  whitish  scarf-skin 
to  give  a  somewhat  striped  effect.  In  general  appearance  it  is  decidedly  more 
attractive  than  the  Green  Newtown,  and  its  flesh  is  apt  to  be  more  distinctly 
tinged  with  yellow,  milder,  less  sprightly  and  more  highly  aromatic. 

GREEN  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Manning,  1838:63.  2.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:45-  1841. 
3.  Thomas,  1849:162.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:90.  1851.  5.  Horti- 
culturist, 9:192.  1854.  6.  Hooper,  1857:45.  7.  Downing,  1857:81.  8.  Elliott, 
1858:83.  fig.  9.  Mag.  Hort.,  27:152.  1861.  10.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862. 
ii.  Warder,  1867:385.  12.  Barry,  1883:347.  13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:240. 
14.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:95.  15.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48: 
42.  1903- 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  151 

SYNONYMS.  Green  Sivcet  (6).  GREEN  SWEETING  (5).  Green  Sweeting 
(4).  HONEY  GREENING  (6).  Honey  Greening  (7,  8,  u,  12).  . 

A  desirable  late  keeping  apple  excellent  for  either  dessert  or 
culinary  use.  It  holds  its  flavor  and  remains  crisp,  brittle  and  juicy 
till  spring.  Often  it  is  kept  in  common  cellar  storage  till  April  or 
May.  It  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  best  late  keeping  sweet  apples  in 
cultivation  in  this  state.  It  is  grown  with  profit  for  selling  in  local 
markets  wherever  it  is  well  known,  but  it  does  not  sell  so  readily  in 
the  general  market  because  it  is  not  large  and  not  well  known  and 
because  the  trade  demands  chiefly  red,  subacid  apples.  The  tree  is 
a  good  reliable  cropper,  bears  biennially  and  yields  so  abundantly 
that  the  fruit  commonly  averages  below  medium  or  rather  small,  but 
it  is  perfect,  smooth,  bright,  regular  and  uniform  in  size  and  shape 
with  little  loss  from  drops  and  culls.  The  apples  are  easily  picked 
because  the  habit  of  the  tree  is  upright  and  rather  compact  and  it 
usually  bears  its  fruit  close  to  the  branches  or  on  short  laterals  or 
spurs.  Green  Sweet  may  be  set  more  closely  in  the  orchard  than 
either  Baldwin  or  Rhode  Island  Greening  because  it  does  not  grov/ 
so  large  as  either  of  these  varieties  and  is  decidedly  more  upright  in 
habit. 

The  Sweet  Greening  of  Thacher1  or  Green  Sweeting  of  Kenrick2 
is  said  to  be  distinct  from  this  variety. 

A  fall  apple  has  been  introduced  from  Russia  under  the  name 
Green  Sweet.  This  will  be  noticed  in  the  succeeding  volume. 

Historical.  An  old  variety  of  uncertain  origin.  It  was  already  well  known 
and  much  cultivated  in  Northeastern  Massachusetts  in  the  first  half  of  the 
last  century  (i).  It  has  long  been  highly  esteemed  in  Central  and  Western 
New  York  (3,  4,  5,  9). 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  or  sometimes  large,  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous ;  branches 
moderately  stout ;  young  branches  dark  green.  Form  erect  or  roundish,  rather 
compact.  Twigs  short,  straight,  stout ;  internodes  short.  Bark  very  dark 
brown,  mingled  with  reddish-brown,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin ;  pubes- 
cent near  tips.  Lenticels  numerous,  medium,  oblong,  slightly  raised,  rather 
conspicuous.  Buds  large,  plump,  broad,  obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

•  •  j  '. 

Fruit  medium  or  often  below  medium,  sometimes  large.  Form  ovate  to 
roundish  inclined  to  conic,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed ;  pretty  regular  and 

Thacher,  1822 1138. 
2  Kenrick,  1832:46. 


152  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

uniform  in  size.  Stan  medium  to  rather  long,  slender  to  moderately  thick. 
Cavity  somewhat  furrowed,  deep,  acuminate,  moderately  broad,  smooth  or 
with  some  radiating  russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  to  rather  large,  closed  or 
somewhat  open ;  lobes  rather  leafy,  long,  acute.  Basin  variable,  usually 
medium  in  width  and  depth,  abrupt,  slightly  wrinkled  and  more  or  less 
obscurely  furrowed. 

Skin  grass-green  eventually  becoming  pretty  yellow  with  a  thin  brownish- 
red  blush  in  highly  colored  specimens.  Dots  green  or  with  fine  russet  point, 
often  submerged  and  whitish.  Prevailing  color  green. 

Calyx  tube  wide,  cone-shape.     Stamens  median. 

Core  rather  large,  abaxile,  open ;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping  or  nearly 
meeting.  Carpels  roundish  ovate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  or  below,  rather 
narrow,  acute. 

Flesh  greenish-white,  tender,  fine-grained,  juicy,  very  sweet,   good. 

Season  December  to  April  or  May. 

GREENVILLE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  13:587.  1894.  a.  Buechly, 
E.  M.,  Greenville,  Ohio,  Cat.,  1895.  fig.  3.  Amer.  Card.,  17:162.  1896.  fig.  4. 
Can.  Hort.,  19:86.  1896.  fig.  5.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  15:280.  1896.  6. 
Ib.,  Western  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:35.  7.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui.,  48:43.  1903.  8.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  205:42.  1903.  9.  Beach 
and  Clark,  Ar.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:123.  1904. 

SYNONYM.  DOWNING  WINTER  MAIDEN  BLUSH  (i,  2,  3,  4).  Downing 
Winter  Maiden  Blush  (5,  6,  7,  9). 

Fruit  attractive  on  account  of  its  desirable  size  and  clear  bright 
color.  The  skin  is  tough  and  withstands  rough  handling  pretty  well 
for  a  yellow  apple.  Suitable  for  general  market  and  culinary  pur- 
poses but  it  does  not  excel  in  quality.  The  tree  is  satisfactorily  pro- 
ductive, being  usually  an  annual  bearer  alternating  light  with  heavier 
crops. 

Historical.  Originated  from  seed  of  Maiden  Blush  in  1874  by  Jason  Down- 
ing. Darke  county,  Ohio.  E.  M.  Buechly,  Greenville,  Ohio,  introduced  it 
under  the  name  Downing' s  Winter  Maiden  Blush  but  afterwards  changed  the 
name  to  Greenville.  It  has  not  yet  become  generally  disseminated  in  New 
York. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright  becoming  rather  spreading.  Tzvigs  below  medium, 
rather  slender  to  moderately  stout,  nearly  straight ;  internodes  medium  or 
below.  Bark  clear  reddish-brown  or  olive-green,  somewhat  pubescent.  Lenti- 
ccls  rather  conspicuous,  moderately  numerous,  small  to  medium,  usually  elon- 
gated, raised.  Buds  below  medium,  generally  roundish,  slightly  pubescent, 
acute,  appressed. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish  oblong,  usually 
symmetrical  but  sometimes  slightly  irregular  or  obscurely  ribbed,  uniform 
in  shape.  Stem  short.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  rather  deep,  moderately 


GREENVILLE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  153 

wide,  symmetrical  or  nearly  so,  sometimes  slightly  furrowed,  sometimes  lipped, 
often  a  little  russeted  Calyx'  medium,  closed  or  somewhat  open ;  lobes  often 
long,  acuminate.  Basin  shallow,  to  moderately  deep,  usually  furrowed  and 
wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  waxen,  clear  pale  yellow  with  handsome  red  or  pinkish  blush, 
in  appearance  somewhat  resembling  the  Maiden  Blush. 

Calyx  tube  rather  narrow,  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  medium,  abaxile ;  cells  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  broadly  roundish.  Seeds  medium  or  above,  rather  light  brown,  rather 
narrow,  acute. 

Flesh  whitish  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  moderately  fine, 
moderately  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid,  sometimes  a  little  astringent, 
good. 

Season  November  to  February,  sometimes  extending  into  April.  Com- 
mercial limit  January  or,  in  cold  storage,  February. 

GREYHOUSE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:154.  fig.  2.  Elliott,  1854:174.  3.  Downing, 
1857:214.  4.  Warder,  1867:720,  722.  5.  Downing,  1872:204,  270.  6.  Down- 
ing, Am.  Porn.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:68.  7.  Downing,  1876:57  app.  8.  Lyon,  Mich. 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  9.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241.  10.  Burrill  and 
McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:323,  326.  1896.  n.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:131.  1904.  12.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:131.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Big  Romanite  (incorrectly  6,  7,  n,  of  some  12).  Black  Jack 
(6,  7,  12 j.  Black  Pcnnock  (6,  7,  12).  Black  Vandervcre  (7,  12).  Black 
Vafideverc  (6).  Filliken  (6).  German  Spitsenbcrg  (6,  7,  12).  Grayhouse 
(12).  Gray  Romanite  (6,  12).  Hard  Red  (7,  12).  Hoop  (12).  HOOPES 
(4,  9).  Hoopes  (5,  6,  7,  12).  Hoopcs'  Pearmain  (6,  7,  12).  HOOPS  (10). 
Hoops  (12).  Hopsey  (5,  6,  7,  12).  Hopson  (6,  7,  12).  House  (i).  Key- 
stone (6,  7,  12).  Lop  side  (6,  7,  12).  Lop-sided  Pearmain  (5,  12).  Lop  side 
Pearmain  (6).  May,  erroneously  (5,  6,  12).  May  Apple  (2).  MAY  SEEK- 
NO-FARTHER  (7,  n).  MAY  SEEK-NO-FURTHER  (2,  6).  May  Seek-No- 
Furthcr  (12).  MAY  Seek-No-Further  (8).  Pilliken  (5,  12).  ^d  Everlast- 
ing (6,  7,  12).  Romanite  (8,  incorrectly  6  and  12). 

Fruit  medium  in  size,  dull  colored,  green  and  red ;  skin  thick ;  flesh  dry, 
coarse,  subacid;  not  suitable  for  dessert  and  valued  only  as  a  long  keeper  (i, 

2,  5,  8).     Season  February  to  May   (5,  n).     Tree  vigorous,  spreading;  not 
a  reliable  bearer. 

Historical.  Greyhouse  probably  originated  either  in  New  Jersey  (5)  or 
Pennsylvania  (4).  It  has  been  grown  under  various  names  in  different  parts 
of  the  country  and  there  has  been  much  uncertainty  with  regard  to  its 
synonymy.  May  Seek-No-Farther  and  Hoops  are  now  considered  identical 
with  Grayhouse  (12).  It  is  still  offered  by  some  nurserymen  (9),  but  it  is 
not  now  generally  cultivated  (n). 

GRIMES. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  22:131.   1856.     2.  Downing,  1857:149. 

3.  Hooper,  1857:42.    4.  Hanford,  Horticulturist,  18:206.  1863.  fig.    5.  Warder, 
1867:670.  fig.    6.  Grimes,  Horticulturist,  24:51.  1869.     7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 


154  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

1869.  8.  Barry,  1883:347.  9.  Thomas,  1885:245.  10.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1890:292.  ii.  Wickson,  1891:247.  12.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:240.  13. 
Amer.  Card.,  19:131.  1898.  fig.  14.  Bracket!,  Ib.,  22:191.  1901.  15.  Alwood, 
Va.  Sta.  Bui.,  130:133.  1901.  16.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui,  3:25.  1902.  17. 
Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:55.  1902.  fig.  18.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:95.  fig. 
19.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:43.  1903.  20.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:123.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  GRIMES'  GOLDEN  (5,  6,  7,  8,  TO,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17,  18). 
Grimes  Golden  (19.  20).  GRIMES  GOLDEN  PIPPIN  (i,  2,  3,  4,  9,  n,  12). 

Fruit  beautiful  rich  golden-yellow,  attractive  in  form  and  excellent 
either  for  dessert  or  culinary  use.  It  can  hardly  be  called  a  standard 
market  variety  but  in  some  markets  it  sells  well.  It  is  not  a  gobcl 
keeper  and  is  apt  to  scald  in  storage.  It  is  in  season  about  with 
Hubbardston.  The  tree  is  a  biennial  or  sometimes  an  annual  bearer 
and  a  good  cropper.  Favorable  reports  on  it  have  been  received 
from  certain  localities  in  New  York  but  generally  as  grown  in  this 
state  it  does  not  develop  in  size,  color  or  quality  as  well  as  it  does 
in  more  southern  latitudes,  and  there  is  a  high  percentage  of  loss 
from  drops  and  culls.  Some  few 'New  York  fruit  growers  consider 
it  a  fairly  profitable  variety  but  generally  it  is  regarded  less  favorably 
and  it  has  failed  to  became  a  standard  apple  either  in  the  home 
orchards  or  in  the  commercial  orchards  of  the  State.  The  indica- 
tions are  that  it  will  never  be  grown  in  New  York  to  any  consider- 
able extent. 

Historical  Originated  in  West  Virginia.  Fruit  from  the  original  tree 
was  sold  to  the  New  Orleans  traders  as  long  ago  as  1804  (6).  It  has  become 
generally  disseminated  throughout  the  Ben  Davis  regions  of  the  South,  West 
and  Southwest,  where  it  is  often  planted  for  home  use  and  is  highly  esteem-ed 
as  a  dessert  apple,  but  it  is  not  grown  extensively  in  many  localities  in  the 
commercial  orchards.  It  has  long  been  known  in  scattering  localities  in  New 
York  and  old  trees  of  it  are  found  in  some  orchards  but  it  has  not  been  gen- 
erally planted. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  short,  stout,  curved,  crooked.  Form 
upright  spreading  or  roundish,  inclined  to  droop ;  rather  dense.  Twigs  short 
to  long,  straight,  moderately  stout;  internodes  short.  Bark  dull  brownish, 
rather  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent  in  spots  and  at  tips.  Lenti- 
cels  scattering,  small  to  large,  roundish  or  oblong,  not  raised,  rather  incon- 
spicuous. Buds  medium,  broad,  obtuse  to  acute,  free,  varying  from  slightly 
pubescent  to  quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  oblong,  often  flattened  at  the  ends, 
sometimes  inclined  to  conic,  pretty  regular,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed,  some- 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  155 

tirnes  oblique,  symmetrical,  uniform;  sides  often  unequal.  Stem  short  to 
medium.  Cavity  broad,  deep,  acute  to  acuminate,  often  russeted.  Calyx 
rather  large,  closed;  lobes  long,  reflexed,  often  separated  at  base.  Basin 
abrupt,  deep  or  moderately  deep,  rather  wide,  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  tough,  somewhat  rough,  clear  deep  yellow  with  scattering  pale  yellow 
or  russet  dots. 

Calyx  tube  yellow,  very  broad  at  the  top,  conical,  deep.     Stamens  basal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  somewhat  abaxile;  cells  usually  pretty  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  somewhat  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping. 
Carpels  roundish,  emarginate,  concave.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  or  below, 
somewhat  tufted,  plump,  acute  to  obtuse. 

Flesh  yellow,  very  firm,  tender,  crisp,  moderately  coarse,  moderately  juicy, 
subacid,  rich,  aromatic,  sprightly,  very  good  to  best. 

Season  November  to  January  or  February.  Commercial  limit,  December 
or  January. 

HARGROVE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Amer.  Agric.,  1891:701.  fig.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892: 
240.  3.  Berckmans,  Cat.,  1892.  4.  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1895:24.  5.  Thomas, 
1897:638.  6.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1897:38. 

A  yellow  apple  of  mild  flavor  and  good  quality.  Received  for  testing  at 
this  Station  from  P.  J.  Berckmans,  Augusta,  Ga.  It  does  not  appear  to  be 
worthy  of  trial  in  New  York  state.  The  fruit  is  pale  yellow,  sometimes 
blushed,  averages  below  medium  size,  is  mild  in  flavor  and  good  in  quality. 
Its  season  here  extends  from  November  to  March  but  in  the  southern  states 
it  is  classed  as  an  autumn  variety. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  nearly  medium.  Form  roundish  conic,  sometimes  roundish 
oblate ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  medium  to  rather  short  and 
thick.  Cavity  obtuse,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  sometimes  symmetrical 
but  often  compressed  or  furrowed  or  lipped,  often  russeted.  Calyx  medium, 
open  or  sometimes  partly  closed ;  lobes  broad,  reflexed.  Basin  shallow  or 
moderately  shallow,  furrowed,  often  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  somewhat  waxen,  glossy,  bright  yellow,  sometimes  with  bright 
blush.  Dots  small  to  large,  often  irregular,  russet. 

Calyx  tube  urn-shape. 

Core  medium  or  below,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  round- 
ish, emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  long,  acuminate,  tufted. 

Flesh  a  little  yellowish,  firm,  rather  crisp,  moderately  fine-grained,  juicy, 
mild  subacid  mingled  with  sweet,  slightly  aromatic,  good. 

HAYWOOD. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Berckmans,  Cat.,  1892.     2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241. 
SYNONYM.     Queen  of  Haywood  (i). 

A  southern  apple  received  from  P.  J.  Berckmans,  Augusta,  Ga.,  1892,  for 
testing  here.  The  fruit  is  dull  red,  striped  over  yellow  background,  hardly 
medium  in  size,  not  very  attractive,  mild  subacid,  and  only  fair  in  quality. 
Not  desirable  for  planting  in  New  York. 


156  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

HAZEN. 

A  yellow  or  greenish  apple  of  good  size,  mild  flavor,  nearly  sweet,  good 
or  nearly  good  in  quality.  The  tree  comes  into  bearing  young,  is  a  rather 
strong  grower  and  so  far  as  tested  here  is  productive.  It  is  not  recommended 
for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Hazen  was  originated  by  J.  Erwin  Lord,  Pompanoosuc,  Vt, 
who  says  that  it  was  produced  by  crossing  some  fine  cultivated  variety,  record 
of  name  now  lost,  upon  an  unnamed  seedling  red  winter  apple. 

TREE. 

Twigs  very  short,  slender,  straight  or  nearly  so ;  internodes  medium.  Bark 
slightly  dull  reddish,  somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticels  not  very  conspicuous, 
small  to  nearly  medium,  generally  quite  elongated.  Buds  rather  small,  prom- 
inent, fleshy,  acute,  moderately  pubescent,  slightly  adhering  to  the  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  in- 
clined to  conic,  varying  to  somewhat  oblate,  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to 
long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  obtuse  to  acute,  medium  in  depth  and  width, 
usually  symmetrical,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or 
partly  open.  Basin  often  oblique,  shallow,  moderately  wide,  obtuse,  slightly 
furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  yellow,  marbled  with  green.  Dots  small,  numerous,  greenish  and 
russet. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  short,  usually  cone-shape,  sometimes  varying  to 
funnel-form. 

Core  medium,  varying  to  rather  large,  open ;  core  lines  usually  meeting. 
Carpels  broadly  roundish,  mucronate.  Seeds  numerous,  small  to  medium, 
rather  narrow,  acute,  moderately  light  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  somewhat  crisp,  not  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
sweet  or  nearly  so,  slightly  aromatic,  fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  April. 

HENNIKER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1876:54  app.  2.  Hogg,  1884:126.  3.  Garten- 
flora,  39:265.  1890.  col.  pi.  4.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:243.  5.  Beach,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:593.  1892.  6.  Jour.  Royal  Hort.  Soc.,  1898:356.  7.  Powell 
and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:44.  1903.  8.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:124.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     LADY  HENNIKER   (i,  2,  4,  5,  6). 

Fruit  of  good  size  and  excellent  quality  but  not  attractive  enough 
in  form  and  color  to  rank  as  a  first-class  commercial  variety.  The 
tree  is  a  strong  grower.  It  does  not  come  into  bearing  very  young 
but  is  quite  productive  in  alternate  years.  There  is  apt  to  be  con- 
siderable loss  from  the  dropping  of  the  fruit.  It  is  not  recommended 
for  planting  in  New  York. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  157 

Historical.  Originated  between  1840  and  1850  in  Suffolk,  England  (2). 
Awarded  first-class  certificate  by  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society  in  1873  (6). 
It  has  not  been  disseminated  much  in  this  country  and, is  but  little  known  in 
New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree'  vigorous ;  branches  short,  moderately  stout,  curved,  crooked.  Form 
roundish  or  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  long  to  short,  stout ;  internodes 
medium  or  below.  Bark  dark  brown  tinged  with  red  or  partly  olive-green, 
distinctly  mottled  with  gray  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather 
numerous,  scattering,  medium  to  small,  roundish,  raised,  moderately  con- 
spicuous. Buds  medium,  rather  prominent,  broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute, 
free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  very  large,  fairly  uniform  in  size.  Form  oblate 
to  roundish,  rather  obscurely  ribbed,  often  elliptical,  not  very  uniform  in 
shape.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  acuminate  or  some- 
what acute,  deep,  wide,  gently  furrowed,  often  covered  with  outspreading 
russet.  Calyx  medium  to  rather  large ;  lobes  partly  open,  broad,  acute.  Basin 
moderately  deep  to  rather  shallow,  medium  to  rather  wide,  somewhat  furrowed 
and  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  tough,  decidedly  roughened  with  capillary  netted  russet  lines 
and  rather  large  russet  dots,  and  sometimes  with  broken  patches  of  russet ; 
color  rather  deep  yellow,  blushed  and  mottled  with  red  and  sparingly  striped 
with  carmine.  Prevailing  effect  rather  dull  red  somewhat  mingled  with 
yellow. 

Calyx  tube  rather  long,  funnel-shape.     Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile ;  cells  unsymmetrical,  often  seedless,  irreg- 
ularly developed ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  broadly 
roundish  or  approaching  obcordate,  emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  few,  medium 
or  above,  obtuse  to  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  coarse,  somewhat  crisp,  rather  tender, 
juicy,  rich,  brisk  subacid  with  something  of  the  flavor  characteristic  of  certain 
russets,  becoming  rather  mild  late  in  the  season ;  good  to  very  good  in  quality. 
Excellent  for  cooking  but  at  first  rather  too  briskly  acid  to  be  desirable  for 
a  dessert  apple. 

Season  November  to  March  or  April. 

HEREFORDSHIRE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hogg,  1884:106.  2.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890: 
292.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241. 

SYNONYM.     HEREFORDSHIRE  BEEFING  (i,  3). 

A  dark  red  subacid  apple  adapted  for  kitchen  use.  As  fruited  at  the  Geneva 
Station  it  is  rather  attractive  but  falls  below  standard  commercial  varieties 
in  size,  quality  and  appearance.  The  tree  comes  into  bearing  early  and  is 
productive.  It  does  not  appear  to  be  worthy  of  trial  in  New  York  state. 

Historical.  Known  in  Herefordshire  for  more  than  one  hundred  years  (i). 
It  is  but  little  known  in  New  York. 


158  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

TREE. 

Tree  not  a  very  good  grower ;  branches  short,  slender ;  laterals  willowy  and 
slender.  Form  roundish  or  spreading,  very  dense.  Twigs  below  medium  to 
very  short,  straight,  slender,  somewhat  pubescent;  internodes  short.  Bark 
clear  brownish-red  with  some  olive-green,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin. 
Lenticels  moderately  numerous,  scattering,  small  to  medium,  elongated,  slightly 
raised.  Buds  below  medium  to  small,  broad,  very  obtuse,  appressed,  deeply 
set  in  the  bark,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  in  size  but  with  a  full  crop  it  varies  from  below  medium  to 
small.  Form  usually  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  oblate  conic,  symmetrical ; 
uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  short  and  thick.  Cavity  obtuse,  broad, 
deep,  often  russeted,  usually  symmetrical,  sometimes  furrowed.  Calyx 
medium  to  rather  large,  usually  open ;  tips  of  lobes  divergent.  Basin  varies 
from  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  rather  wide,  slightly  wrinkled,  ridged. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  clear  greenish-yellow  largely  blushed  with  rather  bright 
dark  red,  sometimes  almost  covered  with  red.  Dots  medium  in  size,  numerous, 
usually  russet,  sometimes  submerged.  Prevailing  effect  red  with  more  or 
less  contrasting  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  very  short,  rather  wide,  broadly  conical,  sometimes  approaching 
funnel-form.  Stamens  median  or  slightly  marginal. 

Core  large,  abaxile;  cells  symmetrical,  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
usually  elliptical  sometimes  broadly  obovate,  emarginate,  sometimes  a  little 
tufted.  Seeds  small,  rather  short,  plump,  broadly  acute,  rather  light  colored. 

Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  firm  and  tender,  moderately  fine,  juicy,  aro- 
matic, brisk  subacid,  fair  to  good  in  flavor  and  quality. 

Season  October  to  January  or  February. 

HIESTER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:215.  2.  Boyer,  Pa.  Fr.  Gr.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1881 : 
34.  3.  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:324.  1896. 

SYNONYMS.  Baer  (i).  Heaster  (i).  Heister  (i).  Michel  Miller  (2). 
Miller  (i).  Stehly  (i). 

A  pleasant  subacid  apple  in  season  here  during  winter,  but  where  it  origi- 
nated it  is  classed  as  a  late  fall  and  early  winter  variety.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive  (i).  It  is  considered  a  desirable  apple  in  some  parts  of  Pennsyl- 
vania (2).  Not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Origin,  Reading,  Berks  county,  Pa.  (i).  But  little  known  in 
New  York. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  faintly  ribbed.  Stem  very 
short  and  slender.  Cavity  acute,  rather  broad  and  deep.  Calyx  small,  partly 
open.  Basin  rather  abrupt  to  somewhat  obtuse,  broad,  deep,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  pale  yellow  mottled  with  thin  bright  red  on  shady  side  and  washed 
with  deeper  red  and  narrowly  streaked  with  deep  carmine  in  the  sun.  Dots 
gray  or  russet,  conspicuous  about  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  cone-shape,  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  159 

Core  small,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  open  or  partly  open;  core  lines  meeting 
cr  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish.  Seeds  medium  or  below,  rather 
narrow,  short,  plump. 

Flesh  yellowish-white,  crisp,  moderately  juicy,  rather  tender,  mild  subacid 
to  somewhat  sweet,  fair  to  good  in  flavor  and  quality. 

HIGHLAND  BEAUTY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Manning,  Mass.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1881:232.  2.  Downing, 
1881:88  app.  fig.  3.  Dempsey,  Out.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  2:32.  1895. 

A  seedling  of  the  Lady  exhibited  before  the  Massachusetts  Horticultural 
Society  in  1881  as  a  new  variety.  "  In  size  it  surpasses  its  parent  but  not  in 
quality"  (i).  The  fruit  is  of  the  Lady  type.  Skin  clear,  smooth  yellow  or 
almost  waxen  white,  blushed  with  brilliant  carmine.  Flesh  white,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  very  good. 

Season  January  to  March  (i,  2,  3).  It  does  not  appear  to  be  known  in 
cultivation  to  any  considerable  extent. 

HOLLAND  WINTER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Langley,  Pomona,  1729.  (cited  by  3).  2.  Knoop,  Pomol, 
1758.  (cited  by  3).  3.  Forsyth,  1824:107.  4.  Hogg,  1884:110.  5.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:44,  par.  2.  1903.  6.  Beach  and  Clark,  Ar.  Y. 
Sta.  Bui.,  248:124.  1904. 

The  variety  here  described  as  Holland  Winter  was  received  for 
testing  at  this  Station  from  Western  Pennsylvania  under  the  name  of 
Holland  Pippin.  United  States  Pomologist  Heiges  identified  it  for 
us  as  the  Holland  Pippin  of  Hogg,  Langley  and  Miller,  and  stated 
that  it  is  the  variety  which  is  generally  grown  in  Pennsylvania  under 
the  name  of  Holland  Pippin  We  have  not  yet  been  able  to  confirm 
with  certainty  the  identification  made  by  Heiges. 

Forsyth's  complete  description  of  the  Holland  Pippin  of  Lang- 
ley  (3)  is  here  given. 

"  This  is  a  middle-sized  apple,  of  a  flattish  shape.  Its  colour 
is  yellow,  in  some  places  inclining  to  green,  with  sometimes  a 
little  red  towards  the  sun.  This  is  a  pretty  good  apple,  and 
keeps  till  the  middle  of  April." 

The  following  is  Hogg's  description  (4). 

"  Fruit  large,  three  inches  wide,  and  two  inches  and  a  half 
high ;  roundish  and  flattened  with  ribs  on  the  sides.  Skin, 
greenish-yellow,  with  a  slight  tinge  of  pale  brown  where  ex- 
posed to  the  sun,  and  strewed  with  large  green  dots.  Eye, 


160  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

small  and  closed,  set  in  a  round,  narrow,  and  plaited  basin. 
Stalk,  very  short,  imbedded  in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity.  Flesh, 
yellowish-white,  firm,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  briskly  acid. 

"A  valuable  apple  of  first-rate  quality  for  culinary  purposes ; 
it  is  in  use  from  November  to  March.  The  tree  is  a  strong 
grower,  vigorous,  healthy,  and  a  good  bearer." 

This  variety  is  surely  distinct  from  the  one  described  by 
Downing1  and  commonly  grown  in  the  Hudson  valley  and  to 
some  extent  in  other  portions  of  the  state  under  the  name  of 
Holland  Pippin.  The  Holland  Pippin  of  Downing  begins  to 
ripen  somewhat  earlier  than  the  Fall  Pippin,  while  the  variety 
here  described  keeps  till  spring.  Since  both  of  these  varieties 
are  known  in  cultivation  in  this  country  under  the  name  of  Holland 
Pippin  it  is  well  to  distinguish  between  the  two  by  calling  the  late 
keeping  one  Holland  Winter. 

It  is  a  green  apple  of  the  Reinette  Pippin  class,  not  equal  to 
Rhode  Island  Greening  in  flavor  or  quality  for  dessert  or  culinary 
uses  but  it  is  a  better  keeper  and  less  liable  to  scald.  It 
is  attractive  for  a  green  apple  in  both  size  and  color.  The  tree  is  a 
strong  grower,  healthy  and  productive,  and  usually  is  an  annual 
bearer  alternating  heavy  with  rather  light  crops.  It  appears  to  be 
of  sufficient  value  to  be  worthy  of  planting  for  trial  as  a  commercial 
variety  where  a  late  keeping  apple  of  this  type  is  desired. 

Historical.  If  this  is  in  fact  the  Holland  Pippin  of  Langley  and  Miller  it  is 
an  old  variety  "  native  of  the  Holland  district  of  Lincolnshire,  hence  its 
name"  (4). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous ;  branches  long,  moderately  stout.  Form  spreading  or 
roundish,  rather  open.  Twigs  moderately  long,  straight,  stout;  internodes 
short  to  medium.  Bark  clear  reddish-brown  with  some  olive-green,  streaked 
lightly  with  scarf-skin,  heavily  pubescent  near  the  tips.  Lenticels  numerous, 
small,  roundish,  sometimes  raised,  rather  conspicuous.  Buds  large  to  above 
medium,  broad,  obtuse,  free  near  the  old  wood  but  quite  appressed  near  the 
tips;  heavily  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  conic,  symmetrical,  regular  or 
sometimes  faintly  ribbed.  Stem  medium  or  short  and  rather  thick.  Cavity 
acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  rather  large  and  slightly  furrowed,  occas- 

1  Downing,  1872 12  TO. 


HOLLAND  WINTER 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  i6i 

ionally  with  thin  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed 
or  partly  open.  Basin  shallow,  occasionally  moderately  deep  and  abrupt, 
somewhat  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  slightly  waxy,  smooth,  pale  green  or  whitish  often  with  a  faint, 
dull  blush.  Dots  numerous,  rather  large,  conspicuous,  submerged,  whitish, 
mingled  with  a  few  fine  russet  points. 

Calyx  tube  long,  narrow,  funnel-shape.     Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  medium  or  below,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  open 
or  partly  closed;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to  somewhat  elliptical, 
broad,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  rather  short,  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  firm,  rather  crisp,  moderately  fine-grained,  juicy,  sub- 
acid  with  mild,  pleasing  aroma,  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

HOLMES  SWEET. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Downing,    1872:220. 

Described  by  Downing  as  a  medium  sized  yellow  apple  with  red  cheek. 
Flesh  tender,  sweet,  mingled  with  subacid.  Season  November  to  February. 
Origin,  Niagara  county,  N.  Y.  (i).  Now  practically  obsolete. 

Not  the  Holmes  of  Thacher. 

HUBBARDSTON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Kenrick,  1832:47.  2.  Manning,  1838:62.  3.  Mag.  Hort., 
7:45.  1841.  4.  Downing,  1845:113.  5.  Mag.  Hort.,  14:545-  1848.  fig.  6.  Ib., 
15:63.  1849.  7.  Thomas,  1849:166,  167.  fig.  8.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y., 
3:65.  1851.  col.  pis.  51  and  74.  9.  Hovey,  1:67.  1852.  col.  pi.,  fig.  10.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  n.  Hooper,  1857:46.  12.  Oberdieck,  ///.  Handb.  der 
Obslk.,  8:137.  13.  Warder,  1867:600.  fig.  14.  Mag.  Hort.,  34:27.  1868.  15. 
Leroy,  1873:497.  fig.  16.  Barry,  1883:347.  17.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:292.  18.  Wickson,  1891:244.  19.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241.  20. 
Green,  Rural  N.  Y.,  57:802.  1898.  21.  Eneroth-Smirnoff,  1901:363.  22. 
Budd-Hansen,  1903:100.  fig.  23.  Can.  Hort.,.  26:89.  1903.  fig.  24.  Powell 
and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:44.  1903.  25.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  Bui,  248:125.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  AMERICAN  BLUSH  (20).  American  Blush  (25).  American 
Nonpareille  (15).  Hubbardston  (18).  HUBBARDSTON  NONSUCH  (i,  2,  3,  5, 
6,  7,  8,  9,  IT,  13,  14,  16,  19,  21,  22).  Hubbardston  Nonsuch  (15,  23,  24,  25). 
John  May  (15).  NONPAREILLE  DE  HUBBARDSTON  (15).  NONSUCH  (18). 
Nonesuch  (24,  25).  Orleans  (25).  SONDERGLEICHEN  VON  HUBP.ARDSTON 
(12).  Van  Vleet. 

Hubbardston  is  an  excellent  variety  for  commercial  planting  and 
deserves  to  be  better  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers.  It 
varies  remarkably  under  different  conditions  of  soil  and  climate  not 
only  in  vigor  of  tree  but  in  certain  fruit  characters  also,  such  as  size, 
color,  degree  of  smoothness  or  russeting  of  the  skin  and  in  the  quality 


162  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

and  flavor  of  the  flesh.  The  fact  that  it  has  come  to  have  various 
local  names  in  different  parts  of  the  state  is  doubtless  partly  due  to 
this  variability.  It  is  now  generally  conceded  that  American  Blush, 
Van  Vleet  and  Orleans  are  identical  with  Hubbardston,  or  at  the 
most  are  but  selected  strains  of  that  variety.  In  many  parts  of  the 
state  Hubbardston  is  one  of  the  most  profitable  varieties  of  its 
season,  ripening  as  it  does  between  the  perishable  early  autumn 
varieties  and  the  late  ripening  winter  apples.  It  has  generally  sus- 
tained the  reputation  of  coming  into  bearing  at  an  early  age  and 
yielding  heavy  crops  as  often  as  every  other  year  and  in  many  places 
it  is  almost  an  annual  bearer.  It  is  apt  to  be  productive  to  a  fault, 
and  for  this  reason  should  receive  extra  attention  to  keep  the  soil 
fertile  and  the  foliage  well  protected  from  insects  and  diseases. 
When  grown  upon  its  own  trunk  the  body  is  sometimes  injured  by 
severe  winters.  The  tree  also  is  somewhat  susceptible  to  attacks  of 
the  apple  canker.  For  these  reasons  it  is  doubtless  best  for  one  who 
wishes  to  grow  Hubbardston  to  plant  some  hardier  and  more  vig- 
orous variety  such  as  the  Northern  Spy,  and  the  following  year  top- 
work  the  trees  to  Hubbardston.  Under  favorable  conditions  the  tree 
is  a  vigorous  grower  and  the  fruit  is  fair,  smooth,  uniform,  of  good 
size  and  pretty  good  color.  The  quality  Is  excellent  for  dessert  but 
less  satisfactory  for  culinary  use  except  very  early  in  the  season 
before  the  fruit  loses  acidity. 

Its  commercial  limit  in  cellar  storage  does  not  extend  much  later 
than  December.  It  is  a  very  uncertain  keeper  and  in  cold  storage 
should  go  out  in  late  fall  or  early  winter  although  sometimes  it  has 
been  held  in  good  condition  till  spring.  Fruit  of  this  variety  grown 
in  Central  and  Western  New  York  usually  is  somewhat  smaller  and 
keeps  better  than  that  grown  in  the  lower  Hudson  valley.  It  appears 
that  its  keeping  quality  is  correlated  to  some  extent  with  the  size  of 
the  fruit.  If  there  is  only  a  medium  crop  on  the  tree  and  the  fruit 
is  large  it  goes  down  quicker  than  if  the  crop  is  heavier  and  the 
individual  fruits  smaller  and  firmer.  Fruit  of  good  color  also  has 
good  keeping  quality,  other  things  being  equal,  but  poorly  colored 
fruit  soon  deteriorates  in  flavor  and  quality  (25).  When  the  trees 
are  allowed  to  become  greatly  overloaded,  as  they  often  do  where 


HUBBARDSTON 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  163 

the  apples  are  not  thinned,  there  is  apt  to  be  a  considerable  portion 
of  undersized  and  poorly  colored  fruit.  There  is  also  some  loss 
from  the  early  dropping  of  the  fruit  particularly  where  picking  is  too 
long  delayed.  Hubbardston  reaches  edible  maturity  in  October  and 
holds  its  flavor  well  till  December  or  January,  but  after  that  time  its 
quality  usually  deteriorates  rapidly.  It  may  often  be  kept  in  edible 
condition  through  the  winter  even  in  cellar  storage  but  seldom  with 
prime  flavor. 

Historical.  Hubbardston  is  a  native  fruit  which  had  its  origin  in  Hubbards- 
ton, Massachusetts.  As  early  as  1832  Kenrick  referred  to  it  as  one  of  the 
most  desirable  varieties  known  in  cultivation  in  Eastern  Massachusetts  (i). 
Although  it  has  long  been  widely  disseminated  in  New  York  there  are  many 
localities  where  it  is  yet  unknown  and  many  others  where  it  has  been  intro- 
duced within  recent  years.  The  planting  of  it  for  commercial  purposes  is 
gradually  increasing. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous,  sometimes  large,  but  if  it  is  allowed  to  overbear  and  is  not 
properly  fed  it  is  more  often  moderately  vigorous  and  of  medium  size.  Form 
erect  to  roundish,  somewhat  spreading,  rather  dense.  Tzvigs  medium  or 
rather  long,  spreading  or  erect,  moderately  stout,  somewhat  crooked,  pubescent ; 
internodes  below  medium  to  short.  Bark  dull  olive-green  with  tinge  of 
reddish-brown  and  mottled  with  thin  gray  scarf-skin.  Leniicels  scattering, 
conspicuous,  medium  to  small,  round  or  oblong,  raised,  becoming  laterally 
compressed  on  the  older  bark.  Buds  medium,  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  pubes- 
cent. Leaves  medium  to  rather  small,  rather  narrow  and  inclined  to  become 
incurved. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large,  sometimes  very  large.  Form  roundish  ovate 
or  slightly  oblong  to  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  characteristically  rounded 
toward  the  cavity,  usually  symmetrical,  often  obscurely  ribbed.  The  crop 
is  usually  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape  but  there  is  considerable  variability 
in  the  fruit  with  crops  of  different  seasons  and  different  localities.  Stem 
short  to  very  short.  Cavity  rather  deep,  acute,  symmetrical,  sometimes 
slightly  furrowed,  usually  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  large,  open  to  nearly 
closed;  when  large  the  lobes  are  usually  reflexed  and  separated  at  the  base 
exposing  the  yellowish  calyx  tube.  Basin  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide, 
shallow  and  somewhat  obtuse  to  moderately  deep  and  abrupt,  distinctly  fur- 
rowed, often  marked  with  concentric  flecks  of  russet  in  and  about  the  basin. 

Skin  sometimes  quite  smooth  but  more  often  roughened  with  dots,  flecks 
and  fine  veins  of  russet  and  sometimes  covered  with  faint  bloom.  Color 
yellow  or  greenish  blushed  and  mottled  with  red  which  varies  from  dull 
brownish  to  clear  bright  red,  and  is  more  or  less  marked  with  deep  carmine. 
Dots  pale  or  russet,  often  large  and  irregular,  especially  conspicuous  on  the 
red  portions  of  the  fruit.  Prevailing  effect  in  highly  colored  specimens 
attractive  red,  mingled  with  more  or  less  of  yellow. 


164  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Calyx  tube  medium  in  length,  broad,  cone-shape.     Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  or  rather  small,  more  or  less  abaxile ;  cells  usually  pretty 
symmetrical,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping. 
Carpels  broadly  roundish,  slightly  emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  numerous, 
medium  to  rather  small,  rather  short,  plump,  acute,  light  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  breaking,  rather 
fine-grained,  tender,  moderately  crisp,  juicy,  aromatic,  rich,  at  first  sprightly 
but  becoming  mild  subacid  mingled  with  sweet,  very  good  to  best. 

Season  October  to  January. 

HUNT  RUSSET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  19:126.  1853.  2.  Ib.,  21:300.  1855.  3. 
Downing,  1857:143,  187.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  5.  Warder,  1867:720, 
722.  6.  Downing,  1872:196.  7.  Downing,  C,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:36. 
8.  Downing,  1876:53  app.  9.  Thomas,  1885:240,  513.  10.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:292.  ii.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241.  12.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:101. 

SYNONYMS.  American  Golden  Russet  of  New  England  (8).  BULLOCK  (i, 
2,  but  incorrectly).  FAY'S  RUSSET  (3).  Fay's  Russet  (8).  Golden  Russet 
(not  of  N.  Y.)  (8).  GOLDEN  RUSSET  OF  MASS.  (4,  5,  6).  Golden  Russet 
of  Mass.  (8).  Golden  Russet  of  New  England  (8).  Mass.  Golden  Russet 
(8).  New  England  Russet  (8).  New  England  Golden  Russet  (8).  RUSSET 
PEARMAIN  (3,  9).  Russet  Pearmain  (8). 

Fruit  medium  size,  golden  russet  with  broken  patches  of  smooth 
bright  red  on  the  cheek.  It  is  quite  attractive  for  a  russet  apple, 
excellent  in  quality  and  a  good  keeper.  Tree  moderately  vigorous 
and  productive.  It  is  no  longer  considered  profitable  and  is  not 
being  planted  in  commercial  orchards. 

Historical.  The  following  description  of  the  fruit  was  made  from  apples 
grown  upon  the  old  Hunt  farm,  Concord,  Mass.  Mr.  Wm.  H.  Hunt,  to 
whom  we  are  indebted  for  these  apples,  states  that  the  variety  originated  at 
least  150  years  ago,  and  adds  that  it  was  once  considered  a  profitable  market 
apple  but  is  so  no  longer.  Downing  (8)  refers  to  it  as  an  old  favorite  which 
is  said  to  have  originated  in  the  latter  part  of  the  seventeenth  century,  and 
which  has  been  widely  disseminated  under  different  names.  In  New  England 
it  has  by  some  been  called  Golden  Russet  and  American  Golden  Russet. 
Hovey  identified  it  as  Bullock  but  incorrectly  (i,  2,  7). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright  spreading.  Twigs  clear  light  reddish- 
brown,  slightly  grayish  (6). 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  uniform.  Form  a  little  oblate  to  distinctly  conical, 
often  elliptical,  pretty  uniform  in  shape.  Stem  short  to  medium,  slender. 
Cavity  large,  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  deep,  broad,  sometimes  furrowed 
and  compressed.  Calyx  medium,  partly  open  or  sometimes  closed ;  lobes 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  165 

medium  in  length,  broad,  obtuse.  Basin  moderately  deep  to  shallow,  moder- 
ately narrow  to  rather  wide,  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  thick,  rather  tender,  golden  russet  or  with  red  russet  cheek.  Patches 
of  smooth  skin  breaking  through  the  russet  vary  from  yellow  to  bright  deep 
red.  Dots  numerous,,  gray  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  often  long,  funnel-shape.     Stamens  basal. 

Core  small,  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel 
cylinder.  Carpels  roundish  to  elliptical,  slightly  emarginate.  Seeds  dark, 
medium  in  size,  plump,  usually  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  fine,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  sprightly 
becoming  mild,  not  sweet  as  some  have  stated,  very  good  to  best. 

Season  January  to  April  or  later. 

HUNTSMAN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:14  app.  fig.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1875: 
10.  3.  Thomas,  1885:513.  4.  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1887:631.  fig.  5.  Mo.  Sta. 
Bui,  6:7.  1889.  6.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241.  7.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta. 
Bui,  3:26.  1902.  8.  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:53.  1902.  9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:103. 
fig.  10.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:44.  1903.  u.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:126.  1904. 

-SYNONYM.     HUNTSMAN'S  FAVORITE   (i,  2,  3,  5,  6).     Huntsman's  Favorite 
(7,  8,  TO). 

The  Huntsman  apple,  or  as  it  is  more  generally  known  by  the 
growers,  the  Huntsman  Favorite,  is  a  western  variety,  it  having  been 
grown  in  Missouri  and  Eastern  Kansas  for  about  fifty  years.  In 
that  section  it  is  quite  highly  prized  on  account  of  its  high  quality 
and  the  good  bearing  habits  of  the  tree.  It  is  not  looked  upon  with 
special  favor  by  the  commercial  growers  of  the  West  because  of  its 
susceptibility  there  to  bitter  rot,  sunburn  and  apple  scab.  The  tree 
is  not  an  early  bearer  but  after  it  does  begin  to  fruit  is  a  regular 
bearer  and  quite  prolific.  The  fruit  is  pretty  uniformly  large  or 
very  large,  somewhat  irregular  in  form,  deep  yellow  usually  some- 
what blushed  and  very  attractive.  In  sections  where  it  is  known  it 
is  in  special  demand  among  apple  buyers  for  the  fancy  trade. 

Historical.  This  variety  originated  on  the  farm  of  John  Huntsman,  Fay- 
ette,  Mo.  (i),  and  up  to  within  very  recent  years  its  cultivation  seems  to  have 
been  confined  to  the  Middle  West.  So  far  as  we  can  learn  it  has  not  been 
tested  to  any  considerable  extent  in  the  East.  It  is  practically  unknown  in 
New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous ;  branches  long,  slender.  Form  upright  varying  to  roundish 
or  spreading,  rather  open.  Twigs  above  medium,  long,  straight,  slender;  in- 
ternodes  very  short.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown,  heavily  mottled  with  scarf- 


166  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

skin,  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  medium  to  very  small,  round, 
not  raised.  Buds  small  to  nearly  medium,  broad,  obtuse,  free  near  old  wood 
but  quite  appressed  towards  the  tips,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large,  usually  large.  Form  roundish  oblate,  slightly 
conical,  somewhat  irregular,  obscurely  angular.  Stem  short,  rather  thick. 
Cavity  acute  to  slightly  obtuse,  deep,  broad,  sometimes  russeted,  frequently 
furrowed,  sometimes  compressed.  Calyx  small,  closed ;  lobes  short,  narrow, 
acute.  Basin  very  abrupt,  medium  in  depth  to  deep,  moderately  narrow  to 
narrow,  usually  deeply  furrowed. 

Skin  rather  thick,  somewhat  tender,  deep  yellow  or  greenish,  often  with  an 
orange-red  blush  which  sometimes  deepens  to  a  distinct  red.  Dots  small, 
inconspicuous,  pale,  submerged,  numerous. 

Calyx  tube  usually  extends  to  the  core,  cylindrical  to  slightly  funnel-form 
with  broad  cylinder.  Stamens  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  abaxile;  cells  often  somewhat  unsymmetrical,  open; 
core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  elliptical  to  very  broadly  ovate,  deeply  emarginate, 
sometimes  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  frequently  irregular  in  shape,  moderately 
dark  brown,  rather  wide  and  long,  usually  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  moderately  coarse,  not  very  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  mildly  subacid  wi{h  a  distinct  pleasantly  aromatic  flavor,  good 
to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  April. 

HYDE  KING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241.  2.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An. 
Rpt-,  13:592.  1894.  3.  Ib.,  14:265.  1895.  4-  Ib.,  15:284.  1896.  5.  Beach,  W. 
N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:37.  6.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui, 
48:60.  1903.  7.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:114.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  CHASE  (7),  but  incorrectly.  HYDE'S  KING  (OF  THE  WEST) 
(i).  WESTERN  BEAUTY  (2,  3,  4,  5,  6),  but  incorrectly. 

Hyde  King  appears  to  be  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  the  newer 
varieties  of  apples  which  have  been  tested  at  this  Station.  The  fruit 
is  large  or  very  large,  pretty  uniform,  smooth,  glossy,  pale  green  or 
yellow,  often  a  little  shaded  with  red.  It  is  quite  attractive  for  a 
green  apple.  Although  not  high-flavored  it  is  good  in  quality,  suit- 
able for  culinary  use  and  evidently  desirable  for  general  market  pur- 
poses being  a  good  keeper.  So  far  as  tested  here  the  tree  is  vigorous, 
and  almost  an  annual  bearer.  It  is  not  a  very  heavy  cropper  but 
the  fruit  is  very  uniformly  large  with  a  low  percentage  of  culls. 

TREE. 

Tree* vigorous.  Tivigs  medium  to  long,  stout;  internodes  short.  Bark  dull 
brown  tinged  with  olive-green,  somewhat  streaked  with  scarf-skin;  pubescent. 


/ 


HYDE  KING 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  167 

Lenticels  quite  numerous,  medium  to  below,  round,   raised.     Buds  medium, 
plump,  obtuse,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  nearly 
globular  varying  to  slightly  oblate  or  somewhat  conic,  often  obscurely  ribbed, 
sometimes  with  sides  unequal  but  usually  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  short, 
stout.  Cavity  acute  to  obtuse,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  broad,  usually  smooth 
and  bright  green  with  contrasting  large  white  dots,  sometimes  partly  russeted. 
Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed  or  somewhat  open ;  lobes  short,  obtuse.  Basin 
moderately  deep,  rather  narrow,  sometimes  becoming  broad,  somewhat  fur- 
rowed and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  glossy,  light  green  shading  to  pale  or  whitish 
yellow,  often  with  a  thin  blush  and  sometimes  faintly  striped  with  darker  red 
and  marked  towards  the  cavity  with  broken  stripes  of  whitish  scarf-skin. 
Dots  numerous,  sometimes  with  a  russet  point,  usually  large  about  the  cavity. 

Calyx  lube  usually  short,  cone-shape,  sometimes  approaching  funnel-form. 
Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  open  or  partly  closed ; 
core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  smooth,  concave,  roundish 
or  very  broadly  elliptical.  Seeds  above  medium,  wide,  obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  whitish,  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  coarse,  breaking, 
rather  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  somewhat  aromatic,  good  but  not  of  high 
flavor. 

Season  December  to  April  or  May.  Commercial  limit  in  ordinary  storage 
February  or  March;  in  cold  storage,  May  (7). 

INGRAM. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Horticulturist,  23:201.  1868  (cited  by  5).  2.  Downing, 
1872:229.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:241.  4.  Rural  N.  Y.,  56:345.  1897.  5. 
Taylor,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Yr.  Bk.,  1901:382.  col.  pi.  6.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta. 
Bui.,  3:22.  1902.  fig.  7.  Thomas,  1903:328.  8.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:103.  9. 
Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:45.  1903. 

SYNONYMS,  tngraham  (5).  INGRAM  SEEDLING  (i).  Ingram  Seedling 
(5,  7). 

This  variety  has  attracted  attention  in  the  Southwest  within  recent 
years  on  account  of  its  excellent  keeping  qualities  (4,  5,  6,  9).  It  is 
said  to  be  exceptionally  promising  for  the  Ozark  region  (6)  where  it 
is  being  largely  planted  for  commercial  purposes.  Like  the  Rails  it 
blooms  late  in,  the  season  and  the  older  trees  are  apt  to  bear  rather 
small  fruit  unless  the  fruit  is  thinned.  The  fruit  is  of  the  Rails 
type  but  averages  larger  and  is  more  highly  colored,  being  nearly 
red.  In  quality  it  ranks  about  with  York  Imperial.  In  flavor  it 
is  much  like  Rails  but  less  juicy.  It  has  not  yet  been  sufficiently 
tested  in  New  York  to  determine  whether  it  is  a  desirable  apple 


i68  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

for  this  state  but  since  it  is  so  much  like  its  parent,  Rails,  it 
probably  is  not  so  well  adapted  for  this  region  as  it  is  for  more 
southern  localities. 

Historical.  Originated  with  Martin  Ingram  near  Springfield,  Mo.,  from 
seed  of  the  Rails  (Geniton)  between  1844  and  1855  (5,  6). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous,  with  long,  moderately  stout  branches.  Form  upright  or 
roundish,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  straight,  rather  stout;  inter- 
nodes  medium  or  below.  Bark  olive-green  partly  covered  with  clear  brownish- 
red,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin.  Lenticcls  numerous,  large,  generally 
round,  raised,  very  conspicuous.  Buds  medium,  broad,  flat,  obtuse,  appressed, 
pubescent,  deeply  set  in  the  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  about  medium,  sometimes  large.  Form  roundish  conic,  to 
roundish  oblate,  symmetrical.  Stem  rather  short,  varying  from  thick  and 
swollen  to  moderately  slender.  Cavity  acuminate,  varying  from  medium  in 
depth  and  width  to  deep  and  broad,  sometimes  partly  russeted,  obscurely 
furrowed.  Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  pretty  regular,  moderately  deep,  medium 
in  width  to  rather  narrow,  moderately  abrupt. 

Skin  rather  thick  and  tough,  smooth,  bright  greenish-yellow  or  pale  yellow, 
washed,  mottled  and  striped  with  two  shades  of  red  and  clouded  with  whitish 
scarf-skin  over  the  base.  Highly  colored  specimens  are  nearly  overspread 
with  rather  dark  red.  Dots  numerous,  whitish  or  areolar  with  russet  center, 
rather  conspicuous. 

Calyx  tube  conical  or  somewhat  funnel-form.     Stamens  basal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  nearly  so ; 
core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  tufted.  Seeds 
medium  in  size,  rather  wide,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  somewhat  tinged  with  yellow,  firm  and  hard  but  becoming  crisp  and 
tender,  juicy,  very  mild  subacid,  somewhat  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  February  to  June  or  later. 

JACKSON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Smith,  Horticulturist,  11:286.  1856.  2.  Brinckle,  Ib.,  12: 
520.  1857.  fig-  3-  Downing,  1857:156.  4.  Warder,  1867:723.  5.  Thomas, 
1885:514- 

SYNONYM.    Jackson  Seedling  (T). 

A  greenish-yellow  apple  of  medium  size,  not  particularly  attractive.  In 
season  from  October  to  February.  Not  recommended  for  planting  in  New 
York. 

Historical.  Origin,  Bucks  county,  Pa.  (i,  2,  3).  Although  it  has  long 
been  known  in  Pennsylvania  it  has  npt  been  disseminated  to  any  considerable 
extent  in  this  state, 


JACOB    SWEET 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  169 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous;  branches  moderately  long,  stout,  crooked.  Form  roundish 
or  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  long,  curved,  stout ;  internodes  medium. 
Bark  dark  brown  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent  near  the  tips. 
Lenticels  numerous,  small,  round,  not  raised.  Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  of 
medium  size,  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  to  roundish 
oblate,  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to  rather  long,  slender.  Cavity  usually 
acuminate,  deep,  narrow  to  rather  broad,  often  heavily  russeted  and  with  out- 
spreading irregular  rays.  Calyx  medium  in  size,  closed  or  sometimes  open ; 
lobes  long,  rather  narrow,  acute.  Basin  abrupt,  medium  in  depth  to  deep, 
moderately  wide,  slightly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tender,  greenish-yellow  with  many  dark  green 
blotches  and  gray  dots,  a  very  few  faint  red  stripes  scarcely  perceptible,  and 
on  the  exposed  side  a  warm  mottled  brown  blush,  containing  numerous  white 
dots  with  a  central  gray  speck  in  each  (2). 

Calyx  tube  large,  long,  conical  to  funnel-form,  extending  nearly  to  core. 
Stamens  marginal  to  median. 

Core  medium  in  size,  abaxile ;  cells  unsymmetrical,  wide  open ;  core  lines 
clasping.  Carpels  smooth,  nearly  cordate  to  broadly  ovate.  Seeds  numerous, 
dark  brown,  medium  in  size,  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  fine,  crisp,  very  tender,  juicy,  very  mild 
subacid  mingled  with  sweet,  good. 

JACOBS  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Manning,  Mass.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1880:235.  2.  Ib.,  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:28.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:242.  4.  Beach,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:253.  1895.  5.  Ib.,  West.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1896:52.  6. 
Manning,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1899:185.  7.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:105.  8. 
Rural  N.  Y.,  62:771.  1903.  fig.  9.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui, 
48:45.  1903.  10.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:126.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  JACOBS  (4,  5,  9).  JACOB'S  SWEET  (i,  2,  3).  Jacobs  Sweet 
(9).  JACOB'S  WINTER  SWEET  (3).  Jacobs'  Winter  Sweet  (4). 

A  large  showy  apple,  green  or  yellowish  often  with  bright  blush. 
In  form,  color  and  texture  it  somewhat  resembles  Bough  Sweet.  It 
is  one  of  the  best  sweet  apples  of  its  season  for  baking.  The  fruit  is 
very  tender  and  liable  to  crack  and  spot.  It  rots  on  the  tree  and  also 
in  storage.  It  is  an  unreliable  keeper  and  rather  variable  in  season 
but  commonly  is  in  season  about  with  Pumpkin  Sweet  or  Tompkins 
King.  Its  commercial  limit  varies  from  October  to  December  or 
later  in  cellar  storage  and  from  January  to  March  in  cold  storage 
(9,  10).  The  tree  is  not  a  very  satisfactory  grower  in  the  nursery 


170  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

but  in  the  orchard  it  is  vigorous,  comes  into  bearing  moderately 
young  and  is  almost  an  annual  bearer  often  yielding  rather  heavy 
crops.  It  is  recommended  for  the  home  orchard  but  not  for  general 
commercial  planting. 

Historical.  Originated  by  Charles  Sumner  Jacobs,  Medford,  Massachusetts, 
about  1860  (i,  2).  It  has  been  but  sparingly  disseminated  in  New  York  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  vigorous.  Form  spreading.  Twigs  short  to  rather 
long,  rather  stout,  straight  or  slightly  curved ;  internodes  medium  to  short. 
Bark  clear  light  brownish-red  with  some  olive-green,  lightly  mottled  with 
scarf-skin ;  rather  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  inconspicuous,  rather  scatter- 
ing, small,  elongated,  sometimes  raised.  Buds  lightly  attached  to  the  bark 
or  free,  medium  or  below,  very  prominent,  fleshy,  broad,  obtuse,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large  or  very  large.  Form  roundish  often  inclined 
to  conic,  sometimes  slightly  oblate,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to 
short.  Cavity  rather  wide,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  acute  or  approaching 
acuminate,  sometimes  slightly  furrowed  or  compressed,  seldom  russeted. 
Calyx  medium,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  often  abrupt,  usually  round, 
medium  in  width  and  depth. 

Skin  tough,  somewhat  waxen,  rather  glossy,  clear  yellow  or  greenish,  often 
with  a  bright  blush.  Dots  obscure,  whitish  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  or  somewhat  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  rather  large,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  open  or  partly 
closed;  core  lines  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  large,  roundish  to  broadly 
obovate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium,  acute. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  moderately  coarse,  very 
tender,  crisp,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic,  very  sweet,  good. 

Season  October  to  March  or  April. 


JEWETT  RED. 


REFERENCES,     i.  Hovey,   Mag.   Hort.,   8:250.    1842.      2.  Thomas,    1849:149. 

3.  Cole,  1849:112.     4.  Mag.  Hort.,  21:569.   1855.  fig.     5.  Downing,   1857:157. 
6.  Elliott,  1858:140.  fig.     7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.    8.  Warder,  1867:723. 
9.  Barry,  1883:347.     10.  Hoskins,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1886:274.     u.  Lyon,  Mich. 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:292.     12.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  RpL,  1893:133.     13.  Waugh, 
Vt.  Sta.  Bui.,  61:30.  1897.     14.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:106.     15.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:126.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.     JEWETT'S  FINE  RED  (5,  8,  9,  10,  14).     Jewett's  Fine  Red  (2, 

4,  6,  12,  15).     JEWETT'S  RED   (2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  11,  15).     Nodhead   (3,  4,  5,  6, 
9,  12,  13,  14,  15). 

An  early  winter  apple  of  medium  size  and  of  beautiful  dark  red 
color  overspread  with  blue  bloom.  It  is  highly  esteemed  as  a  dessert 
fruit  in  portions  of  New  England,  particularly  in  Maine  and  New 


UJ 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  171 

Hampshire  where  it  is  grown  to  some  extent  commercially.  It  is  of 
the  Blue  Pearmain  type  and  one  of  the  best  of  that  group  in  quality. 
As  fruited  at  this  Station  it  does  not  develop  as  high  color  nor 
as  good  quality  as  it  does  in  the  region  where  it  originated.  The 
tree  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  but  is  a  slow  grower  and 
only  moderately  productive.  As  compared  with  standard  varieties 
like  Baldwin  and  Rhode  Island  Greening,  it  evidently  requires  extra 
attention  in  pruning,  spraying,  fertilizing  and  tilling  in  order  to 
secure  a  good  average  grade  of  fruit. 

Historical.  Origin,  Hollis,  N.  H.  (4).  It  has  been  known  in  certain  local 
markets  in  New  England  for  fifty  years  or  more,  but  has  not  yet  been  grown 
to  any  considerable  extent  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  makes  a  very  unsatisfactory  growth  in  the  nursery  and  for  that  reason 
does  best  when  top-worked  on  some  thriftier  stock.  In  the  orchard  it  is  a 
rather  slow  grower  and  hardly  attains  medium  size;  branches  rather  short 
and  stout  with  comparatively  few  laterals  and  numerous  spurs.  Form  spread- 
ing or  roundish,  somewhat  open.  Twigs  very  short  to  moderately  long,  nearly 
straight,  rather  stout ;  internodes  short.  Bark  dull  dark  brownish-green  vary- 
ing to  brownish-red  mottled  and  streaked  with  light  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubes- 
cent. Lenticels  rather  scattering,  small  to  medium,  roundish,  not  raised, 
rather  dull  in  color.  Buds  rather  short,  small,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  slightly 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  less  than  medium  size,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and 
shape.  Form  roundish  oblate,  sides  unequal,  obscurely  ribbed,  often  some- 
what irregular.  Stem  short.  Cavity  variable,  acute  to  acuminate,  shallow 
to  medium  in  depth,  moderately  wide,  furrowed  obscurely  if  at  all,  green  or 
russeted,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  open  or  partly  closed; 
lobes  broad,  short,  obtuse.  Basin  shallow  to  medium  in  depth,  moderately 
wide,  obtuse,  obscurely  furrowed  and  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thin,  tough,  nearly  smooth,  dark  red  over  yellow  background, 
often  deepening  to  purplish-red  and  obscurely  marked  with  broken  stripes 
and  splashes  of  carmine.  Dots  numerous,  often  conspicuous,  pale  yellow  or 
whitish.  Characteristic  bluish-white  scarf-skin  often  more  or  less  overspreads 
the  base.  Prevailing  effect  very  attractive,  deep  red. 

Calyx  tube  moderately  narrow,  funnel-form  or  approaching  cone-shape. 
Stamens  median. 

Core  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  closed  or  some- 
times open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  oval,  elongated,  emarginate.  Seeds 
numerous,  clear  reddish-brown,  below  medium  or  rather  small. 

Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasantly  aromatic,  mild 
subacid  or  nearly  sweet,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  October  to  February  (15). 


172  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

JONATHAN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Buel,  N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:476,  Cat.  No.  39.  2. 
Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831.  3.  Kenriek,  1832:47.  4.  Downing,  1845:113. 
5.  Thomas,  1849:167,  189.  fig.  6.  Cole,  1849:123.  7.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  16: 
60.  1850.  fig.  8.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:60.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  25.  9. 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1856.  10.  Hooper,  1857:48.  n.  Reynolds,  Horticul- 
turist, 12:51.  1857.  12.  Dewey,  Ib.,  12:198.  1857.  13.  Elliott,  1858:86.  fig. 
14.- Warder,  1867:679.  fig.  15.  Barry,  1883:348.  16.  Hogg,  1884:119.  17. 
Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  18.  Meehan,  Can.  Hort.,  14:75.  1891. 
fig.  19.  Wickson,  1891:246.  20.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:242.  21.  Stinson, 
Ark.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:46.  1894.  22.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  118:60.  1895.  23. 
Ib.,  143:200,  202.  1897.  24.  Powell,  Del.  Sta.  Bui,  38:18.  1898.  25.  Van 
Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  59:224.  1900.  26.  Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:53.  1902.  27. 
Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:61.  1902.  28.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:106.  fig.  29. 
Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:45.  1903.  30.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:127.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  ESOPUS  SPITZENBERG  (NEW)  (i).  JOHNATHAN  (21).  Jona- 
than (n).  King  Philip  (4,  7,  10,  n,  13).  PHILIP  RICK  (n).  Philip  Rick 
(4,  7,  13)-  Ulster  Seedling  (i).  Wine  (erroneously  10,  13).  Wine  sap 
(erroneously  10,  13). 

This  is  a  fruit  of  the  Esopus  Spitsenbnrg  class.  It  is  very  beauti- 
ful, of  a  brilliant  red  color,  highly  flavored  and  of  excellent  quality 
for  either  dessert  or  culinary  use.  It  excels  its  parent  in  hardiness, 
productiveness,  health  and  vigor  and  is  adapted  to  a  wider  range  of 
territory,  but  the  fruit  is  not  so  large  nor  does  it  keep  as  well  as  that 
of  Esopus  Spitzenburg.  In  New  York  state  it  does  fairly  well  in 
favorable  localities  if  grown  on  rich  soil  and  given  careful  attention 
but  even  under  such  circumstances  it  does  not  usually  attain  as  good 
size  as  it  does  in  certain  portions  of  the  valleys  of  the  Ohio,  Missis- 
sippi and  Missouri  and  in  the  irrigated  districts  in  the  mountain 
regions  farther  west.  In  some  localities  in  these  regions  it  ranks  next 
to  Ben  Davis  in  commercial  importance.  As  grown  in  this  state  it  is 
ordinarily  rather  small-  with  a  comparatively  high  percentage  of  un- 
even and  irregular  fruit,  and  is  not  at  all  adapted  to  the  general 
trade.  At  its  best  it  is  one  of  the  most  desirable  varieties  for  the 
fancy  trade  at  the  holiday  season.  Its  season  is  about  the  same  as 
that  of  Tompkins  King.  It  may  be  kept  through  the  winter  but 
when  held  in  ordinary  storage  later  than  January  dark  spots  are 
liable  to  develop  in  the  skin  and  seriously  injure  the  appearance  of 
the  fruit.  Handled  in  this  way  its  commercial  limit  is  December  or 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  173 

early  January.     In  cold  storage  its  commercial  limit  varies  from  Jan- 
uary to  March  or  sometimes  later  (30). 

As  grown  in  New  York  the  tree  is  but  a  moderate  grower  and  for 
this  reason  it  is  well  to  top-work  it  upon  some  stock  that  is  more 
vigorous  such  as  Northern  Spy,  Baldwin  or  Rhode  Island  Greening. 
It  does  not  grow  much  above  medium  size  and  may  be  planted  more 
closely  than  Baldwin.  Particular  attention  should  be  given  to  keep- 
ing the  soil  fertile,  well  supplied  with  humus  and  well  tilled,  and  the 
trees  should  be  thoroughly  protected  from  injurious  insects  and 
fungus-diseases.  Under  favorable  conditions  the  tree  is  a  reliable 
cropper  bearing  good  crops  biennially  or  in  some  cases  almost  an- 
nually. It  comes  into  bearing  rather  young.  Usually  the  fruit 
hangs  pretty  well  to  the  tree.  It  is  not  recommended  for  general 
commercial  planting  in  New  York  but  in  some  places  under  good 
management  it  has  proved  a  profitable  variety. 

Historical.  The  first  published  account  which  we  find  of  the  Jonathan  is 
that  given  by  Judge  J.  Buel,  of  Albany,  in  1826,  in  an  article  on  "  Observa- 
tions on  the  utility  of  a  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Garden  and  Orchard  Fruit," 
addressed  to  the  members  of  the  New  York  Horticultural  Society,  in  which 
he  presents  "A  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  some  of  the  most  valuable  apples 
propagated  in  the  nurseries  of  this  state."  In  this  catalogue  the  Jonathan 
is  listed  as  the  Esopus  Spitzenberg  (New)  with  the  synonym  Ulster  Seedling 
(i).  In  1829  Judge  Buel  sent  specimens  of  the  fruit  to  the  Massachusetts 
Horticultural  Society  with  the  statement  that  it  was  "  An  Esopus  Seedling 
and  sometimes  called  the  New  Spitzenberg."  It  originated  on  the  farm  of 
Mr.  Philip  Rick  of  Woodstock,  Ulster  county,  New  York  (7).  According 
to  Downing  the  original  tree  was  still  alive  in  1845.  It  was  at  first  dissemi- 
nated under  various  names,  all  of  which  were  soon  superseded  by  the  name 
Jonathan  which  was  assigned  to  it  by  Judge  Buel  in  honor  of  Jonathan  Has- 
brouck  by  whom  his  attention  was  first  called  to  the  variety.  It  has  been 
widely  disseminated  throughout  the  apple-growing  regions  of  New  York  but 
in  none  of  them  is  it  grown  extensively.  It  is  extensively  planted  in  regions 
farther  west  and  south  where,  as  above  stated,  it  is  recognized  in  many  local- 
ities as  one  of  the  leading  commercial  varieties. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  a  moderately  vigorous  or  rather  slow  grower.  Form 
roundish  or  spreading,  somewhat  drooping,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  in 
length,  nearly  straight,  rather  slender ;  internodes  short.  Bark  dark  brownish- 
red  mingled  with  dark  green,  and  heavily  coated  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent. 
Lenticels  usually  very  scattering,  sometimes  moderately  numerous,  small  to 
medium  or  sometimes  large,  roundish  to  oblong,  not  raised.  Buds  medium, 
plump,  rather  narrow,  acute  to  obtuse,  free,  pubescent.  Leaves  medium  or 
below,  rather  narrow. 


174  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  rather  small,  rarely  large.  Form  roundish  conic  to 
roundish  ovate,  often  somewhat  truncate,  regular ;  pretty  uniform  in  shape  and 
size.  Stem  medium  to  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep 
to  very  deep,  wide,  symmetrical,  sometimes  slightly  furrowed.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Basin  deep  to  very  deep,  very  abrupt,  wide  to  moderately  narrow. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  pale  bright  yellow  overlaid  with  lively  red,  striped 
with  carmine.  When  well  colored  the  fruit  is  almost  completely  covered  with 
red  which  deepens  to  purplish  on  the  sunny  side  and  often  shows  a  beautiful 
contrasting  bit  of  clear  pale  yellow  about  the  cavity  where  a  twig  or  leaf  lay 
in  contact  with  the  skin.  Less  highly  colored  fruit  has  more  of  a  striped 
appearance  particularly  toward  the  basin.  Dots  minute,  usually  inconspicu- 
ous. Prevailing  effect  attractive  lively  deep  red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  funnel-shape  or  sometimes  conical.  Stamens  basal 
to  median. 

Core  medium  or  below,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  symmetrical  but  often  not 
uniformly  developed,  usually  closed,  sometimes  open;  core  lines  clasp  the 
funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  rather  concave,  roundish  to  roundish  cordate,  emargi- 
nate,  smooth.  Seeds  rather  large,  long,  acute  to  acuminate,  dark,  numerous. 

Flesh  whitish  or  somewhat  yellow,  sometimes  with  tinge  of  red,  firm,  mod- 
erately fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  very  aromatic,  sprightly  subacid,  very  good 
to  best. 

Season  November  to  January  or  later. 

JONATHAN  BULER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:253.  1895.  a.  ///.  Sta.  Bui, 
45:309,  328.  1896.  3.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:38.  1903. 
4.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:127.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  BULER  (3).  Buler(4~).  JONATHAN  OF  BULER  (2).  Jonathan 
of  Buler  (3). 

Fruit  of  good  size  and  decidedly  attractive  being  predominantly  of 
a  bright  red  color.  It  is  hardly  good  enough  in  quality  to  take  first 
rank  as  a  commercial  variety  and  it  is  excelled  by  others  for  dessert 
and  culinary  purposes.  It  probably  is  not  worthy  of  planting  for 
trial  in  New  York.  Tree  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and  is 
an  annual  bearer.  Sometimes  it  yields  heavy  crops  but  usually  it  is 
a  moderate  cropper.  There  is  considerable  amount  of  fruit  lost  by 
dropping. 

Historical.  Origin  uncertain.  Tested  at  the  Illinois  Experiment  Station 
and  reported  in  1896  as  worthy  of  further  trial.  We  have  no  knowledge  of 
its  being  grown  anywhere  in  New  York  except  at  this  Station. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous;  branches  long,  moderately  stout.  Form  upright 
spreading  or  roundish,  dense.  Twigs  medium  to  short,  straight,  rather  stout 
with  large  terminal  buds ;  internodes  medium.  Bark  brown  tinged  with  red, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  175 

mottled  with  scarf-skin,  rather  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  medium 
or  below,  oval  or  elongated,  slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  to  large,  broad, 
plump,  acute,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  rather  large  to  medium.  Form  oblate,  fairly  symmetrical,  broadly 
and  obscurely  ribbed,  sometimes  a  little  onesided.  Stem  very  short.  Cavity 
acute  to  acuminate,  broad,  deep,  with  radiating  red  stripes,  sometimes  thinly 
russeted.  Calyx  small  to  rather  large,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  often  erect. 
Basin  usually  abrupt,  moderately  wide  to  wide,  rather  deep,  sometimes  com- 
pressed, somewhat  furrowed  and  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  waxen,  glossy,  whitish-yellow  or  green  largely  overspread 
with  bright  red  being  blushed  and  mottled  with  light  red  striped  and  splashed 
with  deep  carmine.  Dots  whitish  or  russet,  small. 

Calyx  tube  long,  meeting  the  core,  varying  from  slender  and  funnel-form 
to  wide  cone-shape.  Stamens  basal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  abaxile ;  cells  often  symmetrical  and  closed,  some- 
times open  and  unsymmetrical ;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  broadly 
roundish  to  elliptical  and  almost  truncate.  Seeds  short,  wide,  plump,  obtuse, 
dark. 

Flesh  white,  often  streaked  or  stained  with  red,  firm,  tender,  very  crisp, 
moderately  coarse,  very  juicy,  mild  subacid  with  a  peculiar  aroma  which  is 
not  altogether  pleasing,  fair  to  almost  good  in  quality. 

Season  November  to  April  but  in  common  storage  it  is  apt  to  scald  after 
January. 

KANSAS  GREENING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Beach,  Ar.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,-  14:261.  1895.  2.  Ib.,  15:281. 
1896.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:127.  1904. 

Fruit  unattractive,  medium  to  rather  small,  roundish  to  roundish  conic, 
grass-green  with  a  dull  brownish-red  cheek ;  mild  subacid,  not  high  in  quality 
but  a  good  keeper.  The  tree  is  not  a  good  grower  and  does  not  come  into 
bearing  very  young.  It  yields  moderate  crops  biennially.  Not  worthy  of 
planting  in  New  York. 

KANSAS  KEEPER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Stayman,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1877:44.  2.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:46.  1903.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:127.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     KANSAS  (2). 

Kansas  Keeper  as  grown  in  Western  New  York  is  usually  less  highly 
colored  than  when  grown  in  more  southern  localities  and  often  is  below  good 
marketable  size  and  rather  dull  and  unattractive  in  color.  It  is  a  very  late 
keeper.  The  tree  comes  into  bearing  moderately  young,  and  bears  annually, 
yielding  moderate  crops. 

Historical  Origin  unknown  (i).  We  have  not  had  the  opportunity  of 
deciding  whether  it  is  identical  with  Keeper.1  •:'. 

1U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1886:27.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1897:39.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui.,  68:161,  162.  1905. 


176  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright.  Twigs  short  to  nearly  long, 
rather  slender,  generally  straight ;  internodes  medium.  Bark  dull  reddish  or 
brownish-red,  quite  uniformly  overlaid  with  a  moderately  heavy  scarf-skin, 
somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticels  inconspicuous,  generally  scattering,  but  on 
some  t\vigs  numerous,  small,  elongated  or  roundish.  Buds  small,  acute,  some- 
what pubescent,  lightly  attached  to  the  bark  or  nearly  free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  sometimes  averaging  below  medium ;  pretty  uniform 
in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  or  inclined  to  conic  or  somewhat  oblate, 
often  obscurely  ribbed  and  with  sides  unequal.  Stem  rather  short.  Cavity 
acuminate,  deep,  broad  to  rather  narrow,  symmetrical,  often  with  outspreading 
russet  rays.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed,  varying  to  large  and  open. 
Basin  often  oblique,  very  abrupt,  rather  narrow,  often  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  smooth,  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  thinly  overspread  with  orange-red 
or  pinkish-red,  becoming  clear  red  on  exposed  cheek,  abundantly  striped  with 
bright  carmine,  mottled  with  thin  gray  scarf-skin  towards  the  cavity.  Dots 
whitish,  often  conspicuous,  sometimes  with  russet  point.  Prevailing  effect 
in  highly  colored  specimens  striped  red,  bright  and  attractive. 

Calyx  tube  long,   funnel-form  with  wide  limb.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  somewhat  abaxile,  rather  small ;  cells  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines 
clasp  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  broad  at  base,  narrow  at  apex,  emarginate, 
tufted.  Seeds  dark,  medium  in  size,  moderately  wide,  somewhat  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish,  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  moderately  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  June. 

KING. 

Tompkins  King,  more  often  called  King  of  Tompkins  County, 
is  usually  known  among  fruit  growers  and  fruit  dealers  as  King. 
For  an  account  of  this  variety  the  reader  is  referred  to  Tompkins 
King. 

Twenty  Ounce  Pippin  has  also  been  known  to  a  limited  extent 
locally  as  King,  but  it  is  a  very  different  variety  from  Tompkins  King 

KINNAIRD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:18  app.  fig.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1875. 
3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:242.  4.  Watts,  Tenn.  Sta.  Bui.,  1:15.  1896.  fig.  5. 
Wright,  Am.  Card.,  17:33.  1896.  6.  Thomas,  1897:291.  7.  Ragan,  U.  S.  Pom. 
Bui,  8:18.  1899.  8-  Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:53.  1902.  9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:110. 
fig.  10.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  205:45.  1903.  n.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui., 
182:25.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  KINNAIRD'S  CHOICE  (i,  8).  Kinnaird's  Choice  (4,  6).  KIN- 
NAIRDS  FAVORITE  (2).  KINNARD  (7,  9).  Kinnard's  Choice  (9). 

This  is  a  dark  red  winter  apple  of  the  Winesap  class.  When  well  grown 
it  is  of  good  size,  very  good  quality  and  attractive  in  appearance.  The  tree 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  177 

comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and  yields  moderate  crops  biennially.  The 
fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree  but  is  not  very  uniform  in  grade  and  does  not 
produce  as  large  a  percentage  of  marketable  fruit  as  either  Baldwin  or  Rhode 
Island  Greening.  It  is  in  season  about  with  Baldwin.  It  is  a  variety  of 
Tennessee  origin  which  is  highly  esteemed  in  some  sections  of  that  state  and 
in  other  portions  of  the  Middle  West  (4).  So  far  as  tested  in  New  York  it 
does  not  appear  to  be  adapted  to  regions  as  far  north  as  this. 

Historical.  Origin  Franklin,  Williamson  county,  Tennessee.  It  is  practi- 
cally unknown  in  New  Yoik. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  a  moderately  vigorous  grower;  branchlets  rather 
slender.  Form  rather  spreading  or  roundish,  irregular,  not  dense.  Twigs 
medium  to  rather  long,  moderately  slender,  often  irregularly  crooked.  Bark 
brownish-red  or  some  portions  olive-green,  somewhat  pubescent;  scarf-skin 
thin,  not  conspicuous.  Lenticels  rather  numerous,  irregular  in  size,  not  often 
large,  usually  very  small,  dull,  elongated.  Buds  considerably  sunk  in  the 
bark,  rather  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  oblate  inclined  to  conic,  flat  at  the  base, 
rather  obscurely  ribbed,  nearly  regular,  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  not 
exserted,  short,  rather  thick.  Cavity  very  wide,  deep,  acute,  sometimes 
russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  moderately  wide,  deep, 
abrupt,  gently  furrowed,  often  somewhat  oblique. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth,  yellow,  mottled  and  blushed  with 
red,  in  the  sun  becoming  a  lively  deep  red  shading  to  purplish-red.  Dots 
numerous,  small,  whitish,  becoming  somewhat  elongated  towards  the  cavity. 
Prevailing  effect  good  dark  red. 

Calyx  tube  conical  and  moderately  short  varying  to  almost  cylindrical  and 
deep,  sometimes  extending  to  the  core.  Stamens  nearly  marginal. 

Core  small,  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
obcordate,  emarginate,  noticeably  concave,  tufted.  Seeds  rather  short,  wide, 
plump. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  crisp,  moderately  fine  or  a  little  coarse,  agreeably 
subacid,  somewhat  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

KIRKLAND. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1881:92  app.  2.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  143:200. 
1897- 

A  fruit  of  the  type  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower  but  with  less  acidity,  valued 
locally  in  Central  and  Eastern  New  York  because  it  is  productive,  a  good  late 
keeper,  fairly  acceptable  for  dessert  and  good  for  culinary  use.  When  well 
grown  it  is  often  partly  suffused  with  a  lively  reddish-pink  and  late  in  the 
spring  the  ground  color  becomes  a  clear  rich  yellow,  giving  it  a  very  attractive 
appearance  for  a  yellow  apple.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower  and  a  reliable 
cropper.  The  fruit  often  keeps  in  ordinary  storage  till  May  or  June.  It  is 
doubtless  worthy  of  more  attention  from  fruit  growers  in  the  localities  to 
which  it  is  well  adapted. 


178  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  Originated  in  Oneida  county,  New  York,  and  named  after 
Domine  Kirkland,  a  missionary  to  the  Oneida  Indians.  It  is  but  little  known 
outside  of  the  Mohawk  valley. 

TREE. 

Tree  dwarfish  to  medium  in  size,  a  moderately  vigorous  grower.  Form 
roundish  or  spreading.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  erect  or  spreading,  moderately 
stout. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  broadly  ovate  or  slightly  oblong  vary- 
ing to  roundish  conical,  ribbed,  somewhat  irregular,  fairly  symmetrical ;  sides 
sometimes  unequal.  Stem  short,  slender  to  moderately  stout,  not  exserted. 
Cavity  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  deep,  acuminate,  often  partly 
russeted  and  sometimes  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  small  to 
medium,  closed.  Basin  small  to  medium,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  narrow 
to  moderately  wide,  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thin,  tough,  smooth,  clear  pale  yellow  with  a  thin  blush  which 
in  highly  colored  specimens  deepens  to  reddish-pink.  Dots  whitish  areolar 
with  brownish  russet  center  or  whitish  and  submerged. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  elongated  conical  or»  approaching  funnel-form  and 
extending  to  the  core.  Stamens  basal  to  nearly  median. 

Core  decidedly  abaxile ;  cells  fairly  symmetrical,  usually  wide  open ;  core 
lines  meeting.  Carpels  mucronate,  much  concave,  broadly  roundish  to  ellipti- 
cal. Seeds  numerous,  short,  rather  small  to  medium,  rather  wide,  plump, 
obtuse. 

Flesh  somewhat  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  hard,  moderately  coarse, 
not  very  juicy,  crisp,  subacid,  good. 

KITTAGESKEE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Warder,  1867:724.  2.  Downing,  1872:242.  3.  Fitz,  1872: 
178.  4.  Leroy,  1873:416.  figs.  5.  Thomas,  1885:515.  6.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:242.  7.  Clayton,  Ala.  Sta.  Bui.,  47:6.  1893.  8.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  Bui,  248:128.  1904, 

SYNONYM.     KETTAGESKA  (3). 

Fruit  too  small  to  be  valuable  for  general  market  purposes,  but 
its  quality  is  excellent  and  it  is  attractive  in  appearance,  being  of 
uniform  size,  symmetrical  form  and  bright  yellow  color.  It  is 
desirable  for  dessert  use,  especially  because  it  retains  its  texture, 
flavor,  quality  and  color  remarkably  well  till  very  late  in  the  season. 
The  tree  comes  into  bearing  rather  young,  is  an  annual  bearer  or 
nearly  so,  yielding  from  moderate  to  heavy  crops.  The  fruit  hangs 
well  to  the  tree.  In  the  South  it  has  the  reputation  of  being  vig- 
orous, very  prolific  and  almost  free  from  blight.  It  is  recommended 
for  growing  on  dwarf  stock  in  that  region  (3).  It  is  reported  as 
ripening  in  September  in  Alabama  (7).  Leroy  (4)  gives  its  season 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  179 

in  France  as  December  to  April.  Here  at  Geneva  its  season  extends 
to  May  or  June.  It  is  worthy  of  planting  in  those  cases  where  a 
choice  late  keeping  dessert  apple  is  desired  for  home  use. 

Historical.  Probably  originated  with  the  Cherokee  Indians  in  Western 
North  Carolina.  Introduced  into  Georgia  about  1851.  It  was  sent  to  France 
in  1860  from  the  Berckmans  Nurseries  of  Augusta,  Georgia,  and  since 
that  time  has  been  continuously  propagated  there.  It  is  there  regarded  as  a 
fruit  of  first  quality  and  the  tree  is  very  productive  (4).  It  is  grown  to  a 
limited  extent  in  the  South  but  is  practically  unknown  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  a  moderately  vigorous  or  rather  slow  grower  with  rather  slender 
branchlets.  Form  spreading,  somewhat  open.  Tivigs  medium  to  rather  short ; 
internodes  rather  short.  Bark  olive-green  with  some  brownish-red,  some- 
what pubescent.  Lcnticeh  dull,  rather  conspicuous,  moderately  numerous, 
small,  roundish,  somewhat  raised.  Buds  rather  long,  narrow,  flat,  appressed, 
rather  acute,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  sometimes  medium,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  varies 
from  roundish  ovate  or  roundish  conic  to  slightly  oblate,  regular,  pretty 
symmetrical,  often  obscurely  ribbed.  Stem  usually  long  and  rather  slender. 
Cavity  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  narrow  to  rather  wide,  obtuse  to 
acute ;  usually  it  is  at  least  partly  russeted  and  often  it  has  outspreading  russet 
rays.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  usually  closed;  lobes  acute  to  acuminate,  re- 
flexed.  Basin  usually  very  shallow,  obtuse,  wrinkled  and  often  gently 
furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  clear  yellow  often  shaded  with  a  bronze  blush. 
Dots  small,  russet  or  submerged  and  whitish. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape,  sometimes  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  fairly  symmetrical, 
usually  somewhat  open;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping  to  meeting.  Carpels 
very  broad  and  pointed  with  truncate  base  varying  to  broad  pointed  ovate. 
Seeds  numerous,  dark,  medium  or  below,  rather  narrow,  plump,  acute. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  very  tender,  crisp,  rather  fine-grained,  perfumed  and 
aromatic,  sprightly,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  very  good  for  dessert. 

Season  December  to  May  or  June  (8). 

LACKER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Watts,  Horticulturist,  1:482,  483.  1847.  2.  Thomas,  1849: 
168.  3.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:101.  1851.  fig.  4.  Elliott,  1854:142.  5. 
Downing,  1857:163.  6.  Hooper,  1857:53.  7.  Warder,  1867:443. 

SYNONYMS.  Lacker  (2,  4).  LACQUIER  (i).  LAQUIER  (2,  3,  6).  Laquier 
(4,  5).  LECKER  (4). 

A  red-striped  winter  apple  evidently  of  the  Rambo  class.     Fifty  years  ago 
some  sections  of  Western  New  York  it  was  held  to  be  one  of  the  most 


180  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

desirable  apples  for  that  region  (i,  2),  but  it  has  made  little  headway  as  a 
commercial  variety  and  is  gradually  passing  out  of  cultivation.  It  keeps 
rather  better  than  Baldwin  but  is  less  attractive  in  appearance  having  a  rather 
dull  red  color  as  it  comes  from  the  tree.  It  has  been  valued  because  of  its 
fine  dessert  quality  particularly  in  the  spring  but  as  it  has  a  rather  mild  flavor 
it  is  less  highly  esteemed  for  culinary  use.  The  tree  is  somewhat  subject  to 
canker.  It  bears  biennially  or  in  some  cases  almost  annually  and  yields  good 
crops.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 

Historical.  Disseminated  from  Lancaster,  Pa.  (4),  and  formerly  planted 
to  some  extent  in  some  portions  of  New  York  and  the  Middle  West  (i,  2, 
3,  4,  6,  7).  Occasionally  very  old  trees  of  the  variety  are  found  still  growing 
in  New  York  in  old  orchards,  but  we  have  no  knowledge  of  its  being  planted 
within  recent  years. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  a  moderately  vigorous  grower.  Form  erect.  Twigs 
medium  in  length,  rather  stout,  rather  thick  at  tips,  straight  or  nearly  so ; 
internodes  short.  Dark  dull  reddish- brown,  uniformly  overlaid  with  a  thin 
scarf-skin ;  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  conspicuous,  below  medium 
in  size,  round,  somewhat  raised.  Buds  medium,  moderately  projecting, 
roundish,  adhering,  very  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  varies  from  oblate  to  roundish,  often  tend- 
ing to  elliptical  and  somewhat  ribbed;  sides  usually  a  little  unequal;  fairly 
uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Stem  short,  not  exserted.  Cavity  somewhat  fur- 
rowed, sometimes  compressed,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  rather  deep,  acumi- 
nate, green  or  russet,  often  lipped.  Calyx  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  pubes- 
cent. Basin  somewhat  variable,  usually  obtuse  but  sometimes  rather  abrupt, 
medium  in  width  and  depth,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  light  yellow  or  greenish  nearly  covered  with  red, 
mottled  and  striped  with  crimson  and  conspicuously  marked  with  grayish 
areolar  dots  which  are  mingled  with  smaller,  whitish  or  russet  dots.  Pre- 
vailing color  striped  red,  sometimes  clear  and  bright  but  more  often  dulled 
by  a  waxy  coating  of  bluish  bloom. 

Calyx  tube  inclined  to  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  usually  pretty  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels 
broadly  roundish,  emarginate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  tufted,  medium  or 
below,  obtuse  to  acute,  plump,  numerous. 

Flesh  white  or  nearly  so,  firm,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  agreeably 
aromatic,  good  to  very  good  for  dessert,  less  desirable  for  culinary  uses. 

Season  December  to  May. 

LADY. 

REFERENCES,  i. 'Duhamel,  1768:309.  2.  Knoop,  1771:68.  3.  Forsyth,  1803: 
49.  4.  Coxe,  1817:117.  fig.  5.  Thacher,  1822:129.  6.  Ronalds,  1831:63.  7. 
Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831.  8.  Kenrick,  1832:47.  9.  Floy-Lindley,  1833: 
87.  10.  Manning,  1838:59.  n.  Downing,  1845:115.  fig.  12.  Cole,  1849:130. 
13.  Thomas,  1849:181,  189.  fig.  14.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:89.  1851. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  181 

col.  pi.  No.  47.  15.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  16.  Elliott,  1854:87.  17. 
Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  20:29.  1854.  18.  Hooper,  1857:52.  19.  Lucas,  1859:557. 
20.  Warder,  1867:411.  21.  Fitz,  1872:166.  22.  Downing,  1872:244.  23. 
Leroy,  1873:65.  fig.  24.  Barry,  1883:348.  25.  Hogg,  1884:8.  26.  Lyon,  Mich. 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  27.  Wickson,  1891:248.  28.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:243.  29.  Bredsted,  2:210.  1893.  30.  Woolverton,  Out.  Fr.  Stas.  An. 
Rpt.,  3:10.  1896.  figs.  31.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:111.  fig.  32.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:128.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Almindelig  (29).  API  (i,  23,  25,  29,  30).  Api  (n,  16,  18, 
22,31).  Api  eller  (29).  Api  Fin  (23).  Api  Ordinaire  (23).  Api  Petit  (n, 
12,  20,  22,  25).  /4/>»  T^cw  (23).  Api  Rouge  (25).  ^4/>y  Rouge  (23).  Car- 
dinale  (23).  Christmas  Apple  (32).  Gros  Api  Rouge  (n,  16,22).  KLEINER 
API  (19).  LADY  APPLE  (5,  8,  9,  11,  12,  13,  14,  16,  17,  18,  21,  22,  24).  Lady 
Apple  (4,  10,  23,  25).  Lille  Api  (29).  Long  Bois  (23).  PETIT  API  (6,  7). 
Petit  Api  (16,  18).  Petit  Apis  (23).  Petit  Apt  Rose  (23).  Petit  Api  Rouge 
(n,  16,  22,  23,  25).  POMME  D'API  (2,  3).  Pomme  d'Api  (8,  9,  13,  16,  21, 
25).  Pomme  d'Api  Rouge  (n,  16,  22).  POMME  D'APIS  (4).  Pomme  Rose 
(n,  16,  18,  22).  Poinone  d'Apis  (5). 

A  strikingly  beautiful  little  apple  especially  suitable  for  decorative 
use  and  for  dessert.  In  New  York  it  is  grown  to  a  limited  extent 
only  and  in  restricted  localities.  It  is  in  some  cases  grown  with 
profit  and  often  sells  at  very  high  prices.  It  does  fairly  well  on  any 
good  apple  soil,  but  a  warm,  gravelly  or  sandy  loam  seems  to  suit 
it  best,  developing  to  a  marked  degree  the  characteristically  beauti- 
ful color  and  delicate  high  flavor  of  this  variety,  upon  which  its  value 
chiefly  depends.  The  upright  habit  of  the  limbs,  together  with  the 
smallness  of  the  apples,  makes  the  picking  of  the  fruit  unusually 
expensive.  The  branches  are  full  of  short  spurs  upon  which  the 
fruit  is  borne  in  clusters.  The  f&uit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  The 
tree  is  but  a  moderate  grower  and  does  not  come  into  bearing  young, 
but  in  favorable  locations,  after  it  reaches  maturity,  it  is  a  reliable 
cropper,  bearing  heavy  crops  biennially  or  in,  rare  instances  nearly 
annually.  In  order  to  grow  Lady  most  successfully,  particular  pains 
must  be  taken  to  protect  it  from  the  attacks  of  insects  and  fungi, 
particularly  from  the  apple  scab  fungus,  by  which  it  is  often  seriously 
damaged.  When  well  grown,  the  crop  is  pretty  uniform  in  size  and 
shape  and  satisfactory  in  color  and  quality.  It  does  not  always  color 
properly,  and  is  then  of  little  value  for  anything  but  cider,  being 
too  small  either  for  general  market  purposes  or  for  culinary  use. 
Properly  handled,  it  may  be  held  in  cold  storage  till  summer,  but 
there  is  little  demand  for  it  after  the  holiday  season,  and  as  it  keeps 


182  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

well  enough  in  ordinary  storage  till  midwinter  there  is  but  little 
occasion  for  holding  it  in  cold  storage. 

Historical.  According  to  Leroy,  who  gives  an  excellent  historical  account 
of  this  variety,  the  Lady  apple,  or  as  it  is  there  known,  Api,  has  been  in 
cultivation  in  France  for  at  least  three  hundred  years.  It  has  been  sparingly 
disseminated  throughout  this  country  from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific.  It  has 
long  been  recognized  in  the  New  York  market  as  one  of  the  most  desirable 
apples  for  fancy  trade  at  the  holiday  season. 

TREE. 

Tree  at  first  moderately  vigorous,  eventually  becomes  a  rather  slow  grower ; 
size  medium  or  somewhat  dwarfish ;  branches  erect,  rather  slender.  Form 
rather  dense,  erect.  Twigs  long  and  slender,  or  on  old  trees  rather  short; 
internodes  short.  Bark  bright  bro\vn  approaching  black,  partly  overlaid  with 
thin  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent  towards  the  tips.  Lenticels  numerous,  con- 
spicuous, round  or  sometimes  elongated,  usually  medium  to  small,  sometimes 
large.  Buds  usually  large,  rather  narrow,  acute  to  acuminate,  plump,  quite 
pubescent,  free.  Leaves  not  large,  rather  narrow. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  very  small,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  usually  oblate 
but  varies  to  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  often  obscurely  ribbed,  symmetrical. 
Stem  medium,  slender.  Cavity  pretty  large  and  wide,  obtuse  to  acute,  moder- 
ately shallow  to  deep,  gently  furrowed,  sometimes  thinly  russeted.  Calyx 
small,  closed ;  lobes  small,  acute.  Basin  rather  wide,  shallow  to  moderately 
deep,  obtuse,  narrowly  ridged  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth,  glossy  with  a  deep  red  blush  which 
is  often  irregular  and  sharply  outlined  against  the  clear  pale  yellow  or  whitish 
ground  color.  Dots  whitish  or  with  russet  point,  inconspicuous.  Prevailing 
effect  beautiful  bright  red  and  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  conical  or  somewhat  funnel-form  with  short  truncate  cylinder. 
Stamens  marginal. 

Core  small,  axile;  cells  symmetrical,  closed;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
smooth,  roundish  or  inclined  to  elliptical,  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds 
plump,  wide,  obtuse,  completely  filling  the  cells. 

Flesh  white,  firm,  fine-grained,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy,  pleasantly  aro- 
matic, mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  good  to  very  good  for  dessert. 

Season  December  to  May. 

OTHER  VARIETIES  OF  THE  LADY  GROUP. 

The  Lady  often  produces  seedlings  which  have  a  general  similarity  to  the 
parent.  Some  of  these  have  found  their  way  into  cultivation  but  up  to  the 
present  time  none  of  them  has  superseded  the  Lady. 

Downing  (22)  mentions  besides  the  Lady  four  other  varieties  of  the  Lady 
group,  namely:  the  BLACK  LADY  APPLE  (Api  Noir),  the  STAR  LADY  APPLE 
(Api  fitoile),  the  LARGE  LADY  APPLE  (Api  Gros),  and  the  ROSE-COLORED 
LADY  APPLE  (Api  Gros  Pomme  de  Rose).  Of  these  the  Large  Lady  apple 
appears  to  be  the  only  one  which  has  been  disseminated  to  any  considerable 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  183 

extent  in  this  state.  It  is  seldom  or  never  intentionally  planted  by  the  fruit 
grower  but  sometimes  it  has  been  cultivated  by  mistake  in  place  of  the  true 
Lady.  It  is  easily  distinguished  from  the  true  Lady  because  the  bark  of  the 
twigs  is  not  so  nearly  black,  the  fruit  is  more  nearly  round,  has  a  very  shallow 
basin  and  is  a  little  larger  and  less  highly  colored  than  the  Lady.  It  is  an 
undesirable  variety. 

Seedlings.  Fruits  of  different  seedlings  of  the  Lady  have  from  time  to 
time  been  received  at  this  Station.  None  of  these  has  been  sufficiently  tested 
as  yet  to  show  whether  it  is  worthy  of  being  introduced  into  general  cultiva- 
tion. One  of  the  most  remarkable  lot  of  Lady  seedlings  which  has  come  to 
our  attention  is  that  originated  by  Le  Grand  M.  Smith  of  Nyack,  N.  Y.,  a 
brief  notice  of  which  was  published  in  1895.1-  Some  of  these  may  be  as 
desirable  as  the  Lady. 

HELEN  is  an  apple  of  the  Lady  class  much  larger  than  Lady  and  fully  as 
attractive  in  color.  The  flesh  is  very  white,  crisp,  juicy  and  of  mild  agree- 
able flavor.  It  is  grown  by  R.  N.  Lewis  of  Red  Hook,  Dutchess  county, 
N.  Y.,  who  reports  that  the  tree  is  productive  and  that  the  fruit  keeps  late 
and  brings  good  prices. 

HIGHLAND  BEAUTY,  another  Lady  seedling,  is  described  on  a  previous 
page. 

LADY  FINGER 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:146.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:129.  3.  Elliott, 
1854:173.  4.  Hooper,  1857:52.  5.  Warder,  1867:724.  6.  Downing,  1869:245, 
329.  7.  Ib.,  1876:55  app.  8.  Hogg,  1884:127.  9.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:243. 
10.  Thomas,  1897:642. 

Several  different  varieties  of  apples  are  known  in  cultivation  under  the 
name  Lady  Finger  but  none  of  these  is  grown  to  any  considerable  extent  in 
New  York. 

Coxe  ( i )  describes  Lady  Finger  or  Long  Pippin  as  a  variety  of  very  delicate 
growth  with  small  limbs,  fruit  remarkably  long,  skin  greenish-yellow,  season 
early  winter. 

Thacher's  (2)  description  of  Lady  Finger  is  that  it  "  is  a  long,  tapering 
fruit,  of  a  beautiful  yellow  and  red  color.  It  is  well  flavored,  keeps  till  June. 
The  tree  bears  abundantly." 

Elliott  (3)  describes  Lady  Finger,  synonym  Sheepnose,  "  as  medium,  oblong, 
pale  yellow,  often  blushed.  Flesh  firm,  watery.  Season  November,  Decem- 
ber." 

Hooper  (4)  recognizes  Lady  Finger  as  a  synonym  of  Kaighn,  but  erron- 
eously, according  to  Downing,  who  gives  Red  Winter  Pearmain  as  the  correct 
name  for  this  variety. 

Warder  (5)  gives  Red  Lady  Finger  as  a  synonym  of  Red  Winter  Pearmain 
and  Lady  Finger  Pippin  as  a  synonym  of  Red  Winter  Pippin. 

Downing  (6,  7)  recognizes  the  varieties  described  under  the  name  Lady 
Finger  by  Hogg,  Coxe,  and  Elliott  as  mentioned  above  and  adds  the  descrip- 
tion of  still  another  variety  which  he  received  under  this  name  from  Mary- 
land, the  fruit  of  which  is  roundish  conical,  yellowish,  shaded  with  deep 
crimson,  subacid,  good  to  very  good ;  season  August.  He  also  gives  Lady 

*Rural  N.    Y.,   54:io6.    1895. 


184  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Finger  as  an  erroneous  synonym  for  Kaighn  and  Red  Lady  Finger  as  a 
synonym  for  Red  Winter  Pearmain. 

Hogg  (8)  describes  a  red  cider  apple  under  the  name  Lady's  Finger  of 
Hereford  and  a  greenish-yellow  culinary  apple  in  season  from  November  to 
March  under  the  name  Lady's  Finger  of  Lancaster.  He  also  gives  Lady's 
Finger  of  Kent  as  a  synonym  for  Smart's  Prince  Arthur,  and  Lady's  Finger 
as  a  synonym  for  White  Paradise. 

Thomas   (10)   gives  Lady  Finger  as  a  synonym  of  White  Paradise. 

LADY  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:136.  fig.  2.  Cole,  1849:132.  fig.  3.  Down- 
ing, Horticulturist,  3:578.  1849.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:75.  1851.  5. 
Hovey,  2:87.  1851.  col.  pi.  and  fig.  6.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1854.  7.  Elliott, 
1854:88.  8.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  21:566.  1855.  fig.  g.  Hooper,  1857:52.  10. 
Warder,  1867:561.  fig.  n.  Fitz,  1872:166.  12.  Downing,  1872:246.  fig.  13. 
Barry,  1883:348.  14.  Thomas,  1885:227.  fig.  15.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:294.  16.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:243.  17.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui., 
205:42.  1903.  18.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:112.  19.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui.,  48:46.  1903.  20.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:128.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  LADIES  SWEET  (n).  LADIES  SWEETING  (i,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8,  9,  10,  14).  LADY'S  SWEET  (12,  13).  Lady's  Sweeting  (20).  Pommeroy 

(12,  20).     Roa  Yon   (12). 

.    i 

This  is  one  of  the  most  desirable  of  the  sweet  apples  for  com- 
mercial planting.  When  well  grown,  the  fruit  is  of  good  size,  fine 
red  color  and  excellent  quality  and  keeps  very  late.  It  has  an  estab- 
lished reputation  in  market  and  is  well  known  to  fruit  growers  in 
many  parts  of  the  state,  and  often  under  the  synonym  Pommeroy. 
Doubtless  it  would  be  grown  more  extensively  were  it  not  for  the 
fact  that  at  present  the  market  demand  for  sweet  apples  is  quite 
limited.  It  ships  well,  stores  well  and  usually  sells  well.  It  is  also 
a  good  variety  for  the  home  orchard  because  the  tree  comes  into 
bearing  young,  is  a  regular  bearer,  yields  heavy  crops,  and  the  fruit 
is  attractive  in  color  and  excellent  either  for  dessert  or  for  culinary 
uses.  When  grown  as  far  north  as  Lake  Ontario  its  season  for 
home  vise  extends  from  late  autumn  to  late  spring.  Generally  the 
tree  is  not  a  remarkably  strong  grower  and  is  but  moderately  long- 
lived.  In  some  locations  it  is  not  quite  hardy,  and  sometimes  it  is 
injured  by  bark-bursting.  These  deficiencies  are  in  part  overcome 
by  top-working  the  variety  upon  some  hardier  and  more  vigorous 
sort.  The  variety  is  somewhat  susceptible  to  the  attacks  of  the 
scab  fungus  and  requires  thorough  treatment  to  protect  it  from  this 
disease.  It  is  a  reliable  cropper,  bearing  biennially,  or  in  some  cases 


LADY    SWEET 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  185 

almost  annually,  and  the  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  When  it  over- 
bears, as  it  often  does,  there  is  apt  to  be  a  considerable  portion  of 
undersized  and  poorly  colored  fruit.  This  difficulty  may  be  rem- 
edied in  part  by  pruning  so  as  to  restrict  the  amount  of  bearing 
wood  and  permit  free  access  of  light  and  air  to  all  parts  of  the  tree. 

Historical.  This  variety  originated  in  the  vicinity  of  Newburg  where  it 
established  an  excellent  local  reputation.  It  was  first  introduced  into  more 
general  cultivation  by  the  Downing  Nurseries  of  that  place  (i,  3,  5).  It  is 
now  propagated  in  the  North  Atlantic  States,  the  Middle  West  and  the  Pacific 
region  (16). 

TREE. 

Tree  in  the  nursery  is  a  slim,  slow  grower  with  tender  foliage  and  soft 
wood  and  should  be  top-worked.  In  the  orchard  under  favorable  conditions 
it  becomes  moderately  vigorous  or  in  some  cases  a  rather  strong  grower. 
Form  rather  upright  becoming  roundish  and  somewhat  spreading.  Twigs 
medium  to  rather  short,  slender;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  dull 
olive-green  or  reddish-brown  with  thin  scarf-skin ;  pubescent  particularly 
toward  the  tips.  Lenticels  rather  inconspicuous,  scattering,  very  small,  elon- 
gated or  roundish,  raised.  Buds  medium  to  small,  obtuse,  closely  appressed, 
slightly  pubescent;  ends  often  swollen  so  that  the  bud  sets  on  an  eminence. 
Leaves  rather  narrow,  medium  to  small,  ovate. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
conic,  often  approaching  oblong  conic,  irregularly  elliptical,  often  ribbed, 
nearly  symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  very  short.  Cavity  acute  or  approaching 
acuminate,  deep,  usually  rather  narrow,  sometimes  wide,  gently  furrowed, 
often  partly  russeted,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  small,  closed,  pubescent. 
Basin  small,  narrow,  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  abrupt,  furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  yellow  or  greenish,  in  highly  colored  specimens 
almost  entirely  overspread  with  bright  red  splashed  with  carmine.  It  is 
mottled  and  striped  with  whitish  scarf-skin  about  the  cavity.  Dots  rather 
conspicuous,  small  to  rather  large,  pale  areolar  with  russet  point  or  sub- 
merged, numerous  toward  the  basin. 

Caly.v  tube  conical  varying  to  funnel-shape.     Stamens  basal  to  median. 

Core  small  to  above  medium,  axile  to  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  not  uniformly 
developed,  closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  broad, 
roundish  to  roundish  ovate,  mucronate,  sometimes  slightly  emarginate,  some- 
what tufted.  Seeds  dark,  large,  rather  narrow,  long,  acute,  slightly  tufted, 
often  abortive. 

Flesh  whitish  or  with  slight  yellow  tinge,  rather  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  sweet  with  a  distinct  and  pleasant  aroma,  very  good  to  best. 

Season  November  to  April  or  May ;  in  cold  storage  to  May  or  June. 

LANDON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Warder,  1867724.  2.  Downing,  1872:248.  3.  Thomas, 
1885:515.  4.  Macomber,  Am.  Card.,  11:141.  1890. 


186  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Fruit  attractive  in  color,  of  good  marketable  size  and  a  good  keeper.  On 
account  of  its  mild  flavor  it  is  better  suited  for  dessert  than  for  culinary  use. 
The  record  which  it  has  made  at  this  Station  confirms  the  statement  of 
Macomber  (4)  that  it  is  a  rather  shy  bearer. 

Historical.  Brought  to  notice  by  Buel  Landon,  South  Hero,  Vermont,  about 
forty  years  ago  (i,  2,  4).  It  appears  to  be  but  little  known  outside  of  that 
locality. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  or  rather  slow-growing;  branches  slender.  Form 
spreading,  dense,  dwarfish  with  rather  flat  top.  Tzvigs  short  to  medium, 
nearly  straight  but  somewhat  geniculate,  moderately  slender ;  internodes  short 
to  medium.  Bark  clear  l:ght  brown  mingled  with  red,  irregularly  marked 
and  mottled  with  scarf-ski^;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  conspicuous,  small 
to  rather  large,  roundish  or  elongated,  raised.  Buds  medium  or  below,  plump, 
roundish,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  averaging  above  medium,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and 
shape.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish  conic,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed. 
Stem  short.  Cavity  large,  acute,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  slightly  furrowed, 
sometimes  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  partly  open  or  some- 
times closed.  Basin  shallow  to  moderately  shallow,  rather  obtuse,  somewhat 
furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  nearly  smooth,  yellow  mostly  washed  and  mottled  with 
red  and  distinctly  striped  with  carmine,  often  becoming  deep  crimson  or 
purplish  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Dots  conspicuous,  whitish,  large 
and  irregular,  especially  about  the  cavity,  or  areolar  with  russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  elongated  funnel-shape,  constricted  just  below  the  limb  and 
often  extending  to  the  core.  Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  or  above,  abaxile ;  cells  open  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasp- 
ing. Carpels  broad  at  the  base  approaching  truncate,  rounding  toward  apex, 
slightly  emarginate.  Seeds  medium  or  above,  rather  wide,  flat,  obtuse. 

Flesh  yellowish,  sometimes  tinged  with  red  next  the  skin,  firm,  a  little 
coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  aromatic,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly 
sweet  late  in  season,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

LANKFORD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1881:92  app.  2.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt., 
1891:390.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hori.,  1892:243.  4.  Van  Deman,  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1895:72.  5.  Rural  N.  Y.,  55:1,  122,  195.  1896.  fig.  6.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta. 
Bui,  43^03-  1896.  7.  Powell,  Del.  Sta.  Bui,  38:19.  1898.  8.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1899:18.  9.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui,  130:133.  1901.  fig.  10.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:47.  1903.  u.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:113.  12. 
Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:128.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  LANGFORD  (5).  Langford  (5,  12).  LANKFORD'S  SEEDLING 
(6).  dickers  (i,  12). 

Lankford,  as  fruited  at  this  Station,  is  a  dull  red  apple  of  good  size  and 
fairly  good  quality.  It  is  easily  excelled  by  the  standard  varieties.  It  is  in 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  187 

season  from  December  to  May  but  scalds  badly  after  midwinter  (10,  12). 
The  tree  makes  a  tall,  slim  growth  in  the  nursery.  In  the  orchard  it  is  a 
strong  grower  and  comes  into  bearing  rather  young,  but  although  it  occasion- 
ally bears  a  full  crop  it  has  not  proved  a  reliable  cropper  at  this  Station. 
Although  in  some  parts  of  the  South  fruit  growers  regard  it  with  favor  it 
does  not  appear  to  be  well  adapted  to  regions  as  far  north  as  New  York  and 
is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  this  state. 

Historical.  It  originated  as  a  chance  seedling  at  Lankford,  Kent  county, 
Maryland,  about  forty  years  ago  (i,  4,  5,  9). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  with  long,  slender  branches.  Form  at  first  upright  but  be- 
coming roundish  or  much  spreading,  rather  dense.  Tivigs  medium  in  length, 
rather  straight  except  that  they  are  genicnlate,  moderately  stout;  terminal 
buds  large ;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  dark  brownish-red  with  some 
olive-green,  partly  mottled  with  thin  scarf-skin ;  pubescent  toward  the  tip. 
Lenticels  conspicuous  where  the  bark  is  brightly  colored,  quite  numerous, 
below  medium  to  above,  often  elongated,  raised.  Buds  medium  in  size,  broad, 
flat,  obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  medium  or  below,  sometimes  large.  Form  roundish  oblate 
to  oblong  truncate,  ribbed  but  faintly  if  at  all ;  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  axis 
sometimes  oblique ;  pretty  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Stem  medium  to  rather 
long,  sometimes  very  long.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  broad  to  medium 
in  width,  nearly  symmetrical,  usually  green,  sometimes  partly  russeted.  Calyx 
below  medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes  usually  reflexed.  Basin 
moderately  deep  and  wide,  varying  sometimes  to  shallow  and  narrow,  rather 
abrupt,  sometimes  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  somewhat  waxy,  not  glossy,  grass-green  becoming 
yellowish,  washed  and  striped  with  red.  In  highly  colored  specimens  deep, 
dull  red  covers  nearly  the  entire  surface.  Dots  whitish  or  with  russet  point, 
numerous  and  small  toward  the  basin,  elongated,  large  and  scattering  toward 
the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  long,  cone-shape  or  somewhat  funnel-form.  Stamens  below 
median. 

Core  medium  or  below,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  closed 
or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  much  concave,  broadly  roundish 
or  approaching  roundish  obcordate,  mucronate,  slightly  emarginate,  somewhat 
tufted.  Seeds  medium  in  size,  rather  wide,  obtuse  to  acute,  dark ;  often  some 
are  abortive. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  nearly 
tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

LANSINGBURG. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hooper,  1857:53.  2.  Warder,  1867:540.  3.  Downing,  1869: 
249.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1875:10.  5.  Thomas,  1885:515.  6.  Bailey,  An. 


i88  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Hort.,  1892:243.     7.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  58:382.  1899.    8.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:113.     9.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:173.   1905. 

SYNONYMS.  LANSINBURG  (i).  LANSINGBURGH  (2,  3).  Lansingburgh  (9). 
Lansingburg  Pippin  (9).  Red  Rock.  Rock  Apple  (9). 

A  late-keeping  apple  which  is  grown  to  some  extent  in  the  Middle  West 
(6).  Warder  speaks  of  it  as  an  old  variety  common  in  Cincinnati  and  along 
the  Ohio  river.  Suitable  only  for  culinary  use  and  for  market.  Color 
greenish  becoming  rich  yellow  with  a  striped  appearance  and  blushed  with 
carmine.  It  is  coarse  in  texture,  sweetish  in  flavor  and  not  good  in  quality 
(i,  2,  7).  It  is  sometimes  called  Rock  or  Red  Rock  in  New  York. 

Historical.  An  old  variety  which  appears  to  have  been  first  brought  to 
notice  in  Ohio  (i,  2).  It  is  but  little  known  in  New  York  and  is  not  recom- 
mended for  planting  in  this  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright,  "  brushy  and  thorny, 
looking  like  a  wilding"  (2).  Twigs  medium  or  below,  rather  stout,  nearly 
straight;  internodes  short.  Bark  dull  brownish-red  overlaid  with  thick  scarf- 
skin,  giving  a  grayish-brown  effect,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather 
numerous  but  not  conspicuous,  small  to  medium,  the  larger  ones  roundish. 
Buds  medium,  acute,  somewhat  pubescent,  appressed. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above.  Form  roundish  oblate  sometimes  a  little  inclined 
to  conic,  obscurely  ribbed,  nearly  symmetrical,  often  sides  unequal,  pretty  uni- 
form in  shape.  Stem  medium  to  short.  Cavity  acute,  deep,  broad,  sym- 
metrical or  slightly  furrowed,  or  sometimes  compressed,  russeted.  Calyx 
medium,  open;  lobes  short,  broad,  obtuse.  Basin  shallow  to  medium  in  depth, 
medium  to  wide,  obtuse  to  somewhat  abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  very  tough,  slightly  rough,  rather  dulled  with  faint  bloom,  yellow 
or  greenish  deeply  blushed  or  mottled  with  red,  striped  and  splashed  with 
dark  carmine.  Dots  often  areolar,  green  or  yellow  with  gray  or  russet  center, 
rather  conspicuous  Prevailing  effect  red  or  striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  long,  cone-shape  or  funnel-form  with  wide  limb. 

Core  medium  to  small,  closed;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels 
round  approaching  round  cordate,  emarginate,  mucronate,  slightly  tufted. 
Seeds  rather  large,  wide,  flat,  obtuse,  slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  green  or  yellow,  very  firm,  rather  coarse,  breaking,  moder- 
ately tender,  rather  dry,  mild  subacid,  becoming  somewhat  sweet,  fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  May  or  June. 

LA  VICTOIRE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1896:126.  2.  Macoun,  Quebec 
Pom.  Soc.,  1899:20.  3.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  Bui.,  83:91.  1900.  4.  Macoun,  Can. 
Dept.  Agr.  Bui,  37:44.  1901: 

SYNONYM.     LA  VICTORIA  SEEDLING  (i). 

A  handsome  apple  of  the  Fameuse  group,  probably  a  seedling  of  the 
Fameuse,  but  a  better  keeper.  On  account  of  its  season  and  hardiness  it  may 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  189 

be  desirable  for  planting  in  the  northern  and  more  elevated  regions  of  the 
state. 

Historical.  Originated  near  Grenville,  Quebec.  The  first  published  descrip- 
tion of  it  of  which  we  find  any  record  is  that  given  by  Macoun  in  1899  (2). 
It  is  as  yet  practically  unknown  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  hardy  and  a  strong,  moderately  spreading  grower,  but  so  far  as  tested 
has  not  proved  very  productive  (4). 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  as  described  by  Macoun  (4)  and  Waugh  (3)  is  above  medium  size 
to  large.  Form  strongly  oblate,  slightly  conic,  smooth  and  regular.  Stem 
short  and  stout.  Cavity  of  medium  depth,  medium  in  width  to  wide,  slightly 
russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  open.  Basin  abrupt,  medium 
in  depth  to  deep,  wide,  regular,  almost  smooth. 

Skin  tough,  greenish-yellow  washed  and  striped  and  nearly  covered  with 
light  crimson  red,  the  whole  overspread  with  bloom.  Dots  fairly  numerous, 
conspicuous,  whitish  or  gray. 

Core  small  to  rather  large,  closed. 

Flesh  firm,  white  streaked  with  red,  rather  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  aro- 
matic, mild  subacid.  with  a  pleasant  flavor  and  aroma  distinctly  like  that  of 
the  Mclntosh,  quality 'good. 

Season  winter. 

LAWYER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Prairie  Farmer,  1868.  (cited  by  19).  2.  Warder,  ///.  Hort. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1868:95-97.  3.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871:8.  4.  Downing,  1872: 
251.  5.  Fitz,  1872:121,  143.  6.  Thomas,  1885:516.  7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1887:92.  8.  Mo.  Sta.  Bui,  6:7.  1889.  9.  Wickson,  1891:246.  10.  Bailey,  An. 
Hort.,  1892:243.  ii.  Beach,  Paddock  and  Close,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  15:272. 
1896.  12.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  43:103.  1896.  13.  Mass.  Hatch  Sta.  Bui., 
44:4.  1897.  14.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1899:78.  15.  Alwood,  Va. 
Sta.  Bui,  130:135.  1901.  16.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:47. 
IQO3-  17-  Budd-Hansen,  1903:114.  18.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui., 
248:129.  1904.  19.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:176.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Black  Spy.  Delaware  Red  Winter  (n,  14,  15,  16,  18,  19). 
DELAWARE  WINTER  (7).  Delazvare  Winter  (n,  13). 

An  attractive  bright  red  apple,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape. 
It  is  very  firm,  ships  well  and  keeps  late.  It  does  not  rank  high  in 
quality  and  is  less  suitable  for  dessert  than  for  market  and  culinary 
uses.  As  grown  in  this  state  often  a  considerable  portion  of  the 
fruit  grades  below  medium  size  and  lacks  proper  development  in 
quality  and  color.  It  is  better  adapted  to  more  southern  latitudes. 
In  some  places  the  tree  is  not  a  good  cropper,  but  usually  it  comes 
into  bearing  rather  early  and  is  a  reliable  biennial  bearer,  often  yield- 
ing very  heavy  crops.  The  fruit  and  foliage  are  quite  subject  to 


190  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

the  attacks  of  the  apple  scab  fungus,  but  this  may  be  readily  con- 
trolled by  proper  treatment.  This  variety  is  seldom  regarded  favor- 
ably for  commercial  planting  by  New  York  fruit  growers,  and  the 
quality  is  not  high  enough  to  give  it  a  place  among  the  varieties 
recommended  for  the  home  orchard. 

Historical.  Origin  uncertain.  "  Introduced  by  Geo.  S.  Park,  of  Parkville, 
Mo.,  and  said  to  have  been  found  in  an  old  Indian  orchard  in  Kansas"  (i, 
4).  Reintroduced  from  Delaware  under  the  name  Delaware  Winter  (7).  It 
has  also  been  disseminated  in  some  portions  of  New  York  under  the  name 
Black  Spy.  During  the  last  forty  years  it  has  been  pretty  thoroughly  dissemi- 
nated throughout  the  country. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  or  above,  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long, 
moderately  stout,  curved.  Form  roundish  or  somewhat  flat,  spreading,  rather 
dense.  Tzvigs  short  to  rather  long,  curved,  moderately  stout;  internodes 
medium  to  rather  long.  Bark  dark  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green, 
mottled  with  rather  heavy  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent  near  the  tips.  Lenti- 
cels  dull,  inconspicuous,  rather  scattering,  medium  to  large,  elongated,  raised. 
Buds  large  to  medium,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above ;  as  fruited  here  it  usually  averages  no  more  than 
medium  and  often  a  considerable  portion  of  the  crop  runs  below  medium. 
Form  roundish  or  somewhat  oblate,  ribbed  but  slightly  if  at  all,  regular  and 
symmetrical.  Stem  variable,  often  long  and  slender.  Cavity  acute  or  ap- 
proaching acuminate,  deep,  rather  large  and  broad,  often  compressed  or  dis- 
tinctly furrowed,  usually  more  or  less  russeted  and  often  with  outspreading 
russet  rays.  Calyx  rather  small,  closed  or  partly  open,  often  leafy;  lobes 
sometimes  separated  at  the  base.  Basin  usually  rather  wide,  flat  and  obtuse, 
sometimes  moderately  deep  and  moderately  abrupt,  gently  furrowed,  some- 
times wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  sometimes  a  little  waxy,  smooth,  occasionally 
showing  some  of  the  yellow  ground  color  but  usually  completely  covered  with 
solid  bright  red  which  about  the  base  deepens  to  purplish  and  is  often  mottled 
and  streaked  with  dull  grayish  scarf-skin.  Toward  the  apex  it  has  a  character- 
istic lighter  and  brighter  red  tone.  Dots  whitish  or  russet,  small  and  numer- 
ous about  the  basin,  larger  and  scattering  toward  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  rather  long,  narrow  at  top,  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  abaxile,  medium  or  above ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  open  or  partly 
closed;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  somewhat  concave,  roundish  to  broadly 
obcordate,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  dark, 
medium  to  rather  large,  wide,  obtuse,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  rather  hard,  somewhat  break- 
ing, moderately  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rather  brisk  subacid,  somewhat  aro- 
matic, not  highly  flavored,  fair  to  good  in  quality. 

Season  January  to  May  or  June.  Commercial  limit  March  or  possibly 
April. 


LAWVER 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  191 

LEE  SWEET. 

Lee  Sweet  is  a  handsome  deep  red  apple  of  good  size,  acceptable 
for  dessert  but  especially  valuable  for  market  and  culinary  uses.  It 
is  desirable  for  the  home  orchard  and  appears  to  be  worthy  of  con- 
sideration for  commercial  planting  where  a  sweet  apple  is  desired. 
The  fruit  is  illustrated  on  the  color  plate  wLh  Northern  Spy,  and  a 
section  of  it  is  shown  on  the  color  plate  with  McLellan. 

The  tree  does  not  come  into  bearing  very  young,  but  when  mature 
is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  moderately  heavy  crops  biennially. 
The  fruit  hangs  fairly  well  to  the  tree  and  is  pretty  uniform  in  size 
and  quality,  having  about  as  high  a  percentage  of  marketable  fruit 
as  the  Baldwin.  It  is  somewhat  subject  to  scab,  but  this  may  be 
readily  controlled  by  proper  treatment.  It  stores  well  and,  if  perfect, 
keeps  well.  In  ordinary  storage  it  is  in  season  from  January  to 
April. 

Historical.  An  old  variety  of  uncertain  origin  known  to  some  in  the  vicinity 
of  Geneva  under  the  name  of  Lee  Sweet  because  it  was  formerly  grown  on 
the  White  Springs  farm  then  known  as  the  Lee  farm.  It  is  here  described 
under  its  local  name  because  we  have  been  unable  to  identify  it  with  any  other 
variety. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  erect.  Twigs  medium 
in  length  to  rather  short,  pretty  straight,  rather  slender;  internodes  short  to 
medium.  Bark  olive-green  overcast  with  brownish-red,  overlaid  with  thin 
scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  moderately  numerous,  raised,  gen- 
erally elongated,  small.  Buds  small,  roundish,  pubescent,  nearly  free  from 
bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  nearly  large,  fairly  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Form 
roundish  conic  to  oblong  conic,  often  somewhat  angular  or  elliptical ;  sides 
sometimes  unequal.  Stem  medium  to  short.  Cavity  acuminate,  deep,  moder- 
ately wide,  sometimes  lipped  or  furrowed,  russeted,  often  with  outspreading 
russet  rays.  Calyx  rather  large,  open ;  lobes  long,  acuminate,  reflexed,  often 
separated  at  the  base.  Basin  medium  to  rather  small,  usually  abrupt,  usually 
medium  in  depth  and  width,  sometimes  a  little  furrowed. 

Skin  tough,  glossy  bright  red  striped  with  purplish-carmine  over  a  yellow 
background  and  sometimes  marked  with  grayish  scarf-skin  about  the  base. 
Highly  colored  specimens  are  nearly  or  quite  covered  with  red  but  where  the 
color  is  less  strongly  developed  it  has  a  striped  appearance.  Dots  usually 
whitish,  rather  numerous,  small,  occasionally  rather  large  and  dark  russet. 

Calyx  tube  conical  or  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  or  below. 


192  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Core  medium  to  small,  abaxile;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  open  or  closed; 
core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  much  concave,  roundish  ovate,  mucronate,  tufted. 
Seeds  short,  broad,  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  not 
very  juicy,  sweet,  good. 

LEHIGH  GREENING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1891:390.  2.  Butz,  Penn. 
Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  1892:107.  fig.  3.  Van  Deman,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895:72. 
4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1899:18.  5.  Johnson,  Rural  N.  Y.,  62:19,  37°-  1903. 
figs.  6.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:115. 

An  attractive  apple  of  the  French  Pippin  type,  of  good  size  and 
an  excellent  keeper.  It  was  mentioned  on  page  134  as  possibly 
identical  with  French  Pippin.  Further  comparison  leads  us  to 
believe  that  it  is  distinct.  It  is  desirable  rather  for  market  and 
culinary  uses  than  for  dessert. 

Historical.  It  has  been  grown  in  Lehigh  county,  Pennsylvania,  for  about 
sixty  years  (5). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  rather  stout  and  crooked.  Form  wide- 
spreading,  open.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  irregularly  curved,  stout  to  rather 
slender;  internodes  short  to  above  medium.  Bark  clear  dark  reddish-brown 
mingled  with  olive-green,  slightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent. 
Lenticels  scattering,  rather  conspicuous,  medium  in  size,  round  or  slightly 
elongated,  raised  but  slightly  if  at  all.  Buds  set  deeply  in  the  bark,  above 
medium  to  rather  small,  broad,  flat,  obtuse,  appressed,  quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
oblate  to  roundish  conic,  ribbed  but  faintly  if  at  all ;  sides  sometimes  unequal. 
Stem  medium  to  long,  moderately  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  medium 
in  depth  to  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  sometimes  lipped,  more  or  less 
russeted  and  often  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  in  size, 
somewhat  open ;  lobes  medium  to  long,  rather  narrow,  acuminate,  often  some- 
what separated  at  the  base.  Basin  usually  rather  large,  abrupt,  moderately 
deep  to  rather  shallow,  moderately  wide,  gently  furrowed. 

Skin  dark  green  in  the  fall  but  eventually  becoming  waxen  yellow,  occasion- 
ally with  a  thin  blush  of  bright  red.  Dots  numerous,  submerged  or  pale 
areolar  with  russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  rather  long  and  wide,  broadly  funnel-shape.  Stamens  median 
to  basal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  usually  abaxile;  cells  symmetrical,  wide  open;  core 
lines  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  pointed  ovate  to  broadly  cordate,  tufted. 
Seeds  numerous,  medium  in  size,  rather  dark  brown,  somewhat  elongated, 
plump,  acute  to  acuminate. 

Flesh  yellowish-white,  firm,  moderately  fine  or  a  little  coarse,  rather  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  mild  subacid,  aromatic,  good  or  sometimes  very  good. 

Season  January  to  May. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  193 

LILLY  OF  KENT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1891:390.  2.  Wright,  Am. 
Card.,  17:34.  1896.  3.  Powell,  Del.  Sta.  Bui.,  38:19.  1898.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1899:18.  5.  Ragan,  U.  S.  Pom.  Bui.,  8:18.  1899.  6.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:115. 

SYNONYM.     LILY  OF  KENT   (2,  3). 

Fruit  large,  globular,  green  or  yellowish-green,  subacid,  good,  in  quality 
and  a  very  late  keeper.  This  is  a  variety  of  recent  introduction  (i).  It  has 
not  yet  been  sufficiently  tested  in  New  York  to  determine  whether  or  wot 
it  is  a  desirable  variety  for  this  region.  It  originated  in  Delaware  and  is 
being  planted  to  considerable  extent  in  some  portions  of  that  state  (3). 

LIMBERTWIG. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Kenrick,  1832:59.  2.  Thomas,  1849:168.  3.  Phoenix, 
Horticulturist,  4:471.  1850.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:67.  1851.  5. 
Elliott,  1854:143.  6.  Robey,  Horticulturist,  11:89.  1856.  7.  Downing,  1857: 
164.  8.  Hooper,  1857:54.  9.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1860.  10.  Warder,  1867: 
516.  fig.  ii.  Fitz,  1872:143,  149.  12.  Leroy,  1873:420.  fig.  13.  Barry,  1883: 
348.  14.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  15.  Wickson,  1891:248.  16. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:243.  17.  Clayton,  Ala.  Sta.  Bui,  47:7.  1893.  18. 
Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:47.  1894.  19.  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:329.  1896.  20. 
Rural  N.  Y.,  62:822.  1903.  fig.  21.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:115.  22.  Bruner,  N. 
C.  Sta.  Bui.,  182:25.  1903.  figs.  23.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  205:45.  1903. 
24.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:47.  1903.  25.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:129.  1904. 

SYNONYMS,  fames  River  (2,  5,  7).  LAMBERTWIG  (12).  LIMBER  TWIG 
(i,  2,  4,  5,  7,  8,  9,  13,  14,  15,  1 6,  23).  Red  Limber  twig  (22). 

There  are  several  different  apples  which  are  known  locally  under  the  name 
Limbertwig.  Willow  Twig  is  sometimes  incorrectly  called  Limbertwig,  as 
has  been  noted  by  some  writers  (5,  14). 

There  is  an  apple  grown  in  Northern  New  York,  probably  of  local  origin, 
which  is  there  known  under  the  name  of  Limbertwig.  This  fruit  is  of  the 
Blue  Pearmain  class  and  resembles  Bethel  in  form  and  color  but  the  flesh 
is  coarser  and  has  more  acidity.  It  is  a  good  keeper. 

In  some  portions  of  Western  New  York  the  Twenty  Ounce  is  called  Limber- 
twig. 

The  variety  described  below  as  the  small  or  red  Limbertwig  appears  to  be 
practically  unknown  among  New  York  fruit  growers  except  in  some  localities 
in  the  southeastern  portions  of  the  state.  That  described  as  the  large  or 
green  Limbertwig,  so  far  as  we  know,  is  not  grown  in  New  York. 

In  some  of  the  references  above  cited  the  writers  appear  to  have  clearly  in 
mind  the  red  Limbertwig  (4,  7,  10,  14,  21)  ;  in  other  cases  they  evidently 
describe  the  green  Limbertwig  (2,  5)  ;  occasionally  both  are  mentioned  (3, 
8,  19),  but  in  most  instances  it  is  not  clear  which  variety  is  referred  to. 

LIMBERTWIG  (Small  or  red). 

Fruit  attractive  in  appearance,  of  good  deep  red  color,  pretty  uniform  in 
size,  well  adapted  for  storage,  ships  well  and  keeps  late,  but  the  quality  is 


194  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

only  fair  to  good.  The  tree  is  thrifty  and  an  excellent  cropper  and  the  fruit 
hangs  well  to  the  tree  despite  high  winds  (8,  10,  20)  ;  laterals  slender  becom- 
ing drooping  with  heavy  crops. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  below;  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
to  slightly  oblate  conic,  ribbed  but  slightly  if  at  all,  symmetrical  and  regular. 
Stem  medium  in  length  and  thickness,  usually  not  exserted.  Cavity  acumi- 
nate, deep,  rather  broad  to  moderately  narrow,  sometimes  partly  russeted, 
smooth  or  gently  furrowed.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  partly  open; 
lobes  short,  broad,  flat  or  sometimes  recurved.  Basin  small,  moderately 
narrow,  varying  from  shallow  and  obtuse  to  moderately  deep  and  somewhat 
abrupt,  often  a  little  furrowed. 

Skin  slightly  roughened  with  numerous  and  rather  conspicuous  russet  dots, 
yellow  largely  covered  with  red,  deepening  in  the  sun  to  dark  purplish-red, 
sparingly  and  obscurely  striped  with  dull  carmine,  sometimes  marked  with 
broken  irregular  russet  veins.  Prevailing  effect  attractive  dark  red. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  to  elongated  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  or  above. 

Core  sessile,  abaxile  or  nearly  so,  rather  small  to  medium ;  cells  not  uni- 
formly developed,  pretty  symmetrical,  closed  or  slightly  open ;  core  lines  clasp- 
ing. Carpels  concave,  elliptical,  deeply  emarginate,  much  tufted.  Seeds 
numerous,  elongated,  medium  to  small,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  much  tufted, 
clinging  to  the  carpels. 

Flesh  yellowish,  hard,  moderately  fine,  not  very  crisp,  juicy,  aromatic,  sub- 
acid,  good. 

Season  January  to  March  or  April ;  in  cold  storage  February  to  May  or 
later. 

LIMBERTWIG  (Large  or  green}. 

As  compared  with  the  variety  last  described  the  fruit  of  the  large  or  green 
Limbertwig  is  much  the  larger  but  it  does  not  keep  as  well.  It  is  decidedly 
less  attractive  being  dull  green  partly  overspread  with  dull  brownish-red, 
marked  over  the  base  with  whitish  scarf-skin  and  sometimes  with  a  few 
irregular  patches  or  streaks  of  russet.  Dots  coarse,  conspicuous,  usually 
areolar  with  russet  point. 

Cavity  large,  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  wide,  deep,  somewhat  fur- 
rowed. Calyx  tube  cone-shape  to  somewhat  funnel-form.  Stamens  median. 
Core  medium  to  rather  large,  axile;  cells  symmetrical,  closed;  core  lines 
meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  smooth  or  nearly  so,  elliptical  to 
broadly  obcordate,  deeply  emarginate.  Seeds  rather  large  to  medium,  rather 
wide,  obtuse,  smooth  or  nearly  so,  free.  Flesh  subacid,  coarser  and  more 
juicy  than  the  other  and  much  inferior  in  flavor  and  quality. 

(I)  LONG  ISLAND  RUSSET. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Coxe,  1817:123.  fig.     2.  Robey,  Horticulturist,  11:89.  1856. 
3.  Elliott,    1858:173.     4.  Warder,    1867:725.      5.  Downing,    1869:255.     6.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.   Cat.,   1875:10.     7.  Bailey,   An.  Hort.,   1892:243.     8.  Hicks,  Rural 
N.  Y.,  53:205.  1894.    9-  Thomas,  1897:643. 
SYNONYM.     English  Russet  (8). 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  195 

This  variety  was  formerly  much  grown  on  Long  Island  and  in 
Westchester  county,  where  it  was  considered  profitable  and  particu- 
larly valued  for  cider  (i,  8).  It  is  now  nearly  obsolete.  Coxe 
describes  it  as  "  Small,  *  *  *  rather  oblong,  diminishing  towards 
the  crown,  which  is  very  hollow ;  the  stalk  is  a  full  inch  in  length, 
planted  very  deep — the  flesh  is  dry  and  sweet ;  makes  a  very  sweet, 
sirupy  cider,  which  when  fined  is  much  admired — the  skin  is  a  yellow 
russet,  clouded  with  black  spots — this  apple  keeps  well."  Elliott 
gives  its  season  as  December  to  March  (3).  Downing  (5)  gives 
the  season  as  October  to  February.  "  Flesh  yellowish,  tough,  rather 
dry,  almost  sweet/'  Warder  (4)  classes  it  with  the  subacid  apples. 
Hicks  (8)  says  "  it  is  a  long  keeper,  sometimes  keeping  till  apples 
come  again."  Its  general  appearance  is  attractive  for  a  russet. 

(H)  LONG  ISLAND  RUSSET. 

From  various  parts  of  Long  Island  and  from  one  locality  in 
Michigan  we  have  received  under  the  name  Long  Island  Russet  the 
variety  which  is  described  below  and  illustrated  in  the  accompanying 
color  plate.  This  fruit  has  also  come  to  us  from  the  Hudson  valley. 
It  is  evident  that  it  does  not  correspond  with  the  description  by 
Coxe  cited  above.  We  have  been  unable  to  identify  it  with  any 
named  variety.  So  far  as  we  can  learn  this  variety  is  no  longer 
being  planted  and  is  fast  becoming  obsolete,  being  represented  now 

only  by  old  trees. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  small,  sometimes  nearly  large.  Form  roundish  to  some- 
what oblong,  narrowing  toward  the  basin,  sometimes  approaching  truncate 
cylindrical,  often  with  an  oblique  axis,  irregular ;  not  very  uniform  in  size 
and  shape.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately  slender.  Cavity  large,  acute, 
usually  deep,  broad,  green  or  russeted,  sometimes  furrowed.  Calyx  closed  or 
partly  open ;  lobes  rather  narrow,  acute.  Basin  often  oblique,  of  medium 
depth,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  rather  abrupt,  a  little  furrowed  and 
wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  more  or  less  covered  with  golden  russet  but  usually  with  some 
patches  of  smooth  bright  yellow  or  green,  irregularly  marked  with  indistinct 
grayish  scarf-skin.  Dots  inconspicuous,  scattering,  gray  or  russet.  Prevail- 
ing effect  is  usually  golden  russet. 

Calyx  tube  conical  to  funnel-shape,  with  a  wide  limb  and  narrow  cylinder. 
Stamens  basal  to  nearly  median. 

Core  rather  small,  sometimes  medium,  abaxile  or  sometimes  axile;  cells 
often  unsymmetrical,  closed  or  open;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasp- 


196  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

ing.  Carpels  smooth  or  nearly  so,  broadly  roundish  to  angular-ovate,  wide 
at  the  middle  and  tapering  toward  the  base  and  apex,  but  slightly  emarginate 
if  at  all,  sometimes  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  dark  brown,  medium  in 
size,  moderately  narrow,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  a  decided  deep  yellow,  firm,  at  first  rather  crisp  or  hard, 
but  often  becoming  tough,  moderately  fine,  sprightly  subacid,  juicy,  very  good. 

Season  November  to  midwinter  or  later. 

LONG  STEM  OF  PENNSYLVANIA. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Brinckle,  Mag.  Hort.,  19:169.  1853.  2.  Downing,  1857:86. 
3.  Warder,  1867:725.  4.  Thomas,  1885:236. 

A  Pennsylvania  apple  described  by  Dr.  Brinckle  in  1853  as  a  new  variety 
(i).  It  is  but  seldom  found  in  New  York  and  is  not  recommended  for  plant- 
ing in  this  state. 

Other  varieties  which  have  been  cultivated  under  the  name  of  Long  Stem 
will  be  noticed  in  Volume  II. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  in  size.  Form  roundish  inclined  to  cylindrical,  ribbed 
but  faintly  if  at  all.  Stem  long  to  very  long,  slender,  bracted.  Cavity  medium 
to  rather  small,  acuminate,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  usually  smooth. 
Calyx  medium  to  rather  large;  lobes  often  leafy,  elongated,  obtuse.  Basin 
shallow  to  very  shallow,  narrow,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  nearly  covered  with  thin  red  and 
faintly  marked  with  narrow  stripes  of  carmine.  Dots  numerous,  gray  or 
russet. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form  approaching  cylindrical,  with  pistil  point  extending 
into  the  base.  Stamens  median  or  above. 

Core  large,  abaxile;  cells  symmetrical,  open;  core  lines  clasp  the  funnel 
cylinder.  Carpels  smooth,  much  concave,  elongated  approaching  oval,  slightly 
emarginate.  Seeds  very  numerous,  below  medium  to  rather  large,  obtuse  to 
acute,  variable,  plump,  moderately  wide. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  firm,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy  to 
very  juicy,  moderately  fine-grained,  sprightly  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  November  to  February. 

McAFEE* 

REFERENCES,  i.  Elliott,  1854:158.  2.  Downing,  1857:170.  3.  Downing, 
Horticulturist,  16:42.  1861,  4.  Warder,  1867:601,  725.  5.  Howsley,  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1871:76.  6.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871.  7.  Downing,  1872: 
260,  363,  21  app.  fig.  8.  Fitz,  1872:143.  9.  Barry,  1883:349.  10.  Thomas, 
1885:517.  ii.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  12.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:244.  13.  Beach,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  An.  Rpt.,  41:76.  1901.  14.  Budd- 
Hansen,  1903:119.  15.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:27.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  Gray  Apple  (7).  Gray's  Keeper  (5).  Indian  Wyandotte 
(7).  LARGE  STRIPED  PEARMAIN  (4).  Large  Striped  Pearmain  (i,  5,  6,  7). 
LARGE  STRIPED  WINTER  PEARMAIN  (3).  Large  Striped  Winter  Pearmain 
(7,  9).  McAfee  (7).  McAfee  Red  (14).  MCAFEE'S  NONESUCH  (8). 
McAfee's  Nonesuch  (5).  MCAFEE'S  NONSUCH  (2,  7,  9,  10).  McAfees 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  197 

(5,  7).  McAFFEE  (4).  MCAFFEE'S  NONESUCH  (6).  Missouri  Superior 
(5,  7,  J3)-  Neiv  Missouri  (5).  Nonsuch  (7).  Park  (5).  Parks  Keeper 
(5,  7,  13)-  Snorter  (i,  7).  Stevenson  Pippin  (13).  Sttn*  (15).  Storr's 
Wine  (5).  STRIPED  PEARMAIN  (i).  Striped  Sweet  Pippin  (7).  STRIPED 
WINTER  PEARMAIN  (7).  Valandingham  (5).  White  Crow  (5).  Winter 
Pearmain  (5).  Winter  Pippin  of  some  (7).  Zeeke  (5). 

This  is  an  old  variety  well  known  in  portions  of  the  South  and  of  the 
Middle  West.  As  grown  in  Western  New  York  it  is  a  reliable  bearer  giving 
moderately  heavy  crops,  the  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree,  develops  good  color 
and  is  a  late  keeper  but  its  quality  is  not  very  satisfactory.  It  is  not  recom- 
mended for  planting  in  this  state. 

Historical.  An  old  variety  which  originated  near  Harrodsburg,  Kentucky. 
At  first  it  was  called  Nonesuch  but  afterwards  became  widely  known  under 
the  name  McAfee's  Nonsuch.  Dr.  Howsley  gives  an  extended  account  of  its 
origin  and  of  its  dissemination  under  various  synonyms  (5). 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous.  Form  roundish, 
somewhat  spreading.  Twigs  medium  in  length,  rather  slender  with  dark 
bark ;  slightly  pubescent  towards  the  tips ;  young  twigs  smooth,  dark,  reddish- 
brown. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  oblate,  regular.  Stem  short  to 
long.  Cavity  large,  wide,  acute,  rather  deep,  gently  furrowed,  often  with 
thin  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  shallow,  usually  rather 
narrow,  sometimes  broad,  sometimes  compressed,  wrinkled  and  gently 
furrowed. 

Skin  rather  thin,  smooth,  yellow  faintly  washed  with  red  and  splashed  and 
striped  with  carmine,  often  marked  over  the  base  with  thin,  grayish,  mottled 
or  streaked  scarf-skin  and  sometimes  with  fine,  irregularly  broken  russet  lines. 
Dots  minute,  indented,  gray  or  whitish  mingled  with  some  that  are  larger, 
areolar.  Prevailing  effect  striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form,  sometimes  elongated  and  constricted  at  the  base 
of  the  limb,  enlarging  somewhat  below  and  extending  to  the  core.  Stamens 
median  to  basal. 

Core  medium  in  size,  decidedly  abaxile,  roundish ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical, 
open ;  core  lines  clasp  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  rather  concave,  tufted, 
very  broadly  obovate  or  approaching  obcordate,  narrowing  towards  the  stem. 
Seeds  numerous,  large,  long,  rather  wide,  obtuse,  dark. 

Flesh  yellowish,  somewhat  coarse,  somewhat  breaking,  tender,  juicy,  mild 
subacid  approaching  sweet,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  October  to  February. 

McKINLEY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  2.  Warder,  1867:606.  fig.  3. 
Downing,  1872:261.  4.  Thomas,  1885:517.  5.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244. 
6.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:188.  1905. 

SYNONYM.     MACKINLAY  (i).    MacKinlay  (6), 


198  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

A  dessert  apple  of  pretty  good  size  but  the  color  is  not  very  good  and  the 
fruit  does  not  keep  late.  As  grown  at  this  Station  the  tree  has  come  into 
bearing  rather  young  but  it  has  not  been  tested  here  long  enough  to  deter- 
mine its  productiveness.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  this  state. 

It  originated  in  Indiana  (6)  and  is  propagated  to  a  limited  extent  in  por- 
tions of  the  Middle  West  (5).  It  is  practically  unknown  in  New  York. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate.  Stem  short  to  medium,  slender. 
Cavity  rather  narrow,  deep,  thickly  russeted.  Calyx  large,  closed  or  varying 
to  wide  open;  lobes  small.  Basin  broad,  rather  abrupt, 'shallow  to  moderately 
deep,  slightly  furrowed.  Skin  dull  yellow  indistinctly  blushed  and  striped 
with  dull  red,  sprinkled  with  large  areolar  dots.  Core  medium,  closed ;  core 
lines  meeting.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  fine-grained,  moderately  juicy,  subacid, 
good. 

Season  December  and  January. 

McKINNEY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1876:56  app.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1873. 
(cited  by  3).  3.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:188.  1905. 

Fruit  yellow  with  a  shade  of  brownish-red  in  the  sun,  of  good  size  and 
mild  subacid  flavor;  in  season  from  January  to  April  (i).  Originated  in 
Crawford,  Ulster  county.  Evidently  unknown  outside  the  locality  of  its 
origin. 

MAGENTA. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Leroy,  1873:447.  fig. 

This  is  a  variety  which  was  brought  to  notice  in  France  in  1861. 
It  has  been  but  little  grown  as  yet  in  New  York  state,  at  least  not 
under  this  name.  It  appears  to  be  identical  with  Canada  Reinette. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  oblate  conic,  broadly  angular,  irreg- 
ular. Stem  short  to  very  short,  moderately  thick,  not  exserted.  Cavity  large, 
moderately  deep  to  deep,  rather  broad,  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  usu- 
ally with  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  medium,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin 
often  irregular,  rather  abrupt,  medium  in  width  and  depth,  compressed  or 
furrowed. 

Skin  yellow  or  greenish  with  a  bronze  blush  and  roughened  with  very  large 
stellar  or  irregular  russet  dots  or  patches. 

Calyx  tube  conical  or  somewhat  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  somewhat  abaxile.  below  medium  to  rather  small ;  cells  usually  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  ovate, 
emarginate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  medium  or  above,  moderately  wide, 
plump,  obtuse,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  juicy, 
rich  agreeable  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  November  to  March. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  199 

MALA  CARLE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Kenrick,  1832:79.  2.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:39.  3.  Manning, 
1838:61.  4.  Downing,  1845:116.  5.  Thomas,  1849:182.  6.  Cole,  1849:116. 
7.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:82.  1851.  8.  Elliott,  1854:146.  fig.  9.  Hooper, 
1857:56.  10.  Warder,  1867:725.  n.  Fitz,  1872:168.  12.  Hogg,  1884:144.  13. 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1889:10.  14.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:243. 

SYNONYMS.  Charles  Apple  (i,  2,  4,  8).  MALCARLE  (2).  Malcarle  (i). 
Mai  Carle  (7).  MALE  CARLE  (4,  5,  8,  9,  TO,  11).  Male  Carle  (6,  12). 
MARLE  CARLE  (7).  MELA  CARLA  (i,  3,  12).  Mela  Carla  (2,  4,  5,  8,  9). 
Mela  de  Carlo  (8).  Mela  di  Carlo  (4).  Pomme  de  Charles  (4,  5,  8). 
Pomme  Finale  (i,  4,  8). 

A  very  beautiful  delicate  skinned  apple  with  white,  tender,  perfumed  flesh. 
It  is  well  adapted  to  certain  regions  of  the  South  (n)  but  it  does  not  succeed 
as  far  north  as  New  York  (4). 

Historical.  This  is  an  old  variety  of  Italian  origin.  Lindley  says  of  it: 
"  The  Malcarle  is  a  native  of  the  territory  of  Finale,  in  Liguria.  It  is  an 
important  article  of  trade  in  the  whole  Genoese  territory,  and  of  exportation 
to  Nice,  Marseilles,  Barcelona  and  Cadiz.  The  climate  of  the  Italian  terri- 
tory is  so  entirely  different  from  that  of  England,  that  we  cannot  expect  the 
delicate  Malcarle  should  succeed  here,  unless  trained  against  a  south  or  south- 
east wall,  and  in  a  warm  and  kind  soil.  Its  great  beauty  in  the  dessert  renders 
it  an  interesting  object  of  cultivation"  (2). 

MALINDA. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1877:46.  2.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Pom. 
Rpt.,  1891:390.  3.  Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1896:132.  4.  Macoun,  Can. 
Hort.,  22:396.  1899.  5.  Hansen,  ^.  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:73.  1902.  fig.  6.  Munson, 
Me.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  18:84.  1902.  7-  Budd-Hansen,  1903:122.  fig.  8.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  BuL,  56:190.  1905. 

SYNONYM.     Melinda   (8). 

This  variety  is  as  yet  untested  in  New  York.  It  originated  in  Orange 
county,  Vt,  and  was  introduced  into  Minnesota  about  1860.  The  tree  does 
not  come  into  bearing  young.  It  has  done  well  in  Iowa  and  Minnesota  when 
top-worked  on  the  very  hardy  Hibernal  apple  or  on  the  Virginia  crab  stock 
(5).  The  fruit  ranks  only  fair  in  quality.  The  variety  does  not  appear 
worthy  of  testing  for  New  York  except  possibly  in  those  regions  of  the  state 
where  hardiness  is  a  prime  requisite. 

TREE  (5), 

Tree  a  slender,  straggling  grower  in  the  nursery.  Twigs  medium,  rather 
slender,  comparatively  blunt  at  the  tips,  nearly  straight;  internodes  short  to 
medium.  Bark  dull  brownish-red,  uniformly  overlaid  with  thin  scarf-skin, 
slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  inconspicuous,  rather  few,  medium  or 
below,  elongated  or  roundish,  not  raised.  Buds  rather  small,  hardly  moder- 
ately projecting,  somewhat  pubescent,  free  from  bark  or  slightly  adhering. 


2oo  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT  (5). 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  sharply  conical,  somewhat  angular  and 
ribbed.  Stem  short,  stout.  Cavity  acute,  medium,  regular,  with  stellate 
russet.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  narrow,  deep,  wavy,  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  rich  yellow  with  dull  red  blush.  Dots  minute,  distinct,  numer- 
ous, white. 

Calyx  tube  conical.     Stamens  median. 

Core  closed ;  core  lines  meeting. 

Flesh  yellowish- white,  firm,  juicy,  very  mild  subacid  with  sweet  after-taste, 
fair. 

Season  late  winter. 

MANCHESTER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:48.  1903.  2. 
Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:131.  1904. 

This  variety  shows  that  it  is  of  the  Esopus  Spitzenburg  type  by  the  size  and 
form  of  the  fruit  and  also  by  the  texture  and  quality  of  the  flesh.  It  is  much 
inferior  to  the  Esopus  Spitzenburg  in  color  and  is  not  as  good  in  quality. 
The  flesh  is  liable  to  have  brown  discolorations  commonly  known  as  the 
"  Baldwin  spot."  The  fruit  is  often  above  medium  or  large  but  is  not  very 
uniform  either  in  size  or  shape.  The  color  is  quite  variable  and  lacks  char- 
acter, being  yellow  or  dull  green  partly  overspread  with  red.  It  is  not  suffi- 
ciently attractive  in  form  and  color  for  a  good  market  fruit.  The  tree  is  not 
very  slow  in  coming  into  bearing  and  is  a  reliable  cropper.  Not  recom- 
mended for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Received  here  for  testing  from  J.  D.  Adams,  Mapleton,  Cayuga 
county,  N.  Y.,  in  1890.  We  have  not  learned  where  or  when  the  variety 
originated.  It  is  sparingly  cultivated  in  a  few  localities  in  Western  New  York 
but  does  not  appear  to  be  known  in  other  portions  of  the  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  small,  only  moderately  vigorous;  lateral  branches  willowy, 
slender.  Form  roundish  or  spreading,  dense.  Twigs  below  medium  to  short, 
rather  slender,  nearly  straight ;  internodes  medium.  Bark  clear  reddish-brown 
with  a  light  coat  of  streaked  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent  near  the  tips. 
Lenticels  quite  numerous,  very  small,  roundish  to  oblong,  sometimes  slightly 
raised.  Buds  medium  to  small,  plump,  roundish,  obtuse  to  acute,  appressed, 
pubescent,  deeply  set  in  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  to  oblong,  inclined  to  conic, 
somewhat  angular  or  elliptical,  usually  pretty  symmetrical.  Siem  medium  to 
long.  Cavity  broad,  deep,  varying  from  somewhat  obtuse  to  acuminate,  often 
obscurely  furrowed,  usually  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed.  Basin 
usually  small,  often  oblique,  varying  from  very  shallow  and  obtuse  to  moder- 
ately deep  and  abrupt,  often  irregular,  usually  distinctly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  slightly  rough,  dull  grass-green  varying  to  a  rather  deep  yellow,  thinly 
blushed  with  red  and  sparingly  and  obscurely  striped  with  dull  carmine. 
Prevailing  color  yellow.  Dots  rather  numerous,  small  to  medium,  pale  or 
russet,  often  irregular,  often  submerged. 


IT  \ 


MANN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  201 

Calyx  tube  narrow  above,  long,  approaching  cylindrical.  Stamens  marginal 
to  median. 

Core  medium  to  large,  varying  from  decidedly  abaxile  to  nearly  axile ;  cells 
often  closed  but  sometimes  unsymmetrical  and  wide  open ;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  broadly  ovate  to  roundish,  mucronate,  emarginate,  distinctly  tufted. 
Seeds  above  medium  to  rather  small,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  crisp,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  rather 
tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  April  or  May. 

MANN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:21  app.  fig.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1877: 
10.  3.  Moody,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1881:124.  4.  Barry,  1883:349.  5.  Moody, 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:27.  6.  Thomas,  1885:517.  7.  Can.  Hort.,  11:113. 
1888.  8.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  9.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892: 
244.  10.  Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  5:18.  1898.  figs.  n.  Ib.,  6:35. 
1899.  12.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Bui.,  37:44.  1901.  13.  Munson,  Me.  Sta. 
Bui.,  82:95.  1902.  14.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:123.  15.  Powell  and.  Fulton,  U.  S. 
B.P.I.  Bui.,  48:48.  1903.  16.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:131.  1904. 

SYNONYM.    Deilts  (3). 

A  hard,  green,  late-keeping  apple  used  by  the  trade  to  some 
extent  as  a  substitute  for  Rhode  Island  Greening  late  in  the 
season  when  it  often  brings  good  prices.  It  is  decidedly  in- 
ferior to  Rhode  Island  Greening  in  quality  and  does  not  always 
have  a  good  clear  green  color,  being  sometimes  streaked  more 
or  less  with  a  network  of  russet.  Its  great  merits  are  the  pro- 
ductiveness of  the  tree  and  the  smoothness,  uniformity  and 
superior  keeping  and  shipping  qualities  of  the  fruit.  The  tree 
is  superior  to  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Baldwin  in  hardiness 
(5,  8)  and  usually  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  good  to  heavy 
crops  biennially  or  in  some  localities  almost  annually.  It  is  a 
little  slow  about  coming  into  bearing.  In  many  cases  the  crops 
are  so  heavy  that  the  percentage  of  loss  in  undersized  fruit  is  rather 
high  and  the  trees  are  damaged  by  the  breaking  of  the  limbs. 

Historical.  Originated  as  a  chance  seedling  in  the  orchard  of  Judge  Mooney 
of  Granby,  Oswego  county,  N.  Y.  (i),  where  it  was  formerly  called  the 
Deiltz.  It  was  introduced  into  Niagara  county  by  Dr.  Mann,  and  on  the 
suggestion  of  Elisha  Moody  of  Lockport  the  Western  New  York  Horticul- 
tural Society  named  the  apple  Mann  (3).  It  is  not  grown  extensively  in  any 
portion  of  the  state  but  it  is  still  being  planted  to  a  limited  extent  by  com- 
mercial growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous.  Form  at  first 
decidedly  upright  and  rather  dense  but  after  bearing  heavy  crops  becomes 


2O2  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

decidedly  spreading  with  the  laterals  inclined  to  droop.  Tzvigs  medium  to 
long,  nearly  straight,  rather  slender  to  moderately  stout;  internodes  short. 
Bark  more  or  less  dark  dull  brown  overspread  with  grayish-green  and  streaked 
with  gray  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  numerous,  dull, 
not  very  conspicuous,  above  medium  to  below,  roundish,  slightly  raised.  Buds 
medium  to  rather  short,  plump,  obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent,  deeply  set  in 
bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish,  somewhat  inclined  to  oblate,  sym- 
metrical, usually  pretty  regular,  sometimes  faintly  ribbed;  pretty  uniform  in 
size  and  shape.  Stem  short  to  medium,  usually  not  exserted.  Cavity  acumi- 
nate, rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  deep,  usually  russeted,  and  often 
with  outspreading  broken  russet,  somewhat  furrowed.  Calyx  small  to  medium, 
closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  medium  in  length,  acute.  Basin  somewhat  abrupt, 
rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide}  usually  pretty  symmetrical,  furrowed  and 
wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  at  first  deep  green,  often  partly  overspread 
with  a  browrysh-red  blush  tinged  with  shade  of  olive-green  but  late  in  the 
season  it  develops  a  pronounced  yellow  color.  Dots  numerous,  large,  con- 
spicuous, areolar,  whitish  with  russet  center. 

Calyx  tube  moderately  wide,  cone-shape.     Stamens  below  median  to  basal. 

Core  below  medium  to  small,  usually  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  pretty  sym- 
metrical, usually  closed,  sometimes  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasp- 
ing. Carpels  smooth,  broad,  narrowing  towards  the  base  and  apex  or  ap- 
proaching truncate  at  the  base,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  numer- 
ous, medium  or  above,  wide,  obtuse  to  acute,  dark. 

Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  at  first  very  hard  and 
firm  but  later  becoming  moderately  tender  and  somewhat  crisp,  subacid,  fair 
to  good. 

Season.  Commercial  limit  March  or  April  in  ordinary  storage  and  May  in 
cold  storage  (16). 

MARIGOLD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244.  2.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:49.  1903.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:131.  1904. 

DOUBTFUL  REFERENCES.  4.  Knight,  Pomona  Herefordiensis,  1811.  (cited  by 
6).  5.  Kenrick,  1832:48.  6.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:80.  7.  Downing,  1869:294. 
8.  Hogg,  1884:164. 

DOUBTFUL  SYNONYMS.  Isle  of  Wight  Orange  (6,  7).  Isle  of  Wight  Pippin 
(6,  8).  Marigold  Pippin  (7).  Mary  gold  (6).  ORANGE  PIPPIN  (6,  7,  8). 

A  good  dessert  variety  of  desirable  size  and  rather  attractive  appearance 
for  a  yellowish  apple  but  it  does  not  excel  standard  varieties  of  its  season  in 
color,  size  or  quality.  The  tree  does  not  come  into  bearing  very  young.  It 
is  an  annual  or  nearly  annual  bearer  and  yields  moderate  crops.  As  grown 
at  this  Station  the  commercial  limit  of  Marigold  appears  to  be  November  or 
December  in  ordinary  storage,  although  some  portion  of  the  fruit  may  be 
kept  till  June.  The  fruit  held  in  cold  storage  till  May  has  been  found  still 
hard,  free  from  decay  and  but  slightly  scalded  (2,  3). 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  203 

Historical.  Origin  uncertain.  It  has  long  been  known  in  the  vicinity  of 
Oyster  Bay,  Long  Island.  For  upwards  of  a  century  it  has  been  considered 
a  desirable  winter  apple  for  that  region,1  and  it  has  been  propagated  for  years 
by  the  Westbury  Nurseries.  It  is  known  to  a  limited  extent  in  various  locali- 
ties in  Southeastern  New  York  and  in  Connecticut,  but  appears  to  be  gradually 
going  out  of  cultivation. 

We  have  not  had  the  opportunity  of  determining  whether  or  not  this  Mari- 
gold of  Long  Island  is  identical  either  with  the  Marigold  described  by 
Kenrick  (5)  or  with  the  Orange  Pippin  (6,  7,  8)  which  has  Marigold  as  a 
synonym.  The  fruit  corresponds  pretty  closely  with  Hogg's  description  of 
Orange  Pippin  except  as  to  its  quality  and  season. 

The  Marigold  of  Leroy2  is  evidently  distinct  from  the  Long  Island  Marigold. 
Downing  recognizes  it  under  the  name  Creed  Marigold3  under  which  name 
Hogg  described  it  in  1859,  stating  that  it  originated  in  Kent  from  seed  of 
the  Scarlet  Nonpareil. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright,  somewhat  spreading,  rather  open. 
Twigs  rather  short,  slightly  curved,  moderately  stout;  internodes  medium  to 
short.  Bark  brown,  tinged  with  clear  reddish-brown,  mottled  with  scarf-skin, 
pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  rather  conspicuous,  slightly  raised, 
oblong  or  roundish,  medium  to  small.  Buds  medium  to  small,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse  to  acute,  but  slightly  pubescent  if  at  all,  usually  free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  nearly  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape. 
Form  roundish,  often  a  little  oblate  and  inclined  to  conic,  quite  reg.ular, 
usually  symmetrical ;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  rather  slender.  Cavity 
acute,  deep,  broad,  symmetrical  or  somewhat  furrowed;  usually  with  greenish 
russet  which  often  spreads  beyond  the  cavity.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed 
or  partly  open.  Basin  abrupt,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  rather  narrow, 
sometimes  obscurely  furrowed,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  nearly  smooth,  at  first  green  but  becoming  good  yellow  with  an  orange 
blush  which  in  highly  colored  specimens  deepens  to  red  and  is  somewhat 
mottled  and  splashed  with  bright  carmine.  Dots  often  submerged  and  yellow; 
others  are  large,  irregular,  russet  and  mingled  with  flecks  of  russet. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  deep,  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel-form. 
Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  closed  or 
partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  smooth,  elliptical 
or  approaching  obcordate,  emarginate.  Seeds  few,  often  abortive,  medium  or 
below,  wide,  obtuse. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  rather  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  somewhat 
aromatic;  good  for  dessert  but  rather  too  mild  for  most  culinary  uses. 

Season  variable  but  usually  extends  from  November  to  April  or  May ;  com- 
mercial limit  December  or  January  in  ordinary  storage  and  about  May  first 
in  cold  storage  (3). 

better  of  Isaac  Hicks,  1899. 
2  Leroy,  1878:457. 
3Downing,  1869: 137. 


2O4  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

MASON  ORANGE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Stayman,  Mo.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1883:75.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1883:12.  3.  Ib.,  Rpt.,  1883:135,  136.  4.  Kan.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1883:83. 
5.  Stayman,  Rural  N.  Y .,  43:83.  1884.  fig.  6.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244. 

7.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  129:39,  42.  1896.     8.  Thomas,  1897:644.    9.  Dickens 
and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:54.  1903.     10.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  205: 
45.  1903.     ii.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:41,  193.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Bellefiower  Improved  (n).  MASON  Orange  (10).  Mason's 
Improved  (n).  MASON'S  ORANGE  (2,  3,  6,  8,  9). 

A  seedling  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower  (5)  which  originated  in  Kansas  (i,  3). 
Resembles  its  parent  in  its  fruit  which  is  medium  to  large,  yellow  with  red 
cheek,  of  excellent  quality,  rather  tender  for  market  but  valuable  for  home 
use.  Season  November  to  February  (4,  10).  It  has  not  been  tested  suffi- 
ciently in  New  York  to  determine  its  value  for  this  region. 

MASTER 

REFERENCES,     i.  Horticulturist,  1866.   (cited  by  4).     2.  Downing,  1869:268. 
3.  Thomas,  1885:517.     4.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:193.  1905. 
SYNONYM.     MASTEN'S  SEEDLING  (3).    Hastens  Seedling  (2,  4). 

A  greenish-yellow  winter  apple  of  medium  size  or  below,  crisp,  subacid,  and 
of  good  quality  (2,  3).  Originated  at  Pleasant  Valley,  Dutchess  county, 
N.  Y.  (2).  It  was  brought  to  notice  as  a  new  variety  about  forty  years  ago 
(i,  2,  3),  but  appears  to  have  remained  practically  unknown  outside  of  the 
locality  where  it  originated. 

MELON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Ellwanger  and  Barry,  Albany  Cultivator,  2:56.  1845.  2. 
Ib.,  Boston  Cultivator,  Mch.,  1845.  (cited  by  4,  13).  3.  Watts,  Mag.  Hort., 
13:104.  1847.  4.  Hovey,  Ib.,  13:53?-  1847.  %  5-  Ib-,  14^2.  1848.  6. 
Downing,  Horticulturist,  2:356.  1848.  fig.  7.  Thomas,  1849:151.  8.  N.  Y. 
Agr.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1848:283,  284.  fig.  9.  Cole,  1849:124.  fig.  10.  Emmons,  Nat. 
Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:76.  1851.  col.  pi.  and  fig.  n.  Am.  Porn.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  12. 
Elliott,  1854:89.  fig.  13.  Horticulturist,  9:397.  1854.  col.  pi.  14.  Downing, 
1857:87.  15.  Warder,  1867:488.  fig.  16.  Leroy,  1873:503.  fig.  17.  Barry, 
1883:349.  18.  Hogg,  1884:145.  19.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294. 
20.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:245.  21.  Bunyard,  Jour.  Roy.  Hort.  Soc.,  1898: 
356.  22.  Bndd-Hansen,  1903:126.  fig.  23.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui,  48:49.  1903.  24.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:132.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Melon  (8,  20).  MELON  APPLE  (18).  Melon  de  Norton  (16). 
MELON  Norton  (22).  NORTON  Watermelon  (16).  NORTON'S  MELON  (i,  2, 
5,  8,  10).  Norton's  Melon  (4,  6,  7,  9,  12,  13,  23,  24).  Watermelon  (4,  6,  7, 

8,  9,  12). 

When  it  is  properly  developed  the  Melon  is  one  of  the  best 
dessert  apples  of  its  season,  being  crisp,  tender  and  delicious.  It 
is  especially  adapted  for  local  market,  fancy  trade  and  dessert 
use.  Ordinarily  it  is  in  season  in  Western  New  York  from 


^dr 

+* 


MELON 


\ 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  205 

October  to  midwinter.  If  kept  later  than  January  in  ordinary 
storage  it  soon  loses  in  flavor  and  quality  (24).  Some  fruit 
growers  find  it  profitable  but  more  often  it  has  proved  an  un- 
satisfactory variety  in  the  commercial  orchard.  Under  favorable 
conditions  the  fruit  develops  good  size  and  good  color  and  is 
smooth  and  decidedly  attractive,  but  in  many  cases  there  is  a 
rather  high  percentage  of  loss  from  undersized,  poorly  colored 
or  otherwise  imperfect  fruit.  In  portions  of  Eastern  New  York 
it  is  reported  as  being  especially  susceptible  to  the  attacks  of  the 
apple  maggot  or  railroad  worm,  Rhagoletis  pomonella  Walsh.  In 
some  localities  the  foliage  and  fruit  are  both  quite  subject  to  the 
attacks  of  the  apple -scab  fungus  and  the  tree  is  apt  to  be  injured 
by  canker  on  the  limbs  and  on  the  body.  The  tree  appears  to 
be  fully  as  hardy  and  productive  as  Tompkins  King  or  perhaps 
more  so,  and  after  it  attains  mature  bearing  age  it  is  often 
reliably  productive,  yielding  good  crops  biennially  or  in  some 
cases  annually.  It  is  an  unsatisfactory  grower  in  the  nursery 
and  makes  but  a  moderately  vigorous  growth  in  the  orchard, 
particularly  when  grown  on  its  own  body.  On  this  account  it 
is  advisable  to  top-work  Melon  upon  some  stock  that  is  healthier 
and  more  vigorous,  such  as  Golden  Russet,  Roxbury,  Northern  Spy, 
Baldwin  or  Rhode  Island  Greening.  The  tree  naturally  develops  a 
rather  dense  top  and  particular  care  is  required  in  pruning  to  keep 
it  sufficiently  open. 

Historical.  Melon  originated  in  East  Bloomfield,  Ontario  county,  in  the 
old  seedling  orchard  of  Heman  Chapin.  This  orchard  was  planted  about 
iSoo1  with  seedling  trees  grown  from  seed  brought  to  East  Bloomfield  from 
Connecticut  (3,  4,  6,  13).  Melon  was  introduced  to  the  trade  by  Ellwanger 
and  Barry  about  1845  (i,  2,  4,  5,  6,  13).  It  has  been  pretty  widely  disseminated 
but  in  no  portion  of  the  state  is  it  grown  extensively.  It  is  now  seldom  offered 
by  nurserymen  (20)  and  seldom  planted. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright,  somewhat  spread- 
ing or  roundish.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  erect  or  spreading,  slender  to  mod- 
erately stout.  Bark  reddish-brown,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent. 
Lenticcls  numerous,  usually  small,  round.  Buds  medium,  plump,  acute,  some- 
what pubescent.  Leaves  rather  large,  often  rather  broad. 

1  Letters,  H.   G.  Chapin  and  Charles  Chapin,   1905. 


206  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  somewhat  variable  in  size,  usuajly  above  medium  to  large.  Form 
roundish  conic,  sometimes  inclined  to  oblate  conic,  often  more  or  less  elliptical 
and  obscurely  ribbed,  usually  symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  medium,  slender. 
Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  often  russeted 
and  sometimes  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  small  to  above  medium, 
closed  or  partly  open ;  segments  narrow,  acuminate.  Basin  rather  small, 
shallow  to  moderately  deep,  narrow  to  medium  in  width,  rather  abrupt,  often 
somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  pretty  smooth,  pale  yellow  or  greenish-yellow  and  when  well  colored 
nearly  overspread  with  rather  light,  bright  red  striped  and  splashed  with 
carmine.  Dots  small,  pale  yellow  or  russet,  not  conspicuous.  Prevailing 
effect  red  mingled  with  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  cone-shape  varying  to  short  funnel-form  with 
fleshy  pistil  point  projecting  into  the  base.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  broadly  roundish  or  elliptical,  sometimes  slightly  tufted,  but  slightly 
emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  below  medium  to  rather  large,  plump,  moderately 
wide,  often  irregular  or  angular,  very  dark  brown,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  white  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  rather  fine-grained, 
crisp,  very  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  somewhat  aromatic,  pleasantly  subacid, 
very  good. 

MENAGERE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Manning,  1838:56.  2.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:46.  1841. 
3.  Downing,  1845:117.  4.  Thomas,  1849:157.  5.  Elliott,  1854:174.  6.  Hooper, 
I&57'-59-  7-  Warder,  1867:726.  8.  Downing,  1869:273.  9.  Leroy,  1873:435. 
10.  Barry,  1883:340.  n.  Hogg,  1884:146.  12.  Bunyard,  Jour.  Roy.  Hort. 
Soc.,  1898:356.  13.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  58:278.  1899.  14.  Beach  and 
Clark,  .V.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:132.  1904.  15.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B:  P.  I.  Bui,  56:196. 
1905- 

SYNONYMS.  Capp  Mammoth  (13).  Combermere  Apple  (n).  Dame  de 
Menage  (9).  Femme  de  Menage  (9).  Flanders  Pippin  (n).  Gros  Rambour 
d'Hiver  (9).  Haus  Miitterchen  (9).  LIVRE  (9).  MENAGE  (15).  Menagere 
(9).  Menagerie  (5,  15).  MERE  DE  MENAGE  (8,  u,  12).  Mere  de  Menage 
(9,  15)-  Pfund  (9).  Teller  (9). 

A  very  large  apple  suitable  only  for  exhibition  purposes.  It  is  undesirable 
either  for  dessert  or  culinary  use,  being  coarse-grained  and  only  fair  in  quality. 
The  tree  is  slow  about  coming  into  bearing,  usually  bears  some  fruit  every 
year  but  is  unproductive  and  the  fruit  drops  badly. 

Historical.  This  is  an  old  German  variety  which  is  known  in  England 
under  the  name  Mere  de  Menage  (9,  n,  12).  The  name  Menagere  is  recog- 
nized by  certain  English  and  French  pomologists  only  as  a  synonym,  but  the 
variety  has  been  described  by  so  many  American  writers  under  this  name 
that  it  is  now  best  to  recognize  it  as  the  American  name,  particularly  since 
German,  French  and  English  pomologists  are  not  agreed  upon  any  one  name 
for  the  variety.  It  is  but  little  grown  in  this  country. 


MENAGERE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  207 

TREE. 

Tree  a  moderate  grower.  Form  upright.  Twigs  very  short  to  below 
medium  in  length,  very  slender  to  medium  in  thickness,  sometimes  somewhat 
bowed  and  geniculate ;  internodes  long  or  in  the  more  slender  limbs  very  long. 
Bark  dull  brownish-red  with  an  undertone  of  olive-green  in  some  specimens, 
uniformly  overlaid  with  a  thick  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  incon- 
spicuous, only  moderately  numerous,  medium,  the  larger  ones  roundish  ellip- 
tical, the  smaller,  narrow.  Buds  medium  in  size,  moderately  projecting,  rather 
fleshy,  acute,  not  pubescent,  slightly  adhering  to  bark  or  free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large.  Form  oblate  to  oblate  conic,  pretty  regular  or 
somewhat  ribbed;  sides  often  unequal.  Stem  very  short.  Cavity  acute, 
shallow  to  rather  deep,  moderately  broad  and  marked  with  outspreading 
patches  and  flecks  of  russet.  Calyx  medium,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes 
long  and  reflexed.  Basin  somewhat  abrupt,  rather  narrow,  moderately  deep, 
often  irregular. 

Skin  pale  yellow  with  faint  blush  on  the  exposed  side.  Dots  scattering, 
light  brown. 

Calyx  tube  rather  narrow,  funnel-form,  extending  to  the  core.  Stamens 
basal." 

Core  small,  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel 
cylinder. 

Flesh  white,  coarse-grained,  moderately  juicy,  subacid,  fair  in  flavor  and 
quality. 

Season  October  to  January ;  under  favorable  conditions  some  portion  of 
the  fruit  may  be  kept  till  spring. 

MERRILL. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Downing,  1869:273. 

SYNONYMS.     MERRILL'S  (i).    Merrill's  Apple  (i). 

Originated  in  Smyrna,  Chenango  county,  N.  Y.  A  medium  sized,  yellow 
apple  with  bright  red  cheek ;  flesh  subacid,  spicy,  good ;  season  December  to 
March  (i).  This  appears  to  be  unknown  outside  of  the  place  of  its  origin. 

MIDDLE. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,    1857:172.     2.  Warder,    1867:507.   fig. 

SYNONYM.     Mittle  (i). 

This  fruit  belongs  in  the  same  group  as  the  Green  Newtown 
and  White  Pippin  but  is  less  attractive  than  either.  It  is  at 
first  green  and  hard,  but  later  in  the  season  becomes  crisp  and 
rather  tender.  It  is  valued  locally  because  it  is  an  excellent 
dessert  apple  and  a  good  keeper.  The  tree  is  an  upright  grower 
and  sometimes  bears  heavy  crops. 


208  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  The  original  tree  was  a  chance  seedling  that  grew  on  the  land 
of  Peter  Bellinger  in  the  village  of  Herkimer  or  rather  on  the  line  fence  divid- 
ing two  of  the  original  tracts  of  land  granted  by  the  Crown  in  1725,  and  being 
a  tree  that  neither  party  could  claim  it  was  called  the  Middle  apple  tree.1 
Charles  Downing  included  a  description  of  it  in  his  first  revision  of  Fruits 
and  Fruit  Trees  of  America  in  1857  (O-  Warder  (2)  reports  that  it  was 
introduced  into  Ohio  by  John  Ludlow  of  Springfield  in  1854  and  propagated  at 
the  Oakland  nurseries.  In  New  York  it  remains  practically  unknown  to  fruit 
growers  outside  the  vicinity  of  its  origin. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  nearly  large,  rather  uniform.  Form  varies  from  elongated 
ovate  or  oblong  conic  to  roundish  conic,  often  elliptical  or  somewhat  angular ; 
axis  often  somewhat  oblique.  Stem  medium  in  length,  rather  slender.  Cavity 
acute  to  acuminate,  usually  moderately  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  broad 
often  compressed  or  lipped  and  often  with  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  medium 
to  rather  large,  open.  Basin  often  oblique,  usually  obtuse,  shallow  to  medium 
in  depth,  medium  in  width  to  narrow,  slightly  furrowed  or  wrinkled,  some- 
times compressed. 

Skin  rather  thin,  moderately  tender,  somewhat  rough,  at  first  green  but 
later  becoming  more  or  less  marbled  or  shaded  with  yellow,  sometimes  lightly 
mottled  with  red  or  having  red  dots ;  often  roughened  at  the  base  with  broken 
russet.  Dots  numerous,  russet. 

Calyx  tube  small,  conical  or  somewhat  funnel-form  with  truncate  cylinder. 
Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes 
partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  thin,  tender, 
deeply  emarginate,  roundish  or  varying  to  elongated  ovate,  much  tufted.  Seeds 
numerous,  small  to  medium,  rather  narrow,  acute. 

Flesh  yellowish,  breaking,  rather  fine,  crisp,  juicy,  rather  sprightly  subacid, 
somewhat  aromatic,  very  good. 

Season  December  to  February  or  March ;  often  some  portion  of  the  fruit 
may  be  kept  till  late  spring. 

MILAM. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:470.  1850.  2.  Kennicott,  Ib., 
7:431.  1852.  3.  Elliott,  1854:174.  4.  Robey,  Horticulturist,  11:89.  1856.  5. 
Downing,  1857:217.  6.  Hooper,  1857:60.  7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  8. 
Warder,  1867:503.  fig.  9.  Downing,  1869:275.  10.  Fitz,  1872:158.  u.  Barry, 
1883:349.  12.  Thomas,  1885:236.  13.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294. 
14.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244.  15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:127. 

SYNONYMS.  Blair  (6,  8,  9).  Harrigan  (i,  3,  5,  9).  Thomas  (9).  Winter 
Pearmain  of  some  (i,  3,  5,  9). 

A  medium  sized  dessert  apple  which  has  something  of  the  appearance  of  a 
highly  colored  Rails.  In  season  from  November  to  March.  The  tree  is 
thrifty  and  in  favorable  localities  becomes  productive  when  it  is  mature. 
Thousands  of  trees  of  this  variety  have  been  propagated  from  sprouts  for  it 
sprouts  readily  from  the  roots  (i,  8). 

'Letter,  Will  E.  Kay,  1901. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  209 

Historical.  Origin  uncertain.  Warder  refers  to  it  as  "  a  little  Southern 
favorite"  (8).  It  was  formerly  quite  popular  in  some  portions  of  the  Middle 
West  where  it  is  still  propagated  by  nurserymen  although  it  is  not  now  planted 
as  much  as  it  was  formerly  (14).  It  has  never  been  grown  much  in  New 
York  state  and  remains  practically  unknown  among  New  York  fruit  growers. 

* 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  long,  slender,  curved  branches.  Form  up- 
right spreading  or  roundish,  rather  dense.  Tivigs  above  medium  to  long, 
slightly  curved,  rather  slender ;  internodes  long  to  medium.  Bark  dark 
brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green  and  streaked  with  grayish  scarf-skin ; 
heavily  pubescent  toward  the  tips.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  small  to  rather 
large,  roundish  or  elongated,  slightly  raised.  Buds  small  to  medium,  broad, 
plump,  obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  medium.  Form  roundish  conic  or  short  ovate,  regular,  not 
ribbed.  Stem  pubescent,  medium  to  long,  moderately  slender.  Cavity  acute, 
moderately  deep,  moderately  wide,  smooth  and  green  or  partly  covered  with 
thin  brownish  russet.  Calyx  pubescent,  medium  in  size,  closed.  Basin  below 
medium  in  size,  somewhat  abrupt,  moderately  shallow,  rather  narrow  to 
medium  in  width,  gently  furrowed. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  rather  tender,  smooth,  dull  yellow  or  greenish  marbled 
and  striped  with  dull  red.  in  highly  colored  specimens  deepening  to  crimson 
in  the  sun.  Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  gray,  often  areolar  with  russet 
point. 

Calyx  tube  conical  to  somewhat  funnel-form  with  short  truncate  cylinder. 
Stamens  basal. 

Core  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  symmetrical,  closed.  Carpels 
elongated,  obovate,  mucronate,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all,  slightly  tufted. 
Seeds  medium  or  above,  plump,  acute,  slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild 
pleasant  subacid,  good. 

Season  November  to  January  or  later. 

MILDEN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  2.  Downing,  1876:58  app.  fig. 
3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244.  4.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:133.  5.  Ib., 
1896:71.  6.  Thomas,  1897:645.  7.  Beach,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:36. 
8.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  18:89.  1902.  9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:127.  10. 
Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:49.  1903.  n.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:132.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     MILDING  (3,  5,  7,  8,  9)..  Milding  (2,  4,  6,  10,  n). 

When  well  grown  Milden  is  an  apple  of  desirable  size,  good 
appearance  and  pretty  good  quality.  The  skin  is  smooth  and 
glossy  and  the  color  is  predominantly  bright  red  over  an  attrac- 


2io  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

tive  pale  yellow  or  whitish  background.  It  is  highly  esteemed  in 
portions  of  New  England  (5,  8),  and  is  there  being  planted  to  some 
extent  both  for  home  use  and  commercial  purposes.  It  is  an 
excellent  nursery  tree  and  a  good  grower  in  the  orchard.  It  is 
hardy,  healthy,  comes  into  bearing  quite  young  and  is  a  reliable 
cropper,  yielding  good  crops  biennially.  There  is  some  loss  from 
drops,  but  the  fruit  averages  pretty  uniform  in  size  with  a  rather 
low  percentage  of  culls.  So  far  as  tested  in  this  state  it  appears 
to  be  pretty  reliable  and  satisfactory  in  color  and  quality  and 
suitable  for  general  market  purposes  and  culinary  use.  It  is 
evidently  worthy  of  testing  as  a  commercial  variety,  particularly 
in  the  more  elevated  and  northern  portions  of  the  state.  In  the 
southeastern  part  of  the  state  it  would  probably  be  classed  as  a 
late  autumn  variety,  but  as  grown  at  this  Station  it  becomes  an 
early  winter  or  midwinter  variety  (n). 

Historical  Mil  den  is  a  variety  of  comparatively  recent  introduction.  It 
originated  at  Alton,  New  Hampshire  (2). 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous.  Form  upright  becoming  roundish,  rather  dense. 
Twigs  below  medium  to  short,  straight,  moderately  stout;  internodes  short 
to  long.  Bark  very  dark  olive-green  somewhat  tinged  with  reddish-brown 
streaked  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  small  to 
medium,  roundish,  slightly  raised.  Buds  prominent,  below  medium  to  large, 
broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  rather  large ;  fairly  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  oblate,  some- 
times inclined  to  conic,  pretty  regular,  often  faintly  ribbed ;  sides  sometimes 
unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium,  pubescent.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep, 
rather  wide,  symmetrical  or  somewhat  furrowed,  often  russeted  and  with  out- 
spreading russet  rays.  Calyx  large,  pubescent;  lobes  long,  acuminate,  closed 
or  partly  open.  Basin  obtuse  to  somewhat  abrupt,  usually  rather  shallow, 
moderately  wide,  often  compressed  or  furrowed. 

Skin  waxy,  rather  thin,  tough.  Well-colored  specimens  are  beautifully 
mottled  with  bright  red  and  striped  and  splashed  with  bright  carmine  over 
a  pale  yellow  background.  Sometimes  the  red  deepens  to  a  solid  blush.  Dots 
inconspicuous,  few,  gray  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  long,  cone-shape  or  somewhat  funnel-form,  meeting 
the  core.  Stamens  median. 

Core  distant,  medium  or  below,  abaxile;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  usually 
open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to  elongated  ovate,  acuminate, 
slightly  emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  variable  in  size  and  shape,  often  about 
medium  size,  moderately  narrow,  obtuse  to  acute ;  often  some  are  abortive. 


1 


MILDEN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  211 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  breaking,  moderately  coarse, 
very  juicy,  subacid,  good. 

Season  November  to  January  or  February ;  it  may  remain  apparently  sound 
till  spring  but  after  midwinter  it  deteriorates  in  texture  and  flavor. 

MILWAUKEE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1899:77  2.  Ib.,  Can.  Hort., 
23:452.  IQOO.  3.  Hansen,  .5\  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:74.  1902.  4.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta. 
Bui,  205:45.  1903.  5.  Erwin,  A m.  Pom.  Soc.  R pt.,  1903:252.  6.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:128.  fig.  7.  National  Nurseryman,  March,  1905:52. 

Milwaukee  is  a  winter  fruit  of  the  Oldenburg  group,  of  good 
size  and  when  highly  colored  fairly  attractive  in  appearance, 
being  clear  yellow  marked  with  bright  red  somewhat  after  the 
manner  of  Oldenburg.  It  is  too  briskly  acid  for  a  good  dessert 
apple,  but  rather  is  suitable  for  culinary  use  and  for  market.  It 
would  be  more  desirable  for  market  if  it  had  more  red  color.  It 
is  in  season  from  October  to  January.  Some  portion  of  the  fruit 
may  keep  till  February  or  March,  but  in  ordinary  storage  there 
is  a  rather  high  percentage  of  loss  after  early  winter.  The  fruit 
which  remains  till  spring  retains  well  its  acidity  and  quality. 
The  tree  is  very  hardy,  healthy,  a  pretty  good  grower  and  a  good 
cropper.  It  comes  into  bearing  young  and  is  almost  an  annual 
bearer.  It  appears  to  be  worthy  of  testing  in  the  northern  and 
more  elevated  reeions  of  the  state  where  hardiness  is  a  prime 
requisite. 

Historical.  Originated  with  George  Jeffry,  Milwaukee,  Wis.,  from  seed  of 
Oldenburg  (i,  3,  5,  6). 

TREE. 

Tr'ee  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long,  slender,  crooked.  Form  open, 
upright,  becoming  rather  spreading  with  laterals  inclined  to  droop.  Tzvigs 
medium  to  long,  varying  from  irregularly  curved  to  straight,  moderately 
stout ;  internodes  generally  long.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown  approaching  black, 
streaked  with  grayish  scarf-skin,  quite  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous, 
small  to  medium,  roundish  or  elongated,  not  raised.  Buds  medium  or  below, 
plump,  obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  free  or  slightly  appressed,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  rather  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  distinctly 
oblate,  regular  or  obscurely  ribbed ;  sides  often  unequal.  Stem  pubescent, 
short.  Cavity  rather  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  broad,  furrowed,  russeted 
and  with  outspreading  brown  russet  rays.  Calyx  pubescent,  large,  leafy, 
usually  partly  open,  sometimes  closed;  lobes  wide,  long,  acute.  Basin  large, 
often  oblique,  deep,  wide,  abrupt  to  somewhat  obtuse,  furrowed,  wrinkled. 


212  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  glossy,  pale  yellow  or  whitish  more  or  less  blushed 
with  red  which  in  highly  colored  specimens  deepens  to  a  lively  pinkish-red, 
conspicuously  mottled  and  striped  with  rose-carmine.  Dots  numerous,  small, 
whitish,  often  submerged,  occasionally  russet. 

Calyx  tube  urn-shape  to  somewhat  funnel-form  with  short  cylinder  and  wide 
limb.  Stamens  median. 

Core  distant,  a  little  abaxile,  usually  small ;  cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical, 
closed  or  slightly  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  elliptical  to  roundish 
obcordate,  mucronate,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  few,  often 
abortive,  medium  to  short,  wide,  flat,  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  crisp,  very  tender, 
very  juicy,  sprightly,  brisk  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

MINISTER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Manning,  1838:62.  2.  Downing,  1845:116.  3.  Ives,  Mag. 
Hort.,  14:264.  1848.  4.  Thomas,  1849:169.  5.  Cole,  1849:124.  6.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:61.  1851.  7.  Hovey,  2:95.  1851.  fig.  and  col.  pi.  8.  Elliott, 
1854:147.  9.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1854.  IO-  Hooper,  1857:61.  u.  Warder, 
1867:695.  12.  Fitz,  1872:145.  13.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294. 
14.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:133.  15.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895: 
193.  16.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:332.  1896. 

SYNONYMS.     Minister  (7).     MINISTER  APPLE  (7). 

Fruit  similar  to  Yellow  Bellflower  in  form,  pale  waxen  yellow  splashed  and 
striped  with  bright  pale  crimson  (i,  7,  11).  In  Middle  New  England  it  is  in 
season  from  November  to  February  or  later  (i,  5,  7,  14),  and  is  there  still 
regarded  with  favor  in  many  localities  on  account  of  its  productiveness  and 
good  quality.  "  In  Ohio  it  becomes  an  autumn  apple  and  is  used  only  for 
cooking  when  we  have  plenty  of  others  that  are  preferred"  (n).  When 
carelessly  handled  it  rots  from  bruising  or  ripens  prematurely  while  too  acid, 
but  when  properly  ripened  it  loses  its  brisk  acidity  and  develops  excellent 
quality  (5).  The  tree  is  healthy,  moderately  vigorous,  a  rather  early  bearer 
and  a  regular  and  abundant  cropper  (2,  5,  7,  n,  13).  It  is  said  to  succeed 
best  on  good  sandy  loam  (5,  12). 

The  following  account  of  the  tree  and  fruit  is  taken  from  descriptions  given 
by  various  writers  (i,  2,  5,  7,  n,  13). 

Historical.  Originated  on  the  farm  of  David  Saunders  near  Rowley,  Massa- 
chusetts. Introduced  by  Robert  Manning  of  Salem,  Massachusetts,  more  than 
a  half  century  ago  (^  7).  It  has  failed  to  win  favorable  recognition  in  New 
York  and  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  this  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  while  young  but  becoming  round- 
headed  as  it  matures.  Twigs  slender,  upright;  internodes  short.  Bark  dark 
reddish-chestnut.  Lenticels  numerous,  gray.  Buds  small,  short,  ovate,  flat- 
tened with  prominent  shoulders.  Leaves  medium  in  size,  ovate,  acute. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium.  Form  roundish  ovate  to  oblong  conic,  ribbed,  irreg- 
ular, flattened  at  the  base.  Stem  curved  to  one  side,  short  to  long,  slender. 


MILWAUKEE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  213 

Cavity  rather  small,  acute,  shallow  to  rather  deep,  rather  narrow,  irregular, 
sometimes  russeted.  Caly.r  small,  closed ;  lobes  short  and  twisted.  Basin 
rather  small,  moderately  shallow,  narrow,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  waxen,  pale  yellow  or  greenish-yellow  irregularly  splashed  and 
striped  with  bright  red  particularly  over  the  base.  Dots  minute. 

Core  rather  large;  cells  partly  open.     Seeds  small,  plump,  obovate. 

Flesh  yellowish-white,  crisp,  very  tender,  breaking,  juicy,  at  first  briskly 
subacid  but  when  properly  ripened  agreeable  in  flavor  and  quality. 

MINKLER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  2.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1865:51. 
3.  Warder,  1867:444.  fig.  4.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1869:36.  5.  Downing,  1869: 
276.  6.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:128.  7.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:411.  8. 
Downing,  1876:59  app.  9.  Downing,  1876:11  index,  app.  10.  Thomas,  1885:518. 
ii.  Am.  Pom.  Sec.  Cat.,  1889:10.  12.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244.  13.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  143:200,  202.  1897.  14.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:129.  15.  Farrand, 
Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  205:45.  1903.  16.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui., 
48:49.  1903.  17.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui. ,  248:132.  1904.  18.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bid.,  56:53,  181,  199,  205.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Brandywine  (18,  ?s).  Logan's  Northern  Pippin  (4,  9,  18). 
MUMPER  VANDEVERE  (6,  8).  Mumper  Vandevere  (18). 

The  Minkler  was  brought  to  notice  in  Illinois  something  over  forty 
years  ago.  Its  cultivation  is  confined  almost  wholly  to  that  and  adjoining 
states.  Like  many  other  varieties  of  the  Middle  West  it  is  popular  because 
the  tree  is  a  strong  grower  and  a  good  and  regular  cropper  rather  than  on 
account  of  the  quality  of  its  fruit.  In  appearance  the  fruit  is  very  good  and 
dealers  do  not  hesitate  to  take  it  in  reasonable  quantities  in  spite  of  the  fact 
that  it  is  only  fairly  good  in  quality  and  sometimes  scalds  badly  in  storage. 
It  is  not  a  promising  variety  for  New  York  fruit  growers,  competing  as  it 
does  with  the  Baldwin  and  other  good  winter  apples. 

Historical.  The  history  of  this  variety  is  confused  with  that  of  several 
similar,  or  as  some  have  thought  possibly  identical,  varieties.  The  Minkler, 
as  such,  was  first  exhibited  before  the  Illinois  Horticultural  Society  something 
over  forty  years  ago  by  Mr.  S.  G.  Minkler.  Having  lost  its  name  he  exhibited 
it  for  identification.  As  it  was  not  recognized  by  any  one  the  Society  named 
it  Minkler,  pending  further  investigation  (5).  Warder  (3)  in  1867  states  that 
it  very  closely  resembles  Buchanan  and  Brandywine  and  adds  that  Minkler  and 
Buchanan  have  "  an  entirely  distinct  origin,"  but  there  is  no  evidence  that  this 
is  the  case.  In  1869  Galusua  stated  that  he  found  Minkler  cultivated  in  some 
localities  in  Illinois  under  the  name  Logan  Northern  Pippin  and  Dunlap  found 
it  identical  with  Brandywine  (4)  a  decision  which  is  approved  by  some  other 
pomologists.  The  origin  of  Brandywine  is  also  unknown  (5,  18).  Ragan 
makes  Minkler  identical  with  Mumper  Vandevere  (18)  which  according  to 
Downing  (8)  originated  on  the  farm  of  John  Mumper  near  Dillsbury,  Pa. 

Minkler  is  not  grown  to  any  considerable  extent  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  very  vigorous;  branches  large,  strong,  forming  a  very  broad 
angle  with  the  trunk  and  having  a  characteristically  irregular,  zigzag  manner 


214  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

of  growth.  Form  very  spreading,  frequently  becoming  drooping  in  old  trees. 
Twigs  short  to  long,  moderately  stout  to  moderately  slender ;  internodes  about 
medium,  unequal  in  length.  Bark  dull  brownish-red  or  reddish,  irregularly 
overlaid  with  thin  to  thick  scarf-skin,  rather  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering, 
moderately  conspicuous,  raised,  medium  to  small,  roundish.  Buds  medium, 
moderately  projecting,  acute  or  roundish,  pubescent,  appressed  or  slightly 
adhering. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  above,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  inclined 
to  oblate  conic,  rather  regular.  Stem  medium  to  short,  rather  slender.  Cavity 
acute  or  slightly  acuminate,  deep,  medium  in  width,  greenish  or  brown,  faintly 
russeted.  Calyx  small  to  above  medium,  closed  or  slightly  open ;  lobes 
medium  in  length,  broad,  acute,  usually  not  separated  at  the  base.  Basin 
shallow  to  medium  in  depth,  wide,  obtuse,  smooth  or  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  slightly  tough,  smooth,  rather  glossy,  greenish-yellow  changing 
to  pale  yellow,  almost  entirely  overspread  with  rather  light  pinkish-red 
obscurely  striped  and  splashed  with  dark  dull  carmine.  Dots  small  to  medium, 
yellow,  grayish  or  russet,  moderately  conspicuous.  Prevailing  effect  rather 
light  red. 

I     Calyx  tube  moderately  short,  rather  wide,  funnel-form  with  broad  limb  and 
narrow  cylinder.     Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  axile ;  cells  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines 
meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  usually  deeply  emarginate, 
tufted.  Seeds  dark  brown,  rather  large  and  wide,  long,  plump  or  sometimes 
flat,  acute,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  strongly  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  very  firm,  a  little  coarse,  not 
very  crisp,  rather  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  fairly  good. 

Season  in  common  storage  November  to  April;  in  cold  storage  till  May. 

MISSING  LINK. 

REFERENCES.  I.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1897:161.  2.  Jenkins,  Mo.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  45:66.  1902.  3.  Shank,  Missing  Link  Nur.  Circ.,  1903.  4.  Erwin,  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1903:253.  5.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  62:369.  1903.  fig.  6. 
Buckman,  Ib.,  62:418.  1903.  7.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:199.  1905. 

A  variety  of  the  Willow  type  recently  introduced  by  Messrs.  Shank,  Clayton, 
Illinois  (3).  Some  believe  that  it  is  identical  with  Willow  (4,  7),  but  a  com- 
parison of  its  fruit  with  that  of  Willow  leads  us  to  endorse  the  opinion  of 
Van  Deman  (5)  and  Buckman  (6)  that  it  is  a  distinct  variety.  The  fruit 
is  of  good  size,  similar  in  form  and  appearance  to  Willow  but  less  highly 
colored  and  different  in  texture  and  flavor  becoming  eventually  distinctly 
sweet.  It  is  undoubtedly  a  long  keeper.  As  might  be  expected  of  an  apple 
of  this  class  it  does  not  rank  high  in  quality. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  roundish,  nearly  symmetrical,  regular;  sides  somewhat 
unequal.  Stem  medium.  Cavity  acuminate,  moderately  broad,  deep,  some- 
what russeted.  Calyx  large,  partly  open.  Basin  slightly  oblique,  medium  in 
depth  to  deep,  moderately  wide,  abrupt,  ridged,  wrinkled. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  215 

Skin  smooth,  glossy,  light  greenish-yellow  or  yellow,  thinly  mottled  and 
striped  with  red  on  the  exposed  cheek.  Dots  small,  fine,  mingled  with  others 
that  are  large,  conspicuous,  irregular  and  brownish-russet.  Prevailing  effect 
green  or  yellowish. 

Core  below  medium  or  even  small ;  cells  closed ;  core  lines  nearly  meeting. 
Carpels  obcordate,  tufted.  Seeds  few,  large,  dark,  flat,  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  coarse,  tough  yet  somewhat  crisp,  moderately  juicy, 
mildly  subacid  but  eventually  becoming  sweet,  fair  in  quality. 

MISSOURI  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Warder,  1867:656.  2.  Downing,  1872:23  app.  3.  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Cat.,  1881:12.  4.  Brackett,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1881:145.  5.  Barry, 
1883:349.  6.  Thomas,  1885:518.  7.  Coleman,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:28. 
8.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244.  9.  Wright,  Am.  Card.,  17:33.  1896.  10. 
Powell,  Del.  Sta.  Bui.,  38:19.  1898.  n.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1901: 
97.  12.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:54.  1902.  13.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:130-  fig-  *4'  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:27.  1903.  15.  Powell  and  Ful- 
ton, U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:49.  1903.  16.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:132.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  MISSOURI  (15).  MISSOURI  KEEPER  (i).  Missouri  Keeper 
(2,  3,  4,  5).  Missouri  Orange  (4).  MISSOURI  PIPPIN  (2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 
10,  n,  12,  14).  Missouri  Pippin  (15). 

This  is  one  of  the  well-known  market  apples  of  the  Middle 
West.  As  grown  in  that  region  the  tree  is  short-lived,  and  in 
the  Mississippi  valley  in  orchards  more  than  twenty  years  old 
it  is  seldom  profitable,  but  it  comes  into  bearing  at  an  early  age 
and  is  a  reliable  and  heavy  cropper.  The  fruit  is  of  good  color 
but  only  second  rate  in  quality,  and  on  old  trees  is  inclined  to 
be  rather  too  small  for  market.  It  is  regarded  with  favor  by  fruit 
dealers  because  of  its  attractive  appearance  and  good  keeping 
quality.  There  has  been  some  complaint  of  its  scalding  in 
storage  (16),  but  this  fault  does  not  appear  to  be  serious  enough 
to  affect  materially  its  popularity.  So  far  as  we  have  been  able 
to  discover  it  is  not  grown  in  New  York.  It  is  quite  doubtful 
whether  its  fruit  would  commonly  develop  here  to  good  market- 
able size  even  if  grown  in  the  southeastern  part  of  New  York, 
where  the  climatic  and  soil  conditions  are  more  favorable  to 
varieties  of  this  class  than  they  are  in  the  more  northern  and 
western  portions  of  the  state. 

Historical  The  Missouri  Pippin  is  supposed  to  have  originated  on  the 
farm  of  Brinkley  Hornsby,  Kingsville,  Johnson  county,  Missouri,  from  seed 
planted  about  1840  (2,  4,  7).  Shortly  after  the  Civil  War  it  began  to  be 


216  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

disseminated  outside  of  the  locality  of  its  origin  and  its  cultivation  spread 
with  such  rapidity  that  in  a  very  few  years  it  was  being  extensively  planted 
in  Missouri,  Kansas,  Illinois  and  adjacent  states.  The  good  degree  of  hardi- 
ness and  vigor  which  it  possesses,  the  ease  with  which  it  is  propagated  in  the 
nursery,  and  particularly  its  habit  of  bearing  early  and  abundantly  were  the 
qualities  which  recommended  it  to  the  fruit  growers  of  that  region.  During 
the  early  years  of  fruit  production  in  the  prairie  sections  of  that  country  this 
variety  was  more  often  seen  than  any  other.  As  the  trees  became  older  it 
was  found  that  they  were  inclined  to  overbear  with  a  result  that  frequently  a 
large  percentage  of  the  fruit  failed  to  attain  good  marketable  size.  Then 
Missouri  Pippin  began  to  wane  in  popularity  and  to-day  it  is  used  chiefly  as 
a  filler  for  planting  between  the  rows  of  permanent  trees. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  with  long,  slender,  curved  branches,  characteristic 
on  account  of  its  numerous,  slender  twigs  and  general  crab-like  appearance. 
Form  upright  becoming  roundish  or  spreading.  Twigs  moderately  long, 
straight,  slender;  internodes  short.  Bark  dark  brown,  mottled  with  heavy 
scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  medium,  oval  to  oblong,  raised. 
Buds  deeply  set,  small,  plump,  obtuse,  appressed,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  in  size.  Form  roundish,  somewhat  inclined  to  conic.  Stem 
medium  in  length,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  nearly  acuminate,  moder- 
ately wide,  rather  deep,  faintly  russeted.  Calyx  medium  in  size,  closed  or 
nearly  so ;  lobes  moderately  long,  rather  narrow.  Basin  medium  to  deep, 
rather  wide,  abrupt,  usually  somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  rather  glossy,  thinly  coated  with  grayish  bloom; 
color  pale  greenish  or  yellow  overspread  with  bright  red  striped  with  purplish 
red.  Highly  colored  specimens  are  almost  of  a  solid  red  color.  Dots  con- 
spicuous, russet,  or  rather  large,  pale  gray. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form  with  wide  limb,  sometimes  broadly  conical.  Stamens 
median. 

Core  small,  axile,  or  nearly  so;  cells  symmetrical,  slightly  open;  core  lines 
clasping.  Carpels  smooth,  roundish  elliptical  to  slightly  obovate,  sometimes 
emarginate.  Seeds  medium  to  rather  small,  moderately  long  and  wide,  slightly 
obtuse,  dark  brown. 

Flesh  tinged  -somewhat  with  yellow,  firm,  medium  to  rather  fine-grained,  not 
very  tender,  not  very  juicy,  briskly  subacid,  fair  to  good  in  quality. 

Season  in  common  storage  October  to  January;  in  cold  storage  January  to 
April. 

MONMOUTH. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Mag.  Hort.,  14:141.  1848.  2.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y., 
3:74.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  57.  3.  Barry,  Horticulturist,  8:341-  1853.  4-  Elliott, 
1854:92.  fig.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1854.  6.  Downing,  1857:88.  7.  Hooper, 
1857:61.  8.  Warder,  1867:577.  fig.  9.  Barry,  1883:349.  10.  Thomas,  1885: 
245.  ii.  Wickson,  1889:246.  12.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  13. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:244.  14.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:49. 


MONMOUTH 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  217 

1903.    15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:131.  fig.    16.  Beach  and  Clark,  AT.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:133.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  MONMOUTH  PIPPIN  (i,  2,  3,  4,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  n,  13).  Mon- 
mouth Pippin  (16).  Red  Cheek  (4,  8).  Red  Cheeked  Pippin  (10).  Red 
Cheek  Pippin  (4,  7,  11,  12,  15). 

An  apple  of  the  Rhode  Island  Greening  class,  not  equal  to  that 
variety  in  quality  but  more  attractive  in  color,  being  often  dis- 
tinctly blushed  with  a  lively  pinkish-red.  As  grown  at  this 
Station  its  keeping  quality  varies  much  in  different  years.  Some- 
times it  may  be  held  in  good  condition  through  the  winter  or 
into  the  spring,  but  more  often  its  commercial  limit  in  ordinary 
storage  hardly  extends  beyond  November.  When  stored  in  good 
condition  its  season  in  cold  storage  may  extend  till  June  (14,  16). 
In  ordinary  storage  the  percentage  of  loss  often  becomes  high 
early  in  the  winter,  but  sometimes  not  before  March.  It  appears 
to  be  much  less  subject  to  scald  than  Rhode  Island  Greening.  It 
it  a  good  apple  for  the  home  orchard.  It  is  not  recommended 
for  general  commercial  planting,  but  probably  in  favorable 
localities  it  would  prove  a  profitable  variety.  The  tree  appears 
to  be  hardy  and  long-lived.  It  comes  intb  bearing  moderately 
young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  bearing  good  crops  biennially 
or  almost  annually,  but  under  ordinary  cultivation  it  is  hardly 
as  vigorous  as  could  be  desired.  The  fruit  of  marketable  grades 
is  smooth  and  attractive  in  appearance,  but  there  may  be  a  con- 
siderable loss  in  low-grade  fruit. 

Historical.  Monmouth  is  a  native  of  Monmouth  county,  N.  J.  (4).  It  has 
long  been  known  in  cultivation  and  is  found  in  scattering  localities  from  the 
Middle  West  to  the  Atlantic,  but  in  none  of  them  is  it  grown  extensively.  It 
is  still  offered  by  nurserymen  (13)  and  is  planted  to  a  limited  extent. 

TREE. 

Tree  of  medium  size,  moderately  vigorous;  branches  short,  stout,  crooked. 
Form  roundish  spreading,  somewhat  open.  Twigs  short  to  medium,  straight, 
moderately  stout  or  rather  slender ;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  dark 
reddish-brown  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin, 
heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  small  to  medium,  oblong,  slightly 
raised.  Buds  small  to  medium,  obtuse  to  acute,  appressed,  very  deeply  set  in 
the  bark,  somewhat  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  oblate  to  roundish,  somewhat  inclined 
to  conic,  flattened  at  the  base,  somewhat  irregular,  often  obscurely  ribbed ; 
sides  often  unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium,  rather  thick.  Cavity  moderately 


218  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

large,  acute  to  sometimes  acuminate,  deep,  rather  broad,  somewhat  furrowed 
or  compressed,  smooth  or  russeted,  sometimes  with  outspreading  russet  rays. 
Calyx  large,  leafy,  pubescent,  open  or  partly  closed;  lobes  often  reflexed  and 
separated  at  the  base.  Basin  large,  rather  wide  and  deep,  abrupt,  often  dis- 
tinctly furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  smooth  toward  the  base,  the  upper  half  often 
roughened  with  russet  dots  or  with  capillary  russet  lines  which  become  con- 
centric toward  the  calyx,  lively  green  marbled  with  yellow  or  becoming  pale 
yellow  as  the  season  advances  faintly  shaded  with  red  or  in  highly  colored 
specimens  blushed  with  lively  pinkish-red.  Dots  variable,  rather  numerous, 
usually  greenish  and  areolar  with  brown  russet  point,  often  elongated  about 
the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  large,  wide,  conical  or  urn-shape  with  fleshy  pistil  point  pro- 
jecting into  the  base.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  rather  small,  slightly  abaxile  with  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis ;  cells 
usually  symmetrical  and  closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping. 
Carpels  roundish  or  inclined  to  roundish  obcordate,  mucronate,  slightly  tufted. 

Seeds  few,  long,  somewhat  acute,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  decidedly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  somewhat  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid  but  becoming  mild,  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

MOON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1877:39.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892: 
244.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:133.  1904. 

Fruit  of  good  size,  good  quality  and  fairly  attractive  for  a  greenish-yellow 
apple.  In  the  South  it  ripens  its  fruit  in  succession  through  the  summer  but 
as  fruited  at  this  Station  it  is  in  season  from  November  to  April  or  later.  In 
ordinary  storage  there  is  a  pretty  high  percentage  of  loss  in  autumn  with  a 
low  rate  of  loss  through  midwinter.  On  the  whole,  as  grown  in  this  region 
it  appears  to  be  unsatisfactory  for  handling  in  common  storage,  notwithstand- 
ing the  fact  that  a  considerable  portion  of  the  fruit  may  be  kept  in  good 
condition  till  February  or  later.  The  tree  is  not  a  strong  grower  but  it  comes 
into  bearing  young,  is  a  reliable  cropper  and  almost  an  annual  bearer  alternat- 
ing light  with  heavier  crops.  It  does  not  appear  to  excel  standard  sorts  of  its 
season  for  any  purpose  and  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Moon  originated  as  a  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  I.  W. 
Moon,  Monroe,  Walton  county,  Ga.  It  bore  its  first  fruit  in  1873  (i).  It 
appears  to  be  practically  unknown  among  New  York  fruit  growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  small  with  rather  short,  stout  branches.  Form  roundish  up- 
right, open.  Tivigs  below  medium  to  short,  somewhat  curved,  slender;  inter- 
nodes  medium.  Bark  olive-green  tinged  with  reddish-brown  and  streaked 
with  gray  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent  near  the  tips.  Lenticels  quite  numer- 
ous, medium  to  small,  roundish,  slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  to  small,  plump, 
obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  219 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  rather  oblate 
not  quite  regular,  being  either  somewhat  elliptical  or  obscurely  ribbed.  Stem 
short  to  medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  varying  to  acuminate,  moder- 
ately deep  to  rather  shallow,  rather  broad,  nearly  symmetrical,  usually  smooth, 
sometimes  partly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  usually  partly  open ;  lobes 
often  slender  and  acuminate,  reflexed.  Basin  obtuse  to  abrupt,  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  wide,  obscurely  furrowed  or  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  waxy;  the  color  is  somewhat  similar  to  that  of  a  highly 
colored  Rhode  Island  Greening  being  green  mingled  with  yellow  often  with  a 
shade  of  brownish-red  deepening  sometimes  to  a  distinct  red.  Dots  small, 
inconspicuous,  often  pale  and  submerged,  sometimes  russet. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel-form  with  wide  limb.  Stamens 
median  or  below. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  usually  fairly  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  much  concave, 
rather  short,  elliptical  to  obcordate,  slightly  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds 
numerous,  medium  or  above,  wide,  obtuse. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  moderately  fine,  rather  tender,  juicy, 
slightly  aromatic,  mild  subacid  becoming  sweet,  good. 

MOORE  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  New  England  Farmer,  1829.  (cited  by  17).  2.  Cole,  1849: 
131.  3.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:91.  1851.  4.  Elliott,  1854:159.  5. 
Downing,  1857:218.  6.  Hooper,  1857:61.  7.  Warder,  1867:396.  fig.  8,  Fitz, 
1872:175.  9.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  10.  Barry,  1883:349.  n.  Thomas, 
1885:518.  12.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:245.  13.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta. 
Bui.,  45:333.  1896.  14.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:49.  1903. 
15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:132.  16.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:133. 
1904.  17.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bul.}  56:202.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Black  Sweet  (7,  17).  Josie  Moore  (17).  Kelley's  Sweet  (17). 
MOORE'S  LATE  SWEET  (2,  3).  Moore's  Late  Sweet  (17).  Moore's  Shanty 
(17).  MOORE'S  SWEET  (8,  10,  12).  Moore's  Sweet  (17).  MOORE'S  SWEETING 
(i,  7,  n).  Moore's  S^veeting  (4,  17).  MOOR'S  SWEETING  (6).  Polhemus 
(17).  Pound  STveet  (of  some  West  4  and  6,  of  some  17).  Red  Sweet  Pippin 
(5,  7,  10,  13,  17,  of  Indiana  4  and  6).  Red  Winter  Sweet  of  some  (17). 
SWEET  PIPPIN  (4).  Sweet  Pippin  (6,  17). 

Fruit  fairly  uniform,  of  pretty  good  size  and  rather  dull  red 
color;  general  appearance  moderately  attractive.  In  some  por- 
tions of  the  state  it  has  been  valued  particularly  because  it  is  an 
excellent  keeper  and  acceptable  in  quality  for  culinary  use.  It 
is  in  season  from  November  to  May  or  June.  As  grown  at  this 
Station  its  commercial  limit  in  ordinary  storage  is  April  (16). 
The  tree  comes  into  bearing  rather  young.  It  is  usually  a  good 
cropper,  producing  rather  heavy  crops  biennially,  or  in  some 
cases  almost  annually. 


22O  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  Originated  with  J.  B.  Moore,  Concord,  Massachusetts.  Cole 
in  1849,  speaks  of  it  as  a  new  variety  (2)  but  it  had  been  brought  to  notice 
at  least  twenty  years  previously  (i).  It  is  not  grown  extensively  in  any 
locality  and  is  now  seldom  planted  in  this  state  but  it  is  still  occasionally 
offered  by  nurserymen  (12). 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  moderately  vigorous;  branches  short,  stout,  crooked. 
Form  open,  upright,  becoming  roundish  and  somewhat  spreading.  Twigs 
short,  straight  or  somewhat  geniculate,.  rather  stout  with  large  terminal  buds ; 
internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  olive-green  tinged  with  reddish-brown, 
streaked  with  gray  scarf-skin ;  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  inconspicuous, 
scattering,  small,  roundish.  Buds  prominent,  large  to  below  medium,  broad, 
plump,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish,  varying 
from  oblate  to  somewhat  conic,  sometimes  regular  and  symmetrical  but  more 
often  somewhat  elliptical  or  ribbed  and  with  sides  slightly  unequal.  Stem 
short,  usually  not  exserted.  Cavity  medium  to  rather  large,  acuminate,  mod- 
erately narrow  to  rather  wide,  deep,  somewhat  furrowed,  usually  russeted  and 
with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  rather  small,  usually  closed ;  lobes  acute, 
erect  or  somewhat  reflexed.  Basin  rather  small,  abrupt,  narrow  to  moderately 
wide,  medium  in  depth,  slightly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth  or  nearly  so,  rather  pale  in  color  being  yellow  or  greenish 
largely  overspread  with  a  red  or  pinkish-red  blush  and  dulled  by  grayish  scarf- 
skin  which  often  produces  the  effect  of  faint  stripes  over  the  base  although 
the  red  is  not  striped.  Dots  pale  russet,  scattering.  Prevailing  effect  red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  conical  to  funnel-form.  Stamens  below  median 
to  basal. 

Core  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  symmetrical,  not  uniform,  closed 
or  sometimes  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to  ellip- 
tical, mucronate,  emarginate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  few,  medium  or  above, 
wide,  obtuse,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  green,  moderately  firm,  moderately  fine-grained, 
tender,  rather  dry,  sweet,  good. 

MOVER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  13:170.  1894.  2.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui.,  56:205.  1905. 

SYNONYM.     MOVER  PRIZE  (i).     Moyer  Prize  (2). 

A  chance  seedling  received  in  1894  from  Moyer  and  Cook,  Laketon,  Indiana, 
for  testing  at  this  Station.  It  is  a  rather  large  apple  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower 
group,  yellow  often  somewhat  blushed  with  red,  hardly  equal  to  the  Yellow 
Bellflower  in  general  appearance,  but  it  appears  to  stand  handling  fully  as  well 
if  not  better.  The  flesh  is  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  very  juicy,  mildly  subacid 
eventually  becoming  sweet  or  nearly  so,  good  to  very  good  in  flavor  and 
quality.  As  tested  here  it  has  come  into  bearing  young  and  is  productive. 
It  is  not  superior  to  other  varieties  of  its  season  for  either  dessert  or  culinary 
uses  and  the  fact  that  it  is  a  yellow  apple  makes  it  of  doubtful  value  for  the 
commercial  orchard. 


MOORE  SWEET 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  221 

NELSON. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Am.  Jour,  of  Hort.,  2:16.  1867.    2.  Downing,  1872:284.    3. 
///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1879.     4.  Beach,  N.   Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  13:590.  1894-     5- 
Ib.,  14:262.  1895.     6.  Ib.,  15:282.  1896.     7.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui 
248:133.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     NELSON  SWEET  (3,  4,  6). 

A  good  sweet  apple  of  medium  size,  green  with  dull  blush,  in 
season  from  February  to  June.  Its  commercial  limit  here  in 
common  storage  is  April  or  May.  The  tree  is  a  good  grower 
and  a  reliable  cropper.  It  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and 
is  almost  an  annual  bearer,  yielding  moderate  to  rather  heavy 
crops.  It  is  a  good  variety  for  the  home  orchard  where  a  very 
late-keeping  sweet  apple  is  desired,  but  it  is  not  considered 
valuable  commercially  because  it  is  sweet,  not  large  and  not 
very  attractive  in  appearance. 

Historical.  Nelson  was  first  brought  to  notice  in  Illinois  but  its  origin  is 
uncertain.  It  was  first  exhibited  before  the  Illinois  Horticultural  Society  at 
its  Champaign  meeting,  December,  1866  (i).  Received  in  1889  from  Benjamin 
Buckman,  Farmingdale,  Illinois,  for  testing  here.  It  appears  to  be  practically 
unknown  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  to  moderately  vigorous.  Form  open,  spreading  and  rather 
flat.  Tivigs  short  to  rather  long,  rather  slender  to  stout  with  large  terminal 
buds,  nearly  straight  but  geniculate ;  internodes  medium  to  rather  long.  Bark 
clear  reddish-brown  tinged  with  olive-green,  partly  streaked  with  thin  scarf- 
skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  small  to  medium,  round 
or  oval,  usually  not  raised.  Buds  rather  small  to  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse, 
free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  above,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  to 
roundish-ovate,  sometimes  inclined  to  oblong,  pretty  regular  but  sometimes 
inclined  to  elliptical  and  often  somewhat  ribbed.  Stem  below  medium  to 
above,  rather  slender,  pubescent.  Cavity  rather  small,  usually  narrow,  moder- 
ately deep,  acuminate,  partly  russeted,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  rather  small 
to  medium,  usually  closed,  pubescent;  lobes  reflexed,  long,  acute.  Basin 
shallow  to  moderately  deep,  often  narrow,  obtuse  to  somewhat  abrupt, 
furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth,  dull  green  at  first,  but  eventually 
becoming  more  or  less  tinged  with  yellow,  shaded  with  a  brownish  blush 
which  sometimes  partly  deepens  to  red.  A  suture  line  often  extends  from 
the  cavity  to  the  basin.  Dots  numerous,  often  submerged  and  whitish,  some- 
times areolar  with  russet  point ;  about  the  cavity  they  are  larger,  irregular  an4 
often  elongated.  Prevailing  effect  green  or  yellowish, 


222  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Calyx  tube  large,  narrow  above,  funnel-shape,  sometimes  approaching 
cylindrical.  Stamens  median  to  nearly  marginal. 

Core  medium  or  above,  axile;  cells  symmetrical,  closed;  core  lines  clasping 
the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  elliptical  to  broadly  obcordate,  somewhat  tufted. 
Seeds  often  abortive,  small  to  medium,  plump,  obtuse,  moderately  wide,  rather 
light  reddish-brown. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  firm,  moderately  fine,  not  crisp  but 
somewhat  tough,  juicy,  sweet  to  very  sweet,  with  distinct  flavor  and  good 
quality. 

NERO. 

REFERENCES,  i.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  23:79.  1889.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:245.  3.  Brown,  Rural  N.  Y.,  55:1.  1896.  fig.  4.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui., 
169:187.  1899.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1899:19.  6.  Blackwell,  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1899:198.  7.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:134.  8.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:50.  1903. 

This  is  a  variety  of  the  Minkler  group.  It  resembles  Minkler  in  fruit  and 
in  the  nursery  its  trees  appear  to  be  almost  identical  with  those  of  the  Minkler. 
The  fruit  is  of  good  medium  size,  attractive  red  color,  firm,  has  a  tough  skin, 
handles  well  and  keeps  late,  but  it  is  inclined  to  scald  considerably  after  mid- 
winter unless  highly  colored  (8).  It  has  not  yet  been  sufficiently  tested  here 
to  demonstrate  whether  it  is  a  desirable  variety  for  this  region  but  the  fact 
that  none  of  the  group  of  apples  to  which  Nero  belongs  has  become  a  leading 
commercial  variety  in  this  state  indicates  that  probably  it  will  not  be  found 
well  adapted  to  New  York  conditions. 

Historical.  Origin  Princeton,  New  Jersey  (7).  It  is  regarded  with  favor 
in  Central  New  Jersey  (6)  and  has  been  disseminated  to  a  considerable  extent 
in  regions  farther  west  and  south.  As  yet  it  is  practically  unknown  in  New 
York. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium.  Form  roundish,  a  little  inclined  to  conical,  pretty 
regular  and  symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately  thick.  Cavity 
acute  to  somewhat  acuminate,  medium  in  depth  to  deep,  medium  in  width  to 
rather  broad,  often  russeted  and  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx 
medium  or  above,  usually  closed ;  lobes  pubescent,  often  erect  or  convergent, 
usually  not  separated  at  the  base.  Basin  obtuse  to  somewhat  abrupt,  shallow 
to  moderately  deep,  rather  wide,  sometimes  gently  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  glossy,  clear  greenish-yellow  mostly  covered 
with  bright  red  marked  with  numerous  narrow  rather  inconspicuous  carmine 
stripes.  Dots  mostly  small,  whitish  or  russet.  Prevailing  effect  good  bright 
red. 

Calyx  tube  short,  conical  or  funnel-shape.     Stamens  below  median  to  basal. 

Core  median  or  inclined  to  sessile,  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells 
symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to 
elliptical,  smooth  or  nearly  so,  deeply  emarginate.  Seeds  large,  moderately 
narrow,  long,  irregular,  obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  rather  crisp,  moderately  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid  mingled  with  sweet,  slightly  aromatic,  good 
to  very  good. 


. 


NELSON 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  223 

NEWARK  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:133.  fig.  2.  Btiel,  N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826: 
476.  3.  Downing,  1845:121.  4.  Thomas,  1849:183.  5.  Elliott,  1854:149.  6. 
Hooper,  1857:63.  7.  Warder,  1867:690.  fig.  8.  Downing,  1869:285. 

SYNONYMS.  French  Pippin  (2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  8,  of  East  New  Jersey  i).  Yellow 
Pippin  (i,  3,  5,  8). 

This  is  an  apple  of  the  Fall  Pippin  group,  of  good  size,  attractive  yellow 
color  and  excellent  quality.  It  is  easily  known  by  the  crooked,  irregular 
growth  of  the  tree  and  the  drooping  habit  of  the  branches  (3).  Coxe's  descrip- 
tion of  this  variety  (i)  is  here  given. 

"  Called  the  French  Pippin  in  East-Jersey ;  and  in  other  places  denominated 
the  yellow  Pippin:  this  apple,  on  young  trees,  is  sometimes  large;  it  is  usually 
above  the  middling  size;  the  form  is  oblong — full,  even  and  fair,  hollowed 
at  both  ends — the  skin  has  a  greenish  cast,  turning  yellow  when  fully  ripe, 
with  clouds  of  small  black  dots — the  flesh  is  firm,  very  rich,  juicy,  and  highly 
flavored;  in  taste  and  color  like  the  yellow  flesh  of  a  pear:  it  is  the  finest 
early  winter  apple  of  the  Middle  States,  and  continues  in  full  perfection  until 
the  maturity  of  the  Newtown  Pippin ;  it  is  also  a  much  admired  cider  apple, 
and  an  abundant  bearer,  but  apt  to  drop  early  in  the  autumn:  the  tree  is  of 
an  irregular  growth,  the  branches  crooked  and  drooping,  requiring  great  at- 
tention to  pruning,  which,  when  properly  done,  may  be  made  conducive  to 
the  improvement  of  the  natural  growth — its  excellence  will  remunerate  any 
expense  in  rearing  the  tree,  in  the  best  form  to  promote  its  growth." 

Historical.  Newark  Pippin  is  an  old  variety  which  appears  to  have  been 
well  known  in  portions  of  New  Jersey  a  century  ago  (i).  It  was  being  cul- 
tivated by  some  fruit  growers  in  New  York  early  in  the  last  century  and  was 
highly  esteemed  for  table  use  and  for  cider  (2).  Downing  calls  it  unprofit- 
able (8).  Notwithstanding  the  excellence  of  its  fruit  it  appears  to  have 
become  nearly  obsolete  in  this  state. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  rather  large,  pretty  uniform  in  shape  and  size. 
Form  roundish  oblong  to  oblong,  often  somewhat  elliptical  or  obscurely 
angular.  Stem  rather  long,  moderately  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate, 
rather  wide,  deep,  sometimes  faintly  russeted.  Calyx  large,  open  or  sometimes 
closed.  Basin  large,  wide,  abrupt,  deep,  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  capillary  russet  lines,  slightly 
waxy,  moderately  thin,  tough,  greenish,  eventually  developing  a  rich  yel- 
low tone.  Dots  numerous,  varying  from  minute  to  rather  large,  rather 
conspicuous.  Prevailing  effect  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  large,  wide,  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  basal. 

Core  large,  abaxile  to  nearly  axile ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  open  or  closed ; 
core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish  to  oval,  mucronate,  tufted. 
Seeds  numerous,  short,  wide,  medium  or  below,  plump,  rather  light  brown. 

Flesh  rather  deeply  tinged  with  yellow,  tender,  rather  fine-grained,  breaking, 
rich,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic,  sprightly,  very  good  to  best  for  either  dessert 
or  culinary  use. 


224  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

NEWMAN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Churchill,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  9:346.  1890.  2.  Beach,  Ib., 
15:274.  1896.  3.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  L  Bui,  48:50.  1903.  4. 
Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:134.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     NEWMAN  SEEDLING  (i,  2). 

Newman  is  a  fruit  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower  group.  When  it  is 
well  grown  and  properly  colored  it  is  rather  attractive  for  a  green 
or  yellow  apple.  It  is  somewhat  deficient  in  size  for  a  good 
market  apple  and  does  not  excel  in  quality,  but  late  in  the  season 
is  acceptable  for  dessert  and  very  good  for  culinary  uses.  It  is 
a  good  keeper  and  may  perhaps  be  grown  with  profit  to  a  limited 
extent  but  is  not  recommended  for  general  planting  in  New 
York.  The  tree  is  a  fairly  good  grower,  comes  into  bearing 
young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  bearing  full  crops  biennially.  The 
fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 

Historical  Received  from  George  Townsend,  Gordon,  Ohio,  in  1890,  for 
testing  at  this  Station.  It  is  as  yet  practically  unknown  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  vigorous  with  very  long,  moderately  stout,  curved  branches. 
Form  upright  becoming  spreading  and  rather  flat,  open.  Twigs  short  to  rather 
long,  curved,  crooked,  stout,  with  thick  tips  and  large  terminal  buds;  inter- 
nodes  short  to  rather  long.  Bark  blackish-brown  tinged  with  red  and  mingled 
with  olive-green,  slightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  heavily  pubescent.  Lenti- 
cels  very  conspicuous,  quite  numerous,  medium  to  large,  roundish  to  oval, 
raised.  Buds  prominent,  large  to  rather  small,  broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute, 
free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  rather  large.  Form  oblong  inclined  to  conic,  some- 
times oblique,  often  faintly  ribbed ;  sides  unequal ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and 
shape.  Stem  short  to  medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity  moderately  shallow  to 
deep,  narrow  to  medium  in  width,  symmetrical  or  sometimes  compressed  or 
slightly  furrowed,  russeted,  occasionally  with  outspreading  rays  of  russet, 
rarely  lipped.  Calyx  medium,  closed  or  somewhat  open.  Basin  small,  some- 
what abrupt,  shallow  to  medium  in  depth,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  green  changing  to  clear  yellow  with  a  faint  shade  of  red  or  in  highly 
colored  specimens  distinctly  blushed  with  light  red.  Dots  small  to  medium, 
green  or  dark,  scattering,  often  areolar  or  red  areolar. 

Calyx  tube  short  and  conical  varying  to  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  or 
above. 

Core  large,  abaxile ;  cells  open  or  partly  closed ;  core  lines  meeting  or  some- 
what clasping.  Carpels  rather  long,  roundish,  emarginate,  slightly  tufted. 
Seeds  medium,  acute,  slightly  tufted. 


NEWMAN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  225 

Flesh  whitish,  very  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  rather  tender,  crisp,  mod- 
erately juicy,  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  slightly  aromatic,  fair  to  good. 
Season  December  to  IVlay  or  June. 

NEWTOWN  SPITZENBURG. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:126.  2.  Thacher,  1822:137.  3.  Buel,  N.  Y.  Bd. 
Agr.  Mem.,  1826:476.  4.  Lindley,  Pom.  Mag.,  3:  No.  144.  1830.  col.  pi.  5. 
Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831:36.  6.  Ronalds,  1831:19.  7.  Floy- Lindley,  1833: 
40.  8.  Manning,  1838:58.  9.  Downing,  1845:139.  10.  Downing,  Horticulturist, 
1:341.  1847.  n.  Thomas,  1849:173.  12.  Cole,  1849:125.  13.  Hovey,  Mag. 
Hort.,  15:539.  1849.  fig.  14.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:73.  1851.  col.  pi. 
fig.  15.  Ib.,  3:63.  1851.  16.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  17.  Elliott,  1854: 
94.  fig.  18.  Hooper,  1857:65.  19.  Warder,  1867:445.  20.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1871:8.  21.  Fitz,  1872:121,  149,  153.  22.  Downing,  1872:285.  23.  Barry, 
1883:350.  24.  Hogg,  1884:156.  25.  Wickson,  1889:246.  26.  Lyon,  Mich. 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  27.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:245.  28.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:50.  1903.  29.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:134.  fig.  30. 
Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  182:21.  1903.  31.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:134.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Barretts  Spitzcnburgh  (22).  Burlington  (22).  Burlington 
Spitsemberg  (i).  Burlington  Spitzenberg  (9,  17,  24).  English  Spitsemberg 
(i).  English  Spitzenberg  (3,  24).  Flushing  (18)  but  incorrectly.  Joe  Berry 
(17,  19,  22).  Kountz  (17,  22).  Matchless  (4,  7,  9,  17,  22,  24).  NEWTON 
SPITZEMBERG  (i).  NEWTON  SPITSZENBURGH  (2).  NEWTOWN  SPITZEMBERG 
(7).  NEWTOWN  SPITZENBERG  (3,  4,  12,  17,  19,  20,  24).  NEWTOWN  SPITZEN- 
BERGH  (10).  NEWTOWN  SPITZENBURGH  (15,  22,  23).  Newtown  Spitzenburgh 
(25).  Ox  Eye  (17,  19,  22).  Spiced  Ox  Eye  (22).  SPITZENBERG,  NEWTOWN 
(9).  SPITZENBURGH,  NEWTOWN  (n).  Spitzenburgh  (22).  Staaldubs  (13) 
but  erroneously.  VANDEVERE  (13,  21,  25).  Vandevere  of  New  York  (20,  22, 
23,  26).  VANDERVERE  (14,  16).  Vandervere  of  New  York  (19).  Wine 
(erroneously,  22). 

This  is  the  old  Vandevere  of  New  York,  but  it  is  not  the  true 
Vandevere.  It  is  quite  different  also  from  the  Esopus  Spitzenburg 
which  is  commonly  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers  by  the 
simple  name  of  Spitzenburg.  The  Newtown  Spitzenburg  is  not  a 
good  commercial  sort  because  it  is  an  unreliable  cropper,  has  too 
large  a  percentage  of  fruit  of  unmarketable  size,  and  is  not  especially 
attractive  in  general  appearance  on  account  of  its  rather  dull  color. 
It  is  crisp,  aromatic,  rich,  and  mildly  subacid  mingled  with  sweet. 
Downing  remarks  that  it  is  a  most  excellent  fruit,  suited  to  more 
tastes  than  any  other  apple  of  its  season  (22). 

Historical  This  variety  originated  in  Newtown,  Long  Island.  It  was  at 
one  time  quite  popular  in  some  sections  of  this  state,  particularly  in  the  dis- 
tricts along  the  Hudson,  but  is  now  seldom  planted  and  is  gradually  going 
out  of  cultivation. 


226  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous  with  long,  moder- 
ately stout,  curved  branches.  Form  spreading  or  roundish,  rather  dense. 
Twigs  moderately  long  to  short,  straight,  rather  erect,  geniculate,  slender  to 
moderately  stout ;  internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  dull  brown,  rather  heavily 
streaked  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent  in  spots.  Lenticels  rather  inconspicuous, 
quite  numerous,  small  to  medium,  oblong  or  roundish,  slightly  raised.  Buds 
medium  to  small,  wide,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  with  little  pubescence  or  none. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  about  medium  size.  Form  roundish  approaching  cylindrical  or  some- 
what oblate ;  pretty  regular  and  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Stem  very  short 
to  rather  long,  rather  slender,  pubescent.  Cavity  acute,  deep,  broad,  indis- 
tinctly furrowed,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed,  sometimes  partly 
open;  lobes  broad,  obtuse.  Basin  small  to  medium,  wide  to  rather  narrow, 
shallow  and  obtuse  to  rather  deep  and  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  smooth,  tough,  eventually  becoming  deep  yellow  blushed  and  mottled 
with  dull  red  striped  with  carmine,  streaked  with  grayish  scarf-skin  and  often 
overspread  with  a  light  bloom  giving  it  a  peculiarly  bluish  cast.  Dots  char- 
acteristic, conspicuous,  very  numerous,  yellowish  or  peculiarly  gray ;  often 
with  russet  center,  small,  very  numerous  and  crowded  about  the  basin  but  less 
numerous,  larger  and  irregular  toward  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel-form  with  short,  truncate 
cylinder.  Stamens  median. 

Core  above  medium  to  rather  small,  more  or  less  abaxile ;  cells  usually 
pretty  symmetrical  and  partly  open,  sometimes  closed;  core  lines  meeting 
or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  smooth  or  nearly  so,  approaching  elliptical, 
often  nearly  truncate  at  the  base  and  narrowing  somewhat  toward  the  apex. 
Seeds  numerous,  below  medium  to  rather  large,  rather  narrow,  plump,  acute. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  fine-grained,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid  mingled 
with  sweet,  rich,  aromatic,  very  good  to  best  in  flavor  and  quality. 

Season  in  Southeastern  New  York  late  fall  or  early  winter;  in  Western 
New  York  it  is  easily  kept  till  February  or  March  in  ordinary  storage  and 
often  some  portion  of  the  fruit  remains  in  fairly  good  condition  till  the  close 
of  April  (31), 

NEW  WATER 

REFERENCES,  i.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:50.  1903.  2. 
Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:134.  1904.  3.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  /, 
Bui.,  56:211.  1905. 

A  large  winter  apple,  striped  red,  moderately  attractive,  of  mild  flavor  and 
good  quality.  It  is  more  suitable  for  dessert  than  for  any  other  use.  As 
grown  in  this  locality  it  comes  into  bearing  moderately  young  and  is  a  reliable 
cropper  yielding  full  crops  biennially  with  occasional  lighter  crops  in  alternate 
years.  It  does  not  appear  to  be  superior  to  standard  varieties  of  its  season 
either  for  home  use  or  for  market  and  for  this  reason  it  is  not  recommended 
for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Received  from  Josiah  G.  Youngken,  Richlandtown,  Pennsyl- 
vania, in  1893  for  testing  at  this  Station. 


NEWTOWN  SPITZENBERG 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  227 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  or  above  medium.  Form  flat  at  base,  oblate,  narrowing  and 
often  somewhat  ribbed  toward  the  basin,  often  oblique.  Stem  short.  Cavity 
large,  acute,  deep  to  very  deep,  broad,  occasionally  lipped,  sometimes  russeted. 
Calyx  large  to  medium,  usually  open,  sometimes  closed ;  lobes  leafy,  broad, 
long,  acute.  Basin  usually  rather  large,  sometimes  oblique,  moderately  deep, 
varying  from  narrow  or  compressed  to  moderately  wide,  abrupt,  often  some- 
what furrowed  and  irregular. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  rather  glossy,  yellow  or  greenish  blushed  with 
orange-red  and  mottled  and  striped  with  pinkish-red  over  a  large  part  of  the 
surface.  Dots  inconspicuous,  medium  to  small,  pale  gray  or  russet.  Pre- 
vailing effect  striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  remarkably  large,  varying  from  conical  to  long  funnel-form  and 
extending  to  the  core.  Stamens  basal  or  nearly  so. 

Core  very  small  to  nearly  medium,  varying  from  axile  to  somewhat  abaxile ; 
cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical  and  open  but  usually  closed ;  core  lines  meet- 
ing when  the  calyx  tube  is  conical  but  clasping  if  it  is  funnel-form.  Carpels 
roundish,  slightly  emarginate.  Seeds  few,  dark,  medium  in  size,  wide,  some- 
times slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy  or  very  juicy,  mild  snbacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  aromatic,  good. 

Season  October  to  February  or  March ;  commercial  limit  January. 

NICKAJACK, 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  19:565.  1853.  2.  Stanford,  Horticul- 
turist, 11:255.  1856.  fig.  3.  Downing,  1857:175.  fig.  4.  Hooper,  1857:65.  5. 
Downing,  Horticulturist,  16:40.  1861.  fig.  6.  Warder,  1867:445.  fig.  7.  Down- 
ing, 1869:286.  fig.  8.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871:8.  9.  Fitz,  1872:143,  156, 
166,  172.  10.  Leroy,  1873:488.  fig.  n.  Barry,  1883:351.  12.  Thomas,  1885: 
237.  13.  Wickson,  1889:248.  14.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  15. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:245.  16.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:136.  fig. 

SYNONYMS.  Aberdeen  (5,  7).  Accidental  (5,  7).  Alleghany  (5,  7).  Berry 
(5,  7,  10,  12).  Big  Hill  (5,  6,  7).  Carolina  (5,  6,  10).  Carolina  Spice  (5, 
7,  10,  12).  Caroline  (7).  Chatham  Pippin  (7).  Chaltram  Pippin  (5,  7). 
Cheatan  Pippin  (5,  7).  Cheatazu  (7).  Dahlonega  (5).  Edivards  (12). 
Edward  Shantee  (7).  Forsythe's  Seedling  (7).  Gowden  (7).  Gowdie  (5). 
Graham's  Red  Warrior  (7).  Howard  (5,  7).  Hubbard  (5,  7,  10).  Jackson 
Red  (5,  6,  7).  Leanham  (7).  Missouri  Pippin  (7).  Missouri  Red  (7). 
Mobbs  (5,  7).  NICKEJACK  (i).  North  Carolina  (13).  Pound  (5,  7).  Red 
Hazel  (7,  12).  Red  Pippin  (5,  7).  Red  Warrior  (5,  7).  Rickmans  Red  (5). 
Ruckman  (5).  Ruckmans  Red  (7).  SUMMEROUR  (i).  Summerour  (3,  5, 
6,  7,  12).  Treanham  (5).  Trenham  (7).  Walb  (7).  Wall  (5,  7,  10). 
Wander  (7).  Winter  Horse  (7).  Winter  Rose  (5,  7,  n).  Wonder  (3,  5). 
Worlds  Wonder  (7). 

This  variety  has  long  been  known  in  various  portions  of  the  South  and 
Southwest.  Its  popularity  in  those  regions  is  attested  by  its  host  of  synonyms. 
It  is  said  to  have  the  habit  of  reproducing  itself  so  nearly  from  seed  that  its 
seedlings  in  some  cases  can  hardly  be  distinguished  from  the  parent  (7).  In 


228  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

localities  favorable  to  its  proper  development  the  tree  is  a  strong  grower  and 
very  productive  and  the  fruit  is  large  and  sometimes  well  colored  and  showy 
but  usually  it  is  rather  dull  colored  and  not  very  attractive.  It  ranks  only 
.second  rate  in  quality  but  it  is  a  remarkably  good  keeper.  It  is  evidently 
not  well  adapted  for  regions  as  far  north  as  this.  It  has  failed  to  gain  favor- 
able recognition  among  New  York  fruit  growers  and  has  been  planted  but 
sparingly  in  this  state. 

Historical.  This  variety  is  supposed  to  have  originated  near  a  stream  of 
the  same  name  in  Macon  county,  N.  C.,1  among  the  Cherokee  Indians  (i,  2, 
3,  6,  7).  The  time  of  its  origin  is  not  definitely  known  but  the  fact  that  in 
1861  it  is  referred  to  as  an  old  variety  cultivated  in  at  least  three  states  and 
having  over  twenty  synonyms  (5)  indicates  that  it  has  probably  been  under 
cultivation  for  a  century  or  more.  Colonel  Summerour  of  Lincoln  county, 
N.  C.,  early  disseminated  this  variety  under  the  name  of  Winter  Rose  (7), 
but  Silas  McDowell  of  Franklin,  N.  C.,  at  about  the  middle  of  the  last  century 
brought  it  to  notice  under  the  name  Nickajack  (2),  which  has  now  become  the 
generally  accepted  name  for  the  variety. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  very  vigorous.  Form  upright,  moderately  spreading.  Twigs 
rather  short,  slender  to  rather  stout,  nearly  straight,  heavily  pubescent ;  inter- 
nodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  smooth,  of  a  rather  clear  dark  red  with  some 
olive-green.  Lenticels  moderately  conspicuous,  quite  narrow,  small,  raised. 
Buds  small,  rather  projecting,  sharply  acute,  appressed,  moderately  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large,  rather  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
inclined  to  roundish  conic  varying  sometimes  to  roundish  oblate  or  rarely  to 
roundish  oblong;  sides  usually  somewhat  unequal;  axis  often  slightly  oblique. 
Stem  usually  short  and  thick.  Cavity  acuminate  to  acute,  deep,  rather  broad, 
obscurely  furrowed  and  partly  covered  with  thin  greenish-russet.  Calyx 
rather  large  to  below  medium,  closed  or  somewhat  open;  lobes  short  to 
medium  in  length,  rather  broad,  acute.  Basin  often  oblique,  rather  shallow, 
medium  in  width  to  wide,  obtuse  to  somewhat  abrupt,  obscurely  furrowed 
and  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  rather  smooth,  sometimes  a  little  glossy,  yellow  or 
greenish,  mottled  and  shaded  with  orange-red  or  red,  irregularly  splashed  and 
streaked  with  bright  carmine  and  somewhat  flecked  with  russet.  It  is  usually 
streaked  over  the  base  with  grayish  scarf-skin  and  overspread  with  thin 
bloom,  giving  it  a  rather  dull  appearance.  Dots  numerous,  usually  irregular 
in  shape  and  of  variable  size,  very  conspicuous,  pale  or  russet.  Prevailing 
effect  grayish-red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  wide,  varying  from  short  and  urn-shape  or  cone- 
shape  to  very  long,  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  or  above,  axile;  cells  closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  clasp- 
ing. Carpels  rather  concave,  broadly  ovate  approaching  roundish,  tufted. 
Seeds  below  medium  to  above,  light  to  dark  brown,  rather  short  and  wide, 
plump,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse,  tufted. 

1  Warder  gives  it  erroneously  as  Macon  county,  Ga. 


NICKAJACK 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  '  229 

Flesh  yellowish,  very  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  rather  crisp,  moderately  tender, 
juicy,  mildly  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.  It  ranks  good 
but  not  high  in  flavor  and  quality. 

Season  December  to  May. 

NORTHERN  SPY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Mag.  Hort.,  10:275.  1844.  2.  Albany  Cultivator,  2:41,  56. 
1845.  3.  Genesee  Fanner,  1845.  (cited  by  6).  4.  Downing,  1845:120.  5. 
Horticulturist.  1:30,  144.  1846.  6.  Ib.,  1:386,  482.  1847.  7.  Hovey  and  Watts, 
Mag.  Hort.,  13:72,  104,  538.  1847.  fig.  8.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  14:530.  1848. 
9.  Thomas,  1849:169,  174.  fig.  10.  Cole,  1849:134.  fig.  u.  Allen,  Horticul- 
turist, 6:351.  1851.  12.  Emmons,  Nat.  Plist.  N.  Y.,  3:70.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  23. 
13.  Hovey,  1:19.  1851.  col.  pi.  and  fig.  14.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  15. 
Mag.  Hort.,  19:68.  1853.  16.  Elliott,  1854:94.  fig.  17.  Smith,  Horticulturist, 
11:242.  1856.  18.  Hooper,  1857:66.  19.  Hoffy,  N.  A.  Pom.,  1860.  col.  pi.  20. 
Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  29:459.  1863.  21.  Warder,  1867:541.  fig.  22,  Downing, 
1869:289.  fig.  23.  Fitz,  1872:166.  24.  Leroy,  1873:501.  fig.  25.  Barry,  1883: 
351.  26.  Hogg,  1884:161.  27.  Wickson,  1889:248.  28.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  29.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:245.  30.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1895:192.  31.  Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  3:15.  1896. 
figs.  32.  Brtiner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:21.  1903.  figs.  33.  Budd-Hansen,  1903: 
137-  fig-  34-  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:51.  1903.  35.  Beach 
and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:134.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.     Northern  Spy  (31).     SPY  (31).     Spy  (i,  19). 

Northern  Spy  is  often  known  among  fruit  growers  and  fruit 
buyers  by  the  simple  name  of  Spy.  It  ranks  third  in  commercial 
importance  among  New  York  apples,  being  surpassed  in  this  respect 
by  Baldwin  and  Rhode  Island  Greening.  When  it  is  well  grown  it 
is  superior  to  either  of  these  in  flavor  and  quality  and  easily  ranks 
among  the  very  best  winter  apples  of  New  York.  The  fruit  is  large 
and  attractive,  being  of  a  bright  red  color,  overspread  with  a  delicate 
bloom.  The  flesh  is  very  juicy,  crisp,  tender  and  most  excellent 
for  either  dessert  or  culinary  uses.  It  is  not  a  good  variety  for 
evaporating  because  it  is  too  juicy  and  tender.  It  is  well  adapted 
for  either  local,  general  or  fancy  trade.  It  has  a  well-established 
reputation  in  market,  and  because  of  its  size,  beauty,  fine  flavor  and 
high  quality  it  often  sells  at  more  than  average  prices.  It  is  ready 
for  use  in  November  and  December,  and  retains  its  crispness  and 
high  flavor  remarkably  well  until  the  close  of  the  season  (35).  Its 
thin  skin  and  juicy,  tender  flesh  render  careful  handling  absolutely 
necessary,  otherwise  there  is  much  shrinkage  in  storage  (35).  It  is 
particularly  susceptible  to  attack  from  blue  mold  (Penicillium  glau- 


230  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

cum  Link)  in  storage,  especially  if  bruised  or  delayed  in 
reaching  storage.  If  well  colored,  picked,  packed  and  handled  with 
great  care  and  stored  soon  after  picking,  it  may  be  carried  in  storage 
as  long  as  most  winter  varieties  (34).  Its  keeping  quality  varies 
considerably  in  different  seasons  and  in  different  locations.  In 
ordinary  cellar  storage  its  season  sometimes  closes  in  February,  but 
more  often  extends  to  March  or  April,  and  if  the  temperature  is 
very  carefully  regulated  it  may  sometimes  be  held  till  May.  It 
stands  heat  fairly  well,  but  after  being  picked  it  should  go  into 
storage  as  soon  as  possible.  Poorly  colored  fruit  of  this  variety  is 
not  good  in  flavor  and  does  not  keep  as  well  as  well-ripened  and 
highly  colored  fruit.  In  some  localities  it  appears  to  require  from 
two  to  three  weeks  longer  than  Rhode  Island  Greening  to  ripen 
properly. 

Both  the  foliage  and  fruit  of  Northern  Spy  are  noticeably  suscep- 
tible to  injury  by  the  scab  and  thorough  treatment  is  required  to 
prevent  loss  from  this  disease.  It  comes  into  bloom  remarkably  late. 
On  this  account  its  blossoms  sometimes  escape  destruction  by  late 
frosts  when  earlier-blooming  varieties  are  much  injured.  Often  it 
produces  many  small  apples  which  are  seedless  or  nearly  so.  This 
indicates  an  improper  fertilization  of  the  blossoms.  It  remains  to  be 
demonstrated  whether  or  not  this  fault  may  be  remedied  by  planting 
near  the  Northern  Spy  some  other  late-blooming  variety  bearing  an 
abundance  of  fertile  pollen. 

Northern  Spy  is  not  as  well  adapted  for  general  cultivation  as  is 
either  Baldwin  or  Rhode  Island  Greening  because  it  is  more  or  less 
variable  in  season  and  quality,  and  in  some  sections  is  an  unreliable 
cropper.  Usually  it  is  rather  slow  in  coming  into  bearing,  although 
under  favorable  conditions  it  has  been  known  to  yield  profitable 
crops  within  seven  years  from  the  time  of  planting.  The  young 
trees  increase  in  productiveness  as  they  advance  in  maturity.  In 
favorable  locations,  under  good  care,  they  usually  become  reliable 
croppers  yielding  from  moderate  to  heavy  crops  biennially,  or  in 
some  cases  almost  annually.  This  variety  succeeds  better  in  the 
cooler  regions  of  the  interior  of  the  state  than  it  does  on  the  warm 
slopes  south  of  the  Fishkill  mountains  and  on  the  coastal  plain.  It 


LEE 


NORTHERN  SPY 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  231 

generally  does  well  on  the  hills  and  well-drained  slopes  in  the  more 
elevated  regions  from  Chautauqua  lake  eastward  to  the  Catskills, 
along  the  Champlain  valley  and  in  the  uplands  east  of  the  Hudson 
as  far  south  as  the  Fishkill  mountains.  In  some  portions  of  the 
regions  just  named  it  has  become  the  leading  variety  in  commercial 
orchards,  but  its  cultivation  is  by  no  means  confined  to  these  regions, 
for  it  is  grown  quite  extensively  in  many  other  localities  and  is  gen- 
erally well  known  throughout  the  state.  Experienced  fruit  growers 
frequently  express  a  preference  for  warm,  fertile  soil,  either  gravelly 
loam  or  clay  loam,  with  well-drained  subsoil,  upon  which  to  plant 
Northern  Spy,  although  in  some  few  districts  there  is  a  decided 
preference  for  rather  heavy  clay  loam.  In  the  territory  best  adapted 
to  its  cultivation  it  is  grown  satisfactorily  upon  different  slopes  and 
different  soils.  When  grown  in  sod  the  trees  may  be  less  productive, 
but  the  fruit  doubtless  colors  better  and  keeps  better  than  when  the 
orchard  is  given  frequent  and  thorough  tillage  during  the  growing 
season. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  healthy,  develops  a  strong  root  system 
both  in  the  nursery  and  in  the  orchard,  and  has  an  upright,  free- 
growing  habit.  For  these  reasons  it  is  much  in  favor  as  a  stock 
upon  which  to  top-work  varieties  that  are  less  vigorous,  less  hardy 
or  less  healthy.  The  top  tends  to1  become  dense  and  must  be  pruned 
regularly  and  thoroughly  to  keep  it  sufficiently  open  to  admit  light 
and  air  to  the  foliage  in  all  parts  of  the  tree ;  otherwise,  especially 
on  the  older  trees,  much  of  the  fruit  is  apt  to  be  poorly  matured 
and  poorly  colored.  Pruning  for  this  purpose  should  be  done  by 
removing  the  laterals  and  limbs  that  cross,  being  careful  to  leave 
the  smaller  twigs  and  spurs,  as  these  are  the  ones  upon  which  the 
most  of  the  fruit  is  borne. 

The  head  of  the  young  orchard  tree  should  be  formed  with  great 
care.  In  the  words  of  one  of  our  correspondents,1  the  wood  of  this 
variety  is  very  straight-grained  and  the  tree  is  liable  to  split  when 
heavily  loaded.  To  guard  against  this,  when  the  head  of  the  small 
tree  is  formed  no  two  limbs  should  be  left  opposite  or  nearly  opposite 
each  other,  but  the  three  or  four  branches  which  are  selected  for 

1E.  W.  Lament,  Cobleskill.  N.  Y. 


232  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

forming  the  head  of  the  tree  should  be  distributed  along  the  main 
stem  at  some  little  distance  apart.  This  distributes  the  load  upon 
the  trunk  and  gives  more  spring  to  the  body  of  the  tree,  thus  tending 
to  prevent  its  splitting  with  heavy  loads.  Standard  orchard  trees  of 
Northern  Spy  should  stand  forty  to  fifty  feet  apart  in  order  to  pre- 
vent their  becoming  too  much  crowded  when  fully  matured. 

Historical.  Originated  in  a  seedling  orchard  at  East  Bloomfield,  N.  Y., 
which  is  famous  for  the  production  of  this  variety,  the  Early  Joe  and  the 
Melon.  This  orchard  was  planted  by  Heman  Chapin  with  seedling  trees 
grown  from  seeds  brought  from  Salisbury,  Connecticut,  about  the  year  1800 
(3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  1 8).  Sprouts  from  the  original  tree  were  taken  up  and  planted 
by  Roswell  Humphrey  and  by  him  the  first  fruit  of  the  Northern  Spy  was 
raised  as  the  original  tree  died  before  bearing.  In  1847  nine  of  the  trees 
set  out  by  Humphrey  were  still  living  (6).  The  variety  was  confined  to  the 
vicinity  of  its  origin  for  many  years  and  it  was  not  till  about  1840  that  it 
began  to  attract  the  attention  of  fruit  growers  in  other  localities  (6,  12).  Its 
great  value  then  came  to  be  more  widely  recognized  and  in  1852  the  American 
Pomological  Society  not  only  listed  it  as  a  new  variety  of  promise  but  also  as 
a  variety  worthy  of  general  cultivation.  Since  that  time  it  has  become  ex- 
tensively planted  not  only  in  New  York  but  in  various  other  portions  of  the 
more  northern  apple-growing  regions. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous :  branches  long,  moderately  stout,  curved.  Form  up- 
right, dense,  becoming  roundish  with  willowy,  slender  laterals  somewhat  in- 
clined to  droop.  Twigs  long  to  medium  in  length,  erect,  straight  or  some- 
what crooked,  slender  to  moderately  stout ;  internodes  long  to  rather  short. 
Bark  dull,  dark  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green  lightly  streaked  with 
thick  scarf-skin ;  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  conspicuous,  small, 
roundish  or  oblong,  slightly  raised.  Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  medium  to  small, 
broad,  plump,  obtuse,  appressed,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  except  when  it  is  seedless  is  usually  large  or  very  large.  Form  round- 
ish conical,  sometimes  inclined  to  oblong,  often  noticeably  flattened  at  the 
base,  nearly  symmetrical,  sometimes  regular  but  often  noticeably  ribbed.  Stem 
medium  to  long,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  large,  acute,  very  wide  and  deep, 
often  broadly  furrowed,  usually  with  greenish-russet  radiating  upwards  to  the 
brim.  Calyx  usually  small,  closed,  sometimes  partly  open ;  lobes  short,  broad, 
obtuse.  Basin  small  to  medium,  narrow  to  medium  in  width,  moderately  deep, 
abrupt,  usually  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  tender  and  smooth.  In  highly  colored  specimens  it  is  glossy  and 
the  clear  pale  yellow  ground  color  is  nearly  concealed  with  bright  pinkish-red 
mottled  and  splashed  with  carmine  and  overspread  with  a  thin  delicate  bloom. 
Dots  medium  to  small,  not  conspicuous,  scattering,  whitish,  gray  or  russet. 
Prevailing  effect  bright  red  or  striped  red.  Rarely  the  yellow  or  green  color 
predominates.  In  such  cases  the  quality  of  the  fruit  is  low. 


NORTHERN  SPY 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  233 

Calyx  tube  sometimes  large,  long,  cone-shape  but  more  often  narrow  and 
somewhat  funnel-form  with  very  narrow  cylinder.  Stamens  basal  or  nearly 
so. 

Core  usually  large,  sometimes  medium,  abaxile;  cells  pretty  symmetrical, 
open  or  nearly  closed,  often  not  uniformly  developed ;  core  lines  clasping  the 
funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  much  concave,  broadly  roundish,  emarginate,  slightly 
tufted.  Seeds  small  to  medium,  wide,  often  abortive  and  few  but  sometimes 
numerous,  plump,  obtuse,  dark,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  very  tender,  crisp, 
very  juicy,  sprightly,  aromatic,  subacid,  very  good  to  best. 

NORTHWESTERN  GREENING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:27.  2.  Rural  N.  Y.,  44:150. 
1885.  figs.  3.  Van  Deman,  U.  .?,  Pom.  Rpt.,  1886:271.  4.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:245.  5.  Shepherd,  Can.  Hort.,  16:205.  1893.  6.  Ib.,  17:84.  1894.  ^Ss- 
7.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt .  14:254.  1895.  8.  Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui, 
76:77.  1902.  fig.  9.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  18:84,  90.  1902.  10.  Thomas, 
1903:343.  ii.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:138.  fig.  12.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt., 
I9°3:95-  13-  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:51.  1903.  14.  Beach 
and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:135.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  NORTH  WEST  GREENING  (5,  6).  NORTHWESTERN  GREENING  (i, 
3,  4,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  13). 

Attractive  in  color  for  a  green  or  yellowish  apple  but  apt  to  be  variable  in 
size  and  not  uniform  in  shape.  It  is  hardier  than  Rhode  Island  Greening  and 
on  that  account  some  consider  it  worthy  of  cultivation  in  districts  where  the 
climate  is  too  severe  for  the  Rhode  Island  Greening.  The  fruit  has  a  serious 
fault  in  that  the  flesh  within  the  core  lines  is  apt  to  be  corky  and  discolored. 
It  cooks  evenly  and  quickly  and  when  cooked  has  a  fine  yellow  color  but  is  not 
of  high  flavor  or  quality  being  much  inferior  in  this  respect  to  Rhode  Island 
Greening.  As  a  dessert  apple  it  ranks  fair  to  good  in  quality.  At  this 
Station  it  has  not  been  a  satisfactory  keeper  in  common  storage,  the  rate  of 
loss  being  high  in  November  and  sometimes  in  December,  moderate  through 
the  winter  and  gradually  rising  to  high  or  very  high  in  the  closing  weeks  of 
its  season.  A  large  part  of  the  fruit  does  not  reach  prime  condition  before 
January,  a  considerable  portion  of  it  remains  sound  at  the  close  of  the  winter 
and  some  of  it  may  keep  till  June.  The  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  a  fine  erect 
grower  in  the  nursery,  and  a  good  strong  grower  in  the  orchard.  It  does 
not  come  into  bearing  very  early  but  eventually  becomes  productive  and  is 
a  reliable  biennial  cropper. 

Historical  Originated  in  Waupaca  county,  Wisconsin.  Introduced  in  1872 
by  E.  W.  Daniels  (i,  n).  It  has  been  pretty  widely  disseminated  throughout 
the  northern  portions  of  the  apple  belt  where  very  hardy  trees  are  desired 
(i,  4,  5,  8,  n).  It  has  as  yet  been  planted  but  very  little  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  with  moderately  long,  stout,  crooked  branches.  Form  up- 
right becoming  quite  roundish  or  spreading,  inclined  to  droop,  dense.  Twigs 
moderately  long,  curved,  stout  with  large  terminal  buds;  internodes  medium 


234  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

to  long.  Bark  clear  reddish-brown,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  lightly 
pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  medium  to  large,  oval  or  elongated, 
raised,  very  conspicuous,  pale  and  contrasting  clearly  with  the  bright  smooth 
bark.  Buds  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  projecting,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large  or  very  large,  variable  in  size  and  form.  Form  com- 
monly roundish  but  varying  to  oblong  or  to  oblate  and  often  inclined  to  conic, 
more  or  less  irregular,  sometimes  elliptical,  sometimes  ribbed.  Stem  medium 
to  short.  Cavity  rather  small  to  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  moderately  narrow 
to  wide,  deep,  often  compressed  or  lipped,  often  with  outspreading  russet. 
Calyx  variable,  small  to  large,  closed  or  open.  Basin  small  to  large,  narrow 
to  wide,  usually  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  somewhat  waxy,  clear  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  sometimes 
faintly  blushed.  Dots  varying  from  small  to  large  and  irregular,  usually 
whitish  and  submerged,  sometimes  gray  with  russet  point.  Prevailing  effect 
clear  yellow  or  greenish. 

Calyx  tube  moderately  wide,  conical  or  approaching  urn-shape.  Stamens 
median. 

Core  medium  or  above,  usually  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  usually  symmetrical, 
closed  or  sometimes  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels 
broadly  roundish,  truncate  at  base,  narrowing  toward  the  apex,  mucronate, 
but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  very  small,  variable  in  shape;  often 
some  are  abortive. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  medium  in  texture,  crispness  and  firmness,  juicy, 
with  slight  aroma,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

OAKLAND. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Garfield,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1883:120.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1883:12.  3.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  4.  Thomas,  1897: 
647.  5.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  205:45.  1903.  6.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:51.  1903.  7.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:135.  1904. 

SYNONYM.  OAKLAND  COUNTY  SEEK-NO-FURTHER  (i).  Oakland  County 
Seek-No-Further  (2,  4,  6,  7). 

A  mildly  sweet  apple  of  good  medium  size,  attractive  dark  red  color,  pleasant 
flavor  and  good  quality.  In  common  storage  it  is  in  season  from  late  Novem- 
ber to  midwinter  or  later;  in  cold  storage  it  may  be  held  till  April  (7).  The 
tree  is  a  rather  slow  grower.  As  fruited  at  this  Station  it  comes  into  bearing 
rather  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  giving  full  crops  biennially.  Probably 
it  would  be  an  advantage  to  top-work  this  variety  on  some  more  vigorous 
stock. 

Historical.  This  for  many  years  has  been  a  popular  variety  in  Oakland 
county,  Michigan,  where  it  probably  originated.  In  1883  it  was  brought  to 
the  .notice  of  the  American  Pomological  Society  by  Charles  W.  Garfield  ( I ) 
and  was  entered  upon  the  list  of  that  Society's  Catalogue  as  a  promising 
variety  in  Michigan  (2).  It  was  dropped  from  the  list  when  the  Catalogue 
was  revised  in  1897.  In  1903  Farrand  (5)  stated  that  in  some  portions  of 
Michigan  it  is  quite  largely  planted  for  commercial  purposes.  It  is  practically 
unknown  in  New  York. 


—, 


NORTHWESTERN   Greening 


•taBp^    *>s 


OAKLAND  (Reduced  Size) 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  235 


Tree  a  slow  grower  with  moderately  long  and  stout  branches.  Form  open, 
spreading,  becoming  rather  flat-topped.  Twigs  short,  straight,  stout;  inter- 
nodes  short.  Bark  clear  brown  tinged  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with 
scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  very  small,  oval,  not 
raised.  Buds  small,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size.  Form  roundish, 
usually  somewhat  oblate,  sometimes  inclined  to  conic,  fairly  symmetrical, 
irregular,  often  obscurely  angular  or  ribbed.  Stem  rather  slender.  Cavity 
acuminate,  moderately  wide,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  angular,  sometimes 
lipped,  often  partly  russeted  and  with  some  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  pubes- 
cent, rather  small,  closed.  Basin  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  sometimes 
abrupt,  compressed  or  furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  pale  green  or  yellow  blushed  and  mottled  with 
dark  red,  striped  with  carmine  and  overspread  with  thin  bloom ;  highly  colored 
specimens  become  deep  red  and  almost  purplish.  Dots  medium  in  size,  light, 
sometimes  mingled  with  flecks  of  russet.  Prevailing  color  dark  red  dulled 
by  bluish  bloom. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  narrow,   funnel-form.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  below  medium,  somewhat  abaxile  with  hollow  cylinder  at  the  axis; 
cells  usually  symmetrical,  partly  open  or  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
smooth,  distinctly  concave,  elliptical,  obtusely  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds 
numerous,  variable,  small  to  medium,  obtuse. 

Flesh  white,  very  tender,  fine-grained,  juicy,  sweet,  crisp,  good. 

OCCIDENT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Goff,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  2:35.  1883.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:245.  3.  Beach,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1896:52.  4.  Beach  and  Clark, 
A".  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:135.  1904. 

This  fruit  is  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower  type,  attractive  bright  yellow,  excel- 
lent in  quality  and  a  remarkably  good  keeper.  The  tree  is  a  little  slow  in 
coming  into  bearing  but  it  is  a  strong  grower,  a  reliable  cropper  and  very  pro- 
ductive. The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  As  grown  here  it  is  not  large.  It 
sometimes  averages  above  medium  and  sometimes  below  medium  size.  Usually 
it  is  pretty  uniform  for  the  crop  both  in  size  and  shape.  Apparently  it  would 
be  a  desirable  variety  for  commercial  planting  in  New  York  were  it  not  some- 
what deficient  in  size. 

Historical.  Originated  by  L.  J.  Fish,  Martinez,  California.  Said  to  be  a 
seedling  of  Yellow  Bellflower.  Scions  of  it  were  received  in  1883  from  Ell- 
wanger  and  Barry  for  testing  at  this  Station.  It  was  being  then  regarded  as 
one  of  the  promising  new  varieties. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  below  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish 
conic,  often  faintly  ribbed.  Stem  long,  stout.  Cavity  rather  large,  acuminate 
to  acute,  deep  and  moderately  broad,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  closed  or 


236  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

somewhat  open;  lobes  long,  acuminate,  reflexed.  Basin  small  to  medium, 
shallow,  medium  in  width  to  narrow,  often  abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  clear  yellow  often  with  a  shade  of  brownish-red,  sometimes 
blushed  with  bright  red.  Dots  numerous,  light  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  rather  narrow,  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  large,  usually  abaxile ;  cells  usually  wide  open  as  in  Yellow  Bellflower ; 
core  lines  clasp  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  large,  broadly  roundish,  tufted, 
slightly  emarginate.  Seeds  long,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  or  slightly  tinged  w-ith  yellow,  firm,  fine-grained,  rather  tender, 
crisp,  juicy,  sprightly,  rich  subacid,  very  good. 

Season  January  to  May;  usual  commercial  limit  in  cellar  storage,  March  or 
April  (4)- 

OEL  AUSTIN, 

REFERENCES,  i.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1894:21.  2.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt., 
15:688.  1896. 

SYNONYMS.     OEL  (i).     Austin. 

An  attractive  apple  of  the  Blue  Pearmain  group,  of  fairly  good 
quality.  It  varies  in  size  from  small  to  above  medium.  It  is  in 
season  from  November  to  March  or  April.  It  is  said  to  be  very 
hardy  in  St.  Lawrence  county  and  a  good  thrifty  grower,  and  it 
may  prove  desirable  for  the  home  orchard  in  those  sections  of  the 
state  where  superior  hardiness  is  a  prime  requisite. 

Historical.  Received  here  from  A.  F.  Clark,  Raymondville,  St.  Lawrence 
county,  in  1896.  The  original  tree,  16  to  18  inches  in  diameter,  was  then 
standing  neglected  in  an  old  pasture.  Mr.  Clark  began  to  propagate  the 
variety  about  1891.  He  believes  that  it  is  a  seedling  of  Stone,1  a  variety 
which  is  highly  esteemed  locally  in  St.  Lawrence  county.  It  is  known  locally 
as  Austin. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  vigorous.  Form  upright,  somewhat  spreading,  rather  dense. 
Tzvigs  medium  to  long,  rather  slender  to  moderately  stout,  nearly  straight, 
somewhat  pubescent;  internodes  short.  Bark  clear  olive-green  tinged  with 
reddish-brown  and  mottled  wdth  gray  scarf-skin.  Lenticels  rather  numerous, 
small,  scattering,  round,  raised  but  slightly  if  at  all.  Buds  small,  obtuse,  ap- 
pressed,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  above  medium.  Form  broadly  ovate  to  roundish  conic, 
faintly  ribbed,  nearly  regular,  symmetrical,  uniform.  Stem  pubescent,  medium 
to  long,  moderately  slender.  Cavity  small,  acuminate,  moderately  shallow, 
narrow,  sometimes  russeted,  symmetrical.  Calyx  medium  to  small,  open  to 
nearly  closed;  lobes  short,  narrow,  pubescent,  converging  and  somewhat  re- 

1Stone  was  erroneously  identified  by  a  leading  pomologist  for  Mr.  Clark  as  Bethel,  and 
for  this  reason  in  the  account  given  by  Heiges  (i)  it  is  erroneously  stated  that  Oel 
Austin  is  a  seedling  of  Bethel.  Both  Stone  and  Bethel  belong  in  the  Blue  Pearmain 
group,  but  they  are  quite  distinct  varieties.  For  a  comparison  of  the  two  the  reader  is 
refcired  to  Stone. 


OCCIDENT 


OEL  AUSTIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  237 

flexed.  Basin  moderately  abrupt,  shallow,  narrow,  slightly  furrowed  or 
wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  yellow  nearly  overspread  with  dull,  purplish-red  and  striped  with 
purplish-carmine.  Dots  numerous,  russet,  sunken. 

Calyx  tube  rather  narrow',  conical  or  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median. 

Core  abaxile,  medium  to  large ;  cells  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or,  when  the 
calyx  tube  is  funnel-form,  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder. 

Flesh  yellowish-white  sometimes  tinged  with  red  next  the  skin.,  firm,  fine- 
grained, crisp,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

OLIVE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1869:294.  2.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:136.  1904.  3.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:219.  1905. 

A  small  red  apple,  rather  attractive  in  color.  Unworthy  of  consideration 
by  New  York  fruit  growers.  The  tree  conies  into  bearing  young  and  is  pro- 
ductive being  a  reliable  annual  cropper.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 

This  is  not  the  Olive  of  Coxe,1  neither  is  it  the  Olive  from  Vermont  noticed 
by  Downing  (i)  and  described  in  1860  in  Gardeners  Monthly  (3). 

Historical  Originated  in  Wake  county,  North  Carolina  (i).  It  is  there 
a  fall  apple  but  as  grown  at  this  Station  its  season  extends  to  midwinter  and 
often  a  considerable  portion  of  the  fruit  remains  sound  till  April  or  later. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  roundish,  or  upright  spreading,  rather 
dense.  Twigs  short  to  above  medium,  slender,  straight  but  geniculate ;  inter- 
nodes  long  to  medium.  Bark  clear  brown  with  reddish  tinge,  lightly  streaked 
with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  rather  conspicuous, 
quite  numerous,  small  to  above  medium,  oval  or  elongated,  usually  not  raised. 
Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  small,  plump,  obtuse,  appressed,  not  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  nearly  medium,  fairly  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  inclined  to  conic,  varying  to  obovate,  obscurely  ribbed,  fairly  sym- 
metrical. Stem  short  to  above  medium.  Cavity  rather  small,  acute  to  acumi- 
nate, moderately  deep,  rather  narrow,  usually  russeted,  often  somewhat  fur- 
rowed, often  lipped.  Calyx  medium  or  above,  usually  open ;  lobes  often  leafy. 
Basin  abrupt,  moderately  shallow,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  often 
somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  entirely  covered  with  bright,  deep,  dark  red  or  mottled 
with  red  and  striped  with  carmine  over  a  deep  yellow  ground  color,  some- 
times marked  with  broken  stripes  of  grayish  scarf-skin.  Dots  numerous, 
pale,  often  large,  areolar  and  conspicuous. 

Calyx  tube  short,  conical  or  urn-shape  with  fleshy  pistil  point  projecting 
into  the  base,  or  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  medium,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical  and  open ;  core 
lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish,  slightly  emargi- 
1817: 1 66. 


238  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

nate  if  at  all,  mticronate.     Seeds  brownish-black,  small,  rather  short,  wide, 
plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  deeply  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  coarse,  rather  crisp,  somewhat 
tough,  juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid  or  nearly  sweet,  distinctly  aromatic,  fair  to 
good  in  quality. 

OLIVER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Ark.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1893.  2.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt., 
1895:33.  3-  Rural  N.  Y.,  54:843.  1895.  fig.  4.  Card,  and  For.,  8:520.  1895. 
5.  Thomas,  1897:268.  6.  Van  Deman,  Amer.  Card.,  19:823.  1898.  7.  Stinson, 
Ark.  Sta.  Bui,  49:16.  1898.  fig.  8.  Beach,  Amer.  Card.,  20:124,  166.  1899.  9. 
Ib.,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1899:90,  138.  10.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui, 
60:130.  1899.  "•  Brackett,  Amer.  Card.,  22:191.  1901.  12.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:143.  fig.  13.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:51.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  Oliver  (2).  Oliver's  Red  (6,  7,  10,  n,  12).  SENATOR  (2,  4,  5). 
Senator  (6,  7,  8,  10,  n,  12,  13). 

An  attractive  dark  red  apple  of  good  size  and  good  quality.  It 
is  of  desirable  shape,  smooth  and  pretty  uniform.  It  appears  to 
coincide  pretty  closely  with  Baldwin  in  season,  but  it  may  not  keep 
quite  so  late.  Its  commercial  season  in  ordinary  storage  appears 
to* :be  December  to  midwinter;  in  cold  storage  it  extends  to  March 
or  April..  Among  the  varieties  which  have  been  introduced  from 
Arkansas  and  Missouri  this  appears  to  be  one  of  the  most  promising 
for  the  New  York  fruit  grower,  but  as  yet  it  has  not  been  sufficiently 
tested  to  determine  its  value  in  this  region.  It  is  doubtful  whether 
it  can  always  be  properly  ripened  in  the  northern  portion  of  the 
Baldwin  apple  belt,  br  t  in  the  southern  portion  it  appears  to  be  more 
promising.  The  tree  is  evidently  hardy  in  Western  New  York.  It 
is  healthy,  vigorous,  comes  into  bearing  young,  is  productive  and 
gives  promise  of  being  an  annual  or  nearly  annual  bearer.  The 
fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree,  and  there  is  little  loss  from  drops  or 
culls. 

Historical.  This  variety  has  been  propagated  since  about  1873  in  North- 
western Arkansas  where  it  has  been  known  as  Oliver  Red  or  Oliver.  It  is 
supposed  to  have  originated  in  that  region  (7,  n).  It  has  been  disseminated 
from  the  Stark  Nurseries,  Louisiana,  Mo.,  under  the  name  Senator. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  very  vigorous;  branches  long,  rather  stocky.  Form 
roundish  or  somewhat  spreading;  top  open.  Twigs  stocky,  medium  in  length 
and  thickness;  internodes  medium  in  length.  Bark  dull  brown  and  olive- 
green,  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  large,  mostly  long,  conspicuous,  raised. 
Buds  large,  appressed,  broad,  obtuse,  pubescent.  Leaves  medium  or  often 
large,  long  and  rather  broad,  thick,  dark  green ;  foliage  rather  dense. 


I 


OLIVER 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  239 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  or  above  medium,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  or  somewhat  oblate,  pretty  symmetrical,  regular  or  somewhat  ellip- 
tical or  obscurely  angular;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  short  to  moder- 
ately long,  medium  in  thickness.  Cavity  medium  to  rather  large,  acute  to 
decidedly  acuminate,  deep,  moderately  broad  to  rather  narrow,  regular,  smooth 
and  green  or  partly  covered  with  greenish-russet,  sometimes  with  outspreading 
russet  rays.  Caly.r  medium  to  rather  large,  usually  somewhat  open;  lobes 
often  separated  at  the  base,  short,  broad,  obtuse,  erect  or  somewhat  reflexed. 
Basin  large,  usually  saucer-shape,  wide  and  abrupt,  sometimes  moderately 
shallow  and  rather  obtuse,  somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  somewhat  waxy,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened 
with  large  russet  dots,  green  or  bright  yellow,  mottled  and  striped  with  red 
or  nearly  covered  with  bright  deep  red  and  splashed  with  purplish-carmine. 
Dots  conspicuous,  numerous,  gray  or  russet,  rather  large,  often  somewhat 
elongated  or  irregular  about  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  obtusely  cone-shaped,  rarely  somewhat  funnel-form.  Stamens 
below  median  to  basal. 

Core  distant,  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  closed  or  slit ;  core  lines 
meeting  or  when  the  calyx  tube  is  funnel-form  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder. 
Carpels  roundish  or  somewhat  elongated,  narrowing  toward  the  base  and  apex, 
emarginate,  mucronate,  smooth  or  nearly  so.  Seeds  irregular,  large,  numer- 
ous, completely  filling  the  cells,  moderately  long,  wide,  obtuse,  or  sometimes 
acute,  dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  with  tinge  of  yellow  or  green,  moderately  fine  and  crisp,  rather 
tender,  breaking,  juicy,  somewhat  sprightly  subacid  eventually  approaching 
sweet,  good  or  possibly  very  good. 

Season  December  to  March  or  April. 

OLYMPIA. 

This  strain  of  the  Baldwin  was  discovered  growing  among  some 
Baldwin  trees  in  a  small  orchard  of  Mr.  William  Shincke,  Olympia, 
Washington.  The  trees  grow  like  the  Baldwin  and  appear  to  have 
the  general  characteristics  of  the  Baldwin,  except  that  the  twigs  of 
one  season's  growth  as  compared  with  Baldwin  twigs  have  darker 
bark  with  less  red  and  more  brown  or  olive-brown  color.  Other 
minor  differences  have  been  observed,  such  as  shorter  internodes, 
heavier  scarf-skin,  less  conspicuous  lenticels  and  more  abundant 
pubescence  on  bark  and  buds.  We  have  not  had  opportunity  to 
determine  whether  these  minor  differences  are  constant. 

The  fruit,  so  far  as  we  are  able  to  judge  from  the  rather  limited 
quantities  which  we  have  had  the  privilege  of  examining,  averages 
distinctly  larger  than  Baldwin  fruit  grown  in  the  same  locality,  and 
is  clearly  superior  in  color,  both  the  red  and  the  yellow  tones  being 


240  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

more  brilliant.  A  very  careful  comparison  of  the  fruit  of  Olympia 
with  that  of  Baldwin  discloses  no  constant  differences  in  structural 
characters.  For  a  technical  description  of  the  fruit  aside  from  size 
and  color,  the  reader  is  therefore  referred  to  the  description  of  Bald- 
win on  page  59. 

Olympia  is  best  known  in  the  vicinity  of  Olympia  and  is  there 
regarded  as  a  valuable  acquisition.  It  is  attracting  favorable  atten- 
tion also  throughout  the  apple-growing  districts  of  the  state  of 
Washington.  The  fact  that  it  is  regarded  so  highly  in  a  region 
where  the  Baldwin  succeeds  well  is  a  good  indication  that  it  may 
succeed  equally  well  in  the  Baldwin  districts  of  New  York.  It  is 
therefore  recommended  as  worthy  of  extended  trial  by  New  York 
fruit  growers. 

Historical.  The  following  account  of  this  strain  of  the  Baldwin  apple  has 
been  obtained  from  correspondence  with  W.  W.  Whidden,  George  Langridge 
and  William  Shincke  of  Olympia,  Washington.  The  original  tree  from  which 
Olympia  was  propagated  was  set  forty  years  or  more  ago  on  the  place  of 
William  Shincke,  Sr.,  in  Olympia,  Washington.  It  was  evidently  planted  for 
a  Baldwin  as  it  stood  with  other  Baldwin  trees.  The  fruit  was  at  first  sold 
as  Baldwin  but  Mr.  Shincke  noticed  that  it  was  larger  and  better  colored  than 
that  of  the  common  Baldwin.  Mr.  George  Langridge  was  supplied  with  scions 
from  this  tree  and  when  this  stock  came  into  bearing  with  Mr.  Langridge  it 
was  found  that  the  fruit  from  these  trees,  like  that  of  the  original  tree  from 
which  the  scions  were  taken,  was  larger  and  better  colored  than  the  fruit  of 
the  ordinary  Baldwin.  About  1890  it  was  first  propagated  for  sale  but  under 
different  names.  Finally  the  County  Horticultural  Society  named  it  Olympia. 

ONTARIO. 

REFERENCES.  I.  Horticulturist,  1874:312.  (cited  by  22).  2.  Downing,  1876: 
6 1  app.  fig.  3.  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1880:100.  4.  Brown,  Can.  Hort.,  13: 
114,  351.  1890.  5.  Ib.,  14:138.  1891.  6.  Nicol,  Can.  Hort.,  15:117.  1892.  7. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:245.  8.  Brown,  Amcr.  Card.,  14:426.  1893.  9.  Ont. 
Fr.  Gr.  Assn.  An.  Rpt.,  1:65.  1894.  IO-  Dempsey,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt., 
1:24.  1894.  "•  Edwards,  Can.  Hort.,  17:212.  1894.  12.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1895:78.  13.  Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  3:11.  1896.  figs.  14.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1897.  15.  Can.  Hort.,  23:231.  1900.  16.  Beach,  E.  N.  Y. 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:43.  17.  Ib.,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:36.  18. 
Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Bui.,  37:45.  1901.  19.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:143.  20. 
Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:51.  1903.  21.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:136.  1904.  22.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:220.  1905. 

Fruit  in  many  respects  intermediate  in  character  between  its 
parents,  Northern  Spy  and  Wagener.  Like  Wagener,  it  is  oblate 
and  ribbed;  like  the  Spy,  it  has  a  large,  deep  cavity  and  its  color 


ONTARIO 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  241 

when  highly  developed  is  pinkish-red  with  carmine  stripes  over  a 
clear,  pale  yellow  background.  As  grown  at  this  Station  we  have 
not  been  favorably  impressed  with  it  because  it  is  inferior  to 
Northern  Spy  both  in  color  and  quality.  In  fact  it  has  been  too 
deficient  in  color  to  rank  as  a  good  commercial  sort.  It  is  in  season 
from  November  to  March  or  April.  So  far  as  tested  here  it  appears 
to  follow  Northern  Spy  in  that  it  shows  considerable  variation  in 
different  seasons  in  its  keeping  quality  (21).  It  has  been  a  strictly 
biennial  bearer,  yielding  heavy  crops  in  alternate  years.  It  appears 
to  be  superior  to  Northern  Spy  in  productiveness,  but  is  less  pro- 
ductive than  Wagener.  It  is  hardier  and  longer-lived  than  Wagener. 
In  portions  of  Ontario  it  is  regarded  as  one  of  the  best  apples  both 
for  commercial  purposes  and  home  use  (18).  As  grown  in  that 
region  and  also  in  some  parts  of  Michigan  it  is  on  the  average 
larger  and  more  highly  colored  than  we  have  found  it  to  be  at  this 
Station.  Doubtless  there  are  localities  in  New  York  where  it  would 
succeed  much  better  than  it  does  at  Geneva.  On  account  of  its  good 
record  in  Canada  as  to  its  hardiness  and  productiveness  it  is  cer- 
tainly worthy  of  trial  in  Northern  New  York  and  in  those  portions 
of  the  state  where  the  Spy  succeeds  best. 

Historical.  Originated  by  Charles  Arnold,  Paris,  Ont,  by  crossing  Northern 
Spy  with  Wagener. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  vigorous.  Form  upright,  becoming  spreading.  Twigs 
rather  short  to  moderately  long,  rather  slender  to  moderately  stout,  quite 
pubescent;  internodes  medium  or  above.  Bark  dull,  dark  reddish-brown  over 
olive-green,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin.  Lenticels  rather  numerous,  small 
to  medium,  or  sometimes  large,  usually  oblong.  Buds  medium  size,  plump, 
acute  to  somewhat  obtuse,  projecting,  pubescent.  Leaves  usually  long  and 
rather  large. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  oblate  to  round- 
ish inclined  to  conic,  distinctly  ribbed  or  even  angular,  pretty  symmetrical. 
Stem  medium  in  length  and  thickness.  Cavity  characteristically  like  that  of 
the  Northern  Spy,  large,  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  deep,  wide  to  mod- 
erately wide,  often  thinly  rnsseted  and  with  outspreading  rays  of  russet. 
Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  slightly  open ;  lobes  rather  narrow,  acute. 
Basin  small  to  medium,  deep,  narrow  to  rather  wide,  abrupt,  often  furrowed 
and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  bright  pale  yellow  or  greenish  more  or  less  washed 
with  brownish-red  faintly  splashed  with  carmine,  in  highly  colored  specimens 
becoming  bright  pinkish-red  striped  with  bright  carmine;  often  coated  with 


242  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

whitish  bloom  and  mottled  and  streaked  with  whitish  scarf-skin,  particularly 
over  the  base.  Dots  rather  numerous,  small,  whitish,  gray  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  narrow,  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  usually  rather  small,  abaxile  with  a  rather  large  hollow  cylinder  at  the 
axis;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel 
cylinder.  Carpels  smooth  or  nearly  so,  roundish,  narrowing  toward  the  apex, 
often  nearly  truncate  at  the  base,  slightly  emarginate.  Seeds  medium  in  size, 
moderately  wide  to  wide,  obtuse  to  acute,  rather  dark. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  moderately  fine  or  a  little 
coarse,  crisp,  tender,  very  juicy,  sprightly,  rather  brisk  subacid,  more  so  than 
Northern  Spy,  aromatic,  good  to  very  good; 'especially  desirable  for  culinary 
use. 

OPALESCENT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Rural  N.  Y.,  58:224.  1899.  2.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1901. 
(cited  by  4^).  3.  Ohio  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1903:12.  4.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui, 
56:220.  1905. 

When  well  grown  Opalescent  is  a  very  attractive  apple,  being 
large,  shapely,  clear  yellow,  nearly  or  quite  covered  with  brilliant 
red,  in  highly  colored  specimens  becoming  deep  purplish-red.  It 
has  not  been  tested  in  New  York  sufficiently  to  show  whether  it  may 
be  considered  a  promising  variety  for  this  region.  It  does  not 
appear  to  be  as  good  a  keeper  as  Baldwin. 

Historical.     Introduced  about  1899  by  McNary  and  Gaines,  Xenia,  Ohio. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  roundish,  open.  7^'igs  long  to  medium  in  length, 
erect,  slender  to  moderately  stout,  curved  or  irregularly  crooked;  internodes 
short  to  above  medium.  Bark  dark  dull  reddish-brown  mingled  with  some 
olive-green  and  covered  with  a  heavy  coat  of  mottled  scarf-skin,  pubescent. 
Lenticels  rather  inconspicuous,  scattering,  medium  in  size,  roundish,  some- 
times raised.  Buds  prominent,  large  to  below  medium,  broad,  plump,  obtuse 
to  somewhat  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large.  Form  roundish  conic,  symmetrical  or  sometimes 
with  sides  unequal,  obscurely  ribbed.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately 
slender.  Cavity  pretty  large,  acuminate,  very  deep,  sometimes  partly  russeted, 
usually  symmetrical  but  sometimes  compressed.  Calyx  below  medium  or 
small,  usually  partly  open;  lobes  small,  obtuse  to  acute,  reflexed.  Basin  small 
to  medium  in  size,  often  oblique  with  the  brim  decidedly  prominent  on  one 
side,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  abrupt,  sometimes 
slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  rather  tough,  glossy,  takes  a  brilliant  polish ;  color 
bright  pale  yellow  nearly  or  quite  overspread  with  dark  deep  red  with  scarcely 
perceptible  streaks  of  purplish-carmine.  Dots  numerous,  small  to  large,  red, 


OPALESCENT 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  243 

yellowish  or  russet,  often  submerged,  frequently  mingled  with  irregular  lines 
and  flecks  of  russet.  Prevailing  effect  brilliant  deep  red. 

Calyx  tube  medium  to  rather  small,  cone-shape  or  short  funnel-form. 
Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  abaxile ;  cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  closed  or 
open;  core  lines  meeting  or  nearly  meeting.  Carpels  smooth,  roundish  or 
broadly  obcordate.  Seeds  acute,  medium  in  size,  form  and  color. 

Flesh  distinctly  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  moderately  tender,  a  little 
coarse,  juicy  or  moderately  juicy,  agreeable  mild  subacid,  aromatic,  good  to 
very  good. 

Season  November  to  February  or  March. 

ORNAMENT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Thompson,  Cat.  Hort.  Sac.  London,  1842:29.  (cited  by  2). 
2.  Leroy,  1873:520.  fig.  3.  Churchill,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  8:355.  1889.  4. 
Beach,  .V.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  13:590.  1894.  5.  Ib.,  14:254.  1895.  6.  Burrill  and 
McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:334.  1896.  7.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui.,  48:52.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  ORNAMENT  DE  TABLE  (4,  5,  6).  Ornament  de  Table  (7). 
ORNEMENT  DE  TABLE  (2). 

A  rather  attractive  dessert  apple  of  good  form  and  fairly  good  color  but 
hardly  attractive  enough  for  a  good  commercial  variety.  The  flesh  is  tender, 
juicy  and  mildly  subacid  or  nearly  sweet;  good  in  quality  but  surpassed  by 
other  dessert  apples  of  its  season.  The  tree  comes  into  bearing  rather  young, 
is  a  reliable  annual  cropper  and  productive  or  moderately  productive.  It  does 
not  appear  to  be  worthy  of  the  attention  of  the  fruit  growers  of  New  York. 

Historical.  This  is  a  European  variety  of  uncertain  origin  (i,  2).  It  has 
been  disseminated  but  sparingly  in  America. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  roundish  or  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  below 
medium  to  short,  straight,  slender ;  internodes  medium  or  below.  Bark  dark 
brownish-red  partly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels 
scattering,  small,  oblong  or  roundish,  sometimes  raised.  Buds  rather  promin- 
ent, medium  or  below,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  pretty  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Form  roundish 
inclined  to  conic  or  somewhat  oblate,  pretty  regular  and  symmetrical.  Stem 
short,  rather  slender.  Cavity  medium  to  rather  small,  acuminate  or  nearly  so, 
rather  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  often  partly  russeted.  Calyx 
medium  in  size,  usually  open,  pubescent ;  lobes  long,  acute,  separated  at  the 
base,  reflexed.  Basin  often  somewhat  oblique,  shallow  and  obtuse  to  moder- 
ately deep  and  somewhat  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thin,  tough,  smooth,  clear  yellow  or  greenish  washed  and  mottled 
with  dull  red  or  orange-red  and  sparingly  marked  with  narrow  stripes  of 
carmine.  Dots  numerous,  small,  gray  or  russet,  not  very  conspicuous.  Pre- 
vailing effect  red  and  yellow,  the  red  usually  predominating. 


244  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Calyx'  tube  short  funnel-form  with  moderately  broad  limb.  Stamens  below 
median  to  above. 

Core  medium  or  below,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  usually  closed ;  core  lines 
clasp  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  broadly  roundish,  obtusely  emarginate, 
mucronate.  Seeds  few,  dark,  medium  or  above,  wide,  rather  obtuse,  often 
slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  with  slight  yellow  tinge,  firm,  fine-grained,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  good. 

Season  October  to  February  or  March. 

ORTLEY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:169.  2.  Lindley,  Trans.  Royal  Hort.  Soc.  Lon- 
don, 6:415.  1825.  (cited  by  4,  5).  3.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831:39.  4. 
Kenrick,  1832:49.  5.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:57.  6.  Mag.  Hort.,  1:364.  1835.  7- 
Manning,  1838:57.  8.  Downing,  1845:142.  9.  Floy-Lindley,  1846:412  app. 
10.  Kirtland,  Horticulturist,  2:545.  1848.  u.  Downing  and  Ernst,  Horti- 
culturist, 4:74.  1849.  fig.  12.  Horticulturist,  4:144.  1849.  13.  Thomas,  1849: 
183,  188.  fig.  14.  Cole,  1849:130.  15.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:472.  1850. 

16.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.   Y.,  3:78.   1851.  col.  pi     17.  Elliott,  1854:95.  fig. 
18.  Downing,  1857:90.     19.  Hooper,  1857:67.     20.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  27:60. 
1861.     21.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,   1862.     22.  Warder,  1867:673.   fig.     23.  Fitz, 
1872:150.     24.  Barry,  1883:351.     25.  Hogg,  1884:249.     26.  Wickson,  1889:246. 
27.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:296.     28.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:245. 
29.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.     30.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45: 
334.  1896.    31.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:144. 

SYNONYMS.  Crane's  Pippin  (n,  17).  Detroit  (n,  13,  17,  19).  Detroit  of 
the  West  (13,  14).  Golden  Pippin  (u,  19,  of  some  17).  Greasy  Pippin  (n, 

17,  18).     Green  Bellflower  (n,  15,  17).     Hollow  Core  Pippin   (n,  17,  19). 
Hollow  Cored  Pippin   (18).     Inman   (17).     Jersey  Greening   (13,  17  but  not 
of  Coxe  ii ).    Melting  Pippin   (n,  17).     Ohio  Favorite  (n,  17,  18).     Ortley 
(16,  25).     ORTLEY  APPLE  (5).     Ortley  Apple  (8,  u,  14).     ORTLEY  PIPPIN 
(7,  19).     Ortley  Pippin  (8,  10,  n,  13,  17,  18).     Tom  Woodzvard  Pippin  (17). 
Van  Dyme  (16).     Van  Dyne  (n,  17,  25,  of  some  8).    WARREN  PIPPIN  (16). 
Warren  Pippin  (n,  13,  17).    WHITE  BELLEFLEUR  (10,  n,  12).     White  Belle- 
fieur   (17,  23).     WHITE  BELLFLOWER   (15,  29).     White  Bcllflower   (n,   13, 
14,  17,  18,  19,  20,  22,  26).     White  Detroit  (n,  13,  17,  r8,  27).     White  Pippin 
(n,  18,  erroneously  17).     Willow  Leaf  Pippin  (17,  18).     Woodman's  Song 
(18).      Woodward's  Pippin    (n,    17).     WOOLMAN'S   LONG    (8,    14,  23,  25). 
Woolman's  Long  (10,  IT,  13,  17,  24).    WOOLMAN'S  LONG  PIPPIN  (i).    Wool- 
nary  Long  (6).     Yellow  Pippin  (n,  17). 

A  pale  yellow  apple  of  the  Yellow  Bellflower  type  which  has  long 
been  known  in  cultivation.  Scattering  trees  of  it  are  found  in  some 
of  the  very  oldest  orchards  of  the  state,  but  it  has  never  been  grown 
to  any  considerable  extent  in  New  York  and  is  now  seldom  or  never 
planted,  being  less  successful  here  than  the  Yellow  Bellflower.  It 
does  better  farther  south  and  west.  As  grown  in  the  North  the 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  245 

fruit  tends  to  be  more  oblong',  smaller  and  of  a  paler  yellowish- 
white  color,  coarser  texture  and  sprightlier  flavor  than  when  grown 
farther  south  (17).  The  fruit  has  less  acidity  than  Yellow  Bell- 
flower  and  is  more  pleasant  in  flavor  for  dessert  use.  The  skin 
being  whitish  and  tender,  is  easily  bruised  or  discolored  in  handling. 
It  is  also  apt  to  be  marred  on  the  tree  by  the  chafing  of  the  limbs. 
The  wood  is  brittle  and  the  bearing  limbs  are  often  broken  by  the 
weight  of  the  fruit  (22).  Ortley  is  quite  subject  to  attacks  of 
various  insects  and  of  the  scab  fungus,  and  requires  thorough  treat- 
ment to  protect  it  from  these  troubles. 

Historical.  This  is  an  old  New  Jersey  variety  which  Coxe  described  under 
the  name  Woolman's  Long  Pippin  (i).  In  1825  Floy  sent  fruit  of  it  to  the 
Royal  Horticultural  Society,  London,  under  the  name  of  Ortley  and  in  the 
Transactions  of  the  Society  for  that  year  Lindley  described  it  under  this  name 
giving  Woolman's  Long  as  a  synonym.  Kenrick  (4),  Manning  (7),  Thomas 
(13),  Elliott  (17),  Charles  Downing  (18),  and  other  American  pomologists 
have  followed  Floy  instead  of  Coxe  and  describe  the  variety  under  the  name 
Ortley.  Emmons  (16)  gives  Ortley  as  identical  writh  Warren  Pippin  of  Coxe 
but  it  is  quite  doubtful  whether  he  was  correct  in  this  case.  In  portions  of 
the  South  and  West  Ortley  is  an  old  favorite  for  planting  in  home  orchards 
and  has  there  been  known  under  many  different  names  prominent  among 
which  are  White  Bellflower  and  White  Detroit. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  and  medium  in  size  or  under  favorable  conditions 
large.  Form  at  first  upright  with  long  slender  shoots  but  when  mature  the 
tree  becomes  roundish  or  spreading.  Twigs  below  medium  to  above,  rather 
slender,  straight,  quite  pubescent;  internodes  short.  Bark  dull  reddish-brown 
often  overlaid  with  thick  scarf-skin.  Lenticels  small  and  scattering  but  rather 
conspicuous,  mostly  roundish,  raised.  Buds  below  medium,  moderately  pro- 
jecting, roundish,  slightly  pubescent,  free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  or  medium,  not  very  uniform  in  size  or  shape.  Form  oblong 
conic  and  flattened  at  the  base,  varying  to  somewhat  roundish  conic,  regular 
or  obscurely  ribbed.  Stem  long,  often  slender.  Cavity  often  large,  acute  or 
approaching  acuminate,  deep,  varying  from  moderately  narrow  to  wide,  usually 
partly  russeted,  somewhat  furrowed.  Calyx  rather  small  to  medium,  closed 
or  somewhat  open ;  lobes  long,  acute,  usually  converging  and  reflexed.  Basin 
small  to  medium,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide, 
usually  abrupt  and  wrinkled  or  slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  smooth,  waxy,  pale  whitish-yellow  varying  to 
rich  yellow  in  well  developed  fruit,  rarely  with  a  faint  pinkish-red  blush, 
Dots  inconspicuous,  usually  whitish  and  submerged. 


246  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form  approaching  cylindrical,  sometimes  constricted  at 
the  base  of  the  limb  and  enlarging  below,  often  characteristically  elongated 
and  extending  to  the  core.  Stamens  median. 

Core  large,  widely  abaxile;  cells  usually  symmetrical  and  wide  open,  some- 
times closed ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  roundish  ovate, 
elongated,  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds  numerous,  characteristically  small 
and  pointed,  roundish,  plump,  light  to  medium  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid,  very  good. 

Season  October  to  February. 

PALMER. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:224.  1905. 
SYNONYM.     PALMER  OF  N.  Z. 

A  New  Zealand  apple  received  in  1897  for  testing  here  from  G.  B.  Brackett, 
U.  S.  Pomologist,  Washington,  D.  C.  The  fruit  is  large  or  above  medium, 
rather  attractive  in  appearance  for  a  yellow  apple,  brisk  subacid  in  flavor  and 
good  in  quality. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  with  long,  moderately  stout  branches.  Form  roundish, 
rather  dense.  Twigs  long,  curved,  moderately  stout;  internodes  short.  Bark 
dull  brown,  tinged  with  green,  heavily  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  heavily  pubes- 
cent. Lenticels  scattering,  small,  round,  not  raised.  Buds  large,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse,  free4  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  above  or  sometimes  large.  Form  roundish  varying  to 
roundish  oblate  or  to  slightly  oblong,  irregular.  Stem  long,  moderately  thick. 
Cavity  acuminate,  deep,  rather  broad,  sometimes  faintly  russeted,  not  sym- 
metrical. Calyx  open  or  nearly  so,  rather  large.  Basin  deep,  wide,  abrupt, 
slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  attractive  yellow  or  greenish-yellow.  Dots  conspicuous,  large 
and  small,  russet,  sometimes  areolar. 

Calyx  tube  long,  moderately  wide  to  wide,  funnel-shape  or  urn-shape. 
Stamens  marginal. 

Core  large,  abaxile;  cells  symmetrical,  open;  core  lines  slightly  clasping. 
Carpels  broadly  roundish  varying  from  somewhat  elliptical  to  slightly  cordate, 
tufted.  Seeds  large,  moderately  narrow,  plump,  acute,  rather  dark  brown. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish-yellow,  moderately  coarse,  rather 
tender,  breaking,  juicy,  sprightly,  brisk  subacid,  good. 

Season  winter. 

PARAGON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Van  Deman,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1891:123,  159.  2.  Bailey, 
An.  Hort.,  1892:246.  3.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1895:30.  4.  Babcock,  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895:190.  5.  Amer.  Card.,  16:419.  1895.  6.  Ib. ,  17:12,  28, 
33,  42,  65,  97,  146,  152,  194,  210,  306.  1896.  fig.  7.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y., 
55:243.  1896.  8.  Watts,  Tenn.  Sta.  Bui,  1:24.  1896.  fig.  9.  Powell,  Del  Sta. 
Bui,  38:19.  1898.  10.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui,  49:7.  1898.  n.  Bruner,  N.  C. 
Sta.  Bui,  182:21.  1903.  12.  Thomas,  1903:712.  13.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:144. 


PARAGON 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  247 

fig.     14.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:52.  1903.     15.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:137.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Black  Twig  (8,  14),  but  erroneously.  Mammoth  Black  Twig 
(8,  13,  15),  but  erroneously.  Twitty's  Paragon  (8). 

This  is  a  southern  variety  of  the  Winesap  type.  In  the  apple- 
growing  regions  of  the  South  where  it  has  been  tested  it  has  proven 
to  be  an  excellent  variety  in  many  respects,  but  it  is  not  generally 
regarded  by  the  orchardists  of  that  region  as  being  especially 
promising  for  commercial  orchards.  The  fruit  evidently  does  not 
develop  to  as  high  a  degree  of  perfection  in  New  York  as  it  does 
in  more  southern  latitudes.  It  is  not  probable  that  it  will  prove 
successful  as  a  commercial  variety  here,  though  it  has  sufficient 
merit  to  make  it  worthy  of  testing  to  a  limited  extent. 

Historical  The  Paragon  originated  on  the  farm  of  Major  Rankin  Toole 
near  Fayetteville,  Lincoln  county,  Tennessee  (3,  6,  7,  8).  The  early  history 
of  the  tree  is  not  very  clear  but  it  probably  came  from  a  seed  planted  about 
1830.  Grafts  from  the  original  tree  were  taken  in  1870  by  Mr.  Twitty,  a  local 
nurseryman,  and  later  introduced  to  the  public.  It  was  badly  confused  for 
a  while  with  an  Arkansas  seedling  now  properly  known  by  the  name  of 
Arkansas  but  then  passing  under  the  name  of  Mammoth  Black  Twig.  Some 
believed  that  the  Arkansas  was  identical  with  Paragon.  An  extensive  dis- 
cussion and  the  testimony  of  many  persons  has  since  brought  out  the  fact 
that  these  are  two  distinct  although  similar  seedlings  of  Arkansas  and  Ten- 
nessee origin  respectively.  Many  have  thought  that  Paragon  may  be  a  seed- 
ling of  the  Winesap  crossed  by  Limbertwig  as  it  possesses  some  of  the  char- 
acteristics of  both  of  these  varieties. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  with  rather  short,  stout,  twisted  branches.  Form 
roundish  to  spreading,  inclined  to  droop,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  to 
rather  long,  nearly  straight,  stout  to  rather  slender ;  internodes  short  to 
medium.  Bark  very  dark  reddish-brown,  mottled  with  thin  scarf-skin,  pubes- 
cent. Lenticels  scattering,  medium  in  size,  roundish  to  oval,  raised.  Buds 
large,  prominent,  broad,  plump,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse,  curved,  free,  gener- 
ally pubescent.  Leaves  medium  in  size,  broad. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
or  sometimes  oblate,  slightly  conic,  rounding  toward  stem  and  calyx ;  sides 
often  a  little  unequal.  Stem  medium  in  length  and  thickness.  Cavity  nearly 
obtuse  to  acute,  medium  in  width  and  moderately  shallow  to  sometimes  rather 
wide  and  deep,  usually  symmetrical,  often  furrowed  or  compressed,  occasion- 
ally lipped,  usually  russet  and  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  rather 
small,  closed.  Basin  rather  shallow  and  obtuse  varying  occasionally  to  abrupt 
and  medium  in  width  and  depth,  often  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 


248  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  grass-green  or  yellowish,  largely  covered  with  rather 
dull,  deep  red  and  indistinctly  striped  with  darker  red.  Dots  gray  or  whitish, 
small,  sometimes  rather  conspicuous.  Prevailing  effect  dark  red. 

Calyx'  tube  rather  small,  varying  from  conical  to '  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  slightly  marginal. 

Core  rather  small;  cells  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  much 
concave,  roundish  varying  to  nearly  cordate,  slightly  emarginate.  Seeds 
rather  large,  long,  acute,  dark ;  often  some  are  abortive. 

Flesh  greenish  or  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  rather  tender, 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  somewhat  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  January  to  May. 

PARK  SPICE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Carpenter,  Horticulturist,  19:114.  1864.  figs-  %•  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1867.  (cited  by  5).  3.  Downing,  1869:298.  4.  Thomns,  1897:648. 
5.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:225.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.     PARK  (5).     Park  Apple  (3,  4,  5).    Park  Spice  (5). 

As  described  by  Carpenter,  Downing  and  Thomas  (i,  3,  4)  the  fruit  of 
the  Park  Spice  apple  is  medium  to  rather  large,  yellowish  shaded  with  red 
and  striped  with  crimson;  the  flesh  is  yellowish-white,  fine-grained,  crisp, 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  pleasantly  aromatic,  very  good  in  quality;  in  season  from 
December  to  March. 

Historical.  Originated  on  the  Park  farm  in  Harrison,  Westchester  county, 
New  York.  In  1864  Carpenter  stated  that  the  original  tree,  then  supposed  to 
be  over  a  hundred  years  old,  was  still  vigorous  and  productive  (i).  So  far 
as  we  can  learn  the  variety  is  now  obsolete. 

PARLIN, 

REFERENCES,  i.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1894:21.  2.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1899.  (cited  by  4).  3.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1901:97.  4.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:225.  1905. 

SYNONYM.     PARLIN'S  BEAUTY  (3).     Parlin's  Beauty  (4). 

An  attractive  red  apple  of  pretty  good  quality  for  dessert  but  being  mildly 
sweet  in  flavor  is  less  suitable  for  culinary  uses.  It  has  not  as  yet  been  tested 
sufficiently  to  determine  its  value  for  this  region. 

Historical.  In  1894  the  original  tree  over  fifty  years  old  was  still  standing 
at  Norridgewock,  Maine,  still  vigorous,  healthy  and  productive  (i).  The 
variety  has  as  yet  been  but  little  disseminated  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  not  a  strong  grower,  below  medium  size ;  branches  rather  short  and 
moderately  stout.  Form  upright  and  somewhat  spreading  or  roundish.  Twigs 
short,  straight,  moderately  stout  with  large  terminal  buds;  internodes  long 
to  medium.  Bark  brown  tinged  with  red,  partly  overlaid  with  rather  thick 
scarf-skin ;  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  scattering,  medium  to  small,  round- 
ish or  elongated,  raised  but  slightly  if  at  all.  Buds  large  to  medium,  prom- 
inent, broad,  plump,  acute,  free,  pubescent. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  249 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size.  Form  rather  variable, 
roundish  to  oblate,  often  inclined  to  conic,  more  or  less  irregular,  somewhat 
angular ;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  medium  or  sometimes  long,  rather 
slender.  Cavity  acute,  usually  deep,  moderately  wide  or  wide,  often  furrowed 
or  compressed,  marked  with  yellowish-russet  which  sometimes  extends  beyond 
the  cavity,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  small,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  small, 
narrow,  reflexed.  Basin  rather  small,  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  very 
abrupt,  nearly  symmetrical  or  slightly  furrowed,  sometimes  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thin,  tough,  smooth,  bright  pale  yellow  blushed  and  mottled 
with  pinkish-red  and  striped  with  darker  red,  highly  colored  specimens  being 
nearly  overspread  with  bright  red  becoming  on  the  exposed  cheek  nearly  as 
dark  red  as  Jonathan  or  Gano,  often  irregularly  veined  with  russet.  Dots 
usually  small,  yellowish  or  pale  gray,  sometimes  large. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile ;  cells  closed  or  nearly  so ;  core  lines  clasping 
or  meeting.  Carpels  smooth,  wide  at  the  middle,  emarginate,  often  approach- 
ing obcordate.  Seeds  below  medium  or  small,  irregular,  dark,  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish  with  yellow  tinge,  moderately  firm,  tender,  moderately  fine- 
grained, not  crisp,  moderately  juicy,  sweet  or  very  mildly  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic,  good  or  sometimes  very  good. 

Season  October  to  midwinter  or  later. 

PARSON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:246.  2.  Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr. 
Rpt.,  1896:132. 

SYNONYM.     PARSON'S  SWEET   (i).     Parson's  Sweet   (2). 

A  large,  handsome,  dark  red,  early  winter  apple  of  excellent  flavor.  It  has 
not  been  sufficiently  tested  in  this  vicinity  to  determine  its  value  for  this 
region.  Professor  John  Craig  states*  that  it  resembles  the  Sweet  Winesap  but 
is  of  much  purer  quality. 

Historical.  Said  to  have  originated  near  Springfield,  Mass.,  as  a  seedling 
in  one  of  the  old  orchards  of  that  locality.  Fowler  Brothers  brought  the 
stock  to  Geneva,  New  York,  about  1880  where  it  was  propagated  for  their 
own  sales  as  it  was  known  only  locally  in  the  vicinity  of  Springfield.  Mr. 
A.  L.  Root,  of  the  Fonthill  Nurseries,  Welland,  Ontario,  who  obtained  the 
variety  from  Fowler  Brothers,  sent  scions  of  it  to  this  Station  for  testing 
in  1901. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  with  long,  moderately  stout  branches.  Form  upright  and 
somewhat  spreading  or  roundish,  open.  Twigs  long,  stout,  slightly  curved; 
internodes  short.  Bark  very  dark  brown  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin, 
pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  medium  in  size,  oblong,  slightly  raised,  rather 
conspicuous.  Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  large,  broad,  flat,  obtuse,  appressed, 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

The  following  is  Craig's  description  of  the  fruit  (2).  "Large,  roundish, 
oblique,  conical.  Skin  moderately  smooth ;  colour,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with 


250  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

rich  dark  red,  marked  with  large  white  or  russet-coloured  dots  marbled  on  the 
shaded  side.  Cavity,  deep,  narrow,  regular;  stem  half  to  three-quarters  inch 
long,  deeply  inserted,  curved,  slender.  Basin  large,  slightly  ribbed  ;  calyx,  large, 
open.  Flesh  white,  tender,  flaky,  fairly  juicy,  very  sweet;  core  small.  A  large 
handsome  sweet  early  winter  apple.  One  of  the  best  of  the  class." 

PAWPAW. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Horticulturist,  13:149.  1858.  2.  Warder,  1867728.  3. 
Downing,  1869:299.  4.  Thomas,  1875:508.  5.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:296.  6.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  205:42.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  Ball  Apple  (3).  PAWPAW  SEEDLING  (i).  Rubicon  (3,  5). 
Western  Baldwin  (3). 

A  late-keeping  winter  apple  of  medium  size,  attractive  red  color  and 
good  quality.  A  hardy,  moderate  grower  and  regular  bearer;  must  have 
suitable  soil  and  good  culture  (5).  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting 
in  this  state. 

Historical.  Origin  Paw  Paw,  Michigan  (i,  3).  It  has  long  been  cultivated 
in  Michigan  to  a  limited  extent,  but  is  practically  unknown  to  New  York  fruit 
growers. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  roundish  or  somewhat  oblong,  inclined  to  conic,  faintly 
ribbed ;  axis  slightly  oblique ;  sides  unequal.  Stem  medium  in  length,  moder- 
ately slender.  Cavity  acuminate,  deep,  rather  broad,  compressed,  irregularly 
russeted.  Calyx  medium  in  size,  slightly  open.  Basin  medium  in  depth  and 
width,  somewhat  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed  and  wrinkled,  compressed. 

Skin  smooth,  rather  glossy,  yellow  overspread  and  mottled  with  attractive 
red  irregularly  splashed  and  striped  with  carmine.  Dots  moderately  numerous, 
variable  in  size,  russet  or  light  colored,  rather  conspicuous,  often  areolar.  Pre- 
vailing color  red. 

Calyx  tube  short,  conical.     Stamens  basal. 

Core  medium  in  size,  axile ;  cells  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting 
or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish,  slightly  emarginate,  slightly 
tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  above  medium  size,  rather  wide,  plump,  acute,  irreg- 
ular, somewhat  tufted,  rather  dark  brown. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  rather  tender,  juicy, 
subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  June. 

PAYNE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:246.  2.  Wild,  Mo.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1902:203.  3.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui,  3:23.  1902.  fig.  4.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:146. 

SYNONYMS.     PAYNE'S  KEEPER  (i,  2,  3).    Payne  Late  Keeper  (4). 

An  attractive  apple,  valued  in  the  Ozark  region  because  of  its 
excellent  keeping  qualities.  It  is  somewhat  deficient  in  size,  good 
in  quality  and  nearly  sweet.  It  is  duller  in  color  than  Ben  Davis, 
but  better  in  flavor  and  quality.  It  has  not  yet  been  sufficiently 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  251 

tested  in  New  York  to  indicate  its  value  for  this  region,  but  it  is 
probably  not  well  suited  to  the  conditions  existing  in  this  state. 

Historical.  Originated  on  the  Payne  farm  near  Everton,  Missouri.  It  is 
supposed  to  have  originated  from  seed  brought  from  North  Carolina  about 
1840. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  above  medium,  sometimes  rather  large.  Form 
roundish  conic,  somewhat  elliptical,  ribbed  very  obscurely  if  at  all.  Stem 
short,  usually  not  exserted,  rather  slender.  Cavity  large,  remarkably  acumi- 
nate, very  deep,  often  somewhat  furrowed  or  compressed,  usually  covered  with 
thin  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  small,  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes  often  flat 
and  convergent,  sometimes  separated  at  the  base.  Basin  commonly  very  small 
to  medium,  often  oblique. 

Skin  smooth,  moderately  thick,  very  tough,  yellow  or  greenish  washed  and 
blushed  with  red  and  pencilled  with  narrow,  obscure,  carmine  stripes,  more 
or  less  streaked  over  the  base  with  thin,  dull  scarf-skin.  Highly  colored  speci- 
mens are  almost  wholly  covered  with  bright  deep  red.  Dots  scattering,  moder- 
ately conspicuous,  rather  large,  pale  gray  or  whitish  often  with  russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  smalls  funnel-form  or  nearly  so.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  medium  in  size,  slightly  abaxile ;  cells  often  not  quite  uniform  in  size 
but  usually  symmetrical,  partly  open  or  closed ;  core  lines  clasp  the  funnel 
cylinder.  Carpels  tender,  slightly  tufted,  ovate,  mucronate,  but  slightly  emar- 
ginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  medium  or  above,  wide,  rather  flat,  obtuse,  tufted, 
often  adhering  to  the  carpels,  rather  dark. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy  to  some- 
what dry,  moderately  tender,  pleasant  in  flavor,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly 
sweet,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  January  to  June. 

PEACH. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1869:299.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:246.  3. 
Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:335.  1896.  4.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  Bui,  248:137.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.     Peach  of  Kentucky  (3).     Winter  Peach   (3). 

Fruit  white-skinned,  often  with  delicate  pink  cheek  overspread 
with  whitish  bloom.  In  general  appearance  it  is  quite  attractive, 
but  it  does  not  always  average  good  marketable  size.  It  has  a  per- 
fumed, subacid  flesh  of  pretty  good  quality.  The  tree  is  long-lived 
and  a  pretty  reliable  biennial  cropper,  but  hardly  as  uniformly  pro- 
ductive as  is  desirable  in  a  commercial  variety.  Although  it  has 
long  been  known  in  cultivation  and  is  considered  by  some  a  profit- 
able sort,  generally  speaking  it  has  won  but  little  recognition  among 
fruit  growers.  It  is  not  recommended  for  general  planting,  but  it 
may  be  valuable  locally. 


252  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.     Origin  unknown  (i).    It  is  but  very  little  grown  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous  with  moderately  long, 
slender,  crooked  branches.  Form  roundish  or  nearly  upright,  open.  Tzvigs 
medium  to  short,  straight,  moderately  stout;  internodes  medium  to  short. 
Bark  brown  or  somewhat  tinged  with  red,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin, 
pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous  but  not  conspicuous,  small,  roundish  or 
elongated,  not  raised.  Buds  medium  to  small,  plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly 
so,  pubescent. 

Fnuif. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  above.  Form  oblate  varying  to  roundish,  flat  at 
base,  inclined  to  conic,  somewhat  ribbed  and  often  irregularly  elliptical ;  sides 
often  unequal.  Stem  short  to  long,  sometimes  swollen.  Cavity  rather  large, 
acute,  moderately  deep,  rather  broad,  furrowed,  usually  russeted.  Calyx  small 
to  above  medium,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  small  to  medium,  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  abrupt  to  rather  obtuse,  some- 
times furrowed,  often  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  rather  tender,  smooth,  clear  pale  yellow  or  whitish, 
often  with  a  faint  blush  sometimes  deepening  in  part  to  pink,  mottled  about 
the  cavity  with  whitish  scarf-skin  and  overspread  with  a  white  bloom  which 
produces  a  delicate  and  beautiful  effect.  Dots  numerous,  whitish  or  areolar 
with  russet  point,  often  submerged. 

Calyx  tube  usually  funnel-shape  and  rather  narrow  with  wide  limb,  some- 
times conical.  Stamens  basal. 

Core  medium  or  below  medium  in  size,  abaxile;  cells  usually  symmetrical, 
sometimes  open ;  core  lines  clasping  or.  meeting.  Carpels  elliptical  to  some- 
what obcordate,  emarginate,  smooth.  Seeds  few,  above  medium  to  rather 
small,  wide,  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  break- 
ing, tender,  very  juicy,  rather  briskly  subacid,  perfumed,  slightly  astringent, 
good  or  sometimes  very  good  in  quality. 

Season  December  to  May  or  June. 

PEARMAIN. 

The  term  Pearmain,  like  the  term  Pippin,  has  been  applied  to  very 
many  different  varieties  of  apples.  In  this  country  it  is  used  now 
much  less  than  it  was  formerly.  Hogg  states  that  it  "  signifies  the 
Great  Pear  Apple.  In  olden  times  it  was  variously  written  Peare- 
maine  or  Peare-maine,  being  the  Anglicised  equivalent  of  Pyrus 
Magnus,  just  as  Charlemagne  is  of  Carolus  Magnus.  A  Pearmain, 
therefore,  ought  to  be  a  long  or  pear-shaped  apple." 

Among  the  varieties  described  in  this  volume  with  the  term  Pear- 
main  appearing  either  in  the  accepted  names  or  in  synonyms  are 
those  listed  below.  Synonyms  appear  in  italics. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  253 

Autumn  Pearmain.     See  Winter  Pearmain. 

Blue  Pearmain. 

Cannon  Pearmain. 

Cogswell  Pearmain.     See  Cogswell. 

Green  Winter  Pearmain.     See  Winter  Pearmain. 

Great  Pearmain.     See  Winter  Pearmain. 

Hollow  Crown  Pearmain.     See  Wine. 

Hoopes  Pearmain.     See  Greyhouse. 

Large  Striped  Pearmain.     See  McAfee. 

Large  Striped  Winter  Pearmain.     See  McAfee. 

Lop-sided  Pearmain.     See  Greyhouse. 

Old  Pearmain.     See  Winter  Pearmain. 

Pearmain.     See  Winter  Pearmain. 

Pearmain  Herefordshire.     See  Winter  Pearmain. 

Pryor's  Pearmain.     See  Pryor. 

Red  Winter  Pearmain.     See  page  279. 

Red  Winter  Pearmain.     See  Westfield  Seek-No-Further. 

Russet  Pearmain.     See  Hunt  Russet. 

Striped  Winter  Pearmain.     See  McAfee. 

Wrhite  Pearmain. 

White  Winter  Pearmain.     See  White  Pearmain. 

Winter  Pearmain. 

Winter  Pearmain.     See  McAfee. 

Winter  Pearmain.     See  Milam. 

PECK  PLEASANT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Kenrick,  1832:50.  2.  Bull,  Mag.  Hort.,  6:172.  1840.  3. 
Downing,  1845:126.  fig.  4.  Floy-Lindley,  1846:411  app.  5.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort., 
14:249.  1848.  6.  Thomas,  1849:183.  7.  Horticulturist,  4:344.  1849.  8.  Cole, 
1849:125.  9.  N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1849:355.  fig.  10.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist. 
N.  Y.,  3:84.  1851.  col.  pi.  and  fig.  n.  Elliott,  1854:97.  fig.  12.  Hooper,  1857: 
69.  13.  Mag.  Hort.,  26:101.  1860.  14.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  15.  Mag. 
Hort.,  30:162.  1864.  16.  Warder,  1867:641.  fig.  17.  Downing,  1869:301.  18. 
Fitz,  1872:168.  19.  Barry,  1883:351.  20.  Rural  N.  Y.,  46:202.  1887.  21.  Ib., 
47:749.  1888.  22.  Wickson,  1889:247.  23.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890: 
296.  24.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:246.  25.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  1893: 
133.  26.  Taft,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  105:109.  1894.  27.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui, 
130:135-  1901.  28.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  60:37.  1901.  29.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:147.  30.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:52.  1903.  31.  Beach 
and  Clark,  Ar.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:137.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Dutch  Greening.  PECK  (26).  PECK'S  PLEASANT  (i,  2,  3,  4,  5, 
6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  n,  12,  13,  14,  15,  18,  20,  21,  22,  23,  24,  25,  27,  28,  30).  Waltz 
Apple  (17).  Watts  Apple  (12). 

This  variety  evidently  belongs  in  the  same  group  with  Green 
Newtown,  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Perry  Russet.  It  is  an  old 
favorite  for  home  use  in  many  parts  of  the  state.  It  is  more  highly 
esteemed  for  dessert  than  for  culinary  uses.  The  flesh  is  tender, 


254  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

pleasantly  flavored  and  ranks  very  good  to  best  in  quality.  The 
color  is  good  for  a  yt.Iow  apple,  being  at  first  predominantly  green, 
but  as  the  fruit  approaches  full  maturity  it  becomes  waxen-yellow 
with  an  orange  or  pinkish  blush.  The  fruit  very  often  scalds  in 
storage,  but  it  is  less  apt  to  do  so  if  placed  in  cold  storage  immedi- 
ately after  picking.  Its  season  for  home  use  extends  from  October 
to  March.  Ordinarily  February  is  its  commercial  limit  in  Western 
New  York,  but  in  cold  storage  it  may  be  held  till  April  (31).  The 
tree  is  somewhat  subject  to  root-rot  and  canker  and  it  is  not  consid- 
ered as  long-lived  nor  as  healthy  as  either  Baldwin  or  Rhode  Island 
Greening.  It  has  the  reputation  of  being  often  a  shy  bearer.  In 
some  localities  it  may  bear  pretty  regularly,  but  it  is  only  occasion- 
ally that  it  gives  full  crops.  The  better  grades  of  the  fruit  are  of 
good  size  and  attractive  appearance,  but  there  is  apt  to  be  a  rather 
high  percentage  of  loss  from  ill-shapen,  undersized  or  otherwise 
unmarketable  fruit. 

It  is  said  to  be  known  locally  in  some  portions  of  the  state  under 
the  name  Dutch  Greening. 

Historical.  In  1845  Downing  expressed  the  opinion  that  Peck  Pleasant 
originated  in  Rhode  Island  and  stated  that  it  had  long  been  cultivated  in  that 
state  and  in  Northern  Connecticut  (3).  It  has  been  pretty  thoroughly  dis- 
seminated throughout  New  York  state  but  it  is  found  chiefly  in  the  older 
orchards  and  is  now  seldom  or  never  planted.  In  1890  Lyon  (23)  reported 
concerning  the  status  of  this  variety  in  Michigan  that  it  was  generally  and 
deservedly  popular,  the  fruit  being  beautiful  and  excellent,  and  the  tree  in 
habit  like  Rhode  Island  Greening  but  less  vigorous. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous  or  a  rather  slow  grower.  Form 
upright  spreading  or  roundish,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  to  short,  nearly 
straight,  moderately  stout;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  brown  tinged 
with  red  often  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin ; 
slightly  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  small,  oblong  or  round- 
ish, not  raised.  Buds  very  deeply  set  in  bark,  medium  to  small,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse  to  acute,  appressed  to  nearly  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  sometimes  large,  somewhat  variable  in  shape  and  size. 
Form  oblate  to  roundish,  sometimes  a  little  inclined  to  conic,  often  obscurely 
ribbed  or  irregularly  elliptical,  sometimes  with  furrow  on  one  side.  Stem 
medium  to  short  and  usually  thick  or  fleshy.  Cavity  variable,  obtuse  or  some- 
times acute,  rather  wide,  shallow  to  deep,  nearly  symmetrical  or  a  little  fur- 
rowed, often  lipped  or  compressed,  sometimes  partly  russeted.  Calyx  pubes- 


PECK  PLEASANT 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  255 

cent,  medium  to  rather  large ;  lobes  long,  open  or  closed,  sometimes  distinctly 
separated  at  the  base,  rather  obtuse.  Basin  varies  from  broad  to  rather  narrow, 
from  obtuse  to  abrupt,  and  from  nearly  symmetrical  to  irregular  and  furrowed 
or  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth,  green  becoming  bright  waxen  yellow 
with  orange-red  blush,  sometimes  partly  deepening  to  pink.  Dots  numerous, 
whitish  and  submerged  or  with  russet  point.  Prevailing  effect  yellow. 

Calyx-  tube  funnel-form.     Stamens  basal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  abaxile  to  nearly  axile;  cells  not  uniformly 
developed,  usually  closed  or  slit ;  core  lines  clasp  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels 
rather  tender,  broadly  roundish,  often  nearly  truncate,  emarginate,  mucronate. 
Seeds  numerous,  rather  dark,  long,  narrow,  acute,  below  medium  or  above, 
sometimes  slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  tender,  crisp,  fine-grained,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid, 
aromatic,  very  good  to  best.  Toward  the  close  of  the  season  it  becomes 
inferior  in  quality  although  it  may  appear  to  be  still  in  good  condition. 

PENNOCK. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:145.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:132.  3.  Buel,  N.  Y. 
Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:477.  4.  Fessenden,  1828:131.  5.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  Lon- 
don, 1831:27.  6.  Mag.  Hort.,  1:364.  1835.  7.  Manning,  Ib.,  7:47.  1841.  8. 
Downing,  1845:125.  9.  Kirtland,  Horticulturist,  2:545.  l&47-  10-  Longworth, 
Ib.,  3:395.  1848.  ii.  Phoenix,  Ib.,  4:470.  1849.  12.  Thomas,  1849:170.  13. 
Cole,  1849:128.  14.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:59.  1851.  col.  pi.  15.  Elliott, 
1854:176.  16.  Hooper,  1857:68.  17.  Horticulturist,  15:183.  1860.  18.  Warder, 
1867:449.  19.  Downing,  1869:302.  20.  Hogg,  1884:171.  21.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:296.  22.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:246. 

SYNONYMS.  Big  Romanite  (15,  16,  19).  Gay's  Romanife  (19).  Large 
Romanite  (15,  16,  19).  Neisley's  Winter  (15).  Neisleys  Winter  Penick 
(19).  Pelican  (19).  Penick.  Pennick.  Pennock  (8).  PENNOCK'S  RED 
WINTER  (2,  5,  6,  8,  10,  13,  16).  Pennock 's  Red  Winter  (12,  15,  18,  19,  20). 
Phoenix  (16).  Pomme  Roye  (19,  of  some  West,  15).  Prolific  Beauty  (15, 
19).  Red  Ox  (19).  Red  Pennock  (15,  19).  Romanite  (18).  Roman  Knight 
d9). 

A  rather  large,  red  winter  apple,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape 
and  attractive  in  appearance,  but  only  fair  to  good  in  quality.  It  is 
much  subject  to  the  trouble  commonly  known  as  "  Baldwin  Spot/' 
for  which  no  remedy  is  known.1  The  tree  is  hardy,  very  long-lived 
and  a  strong  grower.  It  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and  is  a 
reliable  cropper,  usually  yielding  heavy  crops  biennially  and  bearing 
some  fruit  every  year.  Generally  speaking  it  is  not  regarded  with 
favor  as  a  commercial  variety  because  the  fruit  ranks  but  second  or 
third  rate  in  quality  and,  as  above  mentioned,  is  subject  to  the 
"  Baldwin  Spot."  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

JSee  page  58. 


256  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  This  old  variety  has  been  long  known  among  New  York  fruit 
growers  by  the  names  Pennock,  Pennick,  Penick  and  Phoenix.  The  true 
Phoenix  is  a  distinct  variety  which  apparently  has  never  been  known  among 
New  York  fruit  growers.  Pennock  is  said  to  have  been  first  cultivated  by 
Joseph  Pennock,  of  Springfield  township,  Delaware  county,  Pennsylvania. 
It  was  formerly  grown  to  a  considerable  extent  in  Pennsylvania  and  New 
Jersey  and  was  at  one  time  popular  in  the  Philadelphia  market  (r,  2).  In 
1867  Warder  remarked  that  it  was  then  universally  cultivated  in  nearly  all 
parts  of  the  country.  In  New  York  state  it  is  found  principally  in  old  orchards 
and  is  now  seldom  planted. 

TREE. 

Tree  large  or  medium,  often  very  vigorous.  Form  regular,  symmetrical, 
upright  spreading. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  to  oblate  or  slightly 
oblong,  often  inclined  to  conic,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed  or  elliptical  but 
usually  pretty  regular ;  axis  sometimes  oblique.  Stem  short,  moderately  thick, 
not  exserted.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  moder- 
ately narrow  to  rather  broad,  deep,  usually  symmetrical,  green  or  russeted, 
sometimes  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  to  rather  large, 
closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  medium  to  long,  acute,  connivent  or  varying  to 
flat  and  convergent,  pubescent.  Basin  medium  in  size,  shallow  to  medium 
in  depth,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  somewhat  abrupt,  sometimes 
obtuse,  often  a  little  furrowed  or  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  smooth,  yellow  or  greenish  washed  and  mottled 
with  red  rather  indistinctly  striped  with  carmine  and  somewhat  mottled  and 
streaked  with  thin  scarf-skin.  Well-colored  specimens  are  almost  wholly 
covered  with  bright  deep  red.  Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  large,  gray  or 
yellowish,  often  areolar  with  russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  moderately  wide,  usually  conical,  sometimes  ap- 
proaching truncate  funnel-shape.  Stamens  basal  to  nearly  median. 

Core  small,  axile ;  cells  uniformly  developed,  closed ;  core  lines  meeting  or 
slightly  clasping.  Carpels  ovate  to  roundish  obcordate,  emarginate,  sometimes 
tufted.  Seeds  medium  to  large,  moderately  narrow,  rather  long,  plump,  some- 
what acute,  rarely  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  rather  crisp,  tender,  rather  juicy, 
subacid  to  mild  subacid  or  nearly  sweet;  flavor  lacking  in  character;  quality 
fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  April  or  May. 

PERRY  RUSSET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Willey,  Horticulturist,  17:168.  1862.  2.  Warder,  1867:468. 
fig.  3.  Downing,  1869:303.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  5.  Thomas,  1875: 
509.  6.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:296.  7.  Harris,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt., 
1892:271.  8.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:246.  9.  Hansen,  5.  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:84. 
1902.  10.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:149.  n.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:137-  1904- 


, 


PENNOCK 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  257 

SYNONYMS.  Golden  Russet  (i,  3),  but  erroneously.  Pineapple.  Pineapple 
Russet.  Poughkeepsie  Russet  (i),  but  erroneously.  Rhode  Island  Russet. 
Winter  Russet  (i). 

This  variety  evidently  belongs  in  the  same  group  as  Peck 
Pleasant,  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Green  Newtown.  The  fruit 
is  of  good  size,  pretty  uniform  and  fairly  attractive  in  appearance 
for  a  yellowish  apple.  It  has  a  crisp,  subacid  flavor  and  easily  ranks 
good  in  quality  for  either  dessert  or  culinary  purposes.  It  is  in 
season  from  December  to  midwinter  or  later.  Its  commercial  limit 
in  ordinary  storage  is  November  or  December ;  in  cold  storage  it 
may  be  held  till  March.  It  does  not  stand  heat  well  before  going 
into  storage.  In  going  down  it  often  shrivels,  becomes  mealy  and 
goes  down  quickly.  It  varies  greatly  in  keeping  quality  in  different 
seasons  and  in  different  localities,  and  is  not  regarded  favorably  for 
storage  purposes.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  healthy,  very  long-lived 
and  a  reliable  cropper,  giving  good  crops  biennially  or  in  some  cases 
almost  annually.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree,  being  borne  on 
slender  twigs.  It  is  perhaps  worthy  of  attention  for  planting  in  the 
home  orchard  where  very  hardy  varieties  are  particularly  desired, 
but  is  seldom  regarded  as  a  profitable  commercial  variety  in  New 
York  state. 

Historical.  This  variety  has  long  been  cultivated  locally  in  the  vicinity  of 
Berwyn,  Onondaga  county,  N.  Y.,  where  some  trees  of  it  nearly  one  hundred 
years  old  are  said  to  be  still  very  productive.  It  has  always  been  known  there 
under  the  name  of  Rhode  Island  Russet  only!  and  not  until  1904,  when  it  was 
identified  by  U.  S.  Pomologist  Brackett,  was  it  discovered  that  it  was  identical 
with  Perry  Russet.  The  fact  that  long  before  it  was  known  as  Perry  Russet 
it  had  the  local  name  Rhode  Island  Russet  indicates  that  it  was  probably 
known  in  Rhode  Island  before  it  was  introduced  into  New  York. 

Warder  (2)  publishes  a  description  which  was  made  from  a  specimen  ex- 
hibited by  Mr.  Utters  at  a  meeting  of  the  Northwestern  Fruit  Growers  in 
1850.  Willey  (i),  writing  from  Madison,  Wisconsin,  made  the  following 
statement  concerning  it  in  1862.  "  Perry  Russet  is  a  sort  sent  from  the  East 
under  various  cognomens,  as  Winter  Russet,  Poughkeepsie  Russet,  Golden 
Russet,  etc.  It  is  universally  hardy,  succeeding  in  all  locations,  and  much 
esteemed  everywhere.  Tree  good  grower,  forms  a  round  even  head;  fruit 
large,  fair  and  excellent;  keeps  well  through  the  winter.  Too  many  cannot 
be  had,  as  it  is  the  best  of  all  the  Russets."  We  are  also  informed  that  it  has 
been  known  under  the  names  Pineapple  Russet  and  Pineapple.2  Downing, 
in  1869  stated  that  this  variety  "  was  many  years  since  carried  from  Perry, 

1Letters,    L.   L.  Woodford,    1904. 

2  Report  by  F.  Newhall  and  Sons,  Chicago,  111.,  1904. 


258  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Wyoming  county,  New  York,  to  the  West  under  the  name  of  Golden  Russet, 
but  as  it  was  entirely  distinct  from  the  true  Golden  Russet  it  soon  became 
known  as  Perry  Russet." 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large  or  eventually  very  large.  Form  symmetrical,  roundish 
or  spreading,  l^wigs  medium  to  short,  straight,  slender ;  internodes  medium. 
Bark  reddish-brown,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels 
scattering,  very  small,  oval.  Buds  small,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  nearly  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape. 
Form  roundish  oblate  to  oblate  conic,  slightly  ribbed.  Stem  often  swollen  at 
base,  short,  thick  or  moderately  so.  Cavity  very  obtuse  to  acute,  shallow  to 
medium  in  depth,  broad,  often  thinly  russeted  and  with  outspreading  russet 
rays,  a  little  wavy  and  often  rather  strongly  lipped.  Calyx  medium  in  size, 
somewhat  open ;  lobes  often  separated  at  the  base,  narrow,  acute  to  acuminate. 
Basin  medium  in  depth  to  deep,  medium  to  rather  wide,  abrupt,  somewhat 
furrowed,  not  symmetrical,  irregular. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  nearly  smooth  or  roughened  more  or  less  with  russet, 
rather  pale  yellow  with  rather  dull  blush  of  bronze  or  brownish-red  and  some- 
times with  obscure  dark  reddish  splashes.  Dots  very  numerous,  usually  small, 
sometimes  rather  large,  prominent,  russet,  irregular  and  mingled  with  russet 
flecks  or  netted  russet.  Prevailing  color  yellowish. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  short,  conical.    Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  size,  axile ;  cells  closed ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping. 
Carpels  broadly  ovate,  tufted.  Seeds  medium,  narrow,  rather  long,  acute  to 
acuminate. 

Flesh  whitish  a  little  tinged  with  yellow,  medium  to  rather  fine-grained, 
moderately  tender  or  somewhat  tough,  juicy,  with  an  agreeable  subacid  russet 
flavor,  sprightly,  aromatic,  good. 

PEWAUKEE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Willey,  Horticulturist,  1870.  (cited  by  2  and  20).  2.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1871:51.  3.  Downing,  1872:26  app.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1875:12.  5.  Barry,  1883:351.  6.  Thomas,  1885:520.  7.  Can.  Hort.,  14:139. 
1891.  8.  /&.,  14:260.  1891.  9.  Bailey,  An.  Hart.,  1892:246.  10.  Can.  Hort., 
17:69.  1894.  ii-  Ib.j  17:251.  1894.  I2'  Ib.,  18:379.  1895.  13.  Munson,  Me. 
Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  1896:71.  14.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  Bui.,  61:31.  1897.  15.  Dickens 
and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:54.  1902.  16.  Hansen,  5.  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:85. 
1902.  17.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:150.  fig.  18.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui,  48:52.  1903.  19.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:137.  1904.  20. 
Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:231.  1905. 

SYNONYM.     PEEWAUKEE  (7,  10). 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large ;  often  it  is  poorly  colored,  being 
greenish  striped  with  dull  red.  When  well  colored  it  is  of  fairly 
good  yellow  color  largely  washed  and  mottled  with  red  and  splashed 
with  dark  carmine.  It  is  overspread  with  a  heavy  bluish  bloom 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  259 

which  produces  a  rather  dull  effect,  but  it  becomes  bright  and  glossy 
when  polished.  Its  quality  ranks  fair  to  good  for  either  culinary 
or  dessert  uses. 

Pewaukee  varies  much  in  keeping  qualities  in  different  seasons 
(19).  In  ordinary  storage  its  commercial  limit  varies  from  Novem- 
ber to  January,  or  under  favorable  conditions  till  February.  The 
rate  of  loss  in  the  stored  fruit  is  often  high  in  November,  then 
becomes  lower  till  midwinter,  after  which  it  rises  again.  Its  season 
in  cold  storage  is  variously  reported  as  extending  from  November 
to  February  or  March,  or  exceptionally  to  May  (19). 

This  variety  was  produced  by  crossing  Oldenburg  with  Northern 
Spy.  As  might  be  expected  from  its  parentage,  it  is  very  hardy, 
although  it  has  not  proven  as  hardy  in  the  North  and  Northwest 
as  was  at  first  expected,  being  inferior  to  Wealthy  in  this  respect 
(16,  17). 

Pewaukee  makes  a  moderately  vigorous  root  development  in  the 
nursery,  but  in  the  orchard  it  becomes  a  good,  strong  grower  and 
succeeds  well  under  ordinary  care.  Usually  it  is  healthy  and  long- 
lived,  but  in  some  localities  it  is  said  to  suffer  from  canker.  The 
tree  comes  into  bearing  rather  early  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  bearing 
biennially  or  almost  annually  and  often  yielding  heavy  crops.  It  is 
not  generally  considered  a  desirable  variety  for  commercial  planting 
in  New  York,  except  in  those  portions  of  the  state  where  hardiness 
is  a  prime  requisite,  for  in  spite  of  its  vigor,  hardiness  and  produc- 
tiveness it  is  usually  found  less  profitable  than  standard  commercial 
varieties  because  it  is  deficient  in  color  and  in  quality  and  generally 
is  not  very  well  known  in  market. 

Historical.  Originated  by  George  P.  Peffer,  Pewaukee,  Wisconsin,  by  cross- 
ing Oldenburg  with  Northern  Spy.  It  was  first  brought  to  the  notice  of  fruit 
growers  about  1870  (i,  2,  3).  It  has  been  sparingly  disseminated  through  this 
state  but  has  not  been  cultivated  largely  in  any  locality  and  its  planting  does 
not  appear  to  be  increasing. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous,  medium  to  large,  with  stout  curved 
branches.  Form  upright  spreading  or  roundish,  open.  Twigs  long  to  below 
medium,  curved  or  irregularly  bent,  moderately  stout ;  internodes  long.  Bark 
clear  dark  reddish-brown  lightly  mottled  and  streaked  with  gray  scarf-skin ; 
slightly  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  conspicuous  being  of  a  clear  light  color, 
scattering,  usually  medium  or  below,  elongated,  not  raised.  Buds  large,  broad, 


260  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  much  pubescent ;  the  shoulder  of  the  bud  is 
flattened  so  that  it  bulges  slightly  on  the  sides. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium,  cften  large,  fairly  uniform  in  size  but  not  in  shape. 
Form  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  approaching  roundish  ovate,  characteristically 
rounded  toward  the  cavity,  ribbed,  more  or  less  irregularly  elliptical.  Stem 
usually  short,  often  fleshy  and  often  inserted  under  a  lip.  Cavity  varies  from 
moderately  large  to  small,  sometimes  being  scarcely  at  all  developed,  narrow 
to  wide,  very  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  often  furrowed  and  sometimes 
thinly  russeted.  It  is  acuminate  at  the  insertion  of  the  stem  but  the  outer 
portion  is  often  moderately  obtuse.  Calyx  below  medium  to  large,  partly 
open  or  sometimes  closed.  Basin  medium  in  depth  and  width,  usually  some- 
what abrupt,  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  moderately  thin,  rather  tough,  grass-green  becoming  yellow 
washed  and  mottled  with  orange-red  or  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  car- 
mine, often  covered  with  bloom.  Dots  moderately  conspicuous,  pale  gray  or 
whitish,  some  being  large,  obscurely  denned  and  areolar. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form  varying  to  cone-shape.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  below  medium  to  large,  axile  to  somewhat  abaxile;  cells  irregularly 
developed,  usually  closed  or  slit;  core  lines  clasp  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels 
obcordate,  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  to  large,  rather  long,  moderately 
narrow,  acute,  plump,  tufted,  light  brown. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  moderately  firm,  slightly  coarse,  rather  tender,  very 
juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  fair  to  good. 

Season  variable;  commonly  November  to  April  in  Northern  and  Western 
New  York. 

PICKARD  RESERVE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Mo.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1863.  (cited  by  9).  2.  Warder,  1867: 
4I3-  fig-  3-  Downing,  1869:304.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  5.  Bailey,  An. 
Hort.,  1892:246.  6.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:335-  1896-  7- 
Thomas,  1897:648.  8.  Sharpe,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1901:543.  9.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:232.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  PICARD  (7).  Picard's  Reserve  (7).  PICKARD  (4).  Pickard's 
Reserve  (9). 

A  large,  green  or  yellow  fruit  with  reddish-bronze  cheek  which  in  highly 
colored  specimens  becomes  in  part  pinkish-red.  It  is  evidently  allied  to  the 
Green  Newtown  group  of  apples.  This  is  indicated  by  the  elliptical  form, 
occasional  oblique  axis,  truncate  base,  the  color  and  markings  of  the  skin, 
particularly  the  outspreading  russet  rays  about  the  cavity,  the  gray  dots  and 
the  brownish-pink  blush ;  also  by  the  texture,  aroma  and  quality  of  the  flesh. 
Although  inferior  to  Green  Newtown  in  aroma  and  quality  it  is  excellent  in 
both.  It  does  not  appear  to  show  any  marked  resemblance  to  the  group  which 
includes  Ortley  and  Yellow  Bellflower  and  it  is  strikingly  different  from  this 
group  in  its  core  characters. 

As  fruited  at  this  Station  the  tree  has  not  come  into  bearing/- very  young 
but  with  advancing  maturity  has  proved  a  reliable  bearer  giving  full  crops  in 
alternate  years.  So  far  as  we  can  learn  it  has  not  been  sufficiently  tested  in 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  261 

New  York  to  determine  its  value  for  this  region  either  for  the  home  or  for 
market  purposes  but  so  far  as  it  has  been  tried  it  has  proved  desirable  for 
home  use,  and  it  appears  worthy  of  trial  for  commercial  planting  where  a 
yellow  fruit  of  this  class  is  desired.  Its  culture  in  the  Middle  West  is  said 
to  have  declined  in  recent  years  on  account  of  the  susceptibility  of  the  variety 
to  the  attacks  of  the  apple  scab.  We  have  found  no  difficulty  in  protecting  it 
from  this  disease  by  the  ordinary  line  of  treatment  with  bordeaux  mixture. 

Historical.  Originated  in  Park  county,  Indiana,  from  seed  brought  from 
North  Carolina  (2).  Professor  W.  H.  Ragan  has  kindly  supplied  the  follow- 
ing statement  concerning  its  history  and  habits  of  growth  in  Indiana.  "  It 
originated  with  the  late  Wm.  Pickard,  of  Park  county,  Ind.,  and  about  40 
miles  from  the  place  of  my  birth.  Wm.  Pickard  was  a  Friend  (Quaker)  and 
had  a  pioneer  seedling  orchard.  By  chance  he  had  several  fairly  good  varieties 
and  he  boasted  that  he  had  as  good  fruit  as  those  of  his  neighbors  who  had 
cultivated  varieties.  To  convince  them  of  this  fact  he  invited  his  friends  to 
a  test  of  his  varieties.  To  them  he  presented  several  varieties  which  in  turn 
were  pronounced  good,  bad  and  worse.  Finally  he  brought  out  his  '  best,' 
that  is  in  his  own  opinion,  but  only  announced  that  this  was  the  last.  On 
testing  it  they  were  all  charmed  with  its  high  quality  and  it  was  suggested 
that  this  was  '  Pickard's  Reserve,'  it  having  been  reserved  until  the  last  of 
the  feast. 

"  Your  inquiry  concerning  its  quality,  and  your  mention  in  that  connection 
of  Grimes  Golden  indicates  that  you  know  of  its  high  character  as  a  fruit. 
There  is  no  mistake  on  this  point,  and  yet  I  am  hardly  prepared  to  claim  that 
it  is  the  equal  of  that  fine  variety.  But  it  ranks  '  very  good  '  if  not  quite 
'  best.' 

"  The  tree  is  upright  and  inclines  to  make  splitting  forks  that  are  liable  to 
split  down  and  thus  destroy  the  tree.  It  is  fruitful  almost  to  a  fault,  and  if 
not  overloaded,  the  fruit  is  of  good  size,  averaging  about  with  Yellow  New- 
town  in  this  particular,  which  it  somewhat  resembles  in  appearance.  Its  flesh 
is,  however,  much  more  tender  and  less  acid  than  the  Yellow  Newtown.  Its 
parentage  is  not  certainly  known,  though  it  has  been  suggested  that  it  may 
have  been  from  seed  of  '  Ortley.'  It  was  one  of  the  very  first  (along  with 
the  Ortley  itself)  to  yield  to  the  attack  of  the  apple  scab,  when  it  first  in- 
vaded our  country,  and  hence  its  culture  has  been  largely  discontinued  with 
us." 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous;  branches  long,  moderately  stout,  liable  to  split  at  the  forks. 
Form  upright  spreading,  open.  Twigs  moderately  long,  straight,  rather  stout ; 
internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  dull  brown  tinged  with  red,  heavily  coated 
with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  conspicuous,  numerous, 
medium  size,  somewhat  elongated,  slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  to  below 
medium,  broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large,  fairly  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Form  inclined  to  oblate, 
rather  irregularly  elliptical,  sometimes  broadly  or  obscurely  ribbed,  often  lop- 
sided or  with  one  side  bulging;  axis  often  oblique.  Stem  short,  usually  rather 
slender.  Cavity  pretty  large,  acuminate,  irregular,  wide,  very  deep,  often  com- 


262  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

pressed  and  sometimes  lipped,  russeted  and  with  very  conspicuous,  outspread- 
ing russet  rays.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  partly  closed  or  sometimes  open; 
lobes  acuminate,  reflexed.  Basin  small  to  medium,  narrow  to  rather  wide, 
deep,  rather  abrupt,  furrowed,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  russet  dots,  green  changing  to 
yellow  when  fully  ripe,  often  with  faint  streaks  of  brownish  or  pinkish  blush. 
Bright  and  rather  attractive  for  a  yellowish  apple.  Dots  russet  and  gray. 

Calyx  tube  conical  or  approaching  truncate  funnel-form.  Stamens  median 
to  basal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  usually  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  often  not  uniform 
in  size  but  symmetrical,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  when  the 
calyx  tube  is  cone-shape,  clasping  when  it  is  funnel-form.  Carpels  elongated, 
pointed  ovate,  smooth  or  nearly  so.  Seeds  acute  to  slightly  obtuse,  long, 
medium  size,  brown,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid 
becoming  mild  subacid,  somewhat  aromatic,  sprightly,  very  good. 

Season  in  Western  New  York  November  to  February  or  March. 

PIFER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Mag.  Hort.,  19:210.  1853.  2.  Horticulturist,  8:342.  1853. 
3.  Warder,  1867:728.  4.  Downing,  1869:304.  5.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///. 
Sta.  Bui,  45:336.  1896.  6.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:52. 
1903.  7.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:138.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.     Pfeifcr  .(4,  ?)•     PFEIFFER  (i,  2,  3).     PIPER  (6). 

A  dull  red  fruit  of  medium  size  and  fair  quality.  Its  chief  merit  is  that 
it  keeps  fresh  and  firm  till  very  late  in  the  season.  The  tree  does  not  come 
into  bearing  very  young  but  so  far  as  tested  here  it  appears  to  be  a  reliable 
bearer  yielding  full  crops  biennially.  Not  recommended  for  planting  in  New 
York. 

Historical.  Originated  in  Springfield  township,  Pennsylvania.  Brought  to 
the  attention  of  the  Pennsylvania  Horticultural  Society  in  1853  (i,  2).  It 
does  not  appear  to  be  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  with  moderately  long,  slender,  curved  branches. 
Form  upright  to  roundish,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  in  length  to  very 
short,  straight  or  nearly  so,  slender,  with  large  terminal  buds;  internodes 
rather  short.  Bark  clear  reddish  or  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf- 
skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  small  to  very  small,  elon- 
gated, usually  not  raised.  Buds  rather  small,  plump,  acute,  appressed,  slightly 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  above,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
inclined  to  oblate,  regular  or  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed,  usually  symmetrical ; 
sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity 
acute  to  acuminate,  rather  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  moderately  broad, 
smooth  and  greenish  or  occasionally  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium, 
closed  or  partly  open;  lobes  long,  recurved.  Basin  varies  from  moderately 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  263 

deep  and  abrupt  to  rather  shallow  and  obtuse,  rather  narrow  to  moderately 
wide,  slightly  furrowed  or  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  leathery,  smooth,  dull  greenish-yellow  blushed  with  dull  red, 
becoming  deep  pinkish-red  in  highly  colored  specimens,  with  numerous  narrow 
stripes  of  dark  carmine,  and  overspread  with  a  thin  bloom  which  gives  a  dull 
effect.  Dots  small,  gray. 

Caly^  tube  long,  very  narrow  below,  funnel-shape.  Stamens  median  to 
basal. 

Core  medium  in  size,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  usually  partly  open ;  core  lines 
clasping.  Carpels  obcordate,  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  or  above, 
rather  wide,  plump,  somewhat  acute. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  hard;  pretty  coarse,  somewhat  crisp,  not 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  somewhat  aromatic,  fair  or  possibly  good. 

Season  January  to  July. 

PINE  STUMP. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Berckmans,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1891:160.  2.  Lyon,  Mich. 
Sta.  Bui.,  143:201.  1897.  3.  Massey,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  149:318.  1898. 

As  fruited  at  this  Station  this  is  a  dull  red  apple  hardly  medium  in  size. 
It  is  in  season  from  November  to  February.  It  originated  in  Granville  county, 
North  Carolina.  In  that  region  it  is  in  season  from  the  middle  of  September 
to  early  winter  and  it  is  said  to  be  a  very  showy  fruit  and  an  excellent  market 
apple  of  fine  flavor  and  good  quality  (i,  3).  It  does  not  appear  to  be  adapted 
to  New  York  conditions  and  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  this  state. 

PIPPIN. 

The  word  Pippin,  from  the  old  English  word  Pippin,  a  seed,  or 
the  French  Pepin,  a  pip  or  kernel,  formerly  signified  a  seedling 
apple  in  distinction  from  a  budded  or  grafted  tree.  Hogg  remarks 
that,  "  Leonard  Mascal,  writing  in  1572,  says,  '  Then  shall  you  cover 
your  seedes  or  pepins  with  fine  erth  so  sifting  al  over  them ' ;  and 
'  when  the  winter  is  past  and  gone,  and  that  ye  see  your  Pepins  rise 
and  growe  ' ;  and  again,  '  When  so  euer  ye  doe  replante  or  change 
your  Pepin  trees  from  place  to  place,  in  so  remouing  often  the 
stocke  the  frute  there  of  shall  also  change ;  but  the  frute  which  doth 
come  of  Grafting  doth  always  kepe  the  forme  and  nature  of  the  tree 
whereof  he  is  taken '. 

"  It  is  evident  from  this  last  quotation  that  Pippin  is  synonymous 
with  seedling,  and  is  used  to  distinguish  a  tree  raised  directly  from 
seed  from  one  that  has  been  raised  from  grafts  or  cuttings.  The 
Golden  Pippin,  which,  by  the  way,  was  raised  in  Sussex,  where 
Mascal  also  was  born,  means  simply  Golden  Seedling. 


264  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

"  But  there  was  another  meaning  attached  to  the  word.  In  Henry 
IV.,  Shallow  says  to  Falstaff,  '  Nay,  you  shall  see  mine  orchard ; 
where  in  an  arbour  we  will  eat  a  last  year's  pippin  of  my  own 
grafting.'  And  this  is  interpreted  by  what  Sir  Paul  Neile  says  in 
his  Discourse  of  Cider,  written  in  the  time  of  the  Commonwealth, 
wherein  speaking  of  '  pippin  cider/  he  says,  '  For  by  that  name 
I  shall  generally  call  all  sorts  of  cider  that  is  made  of  apples  good 
to  eat  raw,'  and  that  is  evidently  the  signification  in  the  above 
quotation  from  Shakspeare. 

"  Co-ming  to  more  modern  times,  we  have  the  word  kernel,  which 
is  the  English  equivalent  of  Pepin,  also  used  to  signify  a  seedling 
apple  tree;  as,  for  example,  Ashmead's  Kernel,  the  seedling  raised 
by  Dr.  Ashmead,  of  Gloucester ;  Cook's  Kernel,  Knott's  Kernel,  and 
many  others." 

In  this  country  the  term  Pippin  has  been  applied  to  very  many 
different  varieties  of  apples.  In  Eastern  and  Southeastern  New 
York  when  this  word  is  used  alone  it  signifies  either  the  Green 
Newtown  or  Yellow  Newtown  specifically,  or  the  group  of  green  or 
yellow  skinned  apples  to  which  these  belong,  while  in  Central  and 
Western  New  York  it  refers  to  either  the  Fall  Pippin  specifically 
or  to  the  group  to  which  that  variety  belongs.  In  certain  portions 
of  the  Middle  West  it  is  understood  as  referring  to  Missouri  Pippin. 

POMME  GRISE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Forsyth,  1803:53.  2.  Ronalds,  1831:32.  3.  Manning,  Mag. 
Hort.,  7:51.  1841.  4.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1842.  5.  Downing,  1845:124. 
6.  Thomas,  1849:184.  7.  Cole,  1849:129.  8.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  17:17.  1851. 
•fig.  9.  Emmons.  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:94.  1851.  fig.,  col.  pi.  No.  77.  10.  Elliott, 
1854:99.  ii.  Hooper,  1857:70.  12.  Downing,  1857:180.  13.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1862.  14.  Warder,  1867:469.  fig.  15.  (?)Leroy,  1873:684.  figs.  16. 
Barry,  1883:352.  17.  Hogg,  1884:179.  18.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890: 
296.  19.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:246.  20.  Dempsey,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpi., 
2:34.  1895.  21.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:152.  fig.  22.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:138.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  (Bee  de  Lievre,  15)?  (Belle  Fille,  15)?  (De  Cuir,  15)? 
French  Russet  (22).  Gray  Apple  (5,  6,  10,  12,  21).  Grise  (5,  8,  10,  12). 
Leather  Apple  of  Turic  (12).  (Leder,  15)?  (De  Maroquin,  15)?  (De 
Pcau,  15)?  Pomme  de  Cuir  (12).  POMME  GREE  (i).  POMME  GRIS  (3,  9, 
13,  18,  19,  20,  21 ).  (Prager  Reinelte  Franche  de  Grandville,  15)  ?  (Reinette 
de  Darnetal,  15)  ?  (REINETTE  GRISE,  15)  ?  (Reinette  Grise  de  Darnetal, 


THF  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK  265 

15)?  (Reinette  Grise  Double,  15)?  (Reinette  Grise  extra,  15)?  (Reinette 
Grise  Francaise,  15)  ?  (Reinette  Grise  de  Grandville,  15)  ?  (Reinette  Grise 
d'Hiver,  15)?  (Reinette  toute  Grise,  15)  ? 

A  little  russet  apple  valued  only  because  of  its  excellent  dessert 
quality.  Its  keeping  quality  varies  much  in  different  seasons.  In 
cold  storage  its  season  extends  from  December  to  February  or 
March,  and  in  ordinary  storage,  from  the  middle  of  October  to 
January  or  possibly  February.  After  midwinter  it  is  apt  to  deteri- 
orate in  quality,  although  it  may  remain  apparently  in  good  condi- 
tion till  March  or  April.  It  has  the  reputation  of  developing 
particularly  fine  flavor  when  grown  in  the  St.  Lawrence  valley.  In 
New  York  it  is  seldom  produced  profitably  in  large  quantities  for 
the  general  market,  not  being  attractive  enough  in  size  and  color  to 
command  remunerative  prices,  but  it  is  sometimes  grown  success- 
fully to  a  limited  extent  for  local  or  special  trade.  It  is  recom- 
mended for  home  use  because  of  its  juiciness  and  fine  dessert  quality. 
The  tree  is  hardy,  healthy  and  moderately  long-lived.  In  favorable 
locations  it  is  a  pretty  good  bearer,  the  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree 
and  is  fairly  uniform  in  size  and  appearance. 

The  Swazie  is  an  apple  of  the  Pomme  Grise  type.  It  is  described 
on  a  subsequent  page. 

Historical.  The  Pomme  Grise  or  fruit  of  this  type  has  long  been  known  in 
cultivation  among  the  French  in  the  vicinity  of  Montreal  and  in  other  portions 
of  the  St.  Lawrence  valley.  According  to  Forsyth  (17)  it  was  introduced 
into  England  from  Canada.  Possibly  it  is  identical  with  the  Reinette  Grise 
of  Leroy  (15)  but  we  have  not  had  the  opportunity  of  determining  this  point 
definitely.  If  it  is  in  fact  the  Reinette  Grise  it  has  been  cultivated  in  Europe 
for  more  than  250  years. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  dense,  roundish  or  spreading.  Twigs 
short,  straight,  rather  slender  with  large  terminal  buds;  internodes  short  to 
medium.  Bark  clear  reddish-brown  mingled  with  olive-green  lightly  streaked 
with  gray  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  clear  in  color,  quite  numerous, 
medium  to  small,  generally  elongated,  slightly  raised.  Buds  rather  prominent, 
medium  in  size,  broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  small,  fairly  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
oblate  varying  to  roundish,  sometimes  inclined  to  conic,  slightly  ribbed,  pretty 
symmetrical.  Stern  usually  slender,  much  pubescent,  often  bracted  and  streaked 
with  reddish-brown.  Cavity  pretty  large,  obtuse,  deep,  usually  rather  wide, 


266  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

often  compressed  or  gently  furrowed.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  usually  closed : 
lobes  long,  narrow,  acuminate,  pubescent.  Basin  variable,  pubescent,  often 
somewhat  saucer-shaped,  narrow  to  rather  wide,  moderately  shallow,  obtuse 
to  moderately  abrupt,  furrowed. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  rather  tough,  deep  yellow  or  greenish  partly  or  en- 
tirely covered  with  russet.  In  highly  colored  specimens  the  cheek  is  often 
partly  smooth  and  yellowish-brown  mottled  and  striped  with  bright  dark  red. 
Dots  gray  or  whitish,  scattering  and  usually  inconspicuous. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape.     Stamens  basal  or  nearly  so. 

Core  medium  in  size,  slightly  abaxile;  cells  symmetrical,  usually  closed  or 
partly  so;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  narrowing  toward  the  apex, 
slightly  emarginate..  mucronate,  smooth  or  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  medium  in 
size,  plump,  irregular,  moderately  obtuse,  slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  moderately  fine-grained,  juicy,  rich,  subacid, 
aromatic,  very  good  to  best. 

\ 

POUND  SWEET. 

The  apple  most  commonly  known  in  Central  and  Western  New 
York  under  the  name  of  Pound  Sweet  is  large,  roundish,  marbled 
with  light  and  dark  green,  eventually  becoming  more  or  less  yellow 
and  conspicuously  streaked  over  the  base  with  whitish  scarf-skin.  It 
is  in  season  from  October  to  January.  The  name  now  generally 
accepted  by  pomologists  for  this  variety  is  Pumpkin  Sweet.  It  is 
also  known  by  some  as  the  Lyman  Pumpkin  Sweet.  It  is  described 
under  the  name  Pumpkin  Sweet  in  the  succeeding  volume. 

Several  distinct  varieties  of  apples  have  been  known  in  cultivation 
under  the  name  Pound  Sweet,  but  so  far  as  we  have  been  able  to 
discover  only  the  one  above  referred  to  is  green,  all  others  being 
either  more  or  less  russeted  or  marked  with  distinct  red. 

PRATT  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Downing,  1869:312.    2.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:241. 
1905- 
SYNONYMS.     PRATT  (2).    Pratt  Sweet  (2). 

A  sweet  winter  apple  which  originated  on  the  farm  of  Daniel  Pratt,  Rich- 
land,  Oswego  county,  N.  Y.  We  have  not  seen  this  variety.  According  to 
Downing  ( i )  the  tree  is  vigorous  and  annually  productive ;  the  fruit  large, 
roundish  conical,  yellow  striped  and  shaded  with  clear  pinkish-red;  the  flesh 
is  yellowish- white,  breaking,  tender,  juicy,  rich  and  very  good  in  quality.  So 
far  as  we  can  discover  it  is  not  now  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers, 
nor  do  we  find  any  record  of  its  having  been  grown  outside  of  the  locality 
of  its  origin.  Humrickhouse,  in  a  list  of  new  American  seedling  apples  pub- 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  267 

lished  in  1853,  mentions  a  fall  variety  under  the  name  of  Pratt.1  Since  Pratt 
Sweet  appears  to  have  been  but  a  local  variety  and  since  it  was  not  brought 
to  notice  in  New  York  till  1869,  and  since  its  season  is  given  as  December  to 
March,  it  would  seem  that  it  is  distinct  from  the  Pratt  of  Humrickhouse. 
Ragan  at  first  listed  them  as  identical  (2)  but  now  considers  them  as  "  possibly 
identical."2 

PRIESTLY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:146.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:132.  3.  Buel,  N.  Y 
Ba.  sigr.  Mem.,  1826:476.  4.  Wilson,  1828:136.  5.  Kenrick,  1832:51.  6. 
Downing,  1845:126.  7.  Horticulturist,  2:483.  1848.  8.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist. 
N.  Y.,  3:72.  1851.  9.  Elliott,  1854:176.  10.  Hooper,  1857:72.  n.  Warder, 
1867:729. 

SYNONYMS.  PRIESTLEY  (3,  5,  10).  Priestley's  American  (6,  9).  Red  Cat- 
head (9). 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  blushed  or  faintly  striped  with  red.  Although  it 
ranks  only  fair  to  good  in  quality  it  is  an  agreeable  dessert  apple  especially 
in  the  spring  when  it  is  fresh,  juicy  and  mildly  subacid.  It  is  less  desirable 
for  culinary  uses  because  it  lacks  acidity.  The  tree  is  a  pretty  vigorous  grower, 
hardy,  healthy,  long-lived  and  commonly  bears  good  crops  annually.  The 
fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  It  is  surpassed  by  standard  varieties  of  its  season 
and  is  not  recommended  for  planting. 

The  following  is  Coxe's  description  of  this  variety:  "This  apple  is  said 
to  be  a  native  of  the  county  of  Bucks  in  Pennsylvania,  where  it  was  first  cul- 
tivated by  a  person  from  whom  it  has  obtained  its  name.  The  tree  has  a  hand- 
some, upright  form,  vigorous  growth,  and  large  leaves ;  it  is  well  suited  to 
light  soils — the  fruit  is  large,  of  an  oblong  form — the  skin  smooth,  the  colour 
usually  a  dull  red,  streaked  faintly  with  green,  with  spots  of  the  same  colour ; 
the  flesh  is  white,  has  a  pleasant  spicy  taste — it  is  an  excellent  table  and  kitchen 
apple ;  hangs  late  on  the  tree ;  is  an  abundant  bearer,  and  makes  good  cider 
late  in  the  season,  but  not  of  the  first  quality." 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate  to  roundish  oblong,  usually 
quite  regular  and  symmetrical.  Stem  long,  usually  rather  slender.  Cavity 
acute  to  acuminate,  moderately  deep  to  very  deep,  broad,  russeted  and  with 
outspreading  russet  rays,  sometimes  faintly  furrowed.  Calyx  large,  usually 
closed,  sometimes  partly  open ;  lobes  connivent,  erect  or  reflexed,  broad,  acute. 
Basin  very  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  \vide,  obtuse  or  somewhat  abrupt, 
distinctly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  green  or  yellow  washed  and  blushed  with  red  and 
inconspicuously  striped  with  dark  carmine ;  highly  colored  specimens  are  nearly 
covered  with  deep  red.  Dots  rather  numerous  toward  basin,  larger  and  more 
scattering  toward  cavity,  gray  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  conical.     Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  meeting 
or  clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  emarginate.  Seeds  large,  wide,  flat,  obtuse  to 
somewhat  acute,  very  dark  browr.. 

lMag.   Hort.,  19:164.    1853. 
2Letter,   1905. 


268  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Flesh   yellowish,   firm,    rather  coarse,   crisp,   juicy,   agreeable   mild   subacid, 
somewhat  aromatic,  medium  to  good  in  quality. 
Season  December  to  April. 

PRINCE  ALBERT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hogg,  1884:128.  2.  Bunyard,  Jour.  Roy.  Hort.  Soc.,  1898: 
356,  359-  3-  Can.  Hort.,  12:10.  1889.  4-  Garden,  64:322.  1903.  fig.  5.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:172.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  LANE  ALBERT  (5).  LANE'S  PRINCE  ALBERT  (r,  2,  3).  Lane 
Prince  Albert  (5).  PRINCE  ALBERT  (LANE)  (2). 

Fruit  large,  grass-green  eventually  becoming  yellowish  with  part  of  the  ex- 
posed cheek  covered  with  a  thin  blush  and  splashed  with  bright  carmine. 
The  general  appearance  is  rather  attractive  for  a  green  apple.  It  is  too 
briskly  subacid  in  flavor  for  a  dessert  apple  but  is  valued  for  culinary  uses. 
So  far  as  tested  at  this  Station  the  tree  sustains  the  reputation  which  it  has 
gained  in  England  of  coming  into  bearing  young  and  being  a  reliable  cropper 
and  very  productive  (i,  4).  Its  season  has  not  been  proved  here  but  it 
evidently  extends  from  midautumn  to  midwinter.  Hogg  gives  its  season  as 
December  to  March.  Further  testing  is  required  to  determine  whether  it  is 
a  desirable  variety  for  this  region. 

This  variety  is  found  in  common  cultivation  in  some  parts  of  England  and 
it  is  there  usually  called  the  Lane  Prince  Albert  (4).  Bunyard  lists  it  first 
as  Prince  Albert  (Lane)  and  afterwards  as  Lane  Prince  Albert  (2).  Ragan 
has  abbreviated  the  name  to  Lane  Albert  (5).  We  prefer  to  follow  Bunyard 
in  calling  it  Prince  Albert  as  that  appears  to  approach  more  closely  to  the 
name  by  which  it  is  commonly  known  in  England. 

Sharpe  lists  a  Prince  Albert  of  Prussia  which  is  distinct  from  Prince 
Albert.l 

Historical.  Introduced  by  H.  Lane  &  Son,  Berkhampstead,  England,  and 
exhibited  by  them  at  a  meeting  of  the  British  Pomological  Society,  October 
26,  1857  (i,  4).  The  original  tree  was  still  in  existence  in  a  Berkhampstead 
garden  in  1903  (4).  In  1881  Prince  Albert  received  a  first-class  certificate 
from  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society  (2).  In  an  article  on  "Progress  in 
Fruit  Culture  in  Queen  Victoria's  Reign  1837-1897,"  Bunyard  presents  a  list 
of  fruits  introduced  into  cultivation  in  England  in  the  last  sixty  years  likely 
to  prove  permanent  additions  which  includes  but  ten  varieties  of  apples  and 
one  of  them  is  Prince  Albert  (2).  This  variety  is  but  little  known  as  yet  in 
America. 

TREE. 

Tree  very  vigorous.  Form  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  stocky,  moder- 
ately long.  Bark  dark  greenish-brown.  Lenlicels  numerous,  roundish,  medium 
in  size,  conspicuous.  Buds  large,  plump,  obtuse,  pubescent.  Leaves  large, 
broad;  foliage  dense. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  pretty  uniformly  large,  sometimes  very  large.  Form  roundish  some- 
what flattened  at  the  base  and  inclined  to  conic  with  broad  obtuse  ribs  toward 
the  basin,  somewhat  irregular.  Stem  medium  to  short,  moderately  thick. 

1Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1900:457  and  letter,  1905. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  269 

Cavity  acute,  varying  from  slightly  obtuse  to  slightly  acuminate,  medium  in 
depth  or  sometimes  deep,  rather  broad,  somewhat  furrowed,  frequently  com- 
pressed, sometimes  faintly  russeted.  Calyx  below  medium  to  above,  closed 
or  slightly  open ;  lobes  rather  short  and  wide,  inclined  to  acute.  Basin  usually 
below  medium  in  size,  often  oblique,  medium  in  depth  to  rather  deep,  rather 
narrow  to  medium  in  width,  abrupt,  irregular,  deeply  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  moderately  thick,  tough,  grass-green  becoming  yellowish  with 
part  of  the  exposed  cheek  shaded  with  red  and  striped  with  carmine,  mottled 
and  streaked  with  scarf-skin.  Dots  small,  often  submerged,  whitish  or  some- 
times with  russet  point,  numerous  toward  the  basin,  larger  and  more  scattering 
toward  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  rather  short,  moderately  wide,  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel- 
shape.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  large  to  very  large,  abaxile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  open  or  some- 
times closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  elongated  or 
broadly  roundish,  obtusely  emarginate,  often  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  medium 
or  above,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  obtuse  to  acute,  rather  dark. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  green,  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  tender,  very 
juicy,  briskly  subacid  or  sour;  suitable  for  culinary  uses  but  has  too  much 
acidity  for  a  good  dessert  apple. 

PRYOR. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Kenrick,  1832:59.  2.  Mag.  Hort.,  10:207.  1844.  3.  Byram, 
Horticulturist,  2:18.  1847.  4.  Rice,  Ib.,  4:289.  1849.  5.  Phoenix,  Ib.,  4:471. 
1849.  6.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:67.  1851.  7.  Horticulturist,  6:181. 
1851.  8.  Mag.  Hort.,  19:242.  1853.  9.  Elliott,  1854:99.  fig.  10.  Downing, 
1857:96.  ii.  Hooper,  1857:72.  12.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1860.  13.  Downing, 
Horticulturist,  16:42.  1861.  14.  Mag.  Hort.,  30:162.  1864.  15.  Warder,  1867: 
627.  fig.  16.  Fitz,  1872:143,  149,  172.  17.  Leroy,  1873:780.  fig.  18.  Barry, 
1883:352.  19.  Bailey,  An.  .Hort.,  1892:247.  20.  Clayton,  Ala.  Sta.  Bui,  47:8. 
1893.  21.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:52.  1903.  22.  Bruner, 
N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:21.  1903.  23.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:155.  fig.  24.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:244.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Bersford  (24).  Big  Hill  (9,  10,  17,  24).  Bonford  (24).  Con- 
ford  (24).  Pitser  Hill  (9,  10,  17,  24).  PRIOR'S  RED  (10).  Prior's  Red  (3, 
9,  24).  Prior's  Late  Red  (24).  Pryor's  Pear  main  (24).  PRYOR' s  RED  (i,  2, 
3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  n,  13,  14,  15,  16,  18,  19).  PRYOR  RED  (23).  Pryor  Red 
(17,  24).  Red  Russet  (of  some  24).  ROUGE  DE  PRYOR  (17). 

A  southern  apple  of  good  size  and  rich  subacid  flavor;  in  season  from 
December  to  February.  Although  it  has  long  been  known  in  cultivation  it  is 
seldom  found  in  New  York  orchards,  which  is  evidence  that  it  is  not  well 
adapted  to  this  region  (13). 

Historical  This  is  said  to  have  originated  in  Virginia  (4,  12).  Hooper 
remarks  that  "  it  varies  much  in  its  appearance,  being  sometimes  green 
russeted,  then  sometimes  dull  orange-russet  with  a  trace  of  red,  and  again 
deeply  red  or  striped,  and  sometimes  almost  black  with  depth  of  color"  (n). 
Warder  (15)  remarks  "it  is  singularly  affected  by  change  of  soil  and  climate; 
thus,  on  the  Ohio  River,  it  is  seen  quite  flat  and  regular,  with  a  dull  green 


270  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

russeted  skin,  becoming  yellow  and  ruddy ;  in  one  part  of  the  state  of  Indiana, 
on  limestone,  it  is  gibbous,  round,  often  very  large,  and  covered  with  a  rich 
cinnamon  russet,  while  on  the  coal  measures,  west  of  the  center  of  the  state,  it 
is  smaller,  regular,  and  distinctly  striped  deep  red  on  red,  with  very  little 
russet.  Specimens  from  Rochester,  New  York,  have  been  shown  with  scarcely 
a  trace  of  russet,  and  having  the  stripes  as  distinct  and  almost  as  beautiful 
as  those  of  a  Dutchess  of  Oldenburgh,  so  that  no  southern  or  western  man 
would  have  recognized  it  for  his  home  favorite.  The  distinctive  leather- 
cracking  about  the  eye  was  present,  however,  in  all." 

TREE. 

The  tree  as  described  by  Byram  (3),  Warder  (15),  Downing  (10,  23), 
Rice  (4),  and  others  attains  large  size  and  is  productive  when  old,  requiring 
a  deep,  rich  soil  and  a  warm  season  or  southern  climate  for  its  proper  develop- 
ment. Form  upright,  somewhat  spreading,  twiggy ;  branches  sometimes  form 
peculiarly  acute  angles.  Tivigs  slender,  clear  reddish-brown  with  some  olive- 
green.  Lenticels  large,  conspicuous,  gray.  Foliage  scattering,  folded,  grayish- 
green,  subject  to  leaf-blight. 

FRUIT. 

The  following  description  of  the  fruit  is  taken  from  Byram  (3),  Elliott 
(9),  Downing  (10),  Hooper  (n),  and  Warder  (15). 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  variable  but  usually  roundish  oblate;  axis 
often  oblique  and  sides  unequal.  Stem  short,  thick  to  moderately  thick. 
Cavity  small,  acute  to  acuminate,  often  lipped,  russeted  and  with  some  out- 
spreading brownish-russet.  Caly.v  small,  closed.  Basin  small,  shallow, 
regular. 

Skin  thick,  greenish  to  brownish-yellowr  tinged  with  dull  red,  rather  indis- 
tinctly striped  with  dark  crimson,  slightly  russeted.  Dots  numerous,  large, 
gray  or  greenish. 

Core  closed;  core  lines  meeting.     Seeds  numerous,  angular,  acute. 

Flesh  yellowish-white,  tender,  fine-grained,  juicy  to  rather  dry,  subacid,  very 
good  to  best. 

Season  December  to  March. 

RALLS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831:22.  2.  Kenrick,  1832:59.  3. 
Mag.  Hort.,  1:149.  1835.  4.  Hovey,  Ib.,  10:207.  1844.  5.  Byram,  Horticul- 
turist, 2:19.  1847.  fig.  6.  Springer,  Ib.,  2:147.  1847.  7.  Ib.,  2:291,  388,  483. 
1847.  8.  Mallinckrott,  Ib.,  3:369.  1848.  9.  Phoenix,  Ib.,  4:470.  1849.  10. 
Cole,  1849:136.  fig.  ii.  Thomas,  1849:170.  12.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y., 
3:63.  1851.  13.  Elliott,  1854:100.  fig.  14.  Downing,  1857:99.  15.  Hooper, 
I85775-  16.  Mag.  Hort.,  26:102.  1860.  17.  Ib.,  27:101.  1861.  18.  Ib.,  27: 
262.  1861.  19.  Am.  Pom.  Sac.  Cat.,  1862.  20.  Mag.  Hort.,  30:162.  1864.  21. 
Warder,  1867:517.  fig.  22.  Downing,  1869:321.  fig.  23.  Howsley,  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1871:74.  24.  Fitz,  1872:141,  143,  147,  149,  156,  165,  175,  177.  25. 
Leroy,  1873:713.  26.  Downing,  1881:11  index,  app.  27.  Barry,  1883:353.  28. 
Wickson,  1889:248.  29.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rt>t.,  1890:296.  30.  Bailey, 
An.  Hort.,  1892:242.  31.  Ib.,  1892:247.  32.  Mathews,  Ky.  Sta.  Bui,  5o:32. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  271 

1894-  33-  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rf>t.,  1895:198.  34.  Heiges,  Median's 
Monthly,  6:136.  1896.  35.  Card,  and  For.,  9:310.  1896.  36.  Munson,  Me.  Sta. 
An.  Rpt.,  18:95.  1902.  37.  Hansen,  v$\  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:88.  1902.  38.  Stinson, 
Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui.,  3:27.  1902.  39.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui., 
48:53.  1903.  40.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:156.  fig.  41.  Brnner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui., 
182:27.  I9°3-  42-  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:139.  1904.  43.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:10.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Genet  (23).  Gencton  (21,  23).  GENITON  (8).  Geniton  (39). 
GENNETIN  (4).  Gcnneting  (14).  Gennetting  (42).  Ginet  (23).  Indiana 
Jannetting  (13,  14,  22).  JANET  (30).  Janet  (31,  37,  40,  41,  42).  Janetting 
(21).  Jefferson  Pippin  (23,  26).  Jeniton  (22,  27,  37,  38).  Jennett  (14, 
22).  Jcnnctte  (13).  Jenniton  (42).  MISSOURI  JANET  (18).  Missouri 
Janet J  (22).  Never  Fail  (21).  Neverfail  (4,  6,  n,  12,  13,  14,  15,  22,  33,  37, 
39,  40,  41,  of  Ohio  10).  RALLS  GENET  (33,  35,  37,  40,  41).  Rails  Genet  (39, 
42).  RALLS  JANET  (36).  Raule  Jannet  (12).  RAULE'S  GENET  (24).  RAULE'S 
JANET  (13,  15).  RAULE'S  JANETT  (5).  RAULE'S  JANETTE  (10).  RAULE'S 
JANNET  (14).  Route's  Jannette  (13).  Rattle's  Jannctting  (14,  22).  Raulc's 
Jennettirig  (10).  RAUL'S  GENNETTING  (6,  22).  Raul's  Gennetting  (13). 
RAWLF/S  GENET  (23,  24,  26).  Rawlc's  Genet  (22).  RAWLE'S  JANET  (9,  16, 
17,  20,  21,  22,  27,  28,  29,  31,  32,  38).  Rarde's  Janet  (30,  35).  RAWLE'S  JANETT 
(2,  3).  RAWLE'S  JANNET  (n).  Ratvle's  Jannet  (22).  Razvle's  Jennet  (8). 
Raivle's  Jenneting  (n).  Rawle's  Jennette  (13).  Rawl's  Janet  (13).  Red 
Nevcrfailt  (22).  ROCKREMAIN  (12).  Rockremain  (6,  n).  Rock  Remain 
(13,  14,  22).  Rockrimmon  (10).  Reck  Rimmon  (13,  14,  21,  22).  Royal 
Janette  (33).  Winter  Genneting  (13).  Winter  Jannetting  (14,  22).  Yellow 
Janctte  (13).  Yellow  Janett  (14,  22). 

Rails,  although  a  southern  variety,  often  develops  pretty  good 
quality  when  grown  as  far  north  as  Western  New  York  and 
Southern  Michigan.  As  grown  here  it  seldom  reaches  marketable 
size  unless  it  is  thinned  and  it  is  rather  dull  in  color  being  at  the 
best  only  moderately  attractive  but  It  has  the  merit  of  being  a  good 
keeper  and  holds  its  flavor  well  till  late  in  the  season.  In  ordinary 
storage  it  is  in  season  from  December  to  May  with  April  as  the 
commercial  limit  (42). 

In  districts  farther  south  and  west  and,  generally  speaking, 
throughout  the  Ben  Davis  apple  regions  it  produces  fruit  of  superior 
quality,  is  generally  held  in  high  esteem  for  home  use  and  has  a 
recognized  standing  in  market.  It  has  there  been  cultivated  exten- 
sively either  under  the  common  names  of  Jeniton  or  Rails  Janet  or 
under  some  variation  of  these  names.  It  has  also  been  grown  to  a 
limited  extent  under  the  names  Neverfail  and  Rock  Rimmon.  The 
younger  trees  frequently  bear  annually  and  yield  fruit  of  fairly  good 
size  but  with  increasing  age  the  trees  often  become  biennial  or  oc- 
casional croppers  and  in  bearing-  years  are  apt  to  be  so  overloaded 


272  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

that  the  fruit  is  small.  On  account  of  the  lateness  of  its  blooming 
season  Rails  frequently  sets  a  good  crop  of  fruit  when  earlier 
blooming  varieties  fail  on  account  of  unfavorable  weather  during 
the  blossoming  season. 

Rails  is  but  little  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers  and  is 
not  recommended  for  planting  in  this  state. 

Historical.  The  first  that  is  definitely  known  of  this  variety  is  that  trees 
of  it  were  growing  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Caleb  Rails  in  Amherst  county, 
Virginia,  something  over  a  hundred  years  ago.  There  is  no  evidence  to  show 
whether  it  was  a  local  seedling  or  an  importation  from  some  other  section. 
Howsley  (23)  states  that  it  was  brought  from  France  to  President  Jefferson 
by  M.  Genet  at  that  time  the  minister  from  that  country.  This  claim  does 
not  seem  to  have  been  made  in  print  till  about  one  hundred  years  after  the 
time  of  its  alleged  occurrence  and  as  there  are  no  records  to  verify  it,  its 
truth  seems  problematical.  We  regard  it  as  probably  a  Virginia  seedling. 
Spreading  from  Virginia  it  has  come  into  more  or  less  common  cultivation 
southward  into  the  Carolinas  and  Georgia,  northward  into  Southern  Michigan 
and  westward  across  the  Mississippi  valley  to  and  beyond  the  Ozarks,  but  it 
remains  practically  unknown  among  New  York  fruit  growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  becoming  spread- 
ing and  inclined  to  droop,  dense.  Twigs  short,  curved,  moderately  stout; 
internodes  short.  Bark  dull  brown  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly  mottled 
with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  small,  oblong,  not 
raised.  Buds  medium  in  size,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  slightly 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  above,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  oblate  varying  to  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  rather  symmetrical. 
Stem  often  long  and  slender.  Cavity  obtuse  to  acute,  deep,  sometimes  com- 
pressed or  somewhat  furrowed,  often  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium, 
usually  somewhat  open.  Basin  often  a  little  oblique,  wide,  rather  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  inclined  to  abrupt,  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  yellow  or  greenish  blushed  and  mottled  with  pinkish  red,  in- 
distinctly striped  with  dull  carmine,  overspread  with  a  light  bloom  which 
together  with  broken  stripes  of  thin  whitish  scarf-skin  combine  to  give  the 
fruit  a  rather  dull  appearance.  Dots  numerous,  small,  whitish  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  broad  cone-shape  or  frequently  funnel-shape.  Stamens  marginal 
or  nearly  so. 

Core  medium  in  size,  axile  or  slightly  abaxile ;  cells  closed  or  partly  open ; 
core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  rather  flat,  broadly  roundish, 
emarginate,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  medium  or  above,  narrow,  plump,  acute, 
dark. 

Flesh  whitish,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  juicy, 
subacid  with  a  slight  mingling  of  sweet,  aromatic,  pleasant,  very  good  for 
dessert, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  273 

RAMBO. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Dom.  Encyc.,  1804.  (cited  by  40).  2.  Coxe,  1817:116.  fig. 
3.  Thacher,  1822:134.  4.  Buel,  Ar.  Y.  Ed.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:476.  5.  Wilson, 
1828:136.  6.  Fessenden,  1828:131.  7.  Cat.  Hort.  Sac.  London,  1831:28.  8. 
Kenrick,  1832:37.  9.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:49.  1841.  10.  Downing,  1845: 
93.  fig.  n.  N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Trans.,  1846:191.  fig.  12.  Elliott,  Horticulturist, 
1:388.  1847.  13.  Kirtland,  Ib.,  2:544.  1848.  14.  Thomas,  1849:151.  15.  Cole, 
1849:116.  fig.  16.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:472.  1850.  17.  Humrickhouse, 
Mag.  Hort.,  15:28.  1849.  fig.  18.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:29.  1851.  19. 
Elliott,  1854:102.  fig.  20.  Horticulturist,  10:87.  1855.  21.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1856.  22.  Hooper,  1857:73.  23.  Ib.,  1857:74.  24.  Gregg,  1857:57.  25. 
Horticulturist,  13:144.  1858.  26.  Mag.  Hort.,  30:162.  1864.  27.  Warder,  1867: 
454.  fig.  28.  Downing,  1869:319.  fig.  29.  Fitz,  1872:163.  30.  Barry,  1883:352. 

31.  Hogg,  1884:184.    32.  Wickson,  1889:245.    33.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:296.     34.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:247.     35.  Mathews,  Ky.  Sta.  Bui,  50: 

32.  1894.     36.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:337.   1896.     37.  Budd- 
Hansen,    1903:158.   fig.     38.  Powell   and  Fulton,    U.  S.  B.   P.   I.  Bui.,  48:53. 
IQO3-    39-  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:140.  1904.     40.  Ragan,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:247.  1905- 

SYNONYMS.  American  Seek-No-Further  (7).  Bread  and  Cheese  (27,  40, 
of  New  Jersey  18).  Bread  and  Cheese  Apple  (2,  19,  28,  of  New  Jersey  10, 
15  and  17).  Delaware  (28,  40).  Fall  Romanite  (28,  40).  Gray  Romanite 
(28,  40).  Large  Rambo?  (28,  40).  Rambo  (5).  Rambouillet  (28,  40). 
RAMBOULETTE  (23).  Ramboulette?  (40).  ROMANITE  (5).  Romanite  (2,  4, 
7,  8,  15,  19,  28,  40,  of  New  Jersey  10,  14,  17,  18  and  27).  Seek-No-Farther 
(19,  of  Philadelphia  2).  Seek-No-Further  (4,  28,  40,  of  New  Jersey  10,  17 
and  18,  of  Pennsylvania  22,  of  Philadelphia  8  and  15).  Striped  Rambo  (17, 
28,  40).  Terry's  Redstreak  (19,  28,  40).  Trumpington  (40,  ?28). 

The  accompanying  plate  shows  the  whole  fruit  of  Rambo.  The 
section  is  shown  on  the  same  plate  as  that  which  shows  the  whole 
fruit  of  Walbridge. 

This  fruit  belongs  in  the  same  group  as  the  Domine.  Downing 
states1  that  "  Domine  so  much  resembles  the  Rambo  externally, 
that  the  two'  are  often  confounded  together,  and  the  outline  of  the 
latter  fruit  may  be  taken  as  nearly  a  facsimile  of  this.  The  Domine 
is,  however,  of  a  livelier  color,  and  the  flavor  and  season  of  the  two 
fruits  are  very  distinct, — the  Rambo  being  rather  a  high-flavored 
early  winter  or  autumn  apple,  while  the  Domine  is  a  sprightly, 
juicy,  long-keeping  winter  fruit."  Rambo  when  well  grown  is  an 
apple  of  excellent  quality  but  in  this  state  it  does  not  take  first  rank 
for  any  purpose.  It  is  less  attractive  in  size  and  color  and  less 
desirable  for  market  than  Baldwin  or  Northern  Spy.  For  culinary 

Downing,  1869:  147. 


274  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

uses  it  is  easily  surpassed  by  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  for  dessert 
by  Tompkins  King-,  Hubbardston  and  other  apples  of  Rambo  sea- 
son. When  well  colored  it  is  rather  attractive,  the  prevailing  color 
being  a  good  bright  red  which  forms  a  pleasing  contrast  with  the 
yellow  ground  color.  Very  often,  however,  the  red  color  is  not 
predominant  and  the  fruit  is  rather  dull  and  not  particularly  attract- 
ive. Often  a  considerable  portion  of  the  fruit  does  not  reach  good 
marketable  size,  particularly  when  borne  on  old  trees  that  are  over- 
loaded. The  tree  is  less  hardy  than  some  standard  varieties  of  this 
region  and  in  unfavorable  locations  it  is  sometimes  more  or  less 
injured  by  winter.  It  seems  to  do  particularly  well  on  rather  light, 
rich  soils,  either  sandy  or  of  limestone  formation  with  well-drained 
subsoil.  The  wood  is  rather  brittle  and  the  trees  often  break  with 
heavy  crops. 

Warder  (27)  says  that  "  It  is  a  fall  and  early  winter  fruit,  and 
some  pomologists  on  the  southern  borders  of  its  culture  object  to 
it  that  it  will  not  keep  long,  and  that  it  soon  becomes  dry  and 
mealy  when  put  away.  When  grown  further  north  it  is  smaller, 
but  more  solid,  and  remains  juicy  until  spring.  It  should  be 
gathered  early,  even  before  it  is  well  colored,  and  kept  cool  to  make 
it  retain  its  flavor  and  juiciness." 

As  grown  at  this  Station  its  commercial  limit  appears  to  be 
November,  although  some  of  the  fruit  may  be  kept  till  March  in 
apparently  good  condition.  Storage  men  give  its  season  as  ex- 
tending in  cellar  storage  to  November  and  in  chemical  cold  storage 
to  February.  It  does  not  stand  heat  well  before  going  into  storage 
and  goes  down  quickly,  losing  in  quality  and  firmness,  shriveling, 
becoming  mealy  and  bursting  (39).  It  was  formerly  grown  to  some 
extent  for  market  in  some  portions  of  the  state  but  during  the  last 
half  century  it  has  gradually  lost  ground  in  competition  with  other 
better  commercial  sorts.  It  is  not  now  recommended  for  planting 
in  commercial  orchards  in  New  York,  but  on  account  of  the  agree- 
able dessert  qualities  of  the  fruit  it  will  doubtless  continue  to  be 
grown  to  a  limited  extent  for  home  use. 

Historical.  Origin  unknown.  In  1817  Coxe  (2)  remarked  that  it  was 
much  cultivated  in  Delaware,  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey.  The  extent  of 
its  cultivation  at  that  time  indicates  that  it  must  have  originated  at  least  fifty 
years  previous  to  that  date.  According  to  Coxe  it  takes  its  name  from  the 


WALBRIDGE 


RAMBO 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  275 

families  by  whom  it  was  brought  into  notice  (2).  It  was  introduced  into 
Ohio  by  the  early  settlers  from  Pennsylvania  and  its  cultivation  gradually 
spread  westward  with  the  tide  of  emigration  (27).  In  many  localities  in  the 
central  portion  of  the  Mississippi  valley  it  is  still  a  favorite  fruit.  Wickson 
(32)  says  that  on  the  Pacific  Coast  it  has  failed  to  sustain  the  reputation 
which  it  gained  in  the  East.  Generally  speaking,  it  appears  to  be  less  popular 
and  certainly  less  widely  planted  to-day  than  it  was  a  quarter  of  a  century 
ago. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  size,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous.  Form  upright  spread- 
ing, open.  The  old  bark  is  peculiarly  rough.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  moder- 
ately stout,  broad ;  internodes  medium.  Bark  brownish-red  mingled  with 
olive-green,  lightly  blotched  and  irregularly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  slightly 
pubescent.  Lcnticels  numerous,  small  to  medium,  round,  not  raised.  Buds 
medium,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  sometimes  large,  often  averaging  no  more  than  medium 
size,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  usually  roundish  and  somewhat 
oblate  but  varies  to  roundish  oblong  approaching  truncate,  symmetrical, 
usually  regular  but  sometimes  faintly  ribbed.  Stem  short  to  medium  in 
length,  rather  slender.  Cavity  pretty  regular,  moderately  wide,  rather  deep, 
acute  or  acuminate,  sometimes  smooth  but  usually  with  some  outspreading 
russet.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  usually  closed;  lobes  medium  to  long,  rather 
narrow,  acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  wide,  moderately  deep,  rather  abrupt, 
often  furrowed  and  somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  a  little  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  russet  dots, 
pale  greenish-yellow,  mottled  with  red,  striped  with  carmine  and  overspread 
with  grayish  bloom.  Dots  conspicuous,  rather  large,  whitish,  gray  or  russet. 
In  highly  colored  specimens  the  red  is  predominant. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form,  rather  long  with  wide  limb.  Stamens  median  to 
marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile ;  cells  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
roundish  to  broadly  obovate,  emarginate,  slighly  tufted.  Seeds  medium  to 
rather  large,  broad,  rather  flat,  obtuse,  slightly  tufted,  light  and  dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  with  tinge  of  yellow  or  green,  firm,  rather  fine,  very  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  mildly  subacid,  aromatic,  good  to  very  good.  Particularly 
desirable  for  dessert 

RED  CANADA. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Thacher,  1822:131.  2.  Fessenden,  1828:131.  3.  Manning, 
Mag.  Plort.,  7:47.  1841.  4.  Hovey,  Ib.,  13:75.  1847.  fig.  5.  Watts  and  Down- 
ing, Horticulturist,  1:482.  1847.  6.  Downing,  Ib.,  2:289.  1847.  7.  Hovey, 
Mag.  Hort.,  14:124.  1848.  8.  Horticulturist,  2:483,  544.  1848.  9.  Thomas, 
1849:171.  fig.  10.  Cole,  1849:127.  ii.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:101.  1851. 
col.  pi.  No.  42.  12.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  13.  Mag.  Hort.,  19:68.  1853. 
14.  Elliott,  1854:102.  fig.  15.  Hooper,  1857:76.  16.  Downing,  1857:97.  fig. 
17.  Warder,  1867:542.  18.  Regel,  1868:465.  19.  Barry,  1883:353.  20.  Wick- 
son,  1889:247.  21.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:296.  22.  Bailey,  An. 
Hort.,  1892:247.  23.  Amer.  Card.,  20:104.  1899.  24.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:161, 


276  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

fig.     25.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:53.  1903.    26.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:140.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Bristol  of  some.  Canada  Red  (25).  Canada  Redstreak  (26). 
NONESUCH  (2).  NONSUCH  (i,  3,  8,  13).  Nonsuch  (9).  OLD  NONSUCH  (7, 
10).  Old  Nonsuch  (6,  9,  14,  15,  21,  of  Massachusetts  8  and  16).  Red  Canada 
(13,  of  Western  New  York  8  and  TO).  Red  Winter  (26).  Richfield  Nonsuch 
(10,  n,  14,  15,  16,  19,  of  Ohio  9).  Steele's  Red  Winter  (20,  24,  25,  26,  of 
Michigan  16).  Steel's  Red  (17).  Winter  Nonsuch  (10).  Not  the  Canada 
Red  of  some  portions  of  Ontario.  See  Roseau,  page  292. 

This  is  a  red  winter  apple  which  belongs  in  the  same  group  with 
Baldwin  and  Esopus  Spitsenburg.  When  well  grown  and  in  prime 
condition  it  is  one  of  the  best  apples  of  its  season  for  dessert  use 
on  account  of  its  desirable  size,  attractive  form  and  color  and 
superior  quality.  It  is  well  adapted  to  either  general  or  special 
markets  and  often  brings  more  than  average  prices.  The  quality 
of  the  fruit  varies  much  in  different  seasons  and  in  different  locali- 
ties. When  grown  on  heavy  clay  soils  its  quality  in  some  seasons 
is  decidedly  inferior  to  that  of  Baldwin  and  would  be  rated  only 
fair  to  good;  but  when  grown  on  certain  fertile  soils  of  a  gravelly 
or  sandy  nature  in  favorable  seasons  it  develops  color,  flavor  and 
quality  fully  equal  to  that  of  Esopus  Spitzenburg.  It  stands  heat 
well  before  going  into  storage  and  goes  down  gradually  (26).  Its 
season  is  somewhat  variable.  The  commercial  limit  in  ordinary 
storage  is  January  or  February,  and  in  cold  storage,  April.  Its 
season  for  home  use  usually  extends  from  November  to  March  or 
later.  Although  the  fruit  may  remain  apparently  sound  it  is  apt  to 
lose  much  of  its  high  flavor  after  midwinter.  The  tree  is  somewhat 
lacking  in  hardiness  and  is  but  a  moderate  grower.  It  should  be 
top-worked  on  some  hardier  and  more  vigorous  variety  such  as  Bald- 
win or  Northern  Spy.  In  some  cases  it  is  an  annual  bearer  but 
more  often  it  is  not  a  sure  cropper.  • 

Waugh  recognizes  Roseau  as  the  correct  name  for  an  apple  which 
is  commonly  known  in  Ontario  under  the  name  of  Canada  Red. 
It  is  quite  distinct  from  the  variety  above  described.1  For  further 
consideration  of  this  matter  the  reader  is  referred  to  Roseau,  page  292. 

Historical  This  variety  probably  originated  in  New  England  but  its  origin 
is  obscure.  Thacher  (i)  in  1822  described  it  under  the  name  Nonsuch  and 
later  Fessenden  (2),  Manning  (3),  Hovey  (7)  and  other  New  England  writers 

lCan.  Hort.,  18: 184.  1895.  Waugh,  Rural  N.  Y.t  62:143.  1903.  Rural  N.  Y.(  62:238, 
282.  1903. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  277 

recognized  this  name  for  the  variety.  In  1849  Cole  (10)  described  it  as  the 
Old  Nonsuch.  It  appears  to  have  been  brought  into  Western  New  York  from 
the  vicinity  of  Toronto,  Canada,  and  afterwards  cultivated  in  this  region  under 
the  name  Canada  Red.  The  earliest  mention  we  find  of  the  variety  under 
the  name  Red  Canada  or  Canada  Red,  as  these  names  appear  to  have  been 
used  interchangeably,  is  that  of  Watts  and  Downing  in  1847  (5).  In  Michigan 
it  has  been  often  cultivated  under  the  name  of  Steele's  Red  Winter.  In  some 
portions  of  Eastern  New  York  it  is  grown  under  the  name  Bristol.  It  has 
been  pretty  generally  distributed  throughout  the  state.  In  some  few  localities 
its  cultivation  in  commercial  orchards  is  increasing  but  seldom  has  it  been 
planted  to  any  considerable  extent,  and,  generally  speaking,  it  is  found  only  in 
old  orchards. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous;  branches  short, 
stout,  curved,  crooked.  Form  upright  to  roundish,  rather  dense.  Twigs 
medium  in  length,  straight  or  nearly  so,  rather  slender  to  moderately  stout; 
internodes  below  medium  to  long.  Bark  olive-green  tinged  with  reddish- 
brown,  netted  or  streaked  with  thin  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels 
scattering,  not  very  conspicuous,  small,  round,  slightly  raised.  Buds  promin- 
ent, large  to  medium,  long,  narrow,  plump,  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  slightly 
pubescent.  Leaves  medium  to  broad,  rather  thin. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  nearly  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  inclined  to  conic  and  somewhat  flattened  at  the  base,  nearly  sym- 
metrical and  pretty  regular  but  sometimes  elliptical  or  obscurely  ribbed  and 
with  sides  a  little  unequal.  Stem  medium  to  rather  slender,  pubescent. 
Cavity  usually  large,  acuminate,  deep,  wide,  often  partly  russeted  and  with 
radiating  green  or  russet  rays,  usually  symmetrical,  sometimes  slightly  fur- 
rowed. Calyx  small,  closed  or  partly  open,  pubescent.  Basin  small,  usually 
narrow,  shallow  to  moderately  deep  and  rather  abrupt,  furrowed  and  some- 
times slightly  wrinkled,  often  somewhat  oblique. 

Skin  tough,  nearly  smooth  especially  toward  the  cavity,  slightly  rough  about 
the  basin,  rather  clear  light  yellow  or  green  largely  overspread  in  well-colored 
specimens  with  a  fine  deep  red  blush,  indistinctly  striped  with  deeper  red. 
Dots  conspicuous,  grayish  or  fawn  colored.  Toward  the  cavity  they  are  scat- 
tering, large  and  often  elongated  as  in  Baldwin  and  Esopus  Spitzenburg,  but 
as  they  converge  toward  the  apex  they  become  more  numerous  and  smaller. 
Prevailing  effect  very  attractive  bright  deep  red. 

Calyx  tube  elongated  cone-shape  or  somewhat  funnel-form.  Stamens 
marginal. 

Core  sessile,  axile  or  nearly  so,  medium  to  rather  small;  cells  symmetrical, 
closed  or  slit ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  usually  smooth,  roundish,  narrow- 
ing somewhat  toward  the  apex,  mucronate,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all. 
Seeds  very  numerous,  medium  to  rather  large,  angular,  long,  moderately  wide, 
plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish  with  yellow  or  greenish  tinge,  firm,  crisp,  rather  fine-grained, 
tender,  juicy,  aromatic,  rich,  agreeably  subacid  but  becoming  rather  too  mil<} 
toward  the  close  of  the  season,  good  to  best 


278  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

RED  RUSSET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Cole,  1849:131.  2.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:95.  1851. 
3.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  19:125.  1853.  4.  Downing,  1857:97.  5.  Hovey,  Mag. 
Hort.,  29:260.  1863.  fig.  6.  Warder,  1867:628.  7.  Thomas,  1875:229.  8. 
Barry,  1883:353.  9.  Can.  Hort.,  11:283.  1888.  10.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1890:296.  ii.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:247.  12.  Maynard,  Putnam  and 
Fletcher,  Mass.  Hatch.  Sta.  Bui,  44:4.  1897.  *3-  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui,  48:53.  14.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:140.  1904. 

This  is  one  of  the  russet  Baldwins  referred  to  on  page  59.  It  originated 
as  a  sport  on  a  Baldwin  tree  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Aaron  Sanborn,  Hampton 
Falls,  N.  H.,  about  1840.  It  was  introduced  to  notice  by  Cole  in  1849  (i,  3). 
It  is  distinct  from  the  Red  Russet  of  Hooper1  which  is  the  Golden  Pearmain 
of  Elliott2,  Downing3  and  other  pomological  writers.  Instances  are  known 
where  it  has  borne  smooth  fruit  intermingled  on  the  same  twigs  with  russet 
fruit.4  The  Red  Russet  is  almost  universally  considered  less  valuable  than 
Baldwin  both  by  fruit  growers  and  fruit  dealers.  It  is  known  in  many  parts 
of  New  York  but  is  nowhere  planted  extensively  and  is  gradually  going  out 
of  cultivation. 

For  a  technical  description  of  the  tree  and  fruit  the  reader  is  referred  to 
the  description  of  Baldwin  on  page  59. 

REDSTREAK. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Forsyth,  1803:56.  2.  Coxe,  1817:157.  fig.  3.  Thacher,  1822: 
133.  4.  Forsyth,  1824:123.  5.  Wilson,  1828:136.  6.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:81. 
7.  Downing,  1845:146.  8.  Thomas,  1849:171.  9.  Cole,  1849:137.  10.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:74.  1851.  fig.  n.  Townley,  Horticulturist,  6:496.  1851. 
12.  Elliott,  1854:177.  13.  Warder,  1867:718.  14.  Fitz,  1872:147,  159.  15. 
Leroy,  1873:781.  fig.  16.  Pa.  Fr.  Gr.  Soc.  Rpl,  1881:65.  17.  Hogg,  1884:188. 

SYNONYMS.  ENGLISH  RED  STREAK  (16).  ENGLISH  REDSTREAK  (10,  13). 
Herefordshire  Red  Streak  (7,  12).  Herefordshire  Redstreak  (15,  17).  John- 
son (17).  RED  STREAK  (i,  3,  4,  7,  9,  n,  12,  17).  Red  Streak  (15).  ROUGE 
RAYEE  (15).  Scudamore's  Crab  (7,  15,  17).  Scudamous  Crab  (12). 

An  English  cider  fruit  formerly  cultivated  extensively  in  some  portions  of 
New  York  but  now  practically  obsolete  here.  Downing  (7)  remarks  that  it 
is  a  capital  English  cider  apple  which  thrives  admirably  in  this  country  and 
is  very  highly  esteemed  as  it  makes  a  rich,  high-flavored,  strong  liquor,  and 
the  tree  is  a  handsome  grower  and  a  great  bearer.  He  describes  the  fruit  (7) 
as  of  medium  size,  roundish,  with  small  calyx,  rather  deep  basin,  rather 
slender,  short  stem;  skin  streaked  with  rich  red  and  with  a  few  spots  and 
streaks  of  yellow ;  flesh  yellow,  rich,  firm,  dry,  good. 

Coxe  published  the  following  description  of  it  in  1817  (2).  "This  tree  was 
originally  brought  from  England,  where  it  possessed  a  high  reputation  as  a 

1  Hooper,  1857:78. 

'Elliott,  1854:i7i. 

'Downing,  1869: 194. 

*At  the  meeting  of  the  Ohio  State  Horticultural  Society  December,  1903,  Mr.  H.  H. 
Aultfather  exhibited  samples  of  russeted  Red  Russet  and  smooth-skinned  Red  Russet 
grown  by  Mr.  W.  P.  Myers,  Minerva,  Ohio.  Fruits  of  the  two  types  grew  on  different 
parts  of  the  tree  and  were  intermingled  on  the  same  twigs. 


RED  RUSSET 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  279 

cider  fruit;  it  has  been  cultivated  extensively  in  this  country,  by  the  descend- 
ants of  the  English  settlers  in  New  York,  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania.  The 
climate  of  America  is  supposed  to  have  revived  the  character  of  this  apple, 
which  had  deteriorated  in  its  native  soil,  from  the  long  duration  of  the 
variety — the  fruit  is  rather  small;  the  form  is  oblong,  flattened  at  both  ends, 
the  stem  and  crown  both  sunk — the  skin  is  red,  faintly  streaked  and  spotted 
with  yellow — the  flesh  is  yellow,  rich,  firm,  and  dry ;  it  hangs  late,  and  re- 
quires to  be  matured  by  housing  to  make  the  finest  cider.  The  character  of 
the  cider,  when  properly  made  and  fined,  is  very  high,  both  for  strength  and 
flavour — the  apple  keeps  well  through  the  winter,  and  is  much  esteemed  as 
an  excellent  kitchen  fruit  in  the  latter  part  of  the  winter.  The  tree  is  of 
handsome,  regular  growth,  and  a  great  bearer;  the  opinion  of  dealers  is,  that 
this  cider  is  difficult  to  fine  fit  for  bottling:  when  perfectly  cleared,  it  ranks 
among  our  first  fruit  liquors." 

RED  WINTER  PEARMAIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Elliott,  1854:141.  fig.  2.  Elliott,  1854:115.  fig.  3.  Down- 
ing, 1857:182.  4.  Downing,  1869:329.  fig.  5.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1870.  6. 
Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:256.  1905. 

Red  Winter  Pearmain  is  not  now  accepted  by  pomologists  as  the  correct 
name  of  any  apple  but  it  is  recognized  as  a  synonym  for  several  different 
varieties.  The  following  is  a  list  of  synonyms  as  corrected  by  Ragan  (6). 

Red  Winter  Pearmain  (3,  4).     Synonym  of  Buncombe. 

Red  Winter  Pearmain  (i).     Synonym  of  Long  Red. 

Red  Winter  Pearmain   (5).     Synonym  of  Milam. 

Red   Winter  Pearmain   (2).     Synonym  of  Westfield  Seek-No-Further. 

REINETTE. 

The  term  Reinette,  as  designating  a  certain  class  of  apples,  has 
been  introduced  into  English  from  the  French.  Leroy1  tells  us  that 
French  horticultural  literature  shows  that  the  word  has  been  in  use 
about  four  hundred  years.  Starting  in  with  only  one  variety 
of  this  name  the  number  has  gradually  increased  until  to-day  there 
are  several  hundred.  Leroy  thinks  they  are  all  descended  from  the 
original  variety,  the  Reinette  franche  or  Reinette  Blanche,  which  is 
the  French  Reinette  of  Downing.2  The  derivation  of  the  word  is 
a  disputed  point,  certain  etymologists  holding  that  it  is  the  diminu- 
tive form  of  Reine,  or  queen,  and  others  thinking  that  it  is  a  cor- 
ruption of  Rainet,  a  colloquial  French  word  meaning  a  small  frog. 
While  European  pomologists  speak  of  the  Reinettes  as  a  distinct 
type,  an  examination  of  the  technical  descriptions  of  the  various 

1  Leroy,  1873:6 14. 
*  Downing,  1868:184. 


280  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Reinettes  does  not  show  that  they  have  any  constant  characters 
which  are  in  any  way  peculiar  to  themselves.  Diel  gives  the  follow- 
ing eight  characters  by  which  Reinettes  can  be  recognized.1 

"  i.  They  have  a  fine-grained,  delicate,  crisp,  firm  flesh. 

"  2.  They  are  mostly  the  ideal  of  a  handsomely  shaped  apple ;  in 
them  the  convexity  or  bulge  of  the  middle  of  the  apple  towards  the 
eye  is  the  same  as  that  towards  the  stalk,  or  not  much  different. 

"  3.  They  are  all  gray  dotted,  or  have  russety  patches,  or  com- 
pletely covered  with  russet. 

"  4.  They  have  rarely  an  unctuous  skin. 

"  5.  They  have  all  the  rich,  aromatic,  sugary,  and  brisk  flavor, 
which  is  called  the  Reinette  flavor. 

"  6.  They  decay  very  readily,  and  must,  of  all  apples,  hang  longest 
on  the  tree. 

"  7.  The  really  sweet  and  at  the  same  time  aromatic  apples  belong 
to  the  Reinettes,  only  as  regards  their  shape,  their  character,  and 
their  fine  and  firm  flesh. 

"  8.  Apples  with  fine,  firm,  crisp  flesh,  which  cannot  of  themselves 
form  a  distinct  class ;  for  instance,  the  Pippins  belong  to  this  class." 

This  classification  of  Diel  is  evidently  an  arbitrary  one  and  differs 
in  spirit  at  least  from  the  conception  of  Leroy  that  the  Reinettes 
represent  one  family  descended  from  a  single  original  variety. 

REINETTE  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1869:332.  2.  Leroy,  1873:724.  fig.  3.  Powell 
and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:54.  1903.  4.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:140.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.     REINETTE  PEPIN   (2).    Reinette  Pippin  (2). 

Fruit  pretty  uniform  in  size  but  often  a  little  unsymmetrical  with 
sides  unequal.  It  is  green  in  autumn  but  eventually  becomes 
more  or  less  tinged  with  pale  yellow.  It  is  an  uncertain  keeper  in 
storage.  It  sometimes  keeps  well  till  midwinter  but  it  often  shows 
a  high  rate  of  loss  during  November.  Early  November  is  the 
common  commercial  limit  for  handling  this  variety  in  ordinary 
storage,  although  its  season  extends  from  October  to  March.  The 
commercial  limit  in  cold  storage  appears  to  vary  from  February  first 

1  Warder,   1867 :37o. 


V 


REINETTE    PIPPIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  281 

to  March  first.  As  grown  at  this  Station  the  tree  is  healthy,  strong 
and  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  moderate  to  heavy  crops  annually. 
In  fact  it  is  one  of  the  most  productive  of  the  varieties  thus  far  tested 
here,  often  bearing  so  heavily  that  a  considerable  portion  of  the 
fruit  is  below  medium  size.  Although  Reinette  Pippin  is  excellent 
in  quality,  Rhode  Island  Greening  surpasses  it  for  culinary  use  as  it 
also  does  in  size  and  symmetry. 

Historical.  This  variety  originated  in  France  where  it  has  been  known  in 
cultivation  for  more  than  one  hundred  years  (2).  It  appears  to  be  but  little 
known  in  this  country. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  rather  large,  vigorous;  branches  short,  curved;  laterals 
willowy,  slender  and  somewhat  drooping.  Form  roundish  to  upright  and 
rather  spreading,  open.  Tzvigs  medium  to  short,  straight  or  somewhat  curved, 
stout  to  moderately  slender ;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  reddish-brown 
mingled  with  olive-green,  partly  streaked  with  thin  scarf-skin,  heavily  pubes- 
cent. Lenticels  scattering,  medium,  roundish  or  oblong,  slightly  raised.  Buds 
very  deeply  set  in  bark,  below  medium  to  small,  broad,  flat,  very  obtuse,  ap- 
pressed,  quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium,  sometimes  large  or  very  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size 
but  variable  in  shape.  Form  oblate,  occasionally  roundish,  rarely  slightly  in- 
clined to  conic,  often  irregularly  elliptical  or  obscurely  angular;  sides  char- 
acteristically unequal  as  shown  in  the  accompanying  colored  plate.  Stem  short 
to  very  short.  Cavity  medium  or  below,  acute  or  acuminate,  deep,  moderately 
wide  or  rather  narrow,  often  slightly  furrowed,  sometimes  compressed,  some- 
times with  outspreading  rays  of  thin  greenish-russet.  Calyx  small  to  above 
medium,  open  to  nearly  or  quite  closed;  lobes  long,  acute  to  acuminate,  re- 
flexed.  Basin  variable,  small  to  rather  large,  moderately  shallow  to  rather 
deep,  narrow  to  rather  wide,  rather  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth,  green  or  pale  yellow  or  often  whitish 
especially  toward  the  cavity,  occasionally  very  slightly  blushed.  Dots  numer- 
ous, whitish  or  russet,  areolar. 

Calyx  tube  large,  deep,  flaring,  cone-shape  to  almost  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  basal. 

Core  small  to  nearly  medium,  usually  more  or  less  abaxile ;  cells  irregular 
in  size,  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  partly  open  or  closed ;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  roundish  to  elliptical,  obtusely  emarginate,  smooth.  Seeds  variable, 
irregular,  often  large,  wide,  obtuse. 

Flesh  whitish  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firrn,  tender,  rather  crisp,  moder- 
ately coarse-grained,  subacid,  rich,  juicy,  good  for  either  dessert  or  culinary 
uses. 

REPKA  MALENKA. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Budd,  la.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1880:525.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1881:118.  3.  Webster,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1883:113.  4.  Budd,  la.  Agr. 
Coll.  Bui.,  1885:16.  5.  Ib.,  1890:24.  6.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:248.  7. 


282  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Taylor,  Me.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1892:57.  8.  Harris,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1892:274. 
9.  Budd,  la.  Sta.  Bui,  19:541.  1892.  10.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1899:20.  n. 
Ragan,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1901:49.  12.  Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:92. 
1902.  fig.  13.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:163.  fig.  14.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56: 
181.  1905.  15.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:260.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Dept.  No.  418  (4).  Green  Szveet  (12).  LITTLE  REPKA  (14). 
LITTLE  SEEDLING  (2).  Little  Seedling  (3,  12,  14,  15).  No.  410  (i,  5,  9,  12, 
13).  Rcipka  Melenkaya  (14).  Repka  Malenka  (14). 

Repka  Malenka  is  said  td  be  one  of  the  best  keepers  among  the  Russian 
varieties  but  the  fruit  is  too  small  to  be  valuable  (7). 

Hansen  (12)  gives  the  following  description  of  this  variety:  "Fruit  below 
medium,  conical  to  roundish  conical,  obscurely  angular,  somewhat  irregular 
and  unequal ;  surface  yellow,  striped,  splashed,  mixed  and  dotted  dull  red  on 
sunny  side ;  dots  obscure,  few,  very  minute,  white ;  cavity  regular,  obtuse,  with 
considerable  radiating  russet;  stem  medium  to  long;  basin  abrupt,  narrow, 
shallow,  slightly  corrugated  and  wrinkled;  calyx  open  or  closed,  segments 
erect  convergent,  very  long.  Core  closed,  clasping ;  cells  round ;  tube  funnel- 
shaped,  sometimes  linear  (long  and  very  narrow)  ;  stamens  marginal  or 
median ;  seeds  about  ten,  large,  plump,  packed  tightly  in  the  small  cells ;  flesh 
white,  firm,  mild  subacid,  good.  Late  winter  and  spring." 

RHODE  ISLAND  GREENING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:129.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:134.  3.  Buel,  N.  Y. 
Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:476.  4.  Fessenden,  1828:131.  5.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  Lon- 
don, 1831:32.  6.  Kenrick,  1832:52.  7.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:37.  8.  Ib.,  1833:86. 
9.  Mag.  Hort.,  1:326,  364.  1835.  10.  Manning,  1838:56.  n.  Ib.,  Mag.  Hort., 
7:51.  1841.  12.  Downing,  1845:128.  fig.  13.  Horticulturist,  1:257.  1846.  14. 
Ib.,  1:361,  407,  431.  1847.  15.  Ib.,  2:545.  1848.  16.  Ib.,  3:292.  1848.  17. 
Thomas,  1849:184.  18.  Cole,  1849:123.  fig.  19.  Elliott,  Horticulturist,  3:420. 
1849.  20.  Phoenix,  Ib.,  4:472.  1850.  21.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:90. 
1851.  col.  pi.  No.  22.  22.  Hovey,  2:79.  1851.  23.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852. 
24.  Elliott,  1854:104.  fig.  25.  Bivort,  An.  de  Pom.  Beige,  1855:60.  26.  Gregg, 
I857:58.  27.  Hooper,  1857:79.  28.  Horticulturist,  13:144.  1858.  29.  ///. 
Handb.  Obst.,  1:265.  1858.  30.  Warder,  1867:414.  fig.  31.  Regel,  1868: 
453.  32.  Mas,  Le  Verger,  1868 :ii.  33.  Leroy,  1873:853.  fig.  34.  Lauche, 
i:  col.  pi.  No.  62.  1882.  35.  Barry,  1883:353.  36.  Hogg,  1884:194.  37.  Rural 
N.  Y.,  43:681.  1884.  38.  Wickson,  1889:246.  39.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:296.  40.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:248.  41.  Bredsted,  1893:171.  42.  U. 
S.  Pom.  Bui,  7:354.  1898.  43.  Adams,  Amer.  Card.,  22:599.  1901.  44. 
Eneroth-  Smirnoff,  1901:425.  45.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:163.  fig.  46.  U.S.  Dept. 
Agr.  Yr.  Bk.,  1903:233.  col.  pi.  No.  26.  47.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui,  48:54.  1903.  48.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:141.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Burlington  Greening  (i,  6,  12,  24,  33,  36).  Greening  (17  and 
common  colloquial  usage).  GREEN  NEWTOWN  PIPPIN  (7)  erroneously, 
corrected  by  Floy.  Green  Newtown  Pippin  (36,  erroneously  33).  HAMP- 
SHIRE GREENING  (33).  Hampshire  Greening  (24).  JERSEY  GREENING  (i, 
3).  Jersey  Greening  (6,  24,  33,  36,  ?2  and  12).  RHODE  ISLAND  (47). 
RHODE  ISLAND  GREENING  (i,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  8,  9,  10,  n,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17, 


RHODE  ISLAND  GREENING 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  283 

18,  19,  20,  21,  22,  23,  24,  25,  26,  27,  28,  30,  31,  32,  33,  35,  36,  37,  38,  39,  40, 
41,  44,  46,  48).  Rhode  Island  Greening  (47).  Verte  de  Vile  de  Rhodes  (33). 
VERTE  DE  RHODE  ISLAND  (33).  ; 

Rhode  Island  Greening  is  grown  more  extensively  in  New  York 
than  any  other  apple  except  the  Baldwin  and  in  a  few  sections  of 
the  state  it  surpasses  even  Baldwin.  Its  range  of  distribution  on  this 
continent  is  nearly  coextensive  with  that  of  Baldwin. 

In  accordance  with  the  usage  of  the  American  Pomological 
Society  (23)  the  word  Greening  in  the  name  of  this  variety  is  put 
in  italics  as  the  first  step  toward  shortening  the  name  to  Rhode 
Island. "  Fruit  growers  and  fruit  dealers  know  the  variety  very  well 
by  the  name  Rhode  Island  Greening  but  commonly  call  it  by  the 
simple  name  Greening.  Among  these  classes  of  people  it  will  doubt- 
less continue  to  be  known  by  the  name  Greening  or  Rhode  Island 
Greening  as  long  as  it  remains  in  cultivation. 

The  apple,  as  the  name  indicates,  is  green  in  color.  It  is  com- 
monly deep  grass-green  in  autumn,  and  later,  as  it  ripens,  develops 
more  or  less  of  a  yellow  color.  It  often  has  a  dull  blush  and  oc- 
casionally develops  a  rather  bright  red  cheek  but  is  never  striped. 
Generally  it  is  a  reliable  cropper  and  productive.  The  fruit  has  a 
recognized  standing  both  in  domestic  and  foreign  markets  and  sells 
readily  at  good  prices.  It  is  generally  regarded  as  one  of  the  very 
best  cooking  apples  grown  being  almost  the  peer  of  Esopus  Spit  sen- 
burg  and  decidedly  superior  to  Baldwin  for  all  culinary  purposes. 
It  is  also  very  good  in  quality  for  dessert  use.  Hovey  well  remarks 
(22)  :  "  As  a  cooking  apple,  the  Greening  is  unsurpassed;  and  as 
a  dessert  fruit  of  its  season,  has  few  equals.  To  some  tastes  it  is 
rather  acid;  but  the  tenderness  of  its  very  juicy  flesh,  the  spright- 
liness  of  its  abundant  juice,  and  the  delicacy  of  its  rich  and  fine 
flavor  is  not  excelled  by  any  of  the  numerous  varieties  that  we  at 
present  possess.  In  addition  to  these  merits,  it  ripens  up  of  a  fine 
mellow  shade  of  yellow,  and  its  entire  flesh,  when  well  matured,  is 
of  the  same  rich  tint."  It  is  a  favorite  variety  in  nearly  all  of  the 
apple-growing  sections  of  the  state  but  it  succeeds  particularly  well 
in  Central  and  Western  New  York  and  in  the  middle  portion  of  the 
Hudson  valley.  When  grown  farther  south  it  is  less  desirable  for 
commercial  purposes  because  it  ripens  earlier  and  is  not  so  good  a 
keeper.  In  the  North  it  is  a  little  less  hardy  than  Baldwin.  It  is  a 


284  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

good  variety  to  grow  with  the  Baldwin  in  commercial  orchards 
because,  being  a  little  earlier  in  season,  it  can  be  picked  and  marketed 
before  it  is  necessary  to  pick  Baldwin.  Moreover  it  bears  good 
crops  some  years  when  there  is  but  a  light  crop  of  Baldwins  or  per- 
haps none  at  all. 

In  regions  best  adapted  to  its  cultivation  it  thrives  on  different 
slopes  and  on  a  variety  of  soils,  but  generally,  it  appears  to  do  par- 
ticularly well  on  fertile  gravelly  or  sandy  loam  with  well-drained 
clay  subsoil.  The  tree  is  long-lived  and  eventually  becomes  large 
although  it  is  not  an  exceptionally  rapid  grower.  It  is  hardy, 
strong,  vigorous,  and  usually  pretty  healthy  but  unless  thorough 
preventive  treatment  is  given,  both  the  foliage  and  the  fruit  are 
often  injured  by  the  apple-scab  fungus.  In  some  locations  the  limbs 
are  rather  susceptible  to  the  disease  known  as  canker.1 

The  tree  does  not  come  into  bearing  very  young  and  in  many  cases 
it  is  classed  as  a  biennial  cropper,  but  in  favorable  locations  with 
good  care  it  becomes  almost  an  annual  bearer  yielding  moderate  to 
heavy  crops.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree  until  it  begins  to  ripen, 
but  then  is  apt  to  drop  to  a  considerable  extent  especially  in  high 
winds.  The  tree  has  a  tendency  to  form  a  rather  dense  head  particu- 
larly when  the  soil  is  kept  fertile  and  well  tilled  and  the  foliage  is 
thoroughly  protected  from  the  attacks  of  insects  and  fungi.  In 
pruning,  special  care  should  be  taken  to  keep  the  head  sufficiently 
open  so  that  the  light  may  reach  the  foliage  in  all  parts  of  the  tree. 
Sometimes  the  orchardist  makes  the  mistake  of  cutting  out  large 
branches  from  the  center  of  the  tree  thereby  exposing  the  remaining 
limbs  to  injury  by  sunscald.  A  better  way  is,  thin  the  top  every 
year  by  removing  as  many  of  the  smaller  branches  as  may  be  neces- 
sary to  make  it  uniformly  open.  In  training  the  young  tree  it  is 
well  to  form  the  head  rather  high  because  as  it  matures  the  branches 
become  long,  wide-spreading  and  more  or  less  drooping,  and  where 
the  tree  is  headed  low  the  lower  branches  eventually  are  so  much 
in  the  way  that  it  is  necessary  to  remove  them.  Moreover  when 
loaded  with  fruit  these  bend  so  close  to  the  ground  as  to  interfere 
with  the  free  circulation  of  the  air  beneath  the  tree,  and  thus  condi- 


1  Paddock,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  18:331.  1899.     Ib.,  18:342.  1900. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  285 

tions  are  produced  which  favor  the  development  of  the  apple  scab 
and  other  fungous  diseases.  When  well  grown,  Rhode  Island 
Greening  produces  a  large  percentage  of  high-grade  fruit  that  is 
smooth,  uniform  and  pretty  large  with  little  loss  from  undersized 
or  other  low-grade  apples.  It  appears  to  be  somewhat  more  subject 
than  Baldwin  to  the  attacks  of  apple  scab  and  unless  thorough  pre- 
ventive treatment  is  given  this  trouble  is  apt  to  cause  very  serious 
loss  both  by  direct  injury  to  the  fruit  and  by  opening  the  way  to 
the  attacks  of  other  fungi,  notably  the  pink-rot  fungus.1 

In  ordinary  storage  it  is  in  season  from  October  to  March  or 
April  and  its  common  commercial  limit  is  January  or  early  February. 
It  may  be  held  commercially  in  cold  storage  till  March  or  April  (48). 
It  ripens  rapidly  during  periods  of  warm  weather  in  autumn  and 
does  not  stand  heat  well  before  going  into  storage  as  this  induces 
scald.  If  put  in  cold  storage  in  good  condition  the  fruit  keeps  well 
and  goes  down  gradually  but  if  affected  by  scald  or  disease  it  goes 
down  quickly.  In  going  down,  it  scalds  badly  in  storage,  loses  in 
quality,  turns  yellow,  becomes  mealy  and  large  specimens  are  liable 
to  burst  (48).  The  markets  of  the  East  prefer  the  green-colored 
fruit  probably  because  this  color  is  regarded  as  an  indication  that 
the  apples  are  not  over-ripe.  In  some  western  markets  however 
the  more  attractive  yellow  and  blushed  fruit  sells  well.  Some  fruit 
growers  follow  the  practice  of  picking  the  fruit  while  it  is  still  quite 
green  in  order  to  hold  its  green  color.  Such  fruit  does  not  have  as 
good  flavor  and  quality  as  that  which  is  allowed  to  become  properly 
ripened  on  the  tree  and  probably  it  is  more  liable  to  scald  but  storage 
men  differ  in  their  opinions  on  this  point.  It  is  very  important  that 
fruit  of  this  variety  which  is  intended  for  cold  storage  should  be 
hurried  into  storage  as  soon  as  it  is  picked.  This  practice  is  more 
essential  with  Rhode  Island  Greening  than  with  the  average 
variety  (48). 

Historical.  The  locality  of  the  origin  of  Rhode  Island  Greening  is  not 
known  with  certainty  but  there  is  little  reason  to  doubt  that  it  originated  in 
the  State  of  Rhode  Island  and  probably  in  the  vicinity  of  Newport  near  the 
place  now  known  as  Green's  End  (43),  "where,  in  olden  times,  there  was  a 
tavern  kept  by  Mr.  Green,  who  raised  apple  trees  from  seed.  Among  the  trees 

1  Eustace,  AT.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  22:io8.  1903. 


286  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

thus  produced  was  one  which  bore  a  large  green  apple.  The  scions  of  this 
tree  were  in  such  demand  by  the  people  who  stopped  there  as  guests,  that 
the  tree  died  from  excessive  cutting  and  exhaustion.  The  fruit  which  resulted 
from  grafting  with  these  scions  was  known  by  different  names — in  Rhode 
Island  as  the  'apple  from  Green's  Inn,'  while  in  adjoining  States  it  was  called 
the  '  Green's  Inn  apple  from  Rhode  Island.'  *  *  *  In  the  town  of  Foster, 
upon  the  farm  of  Thomas  R.  Drowne,  at  Mt.  Hygeia,  stands  an  old  Rhode 
Island  Greening  tree,  which  is  supposed  to  be  nearly  200  years  old.  *  *  * 
This  tree,  to  the  knowledge  of  members  of  the  family  now  living,  has  borne 
uninterruptedly  until  within  a  few  years.1  *  *  *  On  the  farm  of  Frederick 
W.  Winslow,  a  few  rods  southwest  of  the  lime  kiln  on  the  northern  verge  of 
Fruit  Hill,  stands  a  Rhode  Island  Greening  tree,  which  is  locally  known  as 
the  '  Daughter  Tree/  This  tree  is  a  limb  of  the  mother  tree,  which  was 
broken  off  in  the  September  gale  of  1815,  and  which  upon  being  thrust  into 
the  rich  moist  soil,  took  root  and  became  an  independent  tree.  The  mother 
tree  was  planted  *  *  *  in  1748.  It  was,  therefore,  141  years  old  when  it 
was  cut  down  in  1889.  *  *  *  Authentic  records  of  trees  of  this  variety 
that  were  planted  about  150  years  ago  in  the  soil  of  North  Providence,  on 
the  farm  of  the  late  Lemuel  Angell,  are  still  in  possession  of  that  family. 
It  was  introduced  into  the  old  Plymouth  colony  from  Newport  in  1765;  from 
there  (?)  it  was  carried  into  Ohio  in  1796  by  General  Putnam." 

While  we  have  no  record  of  its  earliest  introduction  into  this  state  it  is 
well  known  that  Rhode  Island  Greening  was  pretty  widely  disseminated  in 
the  older  settled  regions  of  New  York  during  the  eighteenth  century.  It  is 
O'ften  found  in  the  very  oldest  orchards  now  in  existence  in  New  York  and 
it  also  ranks  as  one  of  the  most  important  varieties  in  recently  planted 
orchards. 

TREE. 

Tree  large  or  above  medium,  strong,  vigorous.  Form  wide-spreading,  some- 
what drooping,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  often  somewhat  crooked, 
rather  stocky ;  internodes  usually  short.  Bark  olive-green  with  reddish-brown 
tinge,  thinly  covered  with  lines  of  gray  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  scat- 
tering but  rather  conspicuous,  medium  in  size  to  rather  large,  usually  roundish, 
raised.  Buds  medium  to  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent. 
Leaves  rather  large,  broad ;  foliage  rather  dense. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large  or  very  large,  quite  uniform  in  shape  and  size. 
Form  roundish  to  roundish  oblate  or  sometimes  slightly  inclined  to  conic, 
regular  or  a  little  inclined  to  elliptical,  sometimes  obscurely  ribbed,  symmetrical 
or  sides  slightly  unequal.  Stem  medium  in  length  and  thickness,  partly  green, 

1This  tree  on  the  Drowne  farm  is  supposed  by  some  to  be  the  original  Rhode  Island 
Greening  tree.  An  illustrated  description  of  it  appeared  in  the  Providence  Sunday  Journal 
October  2,  1898.  Within  recent  years  a  sprout  has  grown  out  from  the  base  of  this  old 
tree.  In  1900  Senator  T.  R.  Drowne  very  kindly  furnished  this  Station  with  scions  from 
this  sprout  and  also  from  the  upper  branches  of  the  tree.  A  comparison  of  the  trees 
propagated  from  these  scions,  which  are  now  growing  at  this  Station,  shows  that  the  trees 
from  scions  taken  from  the  upper  branches  of  the  old  tree  are  the  true  Rhode  Island 
Greening,  but  those  grown  from  scions  taken  from  the  sprout  at  the  base  of  the  old  tree 
are  very  different,  thus  demonstrating  that  the  old  tree  on  the  Drowne  farm  is  not  growing 
on  its  own  roots  and,  therefore,  is  not  the  original  Rhode  Island  Greening  tree. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  287 

pubescent.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  acute,  medium  in  depth  and  width,  sym- 
metrical or  rarely  lipped,  usually  smooth,  sometimes  russeted  and  with  narrow, 
outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  below  medium  to  rather  large,  usually  closed, 
sometimes  partly  open,  pubescent;  lobes  moderately  long,  acute.  Basin  small 
to  medium,  shallow  and  obtuse  to  moderately  deep  and  abrupt,  regular  or 
slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth,  waxy,  grass-green  varying  to  rather 
yellow,  sometimes  with  brownish-red  blush  which  rarely  deepens  to  a  distinct 
bright  red  (37).  Dots  greenish-white  or  russet,  especially  numerous  toward 
the  basin  and  often  submerged.  Prevailing  effect  green  or  yellowish. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  usually  cone-shape  with  fleshy  pistil  point  project- 
ing into  the  base  but  occasionally  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  medium  or  below,  somewhat  abaxile  to  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  pretty 
uniform,  symmetrical,  closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  if  the  calyx 
tube  is  cone-shape,  otherwise  clasping.  Carpels  rather  thin,  flat,  emarginate, 
roundish  to  roundish  cordate,  sometimes  tufted.  Seeds  few;  often  some  are 
abortive.  The  plump  ones  are  large,  moderately  narrow,  long,  acute  to  acumi- 
nate and  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rich, 
sprightly  subacid,  peculiarly  flavored,  very  good  in  quality. 

RIDGE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Genesee  Farmer,  1833.  (cited  by  10).  2.  Emmons,  Nat. 
Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:46.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  55.  3.  Downing,  1857:184.  4.  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  5.  Warder,  1867:536.  6.  Thomas,  1875:510.  7.  Barry,  1883: 
354.  8.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:248.  9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:166.  10.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:262.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  RIDGE  PIPPIN  (i,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8).  RIDGE  Pippin  (9).  Ridge 
Pippin  (10).  RIDGED  PIPPIN  (2).  Not  the  RIDGE  of  Bui.  248  of  this 
Station. 

Fruit  of  good  yellow  color,  not  particularly  attractive  in  form,  a 
late  keeper  and  good  in  quality  for  either  dessert  or  culinary  uses. 
It  averages  pretty  uniform  in  size  with  comparatively  few  culls. 
The  tree  is  healthy,  hardy,  long-lived  and  a  reliable  cropper  yielding 
good  crops  biennially.  Some  growers  consider  it  a  fairly  profitable 
variety  for  local  markets. 

Since  Bulletin  248  was  published  it  has  been  discovered  that  the 
variety  therein  mentioned  under  the  name  of  Ridge  or  Ridge  Pippin 
is  in  fact  Ribston.  It  appears  that  the  name  Ridge  Pippin  is  used 
by  some  dealers  as  a  trade  synonym  for  Ribston,  and  this  use  of  it 
led  us  into  the  error  of  publishing  a  duplicate  report  on  Ribston 
under  the  name  Ridge. 

Historical.  According  to  Warder  (5)  this  variety  originated  in  the  vicinity 
of  Philadelphia  but  Downing  (3)  regarded  this  as  uncertain.  Although  it  has 


288  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

long  been  known  in  cultivation  it  has  gained  but  little  recognition  in  New 
York  state  either  for  home  or  for  commercial  orchards. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous.  Form  upright.  Tivigs  erect,  long  to  below  medium, 
somewhat  stout,  straight  or  somewhat  bent  toward  the  tip  and  rather  blunt ; 
internodes  medium.  Bark  dull  brownish-red  overlaid  with  a  thin  to  rather 
heavy  scarf-skin,  quite  pubescent.  Lenticels  not  conspicuous,  scattering, 
medium  to  small,  slightly  raised,  roundish  or  elongated.  Buds  medium,  mod- 
erately projecting,  roundish,  quite  pubescent,  appressed. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  flat  at  the  base,  roundish  conic  to 
oblong  conic,  prominently  and  irregularly  ribbed ;  axis  sometimes  oblique. 
Stem  short  to  long,  pubescent.  Cavity  small  to  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  very 
shallow  to  deep,  usually  furrowed,  often  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx1 
small  to  sometimes  medium,  usually  closed.  Basin  rather  small,  often  oblique, 
moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  moderately  wide,  abrupt,  characteristically 
ridged  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  glossy,  clear  yellow,  often  with  a  faint  blush  which  sometimes 
deepens  to  a  pinkish-red  shade  similar  to  that  seen  in  a  highly  colored  Yellow 
Newtown,  sometimes  veined  and  flecked  with  russet.  Dots  numerous,  fine  to 
moderately  coarse,  russet,  or  pinkish-white  and  areolar  or  submerged. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  wide  at  top,  cone-shape  to  funnel- form.  Stamens 
marginal  to  median. 

Core  axile,  rather  small ;  cells  usually  closed ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly 
clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  rather  wide,  broadly  emarginate,  slightly  tufted. 
Seeds  light  and  dark  reddish-brown,  short  to  moderately  long,  wide,  plump, 
obtuse,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  crisp,  moderately 
tender,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic,  mild  subacid,  good. 

Season  February  to  April  or  May. 

ROCK  PIPPIN  OF  EASTERN  NEW  YORK. 

A  variety  is  grown  under  this  name  in  Eastern  New  York,  particularly  in 
Dutchess  county,  which  we  have  been  unable  to  identify  as  any  other  named 
variety.  G.  B.  Brackett,  U.  S.  Pomologist,  writes  us  that  it  certainly  is  not 
Lansingburg  of  which  Rock  is  given  by  Downing1  as  a  synonym  and  adds 
that  he  is  unable  to  identify  it.  It  is  neither  the  Rock  of  New  Hampshire,2 
the  Rock  of  Pennsylvania2  nor  the  Rock  Pippin  of  Ohio.2'3  It  somewhat 
resembles  Tewksbury  but  is  distinct  from  that  variety.  It  also  bears  some 
resemblance  to  Yellow  Newtown  but  is  smoother  and  has  a  redder  cheek.  It 
is  known  to  some  under  the  name  Winter  Blush.*  All  of  the  descriptions  of 
Winter  Maiden  Blush  or  Winter  Blush  which  we  have  been  able  to  find  are 
brief  and  unsatisfactory.  So  far  as  we  can  determine  none  of  them  refer  to 
the  variety  under  discussion.  Fruit  of  what  appears  to  be  the  same  variety 

1  Downing,  1881: 12  index,  app. 

1  Downing,  1869:338. 

8  Warder,  1867 :69i. 

4  Letter,  C.  H.  Deuell,  Bangall,  N.  Y.,  1904. 


\ 


RIDGE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  289 

as  this  Rock  Pippin  has  been  sent  us  from  Pullman,  Washington,  under  the 
name  Rock. 

W.  H.  Hart  of  Poughkeepsie  informs  us  that  Rock  Pippin  is  found  in 
many  orchards  in  Dutchess  county  but  in  no  large  blocks.  He  considers  it 
a  good  variety  to  grow  for  profit  because  rt  keeps  very  late  and  is  a  good 
export  apple  to  succeed  the  Newtown  at  the  end  of  the  season.  In  some 
seasons  it  is  inclined  to  scab.  It  does  not  average  as  large  as  Baldwin  and 
grades  less  No.  I  fruit  than  that  variety.  Its  commercial  season  in  ordinary 
storage  extends  to  April  and  in  cold  storage  to  June  or  July.  Mr.  Hart  re- 
ports that  the  tree  is  large,  very  vigorous,  upright,  with  long,  erect,  stout, 
yellowish-brown  twigs.  It  is  hardy,  very  healthy,  long-lived,  a  reliable  cropper 
and,  if  kept  free  from  scab,  yields  good  to  heavy  crops  biennially.  The  tree 
does  not  come  into  bearing  very  young.  The  fruit  hangs  to  the  tree  exception- 
ally well. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  above,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
oblate  to  roundish,  not  inclined  to  conic,  regular  or  nearly  so;  sides  sometimes 
unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately  thick,  pubescent.  Cavity  small 
to  above  medium,  acute  to  somewhat  acuminate  or  sometimes  approaching 
obtuse,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  broad,  furrowed 
obscurely  if  at  all,  usually  somewhat  russeted.  Calyx'  medium  to  small, 
closed ;  lobes  convergent  to  connivent.  Basin  scarcely  depressed  and  very 
obtuse  or  varying  to  moderately  deep  and  abrupt,  wide,  slightly  furrowed 
and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  russet 
dots,  rather  glossy,  green  or  light  yellow  thinly  washed  with  pinkish-red  often 
deepening  to  a  distinct  bright  blush,  streaked  and  mottled  with  pale  scarf-skin 
toward  the  cavity.  Dots  numerous,  mostly  irregular,  submerged  and  whitish 
around  the  basin,  sometimes  areolar  with  fine  russet  point;  the  russet  ones 
are  larger,  more  irregular  and  scattering  toward  the  cavity.  Prevailing  effect 
pale  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  small,  conical  to  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  axile ;  cells  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  thin, 
broadly  roundish  to  somewhat  obcordate,  emarginate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds 
rather  dark  brown,  medium  to  large,  rather  wide,  acute  to  obtuse,  sometimes 
tufted,  compactly  filling  the  cells. 

Flesh  whitish  or  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  rather  hard,  a  little 
coarse,  somewhat  crisp,  rather  tender,  aromatic,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  good 
but  not  high  in  flavor. 

ROMANITE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  (?)  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:471.  1850.  2.  Downing,  1869: 
339-  ng-  3-  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871:8.  4.  Fitz,  1872:143.  5.  Wickson, 
1889:247.  6.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:248.  7.  Clayton,  Ala.  Sta.  Bui,  47:6. 
1893.  8.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:47.  1894.  9-  Budd-Hansen,  1903:166. 
ng. 

SYNONYMS.  Broad  River  (2).  Little  Red  Romanite.  (RED  ROMANITE,  i)  ? 
ROMANITE  of  the  South  (3,  4).  ROMANITE,  SOUTH  (9).  Southern  Romanite 
(2,  8). 


290  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

The  name  Romanite  has  been  and  is  still  applied  to  several  different  varie- 
ties of  apples.  In  the  earlier  history  of  orcharding  in  this  country  it  was 
applied  very  generally  to  the  Rambo,  but  this  synonymy  has  now  become 
practically  obsolete.  The  Gilpin  or  Carthouse  apple  has  also  passed  under  the 
name  of  Romanite  and  it  is  still  so  called  in  a  great  many  districts.  The 
true  Romanite  of  to-day,  according  to  the  accepted  nomenclature  of  the  Ameri- 
can Pomological  Society,  is  the  old  southern  variety  of  this  name.  It  is  also 
known  in  various  parts  of  the  South  under  the  name  of  Little  Red  Romanite. 
The  fruit  of  this  variety  is  small  but  has  a  good  color,  is  of  good  quality 
and  keeps  remarkably  well,  this  last  characteristic  being  one  of  its  chief  recom- 
mendations in  the  South  where  it  is  usually  quite  difficult  to  get  varieties  that 
are  late  enough  for  their  long  seasons.  It  is  not  recommended  for  planting 
in  this  state  being  evidently  not  well  adapted  to  regions  as  far  north  as  this. 

Historical.  The  origin  of  this  apple  is  unknown  although  it  is  probable 
from  the  region  in  which  it  was  being  grown  when  it  first  became  known  to 
pomologists  that  it  originated  in  one  of  the  Carolinas  or  in  Georgia.  So  far 
as  we  know  it  is  not  grown  in  New  York. 

ROME. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Ohio  Convention  of  Fr.  Gr.  Rpt.,  1848.  (cited  by  2).  2. 
Hodge,  Horticulturist, 6:181.  1851.  3.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:102.  1851. 
fig.  4.  Elliott,  1854:106.  fig.  5.  Horticulturist,  g:iQ3.  1854.  6.  Mag.  Hort.,2o: 
241.  1854.  ?•  Ib.,  22:130.  1856.  8.  Wood,  Horticulturist,  12:149.  1857.  9. 
Downing,  1857:102.  fig.  10.  Gregg,  1857:57.  u.  Hooper,  1857:81.  12.  Mag. 
Hort.,  26:101.  1860.  13.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862.  14.  Warder,  1867:458. 
fig.  15.  Fitz,  1872:172,  175.  16.  Leroy,  1873:124.  fig.  17.  Thomas,  1875:221. 
18.  Barry,  1883:341.  19.  Wickson,  1889:248.  20.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt, 
1890:296.  21.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:248.  22.  Mathews,  Ky.  Sta.  Bui.,  50: 
32.  1894.  23.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:254.  1895.  24.  Rural  N.  Y.,  55:1. 
1896.  25.  Ib.,  56:244.  1897.  26.  Massey,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  149:317.  1898.  27. 
Beach,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:36.  28.  Lazenby,  Columbus  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1900:138.  29.  Beach,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1901:76.  30.  Van 
Deman.  Rural  N.  Y.,  60:209.  1901.  31.  Coxe,  Ib.,  60:266.  1901.  32.  Alwood, 
Va.  Sta.  Bui.,  130:136.  1901.  33.  Black,  Rural  N.  Y.,  61:185.  1902.  34.  Stin- 
son,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui.,  3:27.  1902.  35.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui., 
106:55.  1902.  36.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:167.  fig.  37.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:54.  1903.  38.  Bruner,  AT.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  182:22.  1903.  fig.  39. 
Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:142.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  BELLE  DE  ROME  (16).  Faust's  Rome  Beauty  (23).  Gillett's 
Seedling  (4,  9,  14,  16).  Phoenix,  erroneously  (29).  Roman  Beauty  (4,  16). 
ROME  BEAUTY  (2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  n,  12,  13,  14,  15,  17,  18,  19,  20,  21, 
23,  24,  25,  26,  30,  31,  32,  33,  34,  35).  Rome  Beauty  (16,  27,  37,  39).  ROME 
Beauty  (36,  38). 

When  well  grown  this  fruit  is  of  good  size,  uniform,  fair, 
smooth  and  handsomely  colored.  It  is  thick-skinned,  stands  handling 
remarkably  well  and  is  a  good  keeper.  It  is  held  in  cold  storage 
till  May  or  later.  It  goes  down  gradually  in  storage  and  if  properly 


ROME 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  291 

colored  is  not  subject  to  scald  (39).  It  has  an  established  reputa- 
tion in  market  and  sells  at  good  prices.  As  compared  with  Baldwin 
it  is  not  quite  so  good  in  quality  either  for  dessert  or  for  culinary 
uses  but  the  tree  comes  into  bearing  at  a  much  earlier  age  and  under 
right  conditions  is  more  nearly  an  annual  cropper.  It  is  not  as  well 
adapted  as  Baldwin  for  general  cultivation  in  New  York  state,  the 
fruit  often  being  less  reliable  and  less  satisfactory  in  size  and  color, 
the  foliage  less  healthy  and  the  tree  less  vigorous  and  not  so  large. 
Although  it  is  an  old  variety  it  has  not  been  sufficiently  tested  in 
New  York  to  determine  the  range  of  its  proper  cultivation.  Gener- 
ally speaking  it  succeeds  better  farther  south,  as,  for  example,  in 
some  districts  in  New  Jersey  and  along  the  Ohio  river.  It  appears 
to  be  better  adapted  to  bottom  lands  and  to  fertile  sandy  or  gravelly 
loams  than  to  heavy  clay  soils.  Evidently  it  develops  proper  size, 
color  and  quality  more  often  when  grown  in  Southeastern  New 
York  than  it  does  in  cooler  and  more  elevated  regions  in  the  interior 
of  the  state  yet  in  some  localities  in  Western  New  York  on  warm, 
fertile,  well-drained  soils  it  attains  good  size  and  good  color  and 
gives  promise  of  being  satisfactory  in  commercial  orchards.  The 
tree  is  apt  to  overbear  and  in  unfavorable  locations  as  it  advances 
in  maturity  there  is  often  a  considerable  loss  in  undersized  or  poorly 
colored  fruit.  Although  it  is  a  good  grower  there  appears  to  be 
some  advantage  in  top-grafting  it  upon  some  more  vigorous  stock. 
When  top-worked  on  bearing  trees  it  usually  produces  some  fruit 
within  two  or  three  years  from  the  time  of  grafting  or  budding. 
The  fruit  is  supported  by  a  long  stem  and  usually  hangs  to  the  tree 
remarkably  well  even  in  high  winds.  It  is  somewhat  subject  to  the 
attacks  of  the  scab  and  requires  thorough  and  careful  preventive 
treatment  in  order  to  protect  it  from  injurious  insects  and  diseases. 

Historical.  Originated  by  H.  N.  Gillett  in  Lawrence  county,  Ohio.  Brought 
to  the  notice  of  the  Ohio  Convention  of  fruit  growers  in  1848  as  a  new  variety 
(i,  14).  It  is  holding  its  own  as  a  profitable  commercial  variety  in  that  section 
of  the  country  (31)  and  also  in  certain  other  southern  apple-growing  districts 
(30,  34,  38),  but  Stinson  reports  that  in  Missouri  it  is  an  uncertain  bearer 
and  not  a  safe  variety  to  recommend  for  general  planting  although  some 
Missouri  fruit  growers  recommend  it  for  planting  in  some  locations  (34). 
Although  occasionally  old  trees  of  this  variety  are  found  in  New  York,  Rome 
is  as  yet  but  little  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers.  Within  recent 
years  it  has  been  planted  or  grafted  in  commercial  orchards  to  a  limited  extent 
and  for  the  most  part  in  an  experimental  way. 


292  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

TREE. 

Tree  not  a  very  strong  grower  in  the  nursery  but  in  the  orchard  it  is  rather 
vigorous  and  attains  good  medium  size.  Form  at  first  upright  but  later  it  is 
roundish  to  somewhat  spreading  and  drooping,  with  rather  slender  lateral 
branches.  Twigs  moderately  stout,  sometimes  slender,  moderately  long;  inter- 
nodes  short.  Bark  mottled  brownish-red  and  green,  rather  bright.  Lenticels 
medium  to  large,  scattering,  conspicuous,  round  to  oblong,  raised.  Buds 
deeply  set  in  bark,  very  short,  broad,  obtuse,  appressed.  Leaves  rather  long; 
foliage  not  particularly  robust. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  very  large,  usually  averaging  above  medium,  pretty  uni- 
form in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  to  roundish  conic  or  slightly  oblong, 
regular  or  faintly  ribbed,  usually  symmetrical  but  sometimes  with  sides  un- 
equal. Stem  characteristically  long,  slender,  and  often  oblique.  Cavity 
medium  to  rather  large,  characteristically  obtuse  and  smooth,  moderately 
shallow  to  rather  deep,  wide,  sometimes  compressed  or  lipped,  often  gently 
furrowed,  green  or  red,  never  russeted.  Calyx  rather  small  to  medium,  closed 
or  somewhat  open ;  lobes  usually  converging  above  but  slightly  separated 
toward  the  base.  Basin  small  to  medium,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  narrow 
to  medium  in  width,  sometimes  abrupt,  usually  a  little  furrowed  or  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  yellow  or  greenish,  more  or  less  mottled  with 
bright  red  which  in  highly  colored  specimens  deepens  to  almost  solid  red  on 
the  exposed  cheek,  striped  with  bright  carmine.  Dots  rather  numerous, 
whitish  or  brown,  small.  Prevailing  effect  red  or  red  mingled  with  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  or  approaching  short  truncate  funnel-form,  often 
with  fleshy  pistil  point  projecting  into  the  base.  Stamens  marginal  to  median. 

Core  medium  to  large,  abaxile ;  cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  open;  core 
lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to  ovate,  narrowing  both 
toward  base  and  apex,  sometimes  obtusely  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds 
numerous,  medium  in  size,  plump,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse,  slightly  tufted, 
light  and  dark  brown. 

Flesh  nearly  white  with  slight  tinge  of  yellow  or  green,  firm,  moderately 
fine-grained  to  a  little  coarse,  rather  crisp,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic,  agreeable 
mild  subacid,  commonly  good  but  not  high  in  quality. 

Season  November  to  April  or  May. 

ROSEAU. 

REFERENCES,  i.  North  American  Pomological  Convention,  1849.  (cited  by 
6).  2.  Downing,  1869:340.  3.  Plumb,  Can.  Hort.,  18:184,  1895.  4.  Waugh, 
Rural  N.  ¥.,  62:141,  143,  282.  1903.  figs,  under  name  Canada  Red.  5.  Rural 
N.  Y.,  62:238.  1903.  6.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:267.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  BALTIMORE  (3).  CANADA  RED  (5).  Canada  Red  of  Ontario, 
not  RED  CANADA  of  Western  New  York  (4).  FLUSHING  SPITZENBURG  (3). 
French  Spitzenburg  of  Vermont  (4).  Pomme  de  Per  of  Quebec  (4).  Red 
Canada  of  Ontario,  not  RED  CANADA  of  Western  New  York  (3).  ROSSEAU 
(6).  Winesap  of  Vermont  (4). 

A  variety  is  known  in  portions  of  Ontario  under  the  name  of  Red  Canada 
or  Canada  Red  which  is  said  to  be  quite  different  from  the  Red  Canada  of 


ROXBURY 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  293 

Western  New  York  described  on  page  275.  Waugh  identifies  this  variety  as 
the  Roseau  of  Downing  and  remarks  that  it  is  really  an  important  apple.1 
He  states  that  it  is  known  in  some  parts  of  Vermont  as  the  Winesap  and  that 
it  is  the  Pomme  de  Fer  of  Quebec  (4).  Plumb  (3)  gives  Flushing  Spitzen- 
burg  as  its  correct  name  and  calls  it  identical  with  the  variety  described  by 
Downing  under  the  name  Baltimore.  We  have  not  had  an  opportunity  of 
verifying  the  conclusions  of  either  Waugh  or  Plumb  with  regard  to  this 
matter. 

The  following  is  Waugh's  description  of  the  variety. 

"  The  distinguishing  good  qualities  of  this  variety  are  its  peculiarly  firm, 
solid  flesh,  making  it  a  late  keeper  and  a  good  shipper,  and  its  fine  solid  red 
color,  which  makes  it  attractive  in  the  barrel.  It  is  unusually  hardy  in  tree, 
so  that  it  may  be  grown  in  northern  latitudes  with  great  success.  So  far  as 
I  know  it  is  as  hardy  as  Duchess  of  Oldenburg.  Here  is  the  technical  descrip- 
tion of  the  variety  made  from  Vermont  specimens:  Fruit  irregular,  oblate,  size 
medium  to  large,  cavity  irregular,  medium  deep,  stem  medium  long,  basin 
shallow,  usually  smooth,  calyx  small,  closed,  color  two  shades  of  dull  red, 
mottled  and  splashed,  nearly  covering  dull  green  ground,  dots  many,  yellowish, 
very  conspicuous,  bloom  thin,  skin  tough,  flesh  white,  core  medium,  slightly 
open,  flavor  subacid,  quality  good,  season  midwinter." 

ROXBURY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Thacher,  1822:136.  2.  Fessenden,  1828:130.  3.  Kenrick, 
1832:53.  4.  Mag.  Hort.,  1:364.  1835.  5.  Manning,  1838:62.  6.  Mag.  Hort., 
7:48.  1841.  7.  Downing,  1845:133.  fig.  8.  Floy-Lindley,  1846:411  app.  9. 
Horticulturist,  1:52,  341,  361.  1846-47.  10.  Ib.,  2:483.  1848.  n.  Hovey, 
Mag.  Hort.,  14:112,  173.  1848.  12.  Thomas,  1849:185,  190.  fig.  13.  Cole,  1849: 
135-  fig-  14.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:472.  1850.  15.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist. 
N.  Y.,  3:96.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  18.  16.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  17.  Elliott, 
1854:106.  18.  Hooper,  1857:73,  82.  19.  Gregg,  1857:59.  20.  Horticulturist, 
13:144.  1858.  21.  Mag.  Hort.,  26:6,  101.  1860.  22.  Ib.,  29:437.  1863. 
23.  ///.  Handb.  der  Obstk.,  8:157.  1865.  24.  Warder,  1867:25,  491.  fig.  25. 
Regel,  1868:444.  26.  Thompson,  Mich.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1:31.  1870.  27. 
Leroy,  1873:153.  fig.  28.  Gardiner,  Me.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1882.  (cited  by  35). 
29.  Barry,  1883:354.  30.  Hogg,  1884:27.  31.  Wickson,  1889:245.  32.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:296.  33.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:248.  34.  Mun- 
son,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:133.  35.  Knowlton,  Me.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1894:126. 
36.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  118:62.  1895.  37-  Woolverton,  Out.  Fr.  Stas.  An. 
Rpt.,  3:13-  1896.  fig.  38.  Bunyard,  Jour.  Roy.  Hort.  Soc.,  1898:356.  39. 
Eneroth-Smirnoff,  1901:434.  40.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:169.  fig.  41.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:55.  1903.  42.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui, 
248:142.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Belpre  Russet  (17,  18,  27).  BOSTON  RUSSET  (25,  27,  30). 
Boston  Russet  (9,  12,  13,  15,  17,  18,  24,  37).  Marietta  Russet  (17,  18,  27). 
Putmans  Russet  (27,  30).  PUTNAM  RUSSET  (23,  39).  Putnam  Russet  (9, 
TO,  n,  17,  18,  24,  27,  of  Ohio  12,  13  and  15).  ROXBURY  RUSSET  (4,  5,  6,  8, 
9,  10,  n,  12,  13,  14,  17,  18,  19,  20,  21,  22,  24,  29,  31,  32,  33,  34).  Roxbury 
Russet  (3,  27,  30,  40,  41,  42).  ROXBURY  RUSSETING  (i,  2,  3).  Roxbury 

1  Letter,  1905. 


294  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Russeting  (7,  27).  Rox  or  Rox  RUSSET  (colloquial).  RUSSET,  BOSTON  OR 
ROXBURY  (7).  Russet  (27).  Shippen's  Russet  (27,  30).  Sylvan  Russet 
(17,  18,  27). 

The  Roxbury  is  the  most  popular  russet  apple  cultivated  in  New 
York.  When  well  grown  it  is  of  good  marketable  size,  and  rather 
attractive  for  a  russet,  but  it  varies  greatly  in  size  and  appearance 
in  different  localities.  Being  an  excellent  keeper  it  is  well  liked  for 
southern  trade.  It  also  sells  well  in  western  and  northwestern 
markets.  The  recent  increase  in  cold  storage  facilities  has  had  the 
effect  of  lessening  the  demand  for  long-keeping  russet  apples,  and 
neither  the  Roxbury  nor  the  Golden  Russet  is  being  planted  as 
extensively  as  they  once  were,  but  within  recent  years  there  has 
been  increasing  demand  for  them  for  export.  Roxbury  fruit  that 
is  grown  in  Central  and  Western  New  York  keeps  better  than  that 
produced  in  more  southern  localities,  and  for  this  reason  is  preferred 
by  fruit  buyers.  This  variety  has  consequently  been  planted  more 
extensively  in  this  region  than  in  any  other.  It  generally  has  the 
reputation  of  being  a  biennial  bearer  and  when  grown  on  rich  soils 
in  favorable  locations  it  is  a  pretty  reliable  cropper,  but  in  many 
places  it  has  proved  but  a  moderate  cropper  and  not  very  satisfactory. 

Historical.  It  is  generally  supposed  that  this  variety  originated  in  Rox- 
bury, Massachusetts,  early  in  the  seventeenth  century.  Soon  after  1649  it  was 
taken  to  Connecticut.  About  1797  it  was  introduced  from  Connecticut  into 
Ohio  and  afterwards  disseminated  there  under  the  name  Putnam  Russet, 
Marietta  Russet,  etc.  (9,  n,  24). 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous.  Form  roundish 
spreading  or  flat.  Twigs  above  medium  to  short,  straight  or  nearly  so,  stout, 
often  with  large  blunt  terminal  buds ;  internodes  medium  to  rather  long. 
Bark  rather  light,  dull,  reddish-brown  and  olive-green,  streaked  lightly  with 
grayish  .scarf-skin,  much  pubescent.  Lenticels  not  conspicuous,  scattering, 
medium  to  above,  roundish,  oval  or  elongated,  sometimes  raised.  Buds  large, 
broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  above  medium  to  nearly  large,  sometimes  large,  variable  in 
size  and  shape.  Form  oblate  to  oblate  inclined  to  conic,  often  broadly  and 
obscurely  angular  and  sometimes  remarkably  elliptical  as  shown  in  the  accom- 
panying half-tone  illustration ;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium 
rather  thick  or  swollen,  pubescent,  often  red  on  one  side.  Cavity  acute  rarely 
acuminate,  rather  deep,  medium  in  width  to  rather  wide,  sometimes  lipped. 
Calyx  sometimes  small  but  usually  medium  to  rather  large,  pubescent,  closed 


GOLDEN  RUSSET 


ROXBURY 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  295 

or  partly  open;  lobes  variable;  medium  to  rather  large  and  long;  sometimes 
short,  obtuse  or  acute.  Basin  variable,  usually  medium  in  width  and  depth, 
varying  from  narrow  to  rather  wide,  and  from  obtuse  to  abrupt,  furrowed  and 
often  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  tough  or  moderately  tender,  sometimes  almost  smooth,  but  usually 
largely  covered  with  greenish  to  yellowish-brown  russet.  Highly  colored 
specimens  develop  a  bronze  blush  which  rarely  deepens  to  red.  Dots  russet 
or  gray. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  moderately  wide,  with  fleshy  pistil  point  projecting 
into  the  base,  usually  conical,  sometimes  funnel-shape.  Stamens  basal .  to 
median. 

Core  above  medium  to  small,  axile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  closed,  rarely 
partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  if  the  calyx  tube  is  conical  but  clasping  if  it 
is  funnel-shape.  Carpels  rather  flat,  elongated  and  narrowing  toward  the 
apex,  or  roundish  ovate,  sometimes  slightly  emarginate,  mucronate,  tufted. 
Seeds  few,  often  abortive,  medium  or  above,  long,  plump,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  firm,  somewhat  coarse,  moderately 
tender,  breaking,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  May  or  in  cold  storage  to  July  (42). 

ROXBURY  COMPARED  WITH  GOLDEN  RUSSET. 

As  compared  with  the  Golden  Russet  the  Roxbury  tree  is  larger, 
more  spreading  and  more  productive.  The  dots  on  the  shoots  cf 
the  Golden  Russet  are  more  conspicuous  and  more  numerous  than 
on  the  Roxbury.  The  fruit  of  Roxbury  is  larger,  more  oblate  and 
it  may  be  characteristically  elliptical  as  shown  in  the  accompanying 
half-tone  plate ;  that  of  the  Golden  Russet  is  less  variable  in  color 
and  more  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  The  Roxbury  stem  is  thicker 
than  that  of  Golden  Russet,  often  tinged  with  red  on  one  side  and 
often  swollen.  The  stem  of  the  Golden  Russet  is  usually  shorter, 
not  swollen  and  not  tinged  with  red.  The  cavity  of  Roxbury  is 
more  often  furrowed;  that  of  the  Golden  Russet  more  often  green 
and  marked  with  greenish-gray  dots.  The  flesh  of  the  Golden 
Russet  is  more  sprightly  subacid,  finer-grained  and  of  richer  flavor, 
that  of  the  Roxbury  being  rather  coarser,  yellower,  and  more  mildly 
subacid.  The  seeds  of  the  Golden  Russet  are  shorter  than  those  of 
Roxbury  and  not  so  dark  colored. 

RUSSIAN  BALDWIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Hoskins,  Rural  N.  Y.,  53:573-  1894.  2.  Can.  H&rt.,  18:222, 
266.  1895  3.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1895:32.  4.  Can.  Hort.,  20:242.  1897. 
5.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:170. 


296  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

A  Russian  apple  commended  very  highly  by  Dr.  T.  H.  Hoskins,  Newport, 
Vermont,  who  was  instrumental  in  introducing  Yellow  Transparent  and  Scott. 
He  believed  this  to  be  worth  more  than  both  of  the  others  and  said  of  it,1 
"  The  Russian  Baldwin  has  all  the  merits  with  none  of  the  defects  of  the  old 
Baldwin — being  as  large  and  handsome,  as  good  a  bearer,  better  quality,  and 
a  much  better  keeper." 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate,  faintly  ribbed. 
Stem  short,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide, 
russeted,  somewhat  furrowed,  sometimes  lipped.  Calyx  above  medium  to 
small,  usually  partly  open ;  lobes  short,  wide.  Basin  small,  shallow,  narrow, 
somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  smooth,  almost  entirely  mottled  and  splashed  with  bright  red  over 
a  clear  yellow  background,  becoming  deep  red  on  the  exposed  cheek  with  some 
indistinct  streaks  of  purplish-carmine.  Dots  small,  pale  or  russet. 

Core  above  medium  to  large,  wide;  cells  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping. 
Seeds  numerous,  small,  plump,  dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  moderately  juicy, 
mild  subacid,  good. 

RUTLEDGE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:248.  2.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  u: 
223.  1892.  3.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:272.  1905. 

This  evidently  belongs  in  the  same  group  as  the  Bethel  and  Blue  Pearmain. 
Its  affinity  to  the  Blue  Pearmain  group  is  shown  by  the  texture,  flavor  and 
quality  of  the  flesh  and  by  the  bloom,  conspicuous  dots  and  characteristic 
yellow  and  red  colors  of  the  skin.  It  is  less  highly  colored  than  either  Blue 
Pearmain  or  Bethel  but  is  a  better  keeper  than  either.  The  fruit  is  pretty 
uniformly  of  good  size  and  desirable  form.  The  tree  is  a  good  strong  grower, 
does  not  come  into  bearing  very  young,  but  is  an  annual  cropper,  yielding 
moderately  heavy  to  good  crops.  It  does  not  appear  to  be  of  sufficient  value 
for  New  York  state  to  be  worthy  of  testing  except  perhaps  in  those  regions 
where  Bethel  and  Blue  Pearmain  are  most  valued. 

Historical.  Received  for  testing  at  this  Station  from  T.  V.  Munson,  Deni- 
son,  Texas,  in  1892  (2). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  with  very  long  and  moderately  stout  branches;  laterals  char- 
acteristically covered  with  numerous  small  spurs.  Form  upright  spreading  or 
roundish,  dense.  Twigs  short  to  rather  long,  curved  or  nearly  straight,  mod- 
erately stout;  terminal  buds  large;  internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  olive- 
green  washed  with  reddish-brown,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin ;  heavily 
pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  small  to  medium,  round  or  slightly  elongated, 
slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  in  size,  plump,  acute,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  nearly 
globular  varying  to  roundish  oblate  or  to  slightly  oblong,  regular  or  some- 
what ribbed,  usually  symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately  slender 

1  Letter,  1897. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  297 

to  thick,  sometimes  inserted  under  a  lip.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  acute  to 
slightly  acuminate,  deep,  rather  broad  or  somewhat  compressed,  often  slightly 
furrowed,  sometimes  partly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  partly 
open ;  lobes  moderately  narrow,  acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  small  to  medium, 
often  oblique,  very  shallow  and  obtuse  to  moderately  shallow  and  somewhat 
abrupt,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  somewhat  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  smooth  about  the  cavity  but  somewhat  roughened 
toward  the  basin  with  russet  dots  and  fine  capillary  russet  lines,  yellow  or 
greenish  largely  overspread  with  orange-red,  in  well  colored  specimens  becom- 
ing rather  dull  deep  red,  mottled  and  narrowly  striped  with  purplish-carmine, 
often  faintly  marked  with  grayish  scarf-skin  toward  the  cavity  and  covered 
with  a  thin  bloom  which  gives  the  fruit  a  dull  appearance.  Dots  scattering, 
conspicuous,  large,  areolar,  pale  gray  or  russet  toward  the  cavity  but  numer- 
ous and  smaller  about  the  basin.  Prevailing  effect  red  and  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  urn-shape.     Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  abaxile;  cells  not  uniform  in  size,  usually  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish 
or  sometimes  inclined  to  ovate,  usually  smooth.  Seeds  small  to  nearly  medium, 
obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  plump,  sometimes  slightly  tufted,  light  and  dark 
brown. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  not  very  crisp,  rather  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  somewhat  aromatic,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet, 
fair  to  good  in  quality. 

Season  January  to  May. 

SALISBURY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  F.,  3:51,  78.  1851.  fig.  2.  (?)Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:273.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  (Salisbury  Pippin,  2)  ?  Salisbury  Pippin,  locally.  SALISBURY 
WINTER  (i). 

A  roundish  yellow  apple  of  excellent  quality.  So  far  as  we  have  been  able 
to  learn  it  is  known  only  in  the  vicinity  of  Cortland  where  it  is  grown  to  a 
limited  extent.  We  have  not  seen  the  fruit.  Mr.  Nathan  Salisbury,  after 
whose  father  this  variety  was  named  (i),  reports1  that  the  fruit  resembles 
Swaar  in  shape  but  is  a  little  larger,  ripens  slowly  and  has  very  brittle  flesh 
which  is  slightly  acid.  According  to  Emmons'  description  the  fruit  is  yellow 
with  a  faint  shade  of  orange ;  stem  short,  slender  and  peculiarly  inserted  in 
a  very  shallow  depression;  flesh  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  very  pleasant,  equal 
to  Swaar. 

Historical.  The  origin  of  this  variety  is  unknown.  It  was  grafted  into 
a  nursery  on  the  old  Salisbury  farm  in  Cortland,  N.  Y.,  some  years  prior  to 
1850.  It  is  known  in  Cortland  by  the  name  Salisbury  Pippin.  We  have  not 
had  opportunity  to  determine  whether  it  is  identical  with  the  Salisbury  or 
Salisbury  Pippin  catalogued  by  Lyon  (2). 

SALOME. 

REFERENCES,    i.  Hatheway,  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1878:133.    2.  Ib.,  1879:195. 
3.  Downing,    1881:103   app.   fig.     4.  Thomas,   1885:523.     5.  Budd,  Am.  Pom. 
better,  F.  E.  Brogden,  1905. 


298  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:26.  6.  Can.  Hort.,  11:8.  1888.  7.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:249. 
8.  Brown,  Can.  Hort.,  17:252.  1894.  g.  Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1894:125. 
10.  Waugh,  Ft.  Sta.  Bui,  61:32.  1897.  n.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1899:20.  12. 
N.  C.  Bd.  Agr.  Bui,  1900:10.  13.  Can.  Hort.,  24:454.  1901.  14.  Dickens  and 
Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:55.  1902.  15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:172.  16.  Powell 
and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:55.  1903.  17.  Beach  and  Clark,  A'.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui,  248:143.  1904.  18.  Can.  Hort.,  27:242,  245,  1904.  fig.  19.  Nat.  Nursery- 
man, 13:52.  1905. 

This  fruit  is  usually  below  medium  size  and  but  moderately 
attractive  in  color  but  sometimes  it  develops  good  size  and  good 
color.  As  grown  in  New  York  it  does  not  excel  standard  sorts  of 
its  season  in  size,  color  or  quality.  In  some  parts  of  the  state  it  is 
regarded  with  considerable  favor  as  a  promising  commercial  variety 
because  the  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree  in  high  winds,  is  firm,  stands 
handling  well  and  usually  keeps  pretty  well,  is  smooth  and  usually 
free  from  scab ;  and  because  the  tree  is  vigorous,  very  hardy,  healthy, 
comes  into  bearing  early  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  mod- 
erate to  good  crops  biennially  or  nearly  annually.  It  appears  to 
vary  somewhat  in  keeping  qualities  in  different  seasons  and  in  dif- 
ferent localities.  As  grown  at  this  Station  its  usual  commercial  limit 
is  March  but  exceptionally  it  shows  a  rather  rapid  rate  of  loss  in 
early  winter.  It  stands  heat  well  before  going  into  storage  and  goes 
down  rapidly  (17).  In  Central  and  Western  New  York  it  appears 
to  require  a  warm  soil  and  warm  exposure  together  with  careful 
attention  to  training  that  the  top  may  be  kept  sufficiently  open  to 
admit  the  sunlight  to  the  foliage  in  all  parts  of  the  tree  so  as  to 
hasten  the  ripening  of  the  fruit  and  improve  its  color.  Because  the 
fruit  lacks  in  size  and  color  probably  it  will  never  be  planted  very 
extensively  in  this  state. 

Historical.  Salome  originated  about  1853  in  a  nursery  in  Ottawa,  Illinois. 
The  property  afterwards  came  into  the  hands  of  Mr.  E.  C.  Hatheway  who 
discovered  the  merits  of  the  variety  and  began  its  propagation.  He  exhibited 
it  before  the  Illinois  State  Horticultural  Society  in  1878  under  the  name  of 
Salome.  In  1884  it  was  introduced  to  the  trade  by  Arthur  Bryant,  Princeton, 
Illinois.  It  has  been  disseminated  sparingly  in  various  parts  of  this  state. 
Thus  far  it  has  been  but  little  planted  in  New  York  orchards  but  in  some 
localities  its  cultivation  is  perhaps  increasing  slightly. 

TREE. 

Tree  a  vigorous,  upright  grower  in  the  nursery ;  in  the  orchard  it  becomes 
large.  Form  upright,  becoming  roundish,  dense.  Twigs  short  to  long,  rather 


SALOME 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  299 

slender  to  stout  with  large  terminal  buds,  straight  or  nearly  so;  internodes 
short  to  rather  long.  Bark  clear  reddish-brown  tinged  with  olive-green, 
lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  clear  in  color, 
conspicuous,  rather  scattering,  narrow,  elongated,  pointed,  slightly  raised. 
Buds  medium  to  rather  small,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  free  or  partly  adhering, 
slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  above,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
oblate  to  roundish  ovate  inclined  to  conic,  often  somewhat  elliptical  or  ob- 
scurely ribbed,  usually  symmetrical.  Stem  long,  usually  slender.  Cavity 
above  medium,  acute  to  acuminate  deep,  broad,  often  compressed  or  obscurely 
furrowed,  thinly  russeted.  Calyx  small,  usually  closed.  Basin  often  but 
slightly  depressed,  but  sometimes  moderately  deep  and  inclined  to  abrupt, 
usually  rather  narrow,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  rather  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  more  or  less 
mottled  and  blushed  with  pinkish-red  rather  obscurely  striped  with  carmine, 
marked  toward  the  cavity  with  grayish  scarf-skin  and  covered  with  whitish 
bloom.  Sometimes  a  considerable  portion  of  the  fruit  is  overspread  with  a 
good  red  color.  Dots  conspicuous,  whitish  or  pale  gray,  often  areolar  with 
russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  small  to  medium,  cone-shape.     Stamens  basal  to  nearly  median. 

Core  rather  large,  abaxile ;  cells  often  unsymmetrical,  usually  wide  open, 
sometimes  closed ;  core  lines'  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  thin, 
smooth,  often  decidedly  concave,  broadly  roundish,  sometimes  slightly  emargi- 
nate.  Seeds  rather  numerous,  medium  or  above,  wide,  obtuse,  light  and  dark 
brown. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  crisp,  rather  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly,  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  November  to  March  but  sometimes  it  does  not  extend  through 
January. 

SAVEWELL, 

REFERENCE,     i.  Downing,   1869:346. 

SYNONYMS.     Cornell's  Savewell  (i).     Putnam's  Save-well  (i). 

A  Westchester  county  apple  described  by  Downing  as  a  valuable  keeper. 
Fruit  yellow  with  shade  of  dull  red,  medium  in  size,  roundish  oblate  inclining 
to  conic.  Flesh  pleasantly  subacid,  juicy,  tender,  good.  Season  February  and 
March  (i).  So  far  as  we  have  been  able  to  learn  this  variety  has  not  been 
cultivated  outside  the  vicinity  of  its  origin. 

SCARLET  CRANBERRY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Rural  N.  Y.,  45:593-  1886.  figs.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892: 
249.  3.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:55.  1902.  4.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:55.  1903. 

This  is  a  southern  variety  and  when  grown  as  far  north  as  New  York  it 
does  not  develop  properly  either  in  quality  or  in  size  although  it  often  colors 
pretty  well.  It  keeps  in  ordinary  storage  till  late  spring  and  has  been  held 


300  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

in  cold  storage  till  May  without  scald  or  decay  (4).     It  is  not  recommended 
for  planting  in  this  state. 
This  is  a  very  different  variety  from  Cranberry  Pippin. 

Historical.  Originated  in  Scott  county,  Virginia,  from  seed  of  an  unknown 
variety  forty  or  more  years  ago  (i).  It  is  said  to  be  a  vigorous  grower  and 
very  productive  in  that  region,  yielding  very  large,  handsome  and  showy  fruit. 
It  has  been  disseminated  by  nurserymen  in  the  South  Atlantic  states  and  in 
the  Central  Mississippi  valley  (2),  but  it  is  practically  unknown  among  north- 
ern fruit  growers. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  in  size  but  in  the  South  grows  large  (i,  4).  Form  roundish 
varying  to  slightly  oblate  or  to  broadly  ovate,  often  somewhat  ribbed,  usually 
symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  rather  long,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  moder- 
ately large,  acute  to  acuminate,  deep  to  moderately  deep,  rather  narrow  to 
moderately  wide,  pretty  symmetrical,  gently  furrowed,  sometimes  lipped,  often 
partly  russeted.  Calyx  medium  to  rather  large,  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes 
acute  to  acuminate,  sometimes  separated  at  the  base.  Basin  often  oblique, 
very  shallow  to  moderately  shallow,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  obtuse,  fur- 
rowed, wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  smooth,  yellow,  largely  overspread  with  pinkish- 
red  striped  with  purplish-carmine,  mottled  and  striped  over  the  base  with  thin 
scarf-skin  which  produces  a  grayish  appearance.  Dots  conspicuous,  numer- 
ous, small  to  large,  pale,  often  areolar  with  russet  center.  Prevailing  effect 
attractive  red. 

Calyx  tube  wide,  cone-shape  to  urn-shape.     Stamens  marginal  to  median. 

Core  small  to  above  medium,  axile  or  sometimes  abaxile ;  cells  often  not 
uniformly  developed,  usually  symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes  open ;  core 
lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  rather  flat,  broadly  ovate  to  some- 
what elliptical,  mucronate,  usually  not  emarginate,  smooth  or  slightly  tufted. 
Seeds  medium  or  above,  moderately  narrow,  plump,  acute,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  coarse,  moderately  crisp,  a 
little  tough,  moderately  juicy,  slightly  astringent,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

SCHODACK. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:224.  1892.  2.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:143.  1904. 

This  fruit  is  worthy  of  notice  only  because  it  keeps  remarkably  late.  Its 
general  appearance  is  good  for  a  green  apple  and  it  retains  good  color,  firm 
texture  and  a  good  degree  of  acidity  till  very  late  in  the  season.  As  fruited 
at  this  Station  it  seldom  averages  above  medium  size.  It  is  fairly  acceptable 
for  culinary  purposes  from  March  till  July  but  it  is  not  good  enough  in  quality 
to  be  classed  as  a  dessert  apple.  The  tree  is  a  pretty  good  grower,  comes  into 
bearing  rather  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  moderate  to  good 
crops  almost  annually. 

Historical.  Received  here  for  testing  from  E.  L.  Smith,  South  Schodack, 
Rensselaer  county,  N.  Y.,  in  1892. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  301 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  with  long,  slender  branches.  Form  roundish  to 
spreading,  open.  -Tzvigs  medium  in  length,  slender,  curved;  internodes  rather 
long.  Bark  dark  brown  tinged  with  red,  streaked  with  searf-skin,  pubescent 
near  tips.  Lenticels  dull,  inconspicuous,  scattering,  medium,  roundish  or  oval, 
not  raised.  Buds  medium  to  below  medium,  prominent,  plump,  obtuse  to 
acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  medium  to  rather  small,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  oblate  varying  to  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  often  obscurely  ribbed. 
Stem  often  long  and  slender.  Cavity  usually  acute,  deep,  broad,  often  slightly 
furrowed,  sometimes  partly  russeted  and  marked  with  some  large,  elongated, 
irregular  whitish  dots  and  also  with  patches  of  whitish  scarf-skin.  Calyx 
small,  closed.  Basin  shallow,  obtuse,  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  grass-green  eventually  becoming  tinged  with 
yellow,  blushed  with  rather  dull  pinkish-red  which  often  deepens  to  a  distinct 
red.  Dots  scattering,  very  large  to  small,  russet  or  irregular,  whitish  and 
areolar  with  russet  point.  Prevailing  color  green. 

Calyx  tube  deep,  long,  funnel-form.     Stamens  marginal. 

Core  abaxile,  medium  in  size ;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  often  wide  open, 
sometimes  closed;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish,  emarginate, 
mucronate,  sometimes  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  large,  rather  wide,  long, 
plump,  acute,  usually  smooth. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  coarse,  rather  tough,  juicy,  briskly 
subacid,  fair  or  possibly  sometimes  good  for  culinary  use. 

SCHOONMAKER. 

REFERENCES,    i.  Elliott,  1854:156.    2.  Downing,  1869:348.    3.  Thomas,  1875: 

511- 

SYNONYM.     Schoolmocker  (i,  2). 

This  old  variety  is  still  grown  to  a  limited  extent  in  some  portions  of  South- 
eastern New  York  where  it  is  esteemed  as  an  apple  of  very  good  quality. 
Elliott  (i)  remarks  that  it  is  probably  of  foreign  origin  and  that  it  was  grown 
in  Detroit  as  early  as  1804.  The  tree  is  upright  spreading  and  moderately 
vigorous.  Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  angular.  Stem  short  and 
stout.  Cavity  deep.  Skin  a  little  rough,  yellow  or  greenish  with  bronze  blush. 
Core  small.  Flesh  yellowish-white,  crisp,  briskly  subacid. 

Season  January  to  March  (i,  2). 

SCOTT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1877.  (cited  by  24).  2.  Budd, 
la.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1880:524.  3.  Thomas,  1885:523.  4.  Van  Deman,  U.  S. 
Pom.  Rpt.,  1886:271.  fig.  5.  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1886-87:9,  94.  6. 
Rural  N.  Y.,  47:249,  646.  1888.  7.  Can.  Hort.,  13:174,  187,  216.  1890.  8. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:249.  9.  Can.  Hort.,  15:159.  1892.  col.  pi.  10.  Ib.,  16: 
204.  1893.  ii.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1894:22.  12.  Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr. 
Rpt.,  1894:125.  13.  Ont.  Fr.  Gr.  Assn.  An.  Rpt.,  26:16,  75.  1894.  14.  Card. 


302  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

and  For.,  8:200.  1895.  15.  Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1895:93.  figs.  16. 
Budd,  la.  Sta.  Bui.,  31:333.  1895.  17.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  Bui.,  61:32.  1897.  18. 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1897:14.  19.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:308.  1901. 
20.  Hansen,  5\  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:98.  1902.  fig.  21.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:173.  fig. 

22.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:55,  1903.    23.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:144.  1904.     24.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:277.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Scott's  Red  Winter  (8,  22).  SCOTT  WINTER  (2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7, 
8,  9,  10,  ii,  12,  13,  14,  15,  1 6,  17,  1 8,  20,  21,  22,  24).  Scott's  Winter  (11,  19, 

23,  24).     Wile  ox's  Winter  (24). 

Fruit  medium  to  rather  small,  of  pretty  good  form  and  attractive 
color.  It  is  especially  suitable  for  culinary  purposes  in  the  spring 
because  it  retains  a  good  degree  of  acidity  later  than  most  varieties 
of  its  season.  Toward  the  close  of  its  season  its  acidity  is  some- 
what subdued  and  it  then  becomes  an  acceptable  dessert  fruit 
although  it  is  not  of  high  quality.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  healthy, 
comes  into  bearing  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  mod- 
erate to  rather  heavy  crops  biennially  or  in  some  cases  annually. 
The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree  but  it  is  apt  to  be  uneven  in  size 
and  unless  proper  preventive  treatment  is  given  is  liable  to  be 
injured  by  scab  so  that,  on  the  whole,  there  is  often  considerable 
loss  in  undersized  or  otherwise  unmarketable  fruit.  In  ordinary 
storage  it  is  in  season  from  December  to  May  with  March  as  its 
commercial  limit  (23). 

Scott  is  valuable  for  regions  where  the  climate  is  too  severe  to 
permit  varieties  of  the  grade  of  hardiness  of  Northern  Spy  and 
Rhode  Island  Greening  to  be  grown  profitably.  It  should  not  be 
grown  in  sod  because  the  fruit  is  naturally  small  and  becomes  un- 
profitably  so  unless  the  orchard  is  heavily  manured  and  given 
thorough  tillage  (12,  15).  In  some  localities  in  this  state  it  is 
grown  with  profit  for  local  market,  and  in  portions  of  New  England 
and  Canada  it  is  classed  among  the  commercial  varieties. 

Historical  Originated  about  1864  on  the  Scott  Farm  at  Newport,  Vermont, 
and  brought  to  notice  by  Dr.  T.  H.  Hoskins  of  that  place.  It  is  not  generally 
known  among  New  York  fruit  growers.  It  has  been  sparingly  disseminated 
in  various  portions  of  this  state  but  has  not  been  planted  extensively  in  any 
locality. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  rather  large,  vigorous.  Form  upright,  becoming  roundish 
or  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  stout  to  somewhat  slender ; 
internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  dull  reddish-brown  mingled  with  olive- 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  303 

green,  irregularly  streaked  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering, 
small  to  medium,  roundish,  slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  or  below  medium 
in  size,  broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  slightly 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  or  sometimes  medium.  Form  roundish  conic  to  round- 
ish oblate,  often  irregularly  elliptical,  broadly  but  obscurely  ribbed.  Stem 
short  to  very  short.  Cavity  above  medium  to  rather  small,  acuminate,  deep, 
narrow  to  rather  wide,  sometimes  gently  furrowed,  usually  russeted  and  often 
with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  small,  closed  or  nearly  so ;  lobes  medium 
in  length,  converging  and  usually  reflexed,  rather  narrow,  acute.  Basin  below 
medium  to  rather  small,  abrupt,  usually  deep  and  rather  narrow,  slightly  fur- 
rowed, often  pubescent. 

Skin  smooth,  rather  thin,  moderately  tough,  pale  yellow  or  greenish  mostly 
covered  with  a  bright  deep  red  mottled  and  striped  with  darker  red.  Highly 
colored  specimens  have  a  very  dark  and  almost  purplish-red  cheek.  Dots 
scattering,  obscure,  pale  yellow  or  russet.  General  appearance  good  red  or 
striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  long,  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel-form,  sometimes 
extending  into  the  core.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  rather  small  to  moderately  large ;  axile  or  somewhat  abaxile  with 
hollow  central  cylinder;  cells  pretty  uniformly  developed,  symmetrical,  closed 
or  partly  open;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  broadly 
roundish,  varying  from  nearly  elliptical  to  nearly  cordate,  slightly  emarginate, 
mucronate,  smooth  or  nearly  so.  Seeds  numerous,  above  medium  to  rather 
small,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  acute  to  acuminate,  plump,  dark, 
sometimes  a  little  tufted. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  sometimes  stained  with  red,  firm,  crisp, 
a  little  coarse,  tender,  very  juicy,  briskly  subacid,  eventually  becoming  rather 
mild  subacid,  aromatic,  good. 

SCRIBNER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  American  Farmer,  1859.  (cited  by  4).  2.  Downing,  1872: 
31  app.  3.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui.,  45:340.  1896.  4.  Ragan,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:277.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  SCRIBNER'S  SPITZENBERG  (3).  SCRIBNER'S  SPITZENBURGH 
(2).  Scribner's  Spitzenburgh  (4). 

A  medium-sized  midwinter  apple  of  very  good  quality  which  originated  with 
Elijah  Scribner,  Plattsburg,  New  York.  Downing  describes  the  fruit  as 
"  angular,  roundish  conical,  shaded  with  bright  deep  red ;  flesh  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  in  season  from  December  to  February*'  (2). 
This  variety  appears  to  be  practically  unknown  among  New  York  fruit 
growers. 

SEEK-NO-FURTHER. 

The  meaning  of  this  name  is  evident.  It  has  been  applied  to 
many  different  apples  but  the  variety  which  pomologists  know  as 
the  Westfield  Seek-No-Further  New  York  fruit  growers  and  fruit 


304  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

buyers  commonly  call  by  the  simple  name  Seek-No-Further  or  its 
abbreviation,  Seek.  For  an  account  of  this  apple  the  reader  is 
referred  to  Westfield  Scck-No-Further. 

Among  the  other  varieties  described  in  this  volume  with  Seek- 
No-Further  occurring  in  either  the  accepted  name  or  in  a  synonym 
are  those  mentioned  in  the  following  list. 

Long  Island  Scek-No-Further  see  Ferris.  May  Seek-No-Further  see  Gray- 
house.  Oakland  County  Seek-No-Further  see  Oakland.  Rhode  Island  Seek- 
No-Further  see  Ferris.  Seek-No-Further  of  some  see  Rambo.  Wcstchester 
Seek-No-Further  see  Ferris. 

SHACKLEFORD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1883:57,  126,  129.  2.  Mo.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1885:34.  3.  Gano,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1889:130.  4.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:249.  5.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui.,  43:104.  1896.  6.  Thomas,  1897:653. 

SYNONYM.     Shackleford's  Best  (i). 

An  apple  of  the  Ben  Davis  type.  It  ranks  close  to  Ben  Davis  in  quality 
but  is  less  highly  colored  and  is  hardly  as  good  a  keeper  as  that  variety.  The 
fruit  is  smooth,  uniform,  of  good  size  and  under  favorable  conditions  it 
develops  good  color  but  as  grown  at  this  Station  on  rather  heavy  clay  loam 
its  general  appearance  is  not  especially  attractive.  When  grown  as  far  north 
as  this  it  evidently  requires  a  warm  slope  and  warm  soil  to  develop  good  color. 
So  far  as  tested  in  this  region  it  sustains  the  reputation  it  has  gained  else- 
where of  being  very  hardy,  coming  into  bearing  young  and  of  producing  good 
crops  regularly.  It  is  evidently  less  desirable  than  Ben  Davis  for  planting  in 
New  York. 

Historical.  Originated  near  Athens,  Missouri.  It  was  generally  dissemi- 
nated in  that  locality  as  early  as  1883  (i).  Thus  far  it  has  been  planted  in 
New  York  only  in  an  experimental  way. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  rather  flat,  spreading, 
somewhat  drooping,  open.  Twigs  short  to  above  medium,  curved  or  nearly 
straight,  moderately  stout;  internodes  short.  Bark  clear  brownish-red  with 
some  olive-green,  partly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  smooth  or  slightly  pubes- 
cent near  tips.  Lenticels  inconspicuous,  scattering,  small  to  medium,  varying 
from  roundish  to  elongated,  not  raised.  Buds  set  deeply  in  the  bark,  small, 
with  large  broad  shoulders,  flat,  obtuse,  appressed,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  rather  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
to  roundish  ovate,  pretty  regular  and  symmetrical.  Stem  long,  rather  slender. 
Cavity  medium  to  rather  small,  acuminate  or  approaching  acute,  shallow  to 
medium  in  depth,  narrow  to  medium  in  width,  usually  symmetrical  and  slightly 
russeted.  Calyx  above  medium  to  medium,  usually  closed ;  lobes  long,  moder- 
ately broad,  acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  medium  to  rather  large,  medium  in 


SHACKLEFORD 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  305 

depth  to  sometimes  deep,  moderately  wide  to  wide,  rather  abrupt  to  very 
abrupt,  usually  wrinkled  and  furrowed. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  waxy,  smooth,  pale  greenish-yellow  becoming 
nearly  clear  yellow,  washed  with  red,  mottled  and  striped  with  carmine.  Dots 
inconspicuous,  small,  numerous,  sometimes  submerged,  sometimes  russet. 

Calyx  tube  varies  from  short  to  long  and  from  cone-shape  to  funnel-form, 
often  with  a  fleshy  pistil  point  projecting  into  the  base.  Stamens  median  to 
basal. 

Core  usually  axile,  above  medium  to  rather  small ;  cells  usually  symmetrical, 
closed  or  sometimes  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  pointed 
ovate,  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  or  above,  moderately  wide, 
plump,  acute  or  nearly  so. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  moderately 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

Season  November  to  April. 

(I)  SHANNON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1881:104  app.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:25. 
3.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1886:269.  fig.  4.  Babcock,  Rural  N.  Y.,  49: 
873.  1890.  figs.  5.  McNeil,  Ark.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1890:33.  6.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:249.  7.  Clayton,  Ala.  Sta.  Bui.,  47:7.  1893.  8.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui, 
43:104.  1896.  9.  Ib.,  60:133.  1899.  10.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui., 
106:55.  1902. 

SYNONYM.     SHANNON  PIPPIN  (i,  7). 

Fruit  large,  yellow,  smooth,  pretty  uniform,  rather  attractive  in  appearance 
and  very  good  in  quality ;  suitable  for  either  home  use  or  market.  So  far 
as  tested  here  it  is  not  sufficiently  productive  to  be  valuable  in  this  region. 

Historical.  The  history  of  the  Shannon  is  rather  obscure.  For  some  time 
it  was  supposed  by  leading  pomologists  that  Shannon,  was  an  Arkansas  name 
given  to  the  Ohio  Pippin.1'2  Later  investigators  however  have  been  led  to 
question  the  correctness  of  this  view  (i,  3,  9)  and  the  bulk  of  the  evidence 
now  seems  to  indicate  that  the  Shannon  is  an  Arkansas  seedling  closely 
resembling  the  Ohio  Pippin  yet  with  sufficient  difference  to  distinguish  the 
varieties.  As  fruited  at  this  Station  the  tree  of  Ohio  Pippin  is  slightly  less 
vigorous  than  that  of  Shannon.  The  fruit  averages  smaller,  is  usually  some- 
what conic,  the  seeds  are  more  numerous,  the  flavor  is  milder  and  the  season 
is  decidedly  earlier  than  that  of  Shannon.  Shannon  is  said  to  have  originated 
near  Boonsbonx  Washington  county,  Ark.  (9).  It  has  been  but  little  dis- 
seminated in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  with  long  and  rather  stout  branches.  Form  rather  open, 
spreading.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  moderately  stout,  crooked  to  nearly 
straight,  quite  pubescent;  internodes  moderately  short  to  very  short.  Bark 
reddish-brown,  mottled  with  thin  scarf-skin.  Lenticels  numerous,  inconspicu- 
ous, very  small,  roundish  or  sometimes  elongated.  Buds  medium  to  large, 
roundish,  plump,  somewhat  acute  to  rather  obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent. 

aWarder,  1867:484,  731. 
2  Downing,  1869 :  292. 


306  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large.  Form  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  often  somewhat  elliptical  and 
obscurely  ribbed;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  short,  moderately  thick. 
Cavity  moderately  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  moderately  broad  to  very 
broad,  symmetrical  or  somewhat  furrowed,  often  with  radiating  russet  rays 
or  overspread  with  russet.  Calyx  large,  open  or  partly  open ;  lobes  separated 
at  base.  Basin  above  medium  to  rather  small,  moderately  shallow  to  deep, 
moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  abrupt,  usually  indistinctly  furrowed  but 
sometimes  smooth. 

Skin  rather  thin,  tough,  smooth,  bright,  clear  pale  yellow,  usually  somewhat 
blushed.  Dots  inconspicuous,  pale  green  or  whitish,  often  submerged,  some- 
times with  russet  point. 

Calyx:  tube  yellow,  rather  long,  very  wide,  cone-shape  or  somewhat  funnel- 
form  and  sometimes  extending  to  the  core.  Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  slightly  abaxile ;  cells  often  not  uniformly 
developed,  symmetrical,  partly  open  or  closed;  core  lines  slightly  clasping  or 
meeting.  Carpels  thin,  tender,  roundish,  mucronate,  but  slightly  emarginate 
if  at  all,  usually  smooth.  Seeds  few,  short  to  medium,  plump,  narrow  to 
rather  wide,  acute. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  moderately  fine-grained, 
breaking,  tender,  juicy  to  very  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  at  Geneva  November  to  April  or  May. 

(II)  SHANNON. 

REFERENCE,     i.  J.  R.  Johnson,  Cat.,  1894. 

The  variety  described  below,  so  far  as  we  know,  has  not  been  disseminated 
in  New  York.  The  following  account  is  given  in  order  that  the  reader  may 
distinguish  between  this  Shannon  and  the  Shannon  above  described. 

This  originated  as  a  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of  Wm.  Shannon,  Coshoc- 
ton  county,  Ohio.  It,wras  introduced  by  J.  R.  Johnson,  of  Coshocton,  who 
stated  that  it  is  "yellow,  of  good  size  and  good  quality,  keeps  till  April  and 
holds  its  flavor;  tree  a  good  grower  and  a  good  bearer"  (i).  Mr.  Johnson 
reports  that  he  ventured  to  catalogue  it  under  the  name  Shannon  for  local 
trade  although  he  knew  that  a  very  different  apple  had  been  previously  intro- 
duced under  that  name  by  A.  H.  Ernst.1 

SHEDDAN. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Tenn.  Sta.  Bui,  1:29.   1896.  fig. 

Although  this  is  a  variety  of  Tennessee  origin  it  appears  to  have  consider- 
able merit  as  grown  in  New  York  and  is  worthy  of  further  testing  in  this 
region.  As  grown  at  this  Station  the  tree  is  thrifty,  comes  into  bearing  young 
and  gives  promise  of  being  productive.  The  fruit  is  of  desirable  size  and 
good  quality  and  is  suitable  for  either  home  use  or  market.  It  somewhat 
resembles  a  well-grown  Rhode  Island  Greening  in  color  but  has  the  advan- 
tage over  that  variety  in  being  a  much  better  keeper  and  evidently  not  liable 
to  scald. 


better,  J.  R.  Johnson,  1895. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  307 

Historical.  Originated  as  a  chance  seedling  with  John  E.  Sheddan,  Friends- 
ville,  Blount  county,  Tennessee,  about  1882  (i).  It  probably  grew  from  a  seed 
of  Green  Crank  near  which  the  original  Sheddan  tree  stood.  So  far  as  we 
know  this  variety  has  not  been  grown  in  New  York  except  at  this  Station. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading,  rather  open.  Tzvigs  short,  rather 
stout  to  sometimes  slender.  Bark  dull  green  and  reddish.  Lenticels  numer- 
ous, very  small,  roundish,  dark.  Buds  small,  appressed,  rather  obtuse. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  regular, 
symmetrical.  Stem  moderately  long  and  rather  slender  to  short  and  thick, 
sometimes  swollen  at  the  base.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  obtuse  to  acute,  mod- 
erately shallow  to  deep,  rather  broad,  usually  obscurely  furrowed,  sometimes 
lipped,  somewhat  russeted.  Calyx-  small,  closed  or  partly  open.'  Basin  shallow 
to  moderately  deep,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  obtuse  to  rather  abrupt,  some- 
what furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  grass-green  changing  to  yellow  with  an  orange  blush  which 
sometimes  deepens  to  red.  Dots  often  submerged,  numerous,  pale  or  yellow- 
ish especially  toward  the  basin  but  toward  the  cavity  they  are  larger,  more 
scattering  and  more  often  areolar  with  russet  point.  Prevailing  effect  attrac- 
tive yellow  when  the  fruit  is  fully  ripe. 

Calyx  tube  nearly  urn-shape  or  approaching  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  somewhat  abaxile  to  nearly  axile,  sometimes 
with  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis ;  cells  not  always  uniformly  developed,  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  thin,  smooth  or 
nearly  so,  broadly  roundish  to  broadly  obovate,  mucronate,  emarginate.  Seeds 
moderately  dark  reddish-brown,  medium  to  small,  plump,  acute  to  obtuse, 
sometimes  slightly  tufted ;  often  some  are  abortive. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  greenish,  hard,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained 
or  slightly  coarse,  crisp,  somewhat  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
good  to  very  good. 

Season  January  to  May. 

SHEEPNOSE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:125.  2.  Warder,  1867:645.  3.  Downing,  1869: 
351- 

This  name  has  been  applied  to  several  different  varieties  of  apples 
having  a  conical  shape.  In  some  localities  Yellow  Bellflower  is 
known  by  this  name.  In  other  places  it  is  a  common  name  for  the 
Black  Gilliflower. 

Warder  (2)  describes  Sheepnose  of  Mears  as  a  medium,  roundish, 
slightly  conic  apple,  smooth,  greenish-yellow,  in  some  respects 
resembling  White  Pearmain ;  flesh  juicy,  subacid,  good;  season 
December  to  February. 


308  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

In  the  time  of  Coxe,  Bullock  was  commonly  known  in  New  Jersey 
by  the  name  of  Sheepnose  (i). 

Downing  (3)  describes  another  Sheepnose  as  grown  in  New 
Jersey  and  Pennsylvania  the  fruit  of  which  is  of  medium  size, 
roundish  conical,  yellow,  sometimes  blushed ;  flesh  subacid,  good ; 
season  November  and  December. 

There  are  also  other  varieties  which  are  known  under  the  name 
Sheepnose. 

SHERIFF. 

REFERENCES,  i.  la.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1880:600.  2.  Downing,  1881:105  app. 
3.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1889:12.  4.  Taylor,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895:193, 
199.  5.  Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:98.  1902.  fig.  6.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:174. 

SYNONYM.     American  Beauty  incorrectly  (2,  5,  6). 

This  variety  has  received  attention  in  some  parts  of  the  West  on  account 
of  its  superior  hardiness.  The  fruit  is  of  medium  size  and  pleasant  flavor 
but  not  high  quality.  The  tree  comes  into  bearing  young,  is  a  reliable  cropper 
and  productive  (i,  2,  5,  6). 

Historical.  Downing  reports  that  this  variety  was  brought  from  Pennsyl- 
vania by  James  Sheriff  and  the  original  name  having  been  lost  it  was  called 
Sheriff  (2).  It  was  placed  upon  the  list  of  the  American  Pomological  Society 
in  1889  (3)  as  a  variety  worthy  of  testing  but  was  dropped  from  that  list  in 
1897. 

TREE   (2,  5,  6). 

Tree  very  hardy,  vigorous,  tall,  with  few  branches.  Form  symmetrical, 
somewhat  spreading,  open. 

FRUIT   (2,  5,  6). 

Fruit  medium  or  below  medium.  Form  roundish  to  roundish  oblate  or 
somewhat  cylindrical,  flattened  at  the  ends,  nearly  regular.  Stem  short  to 
long  and  slender.  Cavity  small,  acuminate,  deep,  very  narrow,  regular,  green 
and  russeted.  Calyx  closed ;  lobes  erect,  convergent.  Basin  large,  wide, 
shallow  to  deep,  wavy  or  slightly  ribbed. 

Skin  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark  red  ob- 
scurely striped  and  splashed  with  carmine.  Dots  numerous,  small,  distinct, 
pale  or  whitish. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape.     Stamens  median. 

Core  very  large ;  cells  ovate,  slit,  closed.  Seeds  few  to  many,  plump, 
pointed. 

Flesh  whitish,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  good  but  not  rich 
in  quality. 

Season  December  to  February. 

SHIRLEY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:223.  1892.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:249.  3.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:282.  1905. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  309 

This  is  a  bright-colored  apple  of  the  Ben  Davis  type.  As  grown  at  this 
Station  it  appears  to  be  less  valuable  than  Ben  Davis  being  decidedly  inferior 
to  that  variety  in  size  and  no  better  in  quality.  It  is  in  season  about  with 
Ben  Davis. 

Historical.  This  variety  has  been  propagated  by  some  nurserymen  in 
Texas.  In  1892  it  was  received  for  testing  here  from  T.  V.  Munsom,  Denison, 
Texas.  So  far  as  we  know  it  has  not  been  disseminated  among  New  York 
fruit  growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  long,  slender,  curved.  Form  upright 
spreading  varying  to  roundish,  open.  Tzvigs  short,  straight,  slender,  with 
large  terminal  buds ;  internodes  short  to  below  medium.  Bark  clear  reddish- 
brown,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  scatter- 
ing, small  to  very  small,  round  or  elongated,  not  raised.  Buds  deeply  set  in 
bark,  small,  broad,  obtuse,  appressed,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  rather  small.  Form  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  some- 
times oblate,  usually  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to  rather  long  and  slender. 
Cavity  rather  large,  obtuse  to  acute,  deep,  wide,  usually  symmetrical,  some- 
times indistinctly  furrowed,  the  lower  part  often  russeted  but  the  russet 
seldom  extending  beyond  the  cavity.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  somewhat  open 
or  sometimes  closed.  Basin  small  to  medium,  abrupt,  moderately  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  usually  smooth  and 
symmetrical. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  waxy,  glossy,  yellow  blushed  and  mottled  with 
bright  deep  red,  marked  rather  indistinctly  with  narrow  stripes  and  splashes 
of  purplish-carmine  and  overspread  with  a  thin  bloom  which  gives  it  a  slightly 
dull  appearance  but  when  polished  the  fruit  has  a  bright  red  color.  Dots 
inconspicuous,  small,  pale,  sometimes  brown.  Prevailing  effect  deep  red. 

Calyx  tube  large,  deep,  urn-shape  varying  to  elongated  cone-shape  or  funnel- 
form.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  distant,  medium  or  above,  abaxile,  with  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis ; 
cells  symmetrical,  closed;  core  lines  decidedly  clasping.  Carpels  broadly 
roundish  or  approaching  roundish  obcordate,  somewhat  emarginate,  usually 
smooth.  Seeds  somewhat  variable,  usually  large,  long,  wide,  obtuse,  some- 
what tufted,  rather  dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  or  tinged  with  green,  firm,  not  tender,  crisp,  moderately  fine, 
juicy,  sprightly,  mild  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

SKANK. 

Fruit  uniform,  of  good  size  and  attractive  in  color  when  highly  colored ;  but 
usually  it  is  not  highly  colored  and  on  this  account  would  not  rank  as  a  first- 
class  commercial  variety.  When  well  grown  it  is  one  of  the  best  dessert 
apples  of  its  season  and  it  should  not  be  allowed  to  pass  out  of  cultivation. 
It  is  in  season  from  October  to  February  or  later.  The  tree  is  hardy,  healthy, 
long-lived  and  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  heavy  crops  in  alternate  years. 


3io  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  This  is  an  old  variety  which,  so  far  as  we  know,  is  now  grown 
only  in  Southern  Seneca  county.  It  was  brought  to  our  attention  by  M.  C. 
Brokaw  of  Interlaken,  N.  Y.,  who  reports  that  it  was  once  cultivated  in  New 
Jersey  under  the  name  Skank.  We  have  been  unable  to  find  any  mention  of 
it  by  pomological  writers. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  vigorous.  Form  spreading.  Twigs  medium  in 
length,  spreading,  medium  in  thickness. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  or  above  medium,  uniform  in  size  and  shape..  Form  roundish 
conic  to  roundish,  regular,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  in  length,  mod- 
erately thick  to  rather  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  broad,  some- 
times compressed,  thinly  russeted,  the  russet  not  extending  beyond  the  cavity. 
Calyx  medium  or  below,  closed  or  slightly  open ;  lobes  short  to  rather  long, 
acute.  Basin  rather  small,  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  medium  in 
width  to  narrow,  somewhat  abrupt,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thin  and  tender,  smooth,  bright  pale  yellow  partially  over- 
spread and  mottled  with  attractive  red,  distinctly  splashed  and  often  broadly 
striped  with  bright  carmine.  Well-colored  specimens  are  nearly  covered  with 
red.  Dots  scattering,  medium  to  above,  russet  or  areolar  with  russet  center. 

Calyx  tube  medium  to  rather  large,  funnel-form  to  cone-shape.  Stamens 
median  to  marginal. 

Core  small,  sessile  or  nearly  so,  abaxile ;  cells  pretty  symmetrical,  usually 
open  or  partly  open;  core  lines  usually  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  much 
concave,  broadly  roundish  to  slightly  elliptical,  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous, 
medium  or  below,  rather  narrow,  quite  plump,  irregular,  moderately  acute  to 
acuminate,  rather  dark  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  sometimes  with  faint  reddish  tinge,  rather  firm,  fine-grained, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  agreeably  aromatic,  good  to  very  good  for 
dessert 

SLEIGHT. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1867.  (cited  by  3).  2.  Downing, 
1869:353.  3-  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:285.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  SLEIGHT'S  LADY  APPLE  (2).  Sleight's  Lady  Apple  (3). 
SLIGHT'S  LADY  APPLE  (i).  Slight's  Lady  Apple  (3). 

An  apple  of  the  Lady  type  which  originated  with  Edgar  Sleight,  Dutchess 
county,  N.  Y.  Downing  describes  it  as  an  almost  perfect  facsimile  of  Lady 
except  that  it  is  nearly  twice  as  large  and  ripens  a  little  earlier. 

We  have  not  seen  this  variety  and  have  received  no  report  of  its  being 
grown  outside  of  the  locality  of  its  origin. 

SMITH  CIDER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:131.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:123.  3.  Elliott, 
1854:157.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1856.  5.  Downing,  1857:189.  6.  Hooper, 
1857:84.  7.  Horticulturist,  15:184.  1860.  8.  Mag.  Hort.,  26:102.  1860.  9. 
Hovey,  Ib.,  29:262.  1863.  fig.  10.  Warder,  1867:614.  fig.  n.  Downing,  1869: 
354-  fig-  12.  Fitz,  1872:143,  153.  13.  Leroy,  1873:579.  fig.  14.  Thomas,  1875: 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  311 

222.  15.  Barry,  1883:354.  16.  Wickson,  1889:247.  17.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:296.  18.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:249.  19.  Can.  Hort.,  16:435. 
1893.  20.  Mathews,  Ky.  Sta.  Bui,  50:32.  1894.  21.  Burrill  and  McCluer, 
///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:341.  1896.  22.  Beach,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1901:76. 

23.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui.,  130:124.  1901.     24.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14: 
308.  1901.     25.'  Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:55.  1902.    26.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B. 
P.  I.  Bui,  48:56.  1903.    27.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:176.  fig.    28.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.   Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:144.   1904.     29.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:72,  286. 
1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Choice  Kentuck  (29).  CIDER  (9).  Cider  (29).  CIDER 
APPLE  (i,  2).  Fowler  (n,  13,  29).  Fuller  (n,  13,  29).  Jacksvn  Winesap 
(29).  Pennsylvania  Cider  (n,  13,  29).  Poplar  Bluff  (29).  POPULAR  BLUFF 
(13).  Popular  Bluff  (n,  29).  SMITH'S  (10,  26,  29).  Smith's  (n,  13,  29). 
SMITH'S  CIDER  (3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  n,  12,  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19,  20,  21,  22,  23, 

24,  25).     Smith's  Cider  (9,  10,  13,  26,  29). 

When  well  grown  this  is  a  beautiful  fruit.  It  ranks  good  but 
not  high  in  quality.  Coxe  (i)  observes  that  it  bears  some  resem- 
blance to  the  old  Vandevere  of  Pennsylvania.  He  describes  it  under 
the  name  Cider  Apple  by  which  name  it  is  still  commonly  known  in 
some  sections  of  the  country.  Warder  (10)  remarks  that  it  cannot 
be  recommended  for  the  table  but  gives  great  satisfaction  for  culinary 
purposes  and  for  market,  being  "  one  of  the  most  profitable  apples 
planted  in  Southwestern  Ohio  and  adjacent  counties  of  Indiana." 
The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  comes  into  bearing  young  and  usually  is 
very  productive.  As  grown  in  New  York  the  fruit  usually  fails  to 
develop  properly  in  size  and  quality,  and  is,  on  the  whole,  unsatis- 
factory and  unprofitable. 

Historical.  This  has  long  been  a  favorite  apple  in  Bucks  county,  Pennsyl- 
vania where  it  originated  (i,  5,  9,  10,  n,  19),  and  it  is  highly  esteemed  in 
certain  regions  farther  south  and  west  (i,  3,  10,  19,  23).  Although  it  has 
long  been  known  in  cultivation  it  has  not  gained  much  recognition  among 
New  York  fruit  growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  with  long,  moderately  stout,  straggling  branches. 
Form  tall,  upright  spreading  or  roundish,  rather  open.  Twigs  above  medium 
to  long,  curved,  rather  slender;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  dark 
brownish-red  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite 
numerous,  inconspicuous,  small  to  medium,  round,  not  raised.  Buds  medium 
in  size,  plump,  obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large  when  well  grown  but  it  often  averages  below  medium. 
Form  roundish  oblate  inclined  to  conic  or  varying  to  oblong  and  truncate, 
regular  to  somewhat  elliptical;  axis  often  oblique;  sides  sometimes  unequal. 


312  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Stem  short  to  moderately  long,  slender.  Cavity  rather  large,  acute  or  some- 
times obtuse,  moderately  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  broad,  often  with  out- 
spreading russet.  Calyx  below  medium  to  large,  partly  open  or  sometimes 
closed;  lobes  leafy,  long,  acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  wide,  varying  from  very 
shallow  and  obtuse  to  rather  deep  and  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed  and 
wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  capillary  russet  lines 
about  the  basin,  glossy,  bright  pale  yellow  or  greenish  mottled  and  shaded 
with  pinkish-red,  splashed  and  striped  with  bright  carmine.  Dots  whitish  or 
russet,  often  areolar,  rather  large  and  conspicuous.  Prevailing  effect  bright 
pinkish-red. 

Calyx  tube  short  and  obtusely  cone-shape  or  sometimes  approaching  funnel- 
form.  Stamens  median.  , 

Core  below  medium  to  rather  large,  abaxile  to  nearly  axile ;  cells  sym- 
metrical, open  or  sometimes  closed;  core  lines  meeting  or  somewhat  clasping. 
Carpels  thin,  usually  smooth,  broadly  roundish  to  elongated  or  narrowing 
irregularly  toward  the  apex,  acuminate,  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  above 
medium,  wide,  plump,  obtuse,  dark. 

Flesh  whitish,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid 
becoming  mildly  subacid,  aromatic,  sprightly,  good  but  not  high  in  flavor  or 
quality. 

Season  at  Geneva  November  to  March. 

"MAKEFIELD  is  the  name  given  to  an  apple  shown  at  the  meet- 
ing of  the  New  Jersey  Horticultural  Society  in  1900.  It  origi- 
nated in  Makefield  township,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.,  hence  its  name.  It  is 
supposed  to  be  a  sport  from  Smith's  Cider,  which  it  resembles  in  tree. 
It  is  fully  as  prolific  as  Smith's  Cider.  The  fruit  is  like  Smith's 
Cider  in  all  respects,  except  that  it  has  a  deep  red  color,  making  it 
more  valuable  for  market.  The  distinctive  feature  is  that  the  red 
is  not  in  stripes  as  in  Smith's  Cider,  and  even  the  small  specimens 
are  red  "  (22). 

SMOKEHOUSE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Horticulturist,  2:482,  570.  1848.  2.  Brinckle,  Ib.,  3:333. 
1849.  fig.  3.  Thomas,  1849:152.  4.  Horticulturist,  4:340,  414.  1850.  5.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  6.  Horticulturist,  7:475-  1852.  7.  Mag.  Hort.,  19:68. 
1853.  8.  Hovey,  Ib.,  22:558.  1856.  fig.  9.  Horticulturist,  11:289.  1856.  10. 
Downing,  1857:104.  n.  Hooper,  1857:85.  12.  Hoft'y,  N.  A.  Pom.,  1860.  col. 
pi.  13.  Horticulturist,  15:184.  1860.  14.  Warder,  1867:732.  15.  Fitz,  1872: 
143,  153-  16.  Leroy,  1873:815.  figs.  17.  Barry,  1883:355.  18.  Wickson,  1889: 
244.  19.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:296.  20.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892: 
249.  21.  Hicks,  Rural  N.  Y.,  53:205.  1894.  22.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui.,  130: 
136.  1901.  23.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:55.  1902.  24.  Bruner, 
N.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  182:22.  1903.  25.  Btidd-Hansen,  1903:177.  fig. 

SYNONYMS.  English  Vandevere  (10).  GIBBONS  SMOKEHOUSE  (i).  Mill- 
creek  (12).  Millcreek  Vandevere  (4,  9,  10.  16).  Red  Vandevere  (16). 
SMOKE  HOUSE  (11,  12).  Vandervcre  (12).  Vandevere  English  (16). 


SMOKEHOUSE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  313 

Fruit  uniform  in  size,  symmetrical  and  attractive  in  appearance 
when  well  colored ;  but  too  often  its  color  lacks  character,  being 
neither  distinctly  yellow  nor  distinctly  red.  It  is  a  very  pleasant 
flavored  dessert  apple  but  hardly  acid  enough  for  most  culinary  uses. 
The  tree  is  a  good,  vigorous  grower,  healthy,  hardy  and  usually  a 
reliable  cropper,  alternating  good  with  moderate  crops.  It  comes 
into  bearing  moderately  young.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 
It  is  somewhat  subject  to  apple  scab  and  requires  thorough  pre- 
ventive treatment  to  insure  clean  fruit.  The  tree  tends  to  form  a 
rather  dense  head  and  requires  frequent  pruning  to  keep  the  top 
sufficiently  open  to  develop  fruit  of  good  color  and  good  quality. 
Some  fruit  growers  regard  it  with  favor  as  a  commercial  variety 
on  account  of  its  being  reliably  productive  and  yielding  a  very  good 
grade  of  smooth  fruit;  but  it,  is  not  grown  extensively  in  any  part 
of  the  state,  and,  so  far  as  we  can  learn,  its  cultivation  is  not  being 
extended. 

Historical.  Originated  with  William  Gibbons,  Lampeter  township,  Lan- 
caster county,  Pa.  (2,  12).  It  took  its  name  from  the  fact  that  the  original 
tree  grew  near  his  smokehouse.  It  was  brought  to  notice  about  1837  by  Ash- 
bridge  though  it  had  long  before  been  propagated'  in  a  nursery  near  the 
locality  of  its  origin.  It  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  of  the  old  Vanclevere 
of  Delaware  and  Pennsylvania  as  it  much  resembles  that  variety ;  in  fact 
Elliott  fell  into  the  error  of  calling  it  identical  with  Vandevere.1  It  has  been 
grown  more  extensively  in  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania  than  it  has  in  this 
state.  It  is  cultivated  to  a  limited  extent  in  many  portions  of  New  York 
but  is  not  generally  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  vigorous.  Form  roundish  to  wide-spreading,  dense; 
lateral  branches  willowy,  slender.  Twigs  moderately  long,  straight,  slender ; 
internodes  long.  Bark  reddish-brown  mingled  writh  olive-green,  lightly 
streaked  with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  very  scattering,  oblong, 
not  raised.  Buds  set  deeply  in  bark,  medium  in  size,  broad,  flat,  obtuse,  ap- 
pressed,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
oblate  or  approaching  oblate  conic,  rather  regular,  symmetrical  or  nearly  so. 
Stem  medium  to  long,  slender.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  medium  to  rather 
deep,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  sometimes  gently  furrowed,  often 
thinly  russeted.  Calyx  large,  open  or  nearly  so ;  lobes  often  flat,  convergent, 
separated  at  the  base.  Basin  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  rather  wide, 
sometimes  compressed,  somewhat  abrupt,  slightly  wrinkled. 

1  Elliott,  1854: 1 13.  , 


314  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  capillary  russet  lines 
and  russet  dots ;  color  yellow  or  greenish  mottled  with  rather  dull  red,  some- 
times deepening  to  a  solid  bright  red,  indistinctly  mottled,  striped  and  splashed 
with  carmine.  Dots  generally  conspicuous,  large,  irregular,  gray  or  russet, 
becoming  smaller  and  more  numerous  about  the  basin.  Prevailing  effect 
greenish-yellow,  but  in  highly  colored  specimens,  red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  short,  obtusely  cone-shape  or  approaching  funnel- 
form.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  partly 
open;  core  lines  meeting  or  with  funnel-form  calyx  tube,  clasping.  Carpels 
flat,  broadly  elliptical  to  roundish  or  somewhat  cordate,  usually  smooth.  Seeds 
few,  very  dark,  large,  narrow,  long,  acute  to  acuminate,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  moder- 
ately tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  delicately  aromatic,  with  an  agreeable  but 
not  high  flavor,  good. 

Season  October  to  February  or  March. 

SPITZENBURG. 

New  York  fruit  growers  and  fruit  dealers  commonly  use  the 
simple  name  Spitzenburg  or  its  colloquial  abbreviation  Spitz,  in 
referring  to  the  variety  known  to  pomologists  as  Esopus  Spitzen- 
burg. Pomologists  are  now  publishing  this  name  with  Spitzenburg 
in  italics  as  the  first  step  toward  shortening  the  name  to  Esopus, 
but  comparatively  few  New  York  fruit  growers  would,  recognize  it 
by  the  name  Esopus  and  it  will  doubtless  continue  to  be  called 
Spitzenburg  as  long  as  it  remains  in  cultivation.  For  an  account 
of  this  variety  the  reader  is  referred  to  Esopus  Spitzenburg. 

This  word  has  been  variously  spelled  by  different  pomologists  as, 
Spitzemberg,  Spitzenberg,  Spitzenbergh,  Spitzenburgh  and  Spits- 
zenburgh,  but  Spitzenburg  is  now  the  commonly  accepted  spelling. 

Many  different  varieties  have  the  word  Spitzenburg  appearing 
either  in  the  accepted  name  or  in  a  synonym ;  those  which  are 
described  in  this  volume  are  Esopus  -Spitzcnburg,  Flushing  Spitzen- 
burg, Newtown  Spitzenburg  and  Scrlbner  Spitzenburg  (see 
Scribner). 

SPRING  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Elliott,  1854:158.  2.  Warder,  1867732.  3.  Downing,  1869: 
358.  4.  Thomas,  1875:512.  5.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:342. 
1896.  6.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:291.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Spring  Pippin  (6).  SPRINGPORT  (6).  SPRINGPORT  PIPPIN 
(4).  Springport  Pippin  (i,  3,  5,  6). 


STANARD 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  315 

An  old  variety  which  originated  in  Springport,  Cayuga  county,  N.  Y  (3,  4). 
It  is  probably  now  obsolete.  The  tree  is  upright,  thrifty  and  unproductive. 
Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  yellowish-green,  with  few  scattering  minute 
dots.  Calyx  closed.  Stem  short.  Flesh  crisp,  sprightly  subacid,  very  good. 
Season  December  to  May  (i,  4). 

The  variety  described  by  Burrill  and  McCluer  under  this  name  is  evidently 
not  the  true  Spring  Pippin  (5). 

SPY. 

Fruit  growers  and  fruit  dealers  commonly  mention  the  Northern 
Spy  by  the  simple  name  of  Spy.  For  a  description  of  this  variety 
the  reader  is  referred  to  Northern  Spy. 

STANARD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Trans.,  1848:22,  276.  2.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist. 
N.  Y.,  3:78.  1851.  3.  Elliott,  1854:158.  4.  Warder,  1867:544.  fig.  5.  Down- 
ing, 1869:359.  6.  Fitz,  1872:121.  7.  Thomas,  1875:512.  8.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:250.  9.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:56.  1903.  10.  Beach 
and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:144.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Stanard's  Seedling  (3,  5).  STANNARD  (8).  STANNARD'S 
SEEDLING  (2). 

Stanard  is  a  good  apple  but  other  varieties  of  its  season  are  superior  to  it 
for  either  home  use  or  commercial  purposes.  The  fruit  is  of  good  market- 
able size  and  fairly  attractive  in  general  appearance  but  as  grown  at  this 
Station  it  does  not  develop  as  bright  red  color  as  either  Baldwin  or  Northern 
Spy  and  is  decidedly  inferior  to  either  of  these  varieties  in  the  texture,  flavor 
and  quality  of  its  flesh.  Its  season  extends  to  January  but  some  portion  of 
the  fruit  may  be  kept  till  spring.  Its  ordinary  commercial  limit  is  October 
or  in  cold  storage  March  or  April  (TO).  The  tree  is  rather  vigorous,  comes 
into  bearing  early  and  is  an  annual  bearer,  alternating  heavy  with  light  crops. 
It  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical  In  1848  Stanard  was  exhibited  before  the  New  York  Agri- 
cultural Society  as  a  new  seedling  by  Benjamin  Hodge,  Jr.,  of  Buffalo,  by 
whom  it  was  afterwards  introduced  (i).  It  has  been  disseminated  in  portions 
of  the  Middle  West  (4,  5,  8)  but  it  has  not  won  the  favor  of  New  York  fruit 
growers  and  remains  practically  unknown  in  this  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous ;  branches  short,  stout,  curved.  Form  spreading, 
open.  Twigs  generally  short,  somewhat  curved,  rather  stout;  internodes 
medium  to  very  short.  Bark  dark  reddish-brown  mingled  with  olive-green, 
partly  streaked  with  thin  scarf-skin,  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering, 
small  to  medium,  often  elongated,  usually  not  raised.  Buds  prominent,  large, 
broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  above  medium,  somewhat  variable  in  size.  Form  oblate 
conic  to  roundish  conic,  wide  and  flat  at  the  base,  regular  or  obscurely  ribbed ; 


316  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately  slender,  usually 
not  exserted.  Cavity  rather  large,  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  moder- 
ately deep  to  very  deep,  wide,  symmetrical,  usually  slightly  furrowed  or  com- 
pressed, occasionally  lipped,  often  russeted  and  with  outspreading  russet  rays. 
Calyx  small  to  above  medium,  partly  open  or  closed;  lobes  often  somewhat 
separated  at  the  base,  narrow,  acuminate  to  acute.  Basin  below  medium  to 
rather  large,  often  oblique,  varying  from  rather  shallow,  narrow,  symmetrical 
and  somewhat  obtuse  to  deep,  rather  wide,  somewhat  furrowed  and  distinctly 
abrupt,  pubescent. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  by  russet  dots,  somewhat 
glossy,  greenish  becoming  pale  yellow  shaded  with  red.  Highly  colored  speci- 
mens are  almost  completely  covered  with  moderately  dark,  rather  dull  red, 
sparingly  and  rather  indistinctly  splashed  and  striped  with  dark  carmine  but 
usually  the  predominant  color  is  yellow.  Dots  pale  or  russet,  numerous  and 
small  near  the  basin,  becoming  larger,  scattering,  more  conspicuous  and 
irregular  toward  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  long,  urn-shape  varying  to  cone-shape  or  some- 
times funnel-form.  Stamens  below  median. 

Core  medium  or  below,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  not  uniformly  developed, 
symmetrical,  open  or  closed ;  core  lines  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  much 
concave,  roundish  to  elliptical,  emarginate.  Seeds  moderately  light  brown, 
medium  or  below,  rather  short,  wide,  plump,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
brisk  subacid  becoming  rather  mild  and  pleasant,  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

STARK. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Warder,  1867:732.  2.  Prairie  Farmer,  1868.  (cited  by  25). 
3.  Downing,  1869:360.  4.  Fitz,  1872:170.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  6. 
Thomas,  1875:512.  7.  Mo.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1888:327.  8.  Clark,  Mo.  Sta.  Bui, 
6:8.  1889.  9.  Wickson,  1889:249.  10.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:298. 
ii.  Bailey,  An.'  Hort.,  1892:250.  12.  Can.  Hort.,  16:112.  1893.  13.  Munson, 
Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:133.  14.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui,  43:104.  1896.  15.  Rural 
N.  Y.,  55:1.  1896.  fig.  16.  Can.  Hort.,  20:35.  189?-  I7-  Lazenby,  Columbus 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:139.  18.  Can.  Hort.,  23:126.  1900.  19.  Dickens  and 
Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:55.  1902.  20.  Can.  Hort.,  25:303.  1902.  figs.  21. 
Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  9:2.  1902.  figs.  22.  Budd-Hansen,  1903: 
179.  figs.  23.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:56.  1903.  24.  Beach 
and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:144.  1904.  25.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  /.  Bui, 
56:291.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.     Robinson   (25).     STARKE  APPLE  (4).     Yeats  (7,  25). 

Stark  is  regarded  as  a  good  variety  for  the  commercial  orchard 
by  some  New  York  fruit  growers  particularly  because  the  tree  is 
thrifty,  hardy,  healthy,  a  reliable  cropper  and  very  productive  and 
because  the  fruit  is  fair,  smooth,  uniform  and  keeps  well.  It  is 
often  dull  and  not  attractive  sometimes  having  but  very  little  red 
color  yet  under  favorable  conditions  it  is  nearly  covered  with  red 


STARK 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  317 

and  in  the  spring  when  the  contrasting  yellow  tints  are  fully  devel- 
oped it  becomes  quite  attractive.  The  accompanying  illustration 
shows  a  highly  colored  Stark  which  was  grown  in  Dutchess  county. 
At  Geneva  its  season  in  ordinary  storage  extends  from  January  to 
June  with  May  as  the  usual  commercial  limit.  The  fruit  stands 
handling  well  because  it  is  very  firm  and  has  a  thick,  tough  skin. 
It  has  a  mild  flavor  and  ranks  only  medium  in  .quality  but  is  well 
liked  for  baking  and  evaporating.  It  often  sells  in  the  general 
market  at  remunerative  prices  and  is  regarded  by  some  as  a  good 
apple  for  export  trade  (20,  21).  Stark  not  only  does  well  through- 
out the  region  where  Baldwin  succeeds  but  also  has  won  recog- 
nition as  a  desirable  commercial  variety  in  certain  districts  in  the 
North,  South  and  West  outside  the  range  of  profitable  cultivation 
of  Baldwin. 

Historical.  Stark  was  first  brought  to  notice  in  Ohio  (3)  and  is  said  to 
have  originated  in  that  state  (25).  It  is  grown  successfully  over  a  wide  range 
of  territory  and  has  received  favorable  notice  in  various  regions  from  the 
Atlantic  to  the  Pacific.  In  1892  it  was  offered  by  nurserymen  in  all  of  the 
apple-growing  sections  of  the  country  with  the  exception  of  the  northern 
portion  of  the  Mississippi  valley  and  the  Rocky  Mountain  region  from 
Montana  to  Arizona  and  Texas  (n).  Thus  far  it  has  not  been  largely  planted 
in  New  York  but  its  cultivation  in  this  state  appears  to  be  slowly  increasing. 

TREE. 

Tree  strong,  straight,  healthy  in  the  nursery ;  vigorous  and  large  or  moder- 
ately large  in  the  orchard,  with  long,  strong  branches.  Form  upright  spread- 
ing to  roundish,  rather  dense.  Twigs  above  medium  length,  nearly  straight, 
slender  to  rather  stout;  internodes  short  to  long.  Bark  reddish-brown  tinged 
with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  gray  scarf-skin;  pubescent  near  tips. 
Lenticels  quite  numerous,  conspicuous,  small  to  large,  roundish  or  oblong, 
slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  to  large,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  free,  slightly 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium,  sometimes  very  large,  quite  uniform  in  size  and 
shape.  Form  roundish  inclined  to  conic  varying  to  slightly  oblate  or  to 
roundish  ovate;  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium  in  length, 
moderately  stout.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  acuminate  or  approaching  acute, 
moderately  deep,  rather  wide  to  moderately  narrow,  sometimes  gently  fur- 
rowed, occasionally  lipped,  sometimes  russeted  and  with  outspreading  russet. 
Calyx  medium  to  rather  large,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  shallow  and 
obtuse  to  medium  in  depth  and  somewhat  abrupt,  rather  wide,  slightly 
wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  russet  dots,  pale  green  becoming 
yellow  more  or  less  blushed  and  mottled  with  red  and  rather  indistinctly 


318  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

striped  with  darker  red.  Prevailing  effect  dull  green  and  red,  but  in  highly 
colored  specimens  fairly  bright  red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  truncate  cone-shape  with  fleshy  pistil  point  pro- 
jecting into  the  base,  or  approaching  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile ;  cells  uniform,  symmetrical,  closed  or 
partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping  Carpels  thin,  tender,  flat, 
broadly  roundish  to  obcordate,  emarginate,  mucronate,  tufted.  Seeds  few, 
long,  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  fine  to  rather  coarse,  breaking,  rather 
tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  mild  subacid,  not  high  in  flavor,  fair  to  good,  or  nearly 
good,  in  quality. 

STAYMAN  WINESAP. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1881:106  app.  fig.  2.  Stayman,  Mo.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1883:77.  3.  Bailey,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  31:54.  1887.  4.  Rural  N.  Y.,  55:1. 
1896.  5.  Amer.  Card.,  17:33.  1896.  6.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  57:201. 
1898.  7.  Powell,  Del.  Sta.  Bui,  38:20.  1898.  fig.  8.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y., 
58:800.  1899.  9«  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1899:20.  10.  Rural  N.  Y.,  59:466,  510. 
1900.  fig.  ii.  Amer  Gard.,  22:191.  1901.  12.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  60: 
124,  210,  307,  532.  1901.  13.  Taylor,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Yr.  Bk.,  1902:470.  col. 
pi.  14.  Rural  N.  Y.,  61:688.  1902.  15.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:22.  1903. 
1 6.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:57.  1903.  17.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:180.  fig.  18.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:145.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  STAYMAN  (4,  5,  6,  8,  10,  12).  Stayman  (13,  16).  STAYMAN'S 
WINESAP  (i,  2,  3,  7,  n).  Stayman  s  Winesap  (13). 

Van  Deman  calls  this  the  best  variety  of  the  Winesap  class  for 
general  cultivation  (12).  Taylor  remarks  that  the  only  particular 
in  which  it  does  not  equal  its  parent  is  in  its  color  which  is  some- 
what less  brilliant  than  that  of  Winesap  and  adds  that  it  appears  to 
be  adapted  to  a  wider  range  of  soil  and  climate  and  well  worthy  of 
testing  throughout  the  middle  latitudes,  both  for  home  use  and  for 
market  (13).  As  tested  at  this  Station  the  tree  is  moderately  vig- 
orous, comes  into  bearing  young  and  is  a  reliable  annual  cropper, 
alternating  heavy  with  light  crops;  but  the  fruit,  as  shown  by  the 
accompanying  illustration,  does  not  develop  properly  here  in  size 
and  color.  It  is  evidently  not  well  suited  for  regions  as  far  north 
as  this. 

Historical  This  variety  was  originated  from  seed  of  Winesap  in  1866  at 
Leavenworth,  Kan.,  by  Dr.  J.  Stayman  and  bore  its  first  fruit  in  1875  (13). 
The  earliest  published  descriptions  of  it  were  given  by  Downing  (i)  and 
Stayman  (2).  "Further  than  these  descriptions  the  variety  does  not  appear 
to  have  attracted  any  special  attention  until  after  1890,  when  its  good  qualities 
were  discovered  almost  simultaneously  by  Mr.  R.  J.  Black,  of  Bremen,  Ohio, 
and  Mr.  J.  W.  Kerr,  of  Denton,  Md.,  both  of  whom  fruited  it  on  top  grafts 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  319 

at  about  that  time.  It  was  first  catalogued  by  the  latter  in  1894-1895,  and  has 
been  quite  extensively  planted  in  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Mary- 
land and  Virginia  since  that  date,  and  somewhat  in  other  States"  (13). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  spreading  and  somewhat  open.  Twigs 
below  medium  to  rather  long,  irregularly  crooked,  moderately  stout,  with  large 
terminal  buds;  internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  dark  brown  or  reddish- 
brown  with  some  olive-green,  heavily  coated  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent  near 
tips.  Lenticels  inconspicuous,  scattering,  small  to  large,  roundish,  raised. 
Buds  prominent,  above  medium  to  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  pubes- 
cent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  conic 
to  globular,  flattened  at  the  base  and  rounding  toward  the  basin ;  sides  some- 
times slightly  unequal.  Stem  medium  to  short.  Cavity  large,  .acuminate  to 
acute,  deep  to  very  deep,  medium  in  width  to  wide,  often  gently  furrowed, 
sometimes  compressed,  usually  partly  russeted  and  sometimes  with  outspread- 
ing broken  russet  rays.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  sometimes  partly 
open;  lobes  long,  acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  small,  sometimes  oblique,  vary- 
ing from  shallow,  narrow  and  obtuse  to  medium  in  width  and  depth  and 
abrupt,  furrowed,  somewhat  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  rather  thick,  tough,  green  becoming  yellowish,  often  nearly 
completely  covered  with  rather  dull  mixed  red  and  rather  indistinctly  striped 
with  dull  carmine.  In  less  highly  colored  specimens  the  striped  effect  is 
more  noticeable.  Dots  light  gray  and  russet,  often  rather  large  and  con- 
spicuous. 

Calyx'  tube  cone-shape  to  elongated  funnel-form,  sometimes  extending 
nearly  or  quite  to  the  core.  Stamens  median. 

Core  small  to  medium,  abaxile  to  nearly  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed 
or  open;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  thin,  tender,  quite 
concave  broadly  roundish  to  elliptical,  emarginate.  Seeds  variable,  medium 
or  above,  long,  obtuse  to  acute,  plump ;  often  some  are  abortive. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow  or  slightly  greenish,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained, 
tender,  moderately  crisp,  breaking,  juicy  to  very  juicy,  aromatic,  sprightly, 
pleasant  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  December  to  May;  commercial  limit,  April. 

STERLING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Elliott,  1854:167.  2.  Downing,  1857:115.  3.  Warder,  1867: 
711.  4.  Downing,  1869:75.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1877.  6.  Barry,  1883: 
341.  J.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  iSg1? -.14.  8.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:181.  9.  Thomas, 
1903:689.  10.  Page  45. 

SYNONYMS.  AMERICAN  BEAUTY  (2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  9,  10).  American  Beauty 
(7,  8).  BEAUTY  OF  AMERICA  (i).  Beauty  of  America  (4,  10).  Sterling 
Beauty  (2,  4,  6,  9,  10). 

This  is  the  variety  described  on  page  45  under  the  name  of  American 
Beauty.  At  the  time  that  description  was  written  it  escaped  our  notice  that 


320  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

the  accepted  name  for  this  variety  in  the  American  Pomological  Society  Cata- 
logue was  changed  in  1897  from  American  Beauty  to  Sterling.  This  state- 
ment is  made  for  the  purpose  of  revising  and  correcting  the  synonymy  of  this 
variety. 

STONE. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Hoskins,  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  5:18.     1879. 

An  apple  of  the  Blue  Pearmain  group  somewhat  similar  to  Bethel 
in  general  appearance.  We  find  no  published  description  of  this 
variety.  It  is  highly  esteemed  locally  in  St.  Lawrence  county  where 
it  has  come  to  be  recognized  as  a  very  hardy,  healthy,  thrifty  and 
long-lived  variety.  It  has  a  tendency  to  overbear  or  to  set  more 
fruit  than  it  can  properly  mature.  It  is  an  advantage  to  have  the 
fruit  thoroughly  thinned  early  in  the  season.  It  has  the  habit  of 
ripening  its  wood  and  shedding  its  foliage  early  in  the  autumn. 
Young  trees  in  the  nursery  row  have  a  rather  rough,  sprawling 
habit  of  growth.  The  fruit  when  well  grown  is  rather  large  and 
although  rather  dull  red  in  color  is  fairly  attractive  in  appearance. 
It  ranks  good  or  sometimes  possibly  very  good  in  quality. 

Historical.  This  variety  was  brought  from  Bethel,  Vermont  into  Potsdam, 
St.  Lawrence  county,  about  1836  or  1837  by  a  Mr.  Stone.  He  propagated  it 
in  that  locality  and  it  came  to  be  known  locally  as  the  Stone  apple.  For  a 
time  the  Stone  and  the  Snow  or  Fameuse  were  about  the  only  grafted  apples 
known  in  that  vicinity.  During  the  last  sixty  years  it  has  been  grown  in 
some  sections  of  St.  Lawrence  county  more  extensively  than  any  other  variety* 
and  has  there  become  a  standard  winter  apple  for  home  use.  Apparently  it 
is  unknown  outside  of  Northern  New  York. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  very  large,  quite  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
round  to  somewhat  ovate,  rounding  toward  base  and  apex,  regular  or  some- 
times slightly  ribbed.  Stem  very  short  to  medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity 
very  small,  usually  acuminate,  very  narrow,  somewhat  unsymmetrical,  partly 
russeted;  the  russet  does  not  often  extend  beyond  the  brim  of  the  cavity. 
Calyx  medium  to  rather  small,  usually  open,  sometimes  nearly  closed ;  lobes 
rather  broad  and  acute.  Basin  usually  shallow,  sometimes  moderately  deep, 
medium  in  width  to  rather  narrow,  sometimes  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  rather  smooth,  takes  a  high  polish;  color  pale  yellow  or 
greenish  washed  and  mottled  with  rather  dull  dark  red  which  in  highly 
colored  specimens  deepens  to  solid  red,  irregularly  splashed  and  striped  with 
deep  carmine,  overspread  with  bluish  bloom  and  often  noticeably  marked  with 
bluish- white  scarf-skin.  Dots  numerous.  Some  are  very  large,  irregular, 
very  conspicuous,  grayish  and  often  areolar  with  russet  point ;  others  are 
small,  round,  pale  gray  or  whitish  and  often  submerged. 

Calyx  tube  short.,  broadly  conical.     Stamens  usually  basal. 

1  Letters  of  A.  F.  Clark,  Raymondville,  1896,  1905. 


STONE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  321 

Core  slightly  abaxile  with  a  hollow  cylinder  at  the  axis  which  becomes 
narrow  above  and  extends  to  the  calyx  tube;  cells  not  uniformly  developed, 
closed  or  open ;  core  lines  nearly  meeting  or  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to 
roundish  ovate,  a  little  tufted.  Seeds  not  numerous,  small  to  medium,  vary- 
ing from  rather  long,  narrow  and  acuminate  to  short,  blunt  and  nearly  obtuse. 

Flesh  nearly  white  with  yellowish  tinge,  moderately  firm,  a  little  coarse, 
rather  tender,  juicy  or  moderately  juicy,  mildly  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet, 
somewhat  aromatic,  good  to  possibly  very  good  in  quality. 

STONE  AND  BETHEL  COMPARED. 

Some  have  supposed  that  Stone  is  identical  with  Bethel  (i)  but  as 
received  from  various  parts  of  Northern  New  York  it  is  certainly 
distinct.  The  fruit  averages  larger  than  that  of  Bethel,  sometimes 
becoming  very  large,  and  its  form  is  more  elongated  and  more  in- 
clined to  roundish  ovate.  Its  color  is  duller  than  that  of  Bethel, 
being  not  quite  so  dark  red  in  tone,  and  it  is  noticeably  less  striped 
and  splashed.  The  dots  of  Stone  are  considerably  the  larger,  more 
irregular  and  more  noticeably  areolar.  The  dots  of  Bethel  are  the 
brighter ;  its  stem  usually  shorter  and  more  slender ;  its  cavity 
decidedly  smaller  and  narrower;  its  basin  slightly  narrower  and 
more  regular;  its  core  less  abaxile  and  slightly  smaller,  and  its  cells 
less  uniformly  developed. 

STOWE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Me.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1895.  (cited  by  2).  2.  Munson,  Me. 
Sta.  Rpt.,  1902:92. 

SYNONYM.     Stozve's  Winter  (i). 

This  variety  has  attracted  the  attention  of  Maine  fruit  growers  because  of 
its  superior  hardiness.  Munson  (2)  considers  it  "well  worthy  of  general 
dissemination  as  a  valuable  iron-clad  variety."  He  reports  that  "  the  tree  is 
vigorous  and  an  annual  bearer;  fruit  medium  to  large,  greenish-yellow  with 
blushed  cheek;  flesh  subacid,  good;  season  February  to  May  in  Aroostook 
county,  Me." 

Historical.  Originated  in  Perham,  Aroostook  county,  Me.,  from  seed 
planted  about  1862.  Known  locally  in  Maine  as  Stowe's  Winter  (i).  So  far 
as  we  know  it  is  not  cultivated  in  New  York. 

STREAKED  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1869:362.  2.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui, 
45:342.  1896.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:145.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Hemp  stead  (i).  Quaker  of  some  (i).  Red  Pippin  (i). 
Skunk,  erroneously  (i). 


322  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Fruit  large,  yellow  streaked  with  red,  the  yellow  usually  pre- 
dominating. It  is  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  when  highly  colored 
rather  attractive  in  appearance.  It  ranks  good  to  very  good  in 
quality  either  for  dessert  or  culinary  use.  On  Long  Island  it  is 
grown  more  commonly  than  any  other  variety  except  Rhode  Island 
Greening.  In  that  portion  of  the  state  it  is  in  season  during  late 
fall  and  early  winter  but  as  grown  at  this  Station  it  keeps  till  Feb- 
ruary with  practically  no  loss  (3)  and  its  season  extends  to  April 
or  May.  It  is  not  sufficiently  attractive  in  color  to  be  desirable 
for  general  market  purposes  but  it  sells  well  in  Long  Island  local 
markets.  This  variety  is  grown  successfully  on  sandy  or  gravelly 
loam  and  also  does  well  on  clay  loam.  It  is  hardy,  healthy,  long- 
lived,  vigorous,  comes  into  bearing  moderately  young  and  is  a  reli- 
able cropper,  yielding  moderate  to  heavy  crops  biennially  or  almost 
annually.  The  crop  ripens  rather  unevenly  and  there  is  considerable 
loss  from  dropping  of  the  fruit. 

It  appears  from  reports  received  from  Northern  and  Northwestern 
New  York  that  in  some  portions  of  those  regions  an  inferior  variety 
is  known  locally  under  the  name  Streaked  Pippin  but  we  have  not 
seen  this  fruit. 

Historical.  Origin,  Westbury,  N.  Y.  It  is  generally  cultivated  on  Long 
Island  and  occasionally  is  found  in  the  Hudson  valley  but  it  is  little  known 
in  other  portions  of  the  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  moderately  vigorous  to  very  vigorous.  Form  upright  becoming 
wide-spreading  and  very  drooping,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  to  short, 
straight,  stout  to  rather  slender ;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  clear 
reddish-brown  tinged  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  slightly 
pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  but  not  very  conspicuous,  medium  to 
small,  roundish  or  elongated,  slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  size,  broad, 
plump,  acute  to  obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish  oblong  to  roundish 
conic,  often  faintly  ribbed,  symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  medium,  slender  to 
moderately  thick.  Cavity  acuminate,  sometimes  acute,  moderately  narrow  to 
rather  broad,  often  slightly  furrowed,  occasionally  compressed,  sometimes 
lipped,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  partly  open ; 
lobes  usually  short,  obtuse.  Basin  shallow,  narrow  and  obtuse,  varying  to 
medium  in  width  and  depth  and  somewhat  abrupt,  often  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  nearly  smooth,  covered  with  a  thin  whitish  bloom  which 


STREAKED    PIPPIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  323 

gives  a  slightly  dull  effect,  bright  and  glossy  when  polished,  predominantly 
yellow  or  greenish  partly  mottled  and  blushed  with  orange-red  and  distinctly 
striped  with  bright  carmine.  Dots  rather  numerous  and  conspicuous,  whitish 
or  with  russet  point,  often  areolar. 

Calyx  tube  conical.     Stamens  median. 

Core  rather  large,  abaxile;  cells  open  or  partly  closed;  core  lines  slightly 
clasping.  Carpels  much  concave,  broadly  roundish  or  approaching  elliptical, 
mucronate,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  medium  to  large,  rather  plump,  acute  to 
obtuse,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  rather  coarse,  breaking,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

STUART  GOLDEN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1881:108  app.  fig.  2.  Mo.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1886: 
232.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:250.  4.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui., 
106:55.  1902.  5.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:57.  1903.  6. 
Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  205:46.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  STUART  (6).  STUART'S  GOLDEN  (i,  2,  3,  4).  Stump,  incor- 
rectly (i). 

Fruit  rather  attractive  in  color  for  a  yellow  apple,  not  large  enough  for  a 
good  commercial  variety  but  a  very  late  keeper  and  of  excellent  dessert  quality. 
The  tree  is  not  large,  comes  into  bearing  moderately  young  and  is  a  reliable 
cropper,  yielding  full  crops  biennially.  Not  recommended  for  commercial 
planting  in  New  York. 

Historical  Originated  on  the  farm  of  Wm.  Stuart,  Rush  Creek,  Ohio  (i). 
It  has  been  disseminated  to  some  extent  in  the  Middle  West;  but,  so  far  as 
we  know,  it  is  not  grown  in  New  York  except  at  this  Station. 

TREE. 

Tree  small  to  medium  size,  low  with  short,  stout  branches.  Form  very 
much  spreading,  open.  Twigs  below  medium  to  short,  straight  or  slightly 
curved,  moderately  stout  to  slender ;  internodes  short.  Bark  smooth,  clear 
reddish-brown  tinged  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  pubes- 
cent. Lenticcls  clear  in  color,  scattering,  small  to  medium,  oblong,  usually 
not  raised.  Buds  prominent,  medium  in  size,  plump,  acute,  free,  slightly 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  below  medium  but  sometimes  medium  or  above.  Form  round- 
ish oblate  or  inclined  to  oblong  truncate,  often  slightly  oblique.  Stem  slender, 
often  short,  sometimes  with  fleshy  protuberance.  Cavity  moderately  shallow 
to  deep,  varying  from  acuminate  and  narrow  to  acute  and  rather  wide,  usually 
symmetrical,  often  thinly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed.  Basin 
moderately  deep,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  somewhat  abrupt,  usually 
symmetrical,  often  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  waxy,  pale  yellow  or  greenish  with  orange  blush, 
sometimes  deepening  to  pinkish-red.  Dots  often  submerged,  pale  or  russet, 
numerous  and  rather  small  toward  the  basin,  becoming  larger,  more  scatter- 
ing and  often  areolar  toward  the  cavity. 


324  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  rather  short,  cone-shape,  sometimes  approaching 
funnel-form. 

Core  rather  small  to  above  medium,  abaxile ;  cells  open ;  core  lines  meeting 
or  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  elliptical.  Seeds  below  medium  to 
medium,  plump,  rather  obtuse,  moderately  dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine,  rather  crisp,  tender, 
very  juicy,  agreeably  mild  subacid,  rich,  aromatic,  very  good  for  dessert. 

Season  December  to  May  or  June. 

SUTTON. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Cole,  1849:130.  2.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  15:249.  1849.  fig. 
3.  Elliott,  1854:85.  4.  Downing,  1857:190.  5.  Warder,  1867:616.  fig.  6. 
Thomas,  1875:513.  7.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1877:14.  8.  Mich.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1880:50,  184,  207.  9.  Barry,  1883:355.  10.  Can.  Hort.,  11:8.  1888.  n.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:294.  12.  Can.  Hort.,  14:36,  274.  1891.  13.  Bailey, 
An.  Hort.,  1892:250.  14.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:133.  15.  Rural  N.  Y., 
55:115,  181.  1896.  16.  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  143:200.  1897.  17.  Rural  N.  Y., 
57:178,  239,  244.  1898.  18.  Woodward,  Ib.,  58:264.  1899.  19.  Beach,  W.  N. 
Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1899:90.  20.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  60:54,  7&9.  1901. 
21.  Can.  Hort.,  24:121.  1901.  22.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:309.  1901. 
23.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:184.  24.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48: 
57.  1903.  25.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  205:45.  1903.  26.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:145.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Beauty  (4).  Hubbardston  Nonsuch  (3)  but  incorrectly. 
MORRIS  RED  (8,  n,  25).  MORRIS  Red  (16).  Morris  Red  (19).  Steele's 
Red  (8,  erroneously  n).  Steele's  Red  Winter  (8,  of  Ohio  19).  SUTTON 
BEAUTY  (i,  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13,  15,  17,  18,  20,  21).  Sutton  Beauty 
(3,  14,  22,  23,  24,  26). 

Sutton  is  supposed  by  some  to  be  a  seedling1  of  Hubbardston 
(22,  23).  The  tree  certainly  resembles  Hubbardston  somewhat  but 
is  much  more  vigorous  and  healthy.  In  color,  texture,  quality  and 
season  the  fruit  is  intermediate  between  Hubbardston  and  Baldwin. 
Its  uniform  size,  symmetrical  shape,  beautiful  color  and  pleasant 
quality  unite  to  make  the  Sutton  an  excellent  dessert  apple,  but  being 
mild  in  flavor  it  is  less  desirable  for  culinary  use.  It  sells  well  in 
the  general  market  but  it  appears  especially  suitable  for  fancy  market 
and  fruit-stand  trade.  It  does  not  keep  quite  so  long  as  Baldwin, 
hardly  averages  as  large  and  because  it  is  more  tender  requires  more 
careful  handling.  Although  in  some  regions  its  fruit  seems  to  be 
somewhat  more  subject  to  scab  than  that  of  the  Baldwin,  yet  in 
many  localities  it  has  gained  a  reputation  of  being  remarkably 
healthy  in  foliage  and  fruit.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  In 
favorable  locations  the  tree  has  vigorous  dark  green  foliage,  is 


BUTTON 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  325 

handsome  in  form,  a  strong  grower  and  productive,  with  a  marked 
tendency  to  bear  biennially. 

Sutton  has  been  practically  unknown  in  New  York  state  until 
recent  years  but  it  is  now  being  introduced  quite  extensively  for 
commercial  purposes.  Although  it  has  not  done  well  in  some 
localities,  yet  in  most  parts  of  the  state  it  is  regarded  as  one  of  the 
most  promising  of  the  newer  varieties.  Because  the  trees  of  this 
variety  are  still  young  the  value  of  the  Sutton  for  commercial  plant- 
ing in  New  York  has  not  been  fully  determined. 

Sutton  has  been  disseminated  in  Michigan  under  the  name  Morris 
Red  with  Steele's  Red  or  Steele's  Red  Winter  of  Ohio  as  erroneous 
synonyms.  Ragan  recognizes  Morris  Red  as  possibly  identical  with 
Sutton.  Morris  Red  as  fruited  at  this  Station  from  stock  obtained 
from  D.  G.  Edmeston,  Adrian,  Mich.,  who  has  pronounced  the  fruit 
borne  by  this  stock  to  be  the  true  Morris  Red1,  is  certainly  identical 
with  Sutton. 

Leroy  refers  to  Sutton  Beauty  erroneously  as  a  synonym  for 
Wellington.2 

Historical.  Sutton  takes  its  name  from  the  town  of  Sutton,  Mass.,  in  which 
it  originated.  It  was  brought  to  notice  through  the  Worcester  County  Horti- 
cultural Society  in  1848  (2).  In  1849  Hovey  included  it  in  a  descriptive  list 
of  select  varieties  in  the  belief  that  it  would  become  a  popular  fruit  and  re- 
marked that  it  had  as  yet  been  but  little  disseminated.  It  was  not  included 
in  the  American  Pomological  Society  Catalogue  till  1877  (7)-  Within  recent 
years  it  has  been  planted  and  top-worked  upon  older  trees  to  a  considerable 
extent  in  New  York  commercial  orchards,  but  we  do  not  know  of  any  old 
trees  of  this  variety  in  this  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  with  stout  branches.  Form  upright  spreading,  eventually  be- 
coming roundish,  dense.  Twigs  short  to  medium  in  length,  straight,  moder- 
ately stout  to  stocky;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  dark  olive-green 
somewhat  tinged  with  reddish-brown,  mottled  and  streaked  with  gray  scarf- 
skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  few,  very  scattering,  not  conspicuous,  small  to 
medium,  elongated  or  roundish,  not  raised.  Buds  prominent,  large,  broad, 
obtuse  to  acute,  pubescent,  free.  Leaves  somewhat  narrow,  medium  to  large ; 

foliage  vigorous,  dark  green,  healthy,  rather  dense. 
/ 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  rarely  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  or  slightly  oblong  rounding  toward  cavity  and  basin,  symmetrical, 
regular  or  very  slightly  ribbed.  Stem  medium  to  short,  sometimes  fleshy. 

letters,  D.  G.  Edmeston,  1897, 
2  Leroy,  1873:864. 


326  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Cavity  acute  or  sometimes  acuminate,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  moderately 
wide  to  narrow,  symmetrical,  often  with  some  greenish  russet.  Calyx  medium 
size,  partly  open,  sometimes  closed,  pubescent;  lobes  vary  from  medium  and 
obtuse  to  long  and  acuminate.  Basin  moderately  shallow  and  obtuse  to  rather 
deep  and  abrupt,  medium  in  width,  somewhat  furrowed  and  slightly  wrinkled, 
sometimes  compressed. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  often  slightly  roughened  toward  the  basin  by 
inconspicuous,  concentric  broken  russet  lines  and  fine  russet  dots,  otherwise 
glossy  and  smooth ;  color  attractive  bright  red  striped  with  carmine  or  purplish 
carmine  nearly  overspreading  the  lively  yellow  or  greenish  ground  color. 
Prevailing  effect  attractive  red.  The  less  highly  colored  fruit  has  a  distinctly 
striped  appearance. 

Calyx  tube  symmetrical,  conical  or  sometimes  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median. 

Core  medium  or  below,  slightly  abaxile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core 
lines  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  cordate  approaching  elliptical,  emar- 
ginate,  sometimes  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  rather  light  brown,  small  to  above 
medium,  plump,  acute,  sometimes  a  little  tufted. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  rather  firm,  moderately  fine-grained,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  good  to  very  good. 

Season  intermediate  between  Hubbardston  and  Baldwin;  early  winter  in 
the  southern  part  of  the  state  but  farther  north  it  is  in  season  for  home  use 
from  November  to  March,  and  the  commercial  limit  extends  to  February. 

SWAAR. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Dom.  Encyc.,  1804.  (cited  by  33).  2.  M'Mahon,  Card. 
Cat.,  1806:585.  3.  Coxe,  1817:161.  4.  Thacher,  1822:138.  5.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc. 
London,  1831:37.  6.  Kenrick,  1832:53.  7.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:85.  8.  Man- 
ning, 1838:60.  9.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:50.  1841.  10.  Downing,  1845:134. 
fig.  ii.  Thomas,  1849:185.  fig.  12.  Cole,  1849:126.  fig.  13.  Emmons,  Nat. 
Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:88.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  22.  14.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  15. 
Elliott,  1854:108.  fig.  16.  Hooper,  1857:90.  17.  Gregg,  1857:59.  fig.  18.  ///. 
Handb.  Obst.,  8:83.  1865.  19.  Warder,  1867:632.  fig.  20.  Downing,  1869:373. 
fig.  21.  Fitz,  1872:167.  22.  Leroy,  1873:834.  fig.  23.  Barry,  1883:355.  24. 
Wickson,  1889:246.  25.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:298.  26.  Bailey, 
An.  Hort.,  1892:250.  27.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:310.  1901.  28.  En- 
eroth-Smirnoff,  1901:463.  29.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:55. 
1902.  30.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  7.  Bui,  48:57.  1903.  31.  Budd- 
Hansen,  1903:184.  32.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:146.  1904.  33. 
Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  7.  Bui.,  56:302.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  DER  SCHWERE  APFEL  (18).  Hardwick  (20,  22,  33).  SWAAR 
APPLE  (2,  3,  4,  7). 

In  many  parts  of  the  state,  and  particularly  in  portions  of  the 
Hudson  valley,  Swaar  has  long  been  a  favorite  variety  for  the  home 
orchard,  being  valued  especially  for  dessert  use  because  of  its  rich 
flavor  and  fine  quality.  It  is  less  suitable  for  cooking  and  there  is 
little  demand  for  it  in  market  except  among  the  comparatively  few 


SWAAR 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  327 

people  who  know  its  good  qualities.  The  fruit  is  usually  of  good 
size  and  form  but  not  very  attractive  in  color.  Downing  observes 
that  this  variety  requires  a  deep,  rich,  sandy  loam  to  bring  it  to  per- 
fection but  that  it  does  not  succeed  well  in  damp  or  cold  soils,  and 
adds  that  in  its  native  soil  he  has  seen  it  12  inches  in  circumference 
and  of  a  deep,  golden  yellow  color  (10).  The  tree  is  not  as  long- 
lived  nor  as  hardy  as  either  Baldwin  or  Rhode  Island  Greening.  In 
many  cases  it  is  injured  by  apple  canker1  or  by  sunscald  and  occasion- 
ally it  suffers  from  winter  injury.  In  some  localities  it  appears  to  be 
thriftier,  hardier,  and,  on  the  whole,  more  successful  when  top- 
worked  upon  some  hardier  and  more  vigorous  variety  such  as  Bald- 
win, Rhode  Island  Greening  or  Northern  Spy  than  it  does  when 
grown  upon  its  own  trunk.  Generally  speaking  it  has  the  reputation 
of  being  a  shy  bearer,  yielding  moderate  crops  biennially  ;  but  in  some 
cases  it  is  regarded  as  a  heavy  cropper  and  an  annual  bearer.  Often 
a  comparatively  large  amount  of  the  crop  is  lost  in  drops  and  culls. 
Its  season  is  somewhat  variable  but  in  ordinary  storage  commonly 
extends  from  November  or  December  to  March  or  April  (32). 

Historical.  Downing  states  "  This  is  a  truly  noble  American  fruit,  pro- 
duced by  the  Dutch  settlers  on  the  Hudson,  near  Esopus "  (10).  Coxe  (3) 
remarks  that  "  In  the  Low-Dutch  language  this  name  signifies  a  heavy  apple — 
it  is  a  highly  celebrated  winter  table  fruit  in  some  parts  of  New- York,  and 
New;-Jersey ;  it  is  a  large  green  apple,  of  great  and  uncommon  flavour  and 
richness ;  highly  deserving  of  cultivation,  in  every  collection  of  fine  fruits." 
It  has  been  widely  disseminated  through  the  state  and  often  a  few  trees  of 
it  are  still  found  in  old  orchards  but  it  has  nowhere  been  cultivated  extensively 
and  is  now  seldom  planted. 

TREE. 

Tree  usually  medium  or  below  medium  size,  moderately  vigorous ;  branches 
somewhat  inclined  to  droop.  Form  roundish  to  quite  spreading,  rather  dense, 
somewhat  resembling  that  of  Rhode  Island  Greening.  Twigs  below  medium 
to  short,  straight  or  nearly  so,  rather  slender  to  stout  with  prominent  terminal 
buds;  internodes  short.  Bark  of  the  trunk  and  older  limbs  peculiarly  rough, 
that  of  the  new  twigs  clear  dark  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green, 
lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin  and  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  small 
to  medium,  elongated,  slightly  raised.  Buds  prominent,  below  medium  to 
large,  plump,  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large,  fairly  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  varying  from  oblate  to  somewhat  oblong,  often  ribbed,  regular,  sym- 

1For  an  account  of  this  disease  see  Paddock,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  18:331.  1899  and 
18:342.  1900. 


328  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

metrical.  Stem  medium  in  length,  rather  slender.  Cavity  below  medium  to 
rather  large,  usually  round,  acute  to  somewhat  acuminate,  rather  deep,  mod- 
erately wide,  often  somewhat  furrowed,  usually  russeted  and  with  broken 
outspreading  russet.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  somewhat  open ;  lobes 
broad,  obtuse,  usually  connivent.  Basin  small  to  medium,  usually  shallow  and 
obtuse,  sometimes  moderately  deep  and  abrupt,  moderately  wide,  a  little  fur- 
rowed and  wrinkled. 

Skin  medium  in  thickness,  tough,  somewhat  roughened  with  dots  and  flecks 
of  russet,  green  or  eventually  deep  yellow,  often  shaded  with  a  bronze  blush. 
Dots  numerous,  greenish  or  russet.  Prevailing  effect  green  or  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  or  elongated  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  or  ap- 
proaching marginal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  axile  to*  slightly  abaxile  with  hollow  cylinder  in  the 
axis ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  thin,  tender,  broadly  roundish,  emarginate,  mucronate,  sometimes 
tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  below  medium  to  above  medium,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse,  rather  light  brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  tender,  rather  fine-grained,  juicy,  mild  or 
very  mild  subacid,  aromatic,  rich,  very  good  to  best. 

SWAZIE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1872:27  app.  fig.  2.  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1883.  3.  Ib.,  1886-87:96.  4.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:250.  5.  Woolverton, 
Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  3:16.  1896.  figs.  6.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1899:20.  7. 
Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Bui.,  37:46.  1901.  8.  Waugh,  Rural  N.  Y.,  62:185, 
186.  1903.  figs.  9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:185.  fig.  10.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui.,  56:123.  1905.  ii.  Ib.,  56:303.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  GOLDEN  GRAY?  (10).  POMME  GRISE  D'OR  (i).  Pomme 
Grise  d'Or(s,g,  10).  SWAYSIE  POMME  GRISE  (3).  SWAYZIE  (n).  SWAYZIE 
POMME  GRISE  (4,  7).  Sivayzie  Pomme  Grise  (n).  SWAZIE  POMME  GRISE 
(5,  8).  Swazie  Pomme  Grise  (i).  Swazie's  Pomme  Gris  (10).  Swazy  (11). 
SWAZY  Pomme  Gris  (6,  9). 

This  is  a  variety  of  the  Pomme  Grise  group.  As  compared  with 
Pomme  Grise  it  is  more  oblong,  has  more  of  a  golden  color,  is  more 
highly  aromatic  and  superior  in  quality  (i,  6).  The  fruit  is  small 
to  nearly  medium,  of  a  golden  russet  color  and  excellent  dessert 
quality.  Woolverton  ranks  it  best  in  quality  for  dessert  but  poor 
for  cooking  or  for  either  home  or  foreign  market.  He  remarks  that 
it  succeeds  well  in  Southern  Ontario  especially  in  the  Niagara  dis- 
trict; but,  unfortunately,  it  is  not  very  productive  and  consequently 
not  profitable,  one  large  tree  at  Maplehurst,  75  years  planted,  having 
yielded  only  an  average  of  four  barrels  of  fruit  each  alternate 
year  (5). 

The  first  published  description  of  this  variety  which  we  find  is 
that  given  by  Downing-  ( i )  under  the  name  Pomme  Grise  d'Or  with 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  329 

Swazie  Pomme  Grise  as  a  synonym.  Woolverton  (5)  gives  an 
excellent  illustrated  description  of  the  same  variety  under  the  name 
Swazie  Pomme  Grise  with  Pomme  Grise  d'Or  as  a  synonym.  The 
name  Swazie  has  been  spelled  variously  by  different  writers.  We 
follow  the  form  used  by  Downing  (i)  and  accepted  by  Woolverton 
(5)  and  Waugh  (8)  as  that  appears  to  have  priority  in  the  pub- 
lished accounts  of  this  variety. 

Historical.  Supposed  to  have  originated  on  the  Swazie  farm  near  Niagara 
(i,  5>  7,  8).  It  is  more  generally  known  in  Ontario  and  Quebec  than  in  New 
York.  It  is  not  grown  extensively  in  any  portion  of  this  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  fairly  vigorous,  upright  (i,  5,  7).  Twigs  long,  rather  slender,  straight; 
internodes  medium  or  below.  Bark  clear,  light  brownish-red,  quite  pubescent. 
Lenticels  numerous,  rather  conspicuous,  irregular  in  size  and  shape,  raised. 
Buds  medium,  moderately  prominent,  acute  or  roundish,  adhering  to  the  bark 
or  partly  free,  moderately  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  or  sometimes  nearly  medium.  Form  oblate  conical  to  roundish. 
Stem  short  to  medium  length,  slender.  Cavity  narrow  to  moderately  wide, 
acute,  deep.  Calyx  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  broad,  obtuse.  Basin  narrow 
to  moderately  wide,  medium  in  depth,  furrowed  gently  if  at  all,  slightly 
wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  pale  yellow  or  greenish-yellow  with  some  cinnamon-russet 
Dots  numerous,  whitish. 

Calyx  tube  elongated,  cone-shape.     Stamens  median. 

Core  rather  small  to  medium,  somewhat  abaxile,  often  with  hollow  cylinder 
in  the  axis ;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  closed  or  open ;  core  lines  meeting. 
Carpels  broadly  roundish,  nearly  truncate  at  the  base,  narrowing  toward  the 
apex,  mucronate.  Seeds  numerous,  small  to  medium,  variable  in  form,  narrow 
to  broad,  often  angular,  usually  obtuse  or  nearly  so. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  pale  yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  crisp,  juicy, 
highly  aromatic,  sprightly,  rather  mild  subacid,  pleasant,  very  good  to  best  for 
dessert. 

Season  December  to  March. 

SWEET  AND  SOUR. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:172.  2.  Thacher,  1822:22.  3.  Floy-Lindley, 
1833:87.  4.  Cultivator,  1:390.  1844.  5-  Ib.,  2:20,  102,  106,  153.  1845.  6.  Ib., 
3:130.  1846.  7.  Thomas,  1849:186.  8.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:90.  1851. 
9.  Mag.  Hort.,  18:153,  1852.  10.  Elliott,  1854:178.  n.  Horticulturist,  11:46. 
1856.  12.  Warder,  1867:475.  fig.  13.  Downing,  1869:374.  14.  Rural  N.  Y., 
56:176,  412,  436,  551,  567,  770.  1897.  15.  Van  Deman,  Ib.,  59:143.  1900, 

SYNONYMS,     BOWER'S  APPLE  (9).     Compound  (14), 


330  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Scattering  trees  of  this  variety  are  found  in  various  parts  of  the 
state.  It  is  of  no  special  value  but  is  propagated  as  a  curiosity. 
Thacher  (2)  quotes  the  following  very  interesting  description  of  the 
variety  and  account  of  its  origin  by  the  Rev.  Peter  Whitney  in  the 
Memoirs  of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences,  Volume  I. 

"  There  is  now  growing,  in  an  orchard  lately  belonging  to  my  honoured 
father,  the  Reverend  Aaron  Whitney,  of  Petersham,  deceased,  an  apple  tree 
very  singular  with  respect  to  its  fruit.  The  apples  are  fair,  and  when  fully 
ripe,  of  a  yellow  colour,  but  evidently  of  different  tastes — sour  and  sweet. 
The  paft  which  is  sour  is  not  very  tart,  nor  the  other  very  sweet.  Two 
apples,  growing  side  by  side  on  the  same  limb,  will  be  often  of  these  different 
tastes ;  the  one  all  sour,  and  the  other  all  sweet.  And,  which  is  more  remark- 
able, the  same  apple  will  frequently  be  sour  one  side,  end,  or  part,  and  the 
other  sweet,  and  that  not  in  any  order  or  uniformity;  nor  is  there  any  differ- 
ence in  the  appearance  of  one  part  from  the  other.  And  as  to  the  quantity, 
some  have  more  of  the  acid  and  less  of  the  sweet,  and  so  vice  versa.  Neither 
are  the  apples,  so  different  in  their  tastes,  peculiar  to  any  particular  branches, 
but  are  found  promiscuously,  on  every  branch  of  the  tree.  The  tree  stands 
almost  in  the  midst  of  a  large  orchard,  in  a  rich  and  strong  soil,  and  was  trans- 
planted there  forty  years  ago.  There  is  no  appearance  of  the  trunk  or  any 
of  the  branches  having  been  engrafted  or  inoculated.  It  was  a  number  of 
years,  after  it  had  borne  fruit,  before  these  different  tastes  were  noticed ;  but, 
since  they  were  first  discovered,  which  is  about  twenty  years,  there  has  been, 
constantly,  the  same  variety  in  the  apples.  For  the  truth  of  what  I  have 
asserted,  I  can  appeal  to  many  persons  of  distinction,  and  of  nice  tastes,  who 
have  travelled  a  great  distance  to  view  the  tree,  and  taste  the  fruit,  but  to 
investigate  the  cause  of  an  effect,  so  much  out  of  the  common  course  of  nature, 
must,  I  think,  be  attended  with  difficulty.  The  only  solution  that  I  can  con- 
ceive is,  that  the  corcula,  or  hearts  of  two  seeds,  the  one  from  a  sour,  the 
other  from  a  sweet  apple,  might  so  incorporate  in  the  ground  as  to  produce 
but  one  plant ;  or  that  farina  from  blossoms  of  those  opposite  qualities,  might 
pass  into  and  impregnate  the  same  seed.  If  you  should  think  the  account  I 
have  given  you  of  this  singular  apple  tree  will  be  acceptable  to  the  American 
academy,  please  to  communicate  it." 

At  the  time  when  this  account  was  first  published  it  was  cus- 
tomary in  planting  to  set  orchards  with  seedling  trees  from  some 
local  nursery,  as  was  evidently  done  in  this  case,  and  if  cultivated 
varieties  were  ever  included  they  were  later  top-worked  upon  these 
seedling  trees  with  which  the  orchard  was  first  planted.  From  the 
account  given  by  Whitney  it  is  probable  that  the  original  tree  of  the 
Sweet  and  Sour  apple  originated  in  a  seedling  nursery  from  which 
it  was  transplanted  into  the  orchard  of  his  father  where  it  first 
attracted  attention  because  of  the  curious  character  of  its  fruit. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  331 

When  this  variety  is  discussed  by  fruit  growers  it  is  not  unusual 
to  hear  some  one  relate  the  legend  that  it  was  produced  by  joining 
two  half  buds,  one  of  a  sweet  the  other  of  a  sour  variety,  and  insert- 
ing them  as  one  bud  under  the  bark  of  the  stock  as  is  ordinarily  done 
in  budding.  This  legend  is  recognized  in  the  name  "  Compound  "  by 
which  this  apple  has  been  known  to  some  in  Western  New  York 
(14).  The  supposed  split-bud  origin  of  Sweet  and  Sour  is  occa- 
sionally discussed  pro  and  con  in  horticultural  periodicals.  An  early 
discussion  of  this  kind  is  found  in  the  Cultivator  from  1844  to  1846 
(4,  5,  6)  and  a  more  recent  one  in  the  Rural  Nezv  Yorker  (14,  15). 

The  tree  is  vigorous,  spreading  and  often  quite  productive.  The 
fruit  bears  some  resemblance  to  Rhode  Island  Greening  in  form, 
color,  and  occasionally  to  some  degree  in  flavor.  It  is  more  marbled 
with  green  and  yellow  than  Rhode  Island  Greening,  more  oblate  and 
more  often  the  sides  are  noticeably  unequal. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  rather  large.  Form  oblate,  ribbed  and  rather  unsym- 
metrical.  Cavity  rather  shallow,  broad,  slightly  furrowed.  Calyx  large ;  lobes 
reflexed.  Basin  shallow,  broad,  irregular. 

Skin  green,  especially  along  the  ribs,  with  a  shade  of  yellow  on  the  inter- 
vening surface  and  particularly  on  the  exposed  cheek. 

Flesh  under  the  yellow  skin  very  deeply  tinged  with  yellow,  mildly  subacid 
or  sweetish;  but  under  the  greenish  skin,  less  yellow  and  more  acid;  quality 
remarkably  variable,  fair  to  good. 

SWEET  GREENING. 

REFERENCES.  i.  Thacher,  1822:138.  2.  Downing,  1869:375.  3.  Bailey, 
Mich.  Sta.  Bui,  31:54.  1887.  4.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:310.  1901.  5. 
Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:303.  1905. 

DOUBTFUL  REFERENCES.  6.  Warder,  1867:668,  716,  722.  7.  Downing,  1881: 
109  app.  8.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:209.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  CURTIS  GREENING  (6)?  Curtis  Greening  (7,  8)?  ILLINOIS 
GREENING  (6)  ?  NEW  GREENING  (8)  ?  New  Rhode  Island  Greening  (7,  8)  ? 
SWEET  GREENING  (i).  SWEET  RHODE  ISLAND  GREENING  (7)  ?  Sweet  Rhode 
Island  Greening  (8)  ? 

This,  as  the  name  indicates,  is  a  sweet  apple  of  green  color.  Thacher  (i) 
describes  it  as  "  a  large,  handsome  apple,  resembling  in  size  and  form,  the 
Rhode  Island  greening.  Ripens  in  autumn,  and  possesses  the  valuable  prop- 
erty of  retaining  its  soundness  and  flavour  till  the  middle  of  June.  It  is  an 
excellent  apple  for  baking,  and  deserves  to  be  more  extensively  cultivated. 
Its  origin  is  uncertain,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  this  fine  fruit  is  known  out 
of  the  old  Plymouth  colony." 


332  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

As  grown  in  this  state  it  is  usually  not  as  large  as  Rhode  Island  Greening 
particularly  when  it  is  borne  on  overloaded  trees,  but  under  favorable  condi- 
tions the  fruit  becomes  large  as  Thacher  describes  it.  The  tree  is  medium 
in  size,  upright,  hardy,  long-lived,  comes  into  bearing  moderately  young,  is 
a  reliable  biennial  or  sometimes  almost  annual  bearer  and  often  yields  heavy 
crops.  The  twigs  are  medium  to  long,  erect  or  spreading  and  stout.  The 
fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  Where  this  variety  is  known  it  is  quite  highly 
esteemed  for  home  use  because  it  is  a  good  keeper  and  very  good  in  quality 
for  dessert  and  for  baking  or  other  culinary  uses.  Generally  it  is  not  con- 
sidered a  good  variety  for  the  commercial  orchard  because  sweet  fruit  of 
this  color  meets  with  little  demand  in  the  general  market.  It  may  be  disposed 
of  in  limited  quantities  in  some  local  markets.  Some  growers  find  that  it 
takes  better  in  southern  than  in  northern  markets.  It  is  in  season  from 
December  to  April  or  May. 

Sweet  Greening  is  quite  distinct  from  Green  Sweet,  page  150.  From  the 
accounts  of  Sweet  Greening  and  Sweet  Rhode  Island  Greening  given  by  Down- 
ing (2,  7)  and  some  other  pomologists,  there  seems  to  be  some  reason  for 
questioning  whether  or  not  these  are  distinct.  We  have  not  seen  the  fruit 
of  Sweet  Rhode  Island  Greening  but  the  fruit  of  Sweet  Greening  which  we 
have  obtained  from  various  sources  corresponds  fairly  well  with  Downing's 
description  of  Sweet  Rhode  Island  Greening.  Ragan  makes  Sweet  Rhode 
Island  Greening  synonymous  with  New  Greening  and  probably  identical  with 
Curtis  Greening  and  Illinois  Greening  (8). 

Historical.  Origin  unknown  but  from  the  statement  of  Thacher  (i)  it  is 
probable  that  it  originated  in  the  old  Plymouth  Colony,  Massachusetts.  It 
is  grown  in  some  localities  in  Central  and  Western  New  York  but  has  not 
been  reported  to  us  from  any  other  portion  of  this  state.  It  is  now  seldom 
or  never  planted. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Form  roundish  oblate 
or  sometimes  approaching  roundish  conic,  regular  or  somewhat  elliptical ;  sides 
sometimes  unequal.  Stem  medium  to  short,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  medium 
in  size,  acuminate  or  approaching  acute,  deep  or  moderately  deep,  rather  broad, 
sometimes  gently  furrowed,  russeted  and  with  some  outspreading  or  broken 
rays  of  russet.  Calyx  partly  open  or  closed;  lobes  convergent  or  connivent, 
broad,  acute.  Basin  moderately  shallow  and  somewhat  obtuse  to  moderately 
deep  and  rather  abrupt,  medium  in  width,  slightly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth,  bright,  grass-green  becoming  yellowish  or  yellow, 
usually  with  no  red  but  sometimes  slightly  bronze  with  reddish  spots  or  dots 
or  even  with  a  well-developed  brownish-red  blush.  Irregular,  large,  whitish 
dots  and  streaks  of  whitish  scarf-skin  appear  about  the  cavity,  sometimes 
mingled  with  a  little  russet.  The  whitish  dots  are  rather  conspicuous,  numer- 
ous and  broad  toward  the  basin ;  the  rough  or  russet  dots  are  more  scattering. 

Calyx  tube  truncate  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  small  to  medium,  nearly  axile  with  a  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis ;  cells 
symmetrical,  closed  or  slit ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish, 
emarginate,  mucronate,  somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  very  numerous,  below 
medium  to  rather  small,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  obtuse  to  some- 
what acute,  plump,  sometimes  tufted. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  333 

Flesh   whitish   with   yellow   tinge,   firm,   breaking  or  loose-grained,   tender, 
moderately  juicy  or  when  over-ripe  rather  dry,  very  sweet,  good  to  very  good. 
Season  December  to  April  or  May. 

SWEET  KING. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Downing,   1869:376. 

A  striped  red  apple  of  medium  size,  sweet  flavor  and  good  to  very  good 
quality;  in  season  from  October  to  March  (i).  It  originated  at  Oyster  Bay, 
Nassau  county.  So  far  as  we  have  discovered  it  has  not  been  cultivated  out- 
side the  locality  of  its  origin. 

SWEET  RUSSET. 

REFERENCE,     i.  Downing,  1869:377. 
SYNONYM.     Summer  Russet  (i). 

Various  varieties  have  been  cultivated  under  the  name  Sweet  Russet  The 
one  here  noticed,  Downing  states  (i)  has  been  grown  in  New  York,  Massa- 
chusetts and  elsewhere  and  is  a  good  apple  for  culinary  use,  in  season  from 
November  to  March.  The  fruit  is  medium  in  size,  yellow,  mostly  covered 
with  patches  and  network  of  russet  and  the  flesh  is  rich  and  sweet.  We  do 
not  know  this  variety  and  we  have  no  report  of  its  being  grown  anywhere 
in  New  York  at  the  present  time. 

SWEET  WINESAP. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Elliott,  1854:160 — not  the  Sweet  Winesap  of  Downing.  2. 
Warder,  1867:721,  734.  3.  Downing,  1869:378.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871: 

10.  5.  Thomas,  1875:501.     6.  Ib.,  1875:514.     7.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:298.     8.  Thomas,  1897:270.     9.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:186.     10.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:124.  1904.     n.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:141. 
1905.     12.  Ib.;  56:170.   1905.     13.  Ib.,  56:304,  305.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  Bailey  Sweet  (10)  incorrectly.  HENDRICK  (10).  Hendrick 
Sweet  (10).  HENRICK  (n).  HENRICK  SWEET  (2,  5).  Henrick  Sweet  (7,  8, 

11,  13,   ?3).     Henry  Szvect  (3,  13).     Ladies'  Sivcet  of  some   (3,  12,  13),  but 
erroneously.     Lady  Sweet  of  some,  but  erroneously.     Lady  Sweeting  of  some, 
but  erroneously.     Red  Siveet  Winesap    (3,   13).     Rose  Sweet.     SWEET  PEAR- 
MAIN  (8).    Sweet  Pearmain  of  some  (3,  13).     SWEET  WINE  SAP  (6). 

An  attractive  red  winter  apple,  symmetrical,  uniform,  of  good 
medium  size,  or,  under  favorable  conditions,  rather  large.  It  is 
excellent  in  quality  for  dessert  or  for  baking  or  other  culinary  uses. 
Some  fruit  growers  report  that  the  tree  is  satisfactorily  hardy,  but 
others  find  that  it  is  a  little  lacking  in  hardiness  and  for  that  reason 
prefer  to  top-work  it  upon  some  vigorous,  hardy  stock  such  as 
Northern  Spy,  Roxbury  or  Golden  Russet.  It  is  usually  healthy 
and  moderately  long-lived.  It  tends  to  form  a  rather  dense  head, 
particularly  where  thorough  tillage  is  practiced,  and  for  this  reason 


334  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

the  top  should  be  made  sufficiently  open  so  that  the  foliage  may  be 
kept  in  good  working  condition  throughout  the  tree.  The  tree  is 
not  an  early  bearer,  but  when  it  comes  into  bearing  it  is  a  reliable 
cropper.  In  many  cases  it  is  inclined  to  overbear  and  produce  a 
considerable  amount  of  undersized  fruit.  Some  few  hold  that  two 
pickings  should  be  made  on  account  of  the  tendency  of  the  fruit 
to  drop,  but  others  report  that  it  hangs  to  the  tree  well  enough  so 
that  but  one  picking  is  needed  if  the  fruit  is  gathered  before  it  is 
too  far  advanced  in  maturity  The  fruit  has  a  tough  skin,  stands 
heat  well  before  going  into  storage  and  remains  sprightly  and 
crisp  till  late  in  the  season  As  grown  in  Western  New  York  it 
ordinarily  comes  into  season  in  November  and  may  be  held  in 
common  storage  till  April  first  or  in  cold  storage  till  May  fifteenth 
(10).  It  sells  well  in  markets  where  there  is  any  considerable 
demand  for  a  red  winter  apple  of  sweet  flavor.  It  is  often  shipped 
to  Baltimore,  Washington  and  other  southern  markets. 

Historical.  Downing  described  Sweet  Winesap  in"  1869  as  a  variety  from 
Pennsylvania  (3),  with  Henrick  Sweet  as  a  synonym.  In  1879  fruit  of  the 
variety  commonly  known  in  Western  New  York  as  Henrick  Sweet  was  identi- 
fied by  Charles  Downing  for  William  J.  Edmunds,  of  Brockport,  N.  Y.,  as 
undoubtedly  Sweet  Winesap.  Mr.  Edmunds  has  very  kindly  supplied  us  with 
some  of  his  Sweet  Winesap  fruit  which  certainly  is  identical  with  the  apple 
grown  at  Geneva  and  in  other  parts  of  the  state  as  Henrick  Sweet  or  Hendrick 
Sweet  He  has  also  presented  us  with  Downing's  letter,  the  text  of  which  is 
here  given  in  full.  "  In  looking  over  the  apples  you  sent  me  a  month  or  more 
since,  I  am  now  certain  it  is  the  Sweet  Winesap  which  is  described  in  Down- 
ing's  second  revised  edition,  page  378.  Many  years  since  the  late  Isaac  Hild- 
reth,  a  nurseryman  at  Geneva,  sent  me  a  barrel  of  this  kind  which  he  said 
went  by  the  name  of  Henricks  Sweet  and  as  you  say,  they  kept  through  the 
winter  into  March  with  very  little  waste.  Ladies  Sweet  keeps  still  later  and 
is  one  of  the  best  of  its  season." 

Sweet  Winesap  has  long  been  cultivated  in  Western  New  York  under  the 
names  Henrick  Sweet  and  Hendrick  Sweet.  In  some  localities,  particularly 
in  Wayne  county,  it  is  known  as  Rose  Sweet.  Occasionally  it  is  erroneously 
called  Ladies  Sweet,  Lady  Sweet  or  Lady  Sweeting.  Since  it  bears  some 
resemblance  to  the  true  J-ady  Sweet  it  is  not  strange  that  it  is  sometimes  thus 
confused  with  that  variety.  Warder,  listed  it  under  the  separate  names  of 
Sweet  Winesap  and  Henrick  Sweet.  Thomas  in  1875  followed  Downing  in 
giving  Sweet  Winesap  as  a  variety  from  Pennsylvania  and  notices  Henrick 
Sweet  as  a  separate  variety.  Evidently  he  was  not  familiar  with  this  variety 
under  the  name  Sweet  Winesap,  but  he  must  have  recognized  that  it  was 
identical  with  the  apple  commonly  known  in  his  own  section  as  Henrick 
Sweet.  The  1897  edition  of  Thomas  (8),  makes  Henrick  Sweet  a  synonym 
for  Sweet  Pearmain,  but  Lyon  doubted  the  correctness  of  this  decision  (u). 


SWEET  WINESAP 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  335 

We  have  not  seen  Sweet  Pearmain  but  the  descriptions  of  that  variety  given 
by  Downing  (3)  and  Elliott  (i)   do  not  apply  closely  to  Sweet  Winesap. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright 
spreading  to  roundish,  rather  dense.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  rather  slender 
to  moderately  stout ;  internodes  medium.  Bark  brownish  tinged  with  dark 
red,  mottled  with  inconspicuous  grayish  scarf-skin,  scarcely  pubescent.  Lenti- 
cels  scattering,  small  to  medium,  often  elongated.  Buds  medium  in  size, 
broadly  roundish,  obtuse  or  sometimes  acute,  somewhat  pubescent,  generally 
appressed. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  varies  under  different  conditions  from  medium  to  large  but  under 
fairly  similar  conditions  is  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
conic,  wide  and  flattened  at  the  base,  varying  to  roundish  ovate  or  to  oblate 
conic,  regular  or  slightly  elliptical,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  short  to  moder- 
ately long,  moderately  slender.  Cavity  above  medium  size,  acuminate  to  acute, 
moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  moderately  wide  to  wide,  symmetrical  or 
gently  furrowed,  sometimes  partly  russeted.  Calyx  medium  or  above,  usually 
somewhat  open ;  lobes  often  long  and  acuminate.  Basin  medium  to  rather 
large,  often  oblique,  roundish,  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  de- 
cidedly abrupt,  sometimes  slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  clear  pale  yellow  or  greenish  nearly  overspread  with 
bright  light  red,  plainly  marked  with  long  narrow  carmine  stripes,  covered 
with  a  thin  bloom  and  often  to  a  considerable  extent  with  thin,  light  gray 
scarf-skin  producing  a  slightly  dull  effect.  Dots  small  to  medium,  scattering, 
w^hitish  or  russet.  Prevailing  effect  red  or  striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-shape,  with  broad,  yellowish  limb  and  narrow  cylinder, 
sometimes  nearly  or  quite  cone-shape.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  axile  or  sometimes  abaxile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical, 
closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  flat,  roundish  to  broadly 
elliptical,  emarginate.  Seeds  medium  or  below,  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  firm,  rather  fine,  moderately  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  distinctly 
swee':,  good  to  very  good. 

SWENKER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Churchill,  Ar.  Y.  Sla.  An.  Rpt.,  9:346.  1890.  2.  Beach, 
Paddock  and  Close,  Ib.,  15:276.  1896.  figs.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  Ar.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:146.  1904. 

This  variety  was  received  in  1890  from  J.  G.  Youngken,  Richlandtown,  Pa., 
for  trial  at  this  Station.  So  far  as  tested  here,  the  tree  is  vigorous,  comes 
into  bearing  young  and  yields  full  crops  in  alternate  years.  The  fruit  is  of 
good  size  but  only  fair  in  quality  and  not  particularly  attractive  in  appearance. 
It  does  not  excel  standard  sorts  for  any  purpose  and  is  not  recommended  for 
planting  in  New  York  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous  with  long,  moderately  stout  branches.  Form 
open,  spreading.  Twigs  short  to  moderately  long,  straight,  rather  slender  to 


336  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

stout,  terminal  buds  large ;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  brownish-red 
tinged  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels' 
very  scattering,  medium  in  size,  elongated,  slightly  raised.  Buds  prominent, 
medium  to  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse  to  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  to  oblate  conic,  broadly  or  obscurely 
ribbed;  sides  often  unequal.  Stem  short  or  medium,  slender.  Cavity  acute 
to  acuminate,  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  broad,  often  russeted.  Calyx 
small  to  medium,  partly  open  or  sometimes  closed;  lobes  reflexed.  Basin 
usually  very  small,  shallow  and  narrow  or  sometimes  abrupt  and  moderately 
deep,  seldom  furrowed  or  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  somewThat  waxy,  pale  yellow  or  greenish  partly 
washed  with  light  red,  rather  indistinctly  striped  with  carmine  and  marked 
toward  the  cavity  with  broken  stripes  of  grayish  scarf-skin.  Dots  large, 
grayish,  rather  obscure,  mingled  with  numerous  others  that  are  small  and 
russet.  Prevailing  effect  yellowish. 

Calyx  tube  medium  to  large,  conical  to  funnel-form,  sometimes  extending 
to  the  core.  Stamens  median. 

Core  below  medium  to  medium  in  size,  somewhat  abaxile  to  nearly  axile ; 
cells  usually  symmetrical,  partly  open  or  closed;  core  lines  clasp  the  funnel 
cylinder.  Carpels  roundish  to  obcordate,  emarginate,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds 
medium  to  rather  large,  dark,  plump,  obtuse,  sometimes  tufted. 

'Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  or  greenish,  moderately  firm,  moderately 
fine,  rather  crisp,  somewhat  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid  with  a  peculiar  but 
not  altogether  agreeable  aroma,  fair  quality. 

Season  November  to  March  or  April.     Commercial  limit,  February. 

TEWKSBURY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:156.  fig.  2.  Buel,  N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1820: 
476.  3.  Wilson,  1828:136.  4.  Downing,  1845:140.  5.  Thomas,  1849:186.  6. 
Cole,  1849:136.  7.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:88.  1851.  8.  Elliott,  1854: 
160.  9.  Hooper,  1857:93.  10.  Gregg,  1857:59.  n.  Warder,  1867:406,  416. 
12.  Downing,  1869:382.  fig.  13.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871:10.  14.  Barry, 
J883:355.  15.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:298.  16.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:251.  17.  Amer.  Card.,  16:14.  1895.  18.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui., 
56:309.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  FINK  (9),  but  incorrectly.  Fink  (n),  but  incorrectly.  Fink's 
Seedling  (8,  18).  TEWKESBURY  WINTER  BLUSH  (10,  12,  16).  Tewkesbury 
Blush  (12).  TEWKSBERRY  WINTER  BLUSH  (3).  TEWKSBERY  WINTER  BLUSH 
(2).  TEWKSBURY  BLUSH  (5,  7,  8,  17).  Tewksbury  Blush  (18).  TEWKSBURY 
WINTER  BLUSH  (i,  4,  6,  n,  13,  14).  Tewksbury  Winter  Blush  (5,  8,  9,  18). 

Valued  chiefly  because  it  is  a  long  keeper  and  holds  its  quality  wrell  late 
in  the  season.  The  color  is  bright  yellow  or  greenish  with  a  beautiful  pinkish- 
red  blush  somewhat  like  that  of  Maiden  Blush ;  decidedly  attractive.  Although 
it  is  an  old  variety  it  is  but  very  little  grown  in  New  York  state  which  is 
pretty  good  evidence  that  it  does  not  possess  superior  value  for  New  York 
fruit  growers. 


TEXAS 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  337 

Historical.  Coxe  (i)  states  that  it  came  from  the  town  of  Tewksbury  in 
Hunterdon  county,  N.  J.  In  1817  he  gave  the  following  excellent  description 
of  it. 

"It  is  a  very  handsome  fair  fruit,  with  more  flavour  and  juiciness  than  is 
to  be  usually  found  in  keeping  apples ;  I  have  eaten  them  in  good  condition  in 
August  of  the  second  year,  preserved  without  particular  care,  perfectly  plump 
and  sound.  The  size  is  small;  the  form  round;  the  skin  smooth:  the  colour 
yellow,  with  a  bright  red  cheek — the  flesh  yellow,  tolerably  juicy  and  well 
flavoured  with  a  considerable  degree  of  sprightliness:  the  tree  is  of  vigorous 
growth,  straight  and  well  formed — the  fruit  hangs  late  in  the  autumn." 

Hooper  erroneously  reported  it  as  identical  with  Fink  and  retained  Fink 
as  the  correct  name  for  the  variety  (9).  Elliott  gave  Tewksbury  Blush  as  the 
correct  name  with  Fink's  Seedling  as  a  synonym  (8),  but  Warder  (n)  con- 
sidered Fink  distinct  as  shown  in  the  following  quotation  from  his  description 
of  that  variety.  "  This  long  keeper  was  brought  before  the  notice  of  the  Ohio 
Pomological  Society  many  years  ago  by  Mr.  Clarke,  of  Somerset,  Ohio.  Mr. 
Elliott  considered  it  the  same  as  Tewksbury  Winter  Blush,  and  introduces 
Fink's  Seedling  as  a  synonym  of  that  variety.  Others  think  it  a  different  fruit, 
among  whom  is  that  practical  Pomologist,  the  Secretary  of  that  association, 
M.  B.  Bateham,  Esq.,  who  has  propagated  and  planted  the  trees  extensively. 
It  was  described  as  Fink's  Seedling  in  the  Ohio  Cultivator,  May,  1847.  At 
the  meeting  of  1854,  the  merits  and  claims  of  this  variety  were  freely  discussed, 
and  the  Society  named  it  the  Fink,  after  admitting  that  it  was  an  original 
seedling,  as  stated  by  Mr.  Fink,  in  whose  seedling  orchard  it  had  originated." 

Tewksbury  was  given  a  place  in  the  catalogue  of  the  American  Pomological 
Society  in  1871  (13)  and  was  dropped  from  that  list  in  1890. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  nearly  medium,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
conic,  a  little  flat  at  the  base,  rather  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  in  length, 
moderately  thick.  Cavity  acute  or  acuminate,  shallow,  rather  broad,  sym- 
metrical, slightly  russeted.  Calyx  very  small,  closed.  Basin  very  small,  very 
shallow  and  narrow,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  yellow  with  pinkish-red  blush.  Dots  many,  numerous,  small, 
russet  and  areolar. 

Calyx  tube  small,  long,  narrow,  funnel-shape.    Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  medium  in  size,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  often  unsymmetrical,  closed 
or  somewhat  open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  ovate,  emarginate. 
Seeds  light  brown,  medium  size,  narrow,  irregular,  acute. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  rather  tender, 
rather  juicy,  aromatic,  sprightly,  brisk  subacid,  good. 

TEXAS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Churchill,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  8:355.  1889.  2.  Bailey,  An. 
Hort.,  1892:247.  3.  Beach,  Paddock  and  Close,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  15:274. 
1896.  4.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:58.  1903.  5.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:146.  1904.  6.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:242, 
309.  1905. 

SYNONYM.     PRIDE  OF  TEXAS  (i,  2,  3).    Pride  of  Texas  (4,  5,  6). 


338  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

A  late-keeping  southern  apple  (i,  2,  3,  6).  As  fruited  at  this 
Station  it  is  only  moderately  attractive  in  general  appearance, 
medium  in  size,  yellow,  shaded  and  striped  with  red,  mildly  subacid, 
good  in  flavor  and  quality.  Usually  a  considerable  portion  of  the 
crop  may  be  held  in  good  condition  in  cellar  storage  till  early 
summer  (3,  5).  The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  comes  into  bearing 
young,  is  a  reliable  cropper  and  productive.  Not  recommended  for 
planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Received  from  Benjamin  Buckman,  Farmingdale,  Illinois,  in 
1889,  for  testing  here  (i).  It  has  been  propagated  by  some  southern  nursery- 
men (2,  6).  It  is  practically  unknown  among  New  York  fruit  growers. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  vigorous.  Form  roundish  or  somewhat  spreading,  rather  dense. 
Twigs  moderately  long,  slender,  straight  or  slightly  curved ;  internodes  medium 
to  long.  Bark  rather  clear  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive-green,  slightly 
streaked  with  grayish  scarf-skin ;  somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticels  moderately 
numerous,  conspicuous,  medium  to  large,  elongated,  raised.  Buds  below 
medium  to  large,  rather  prominent,  plump,  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  somewhat 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  in  size.  Form  slightly  oblate  to  roundish  or  roundish  conic, 
somewhat  ribbed ;  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Stem  medium  to  long. 
Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  moderately 
shallow  to  deep,  usually  partly  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed  or  slightly  open. 
Basin  very  shallow,  rather  narrow,  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  clear  light  yellow,  largely  washed  with  faint  red  splashed  and 
striped  with  carmine,  in  highly  colored  specimens  becoming  deep  red  on  the 
exposed  cheek ;  streaks  of  whitish  scarf-skin  are  conspicuous  over  the  base. 
Dots  whitish  or  pale  russet,  especially  numerous  toward  the  basin. 

Calyx  tube  long,  funnel-form.     Stamens  basal  or  nearly  so. 

Core  medium,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines 
clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Seeds  large  to  very  large,  long,  rather  flat, 
acute,  dark,  often  tufted.  Carpels  broadly  roundish  inclined  to  roundish 
cordate. 

Flesh  yellowish,  sometimes  tinged  with  red,  firm,  crisp,  moderately  juicy, 
breaking,  mild  subacid  eventually  becoming  nearly  sweet,  good  in  quality  and 
flavor. 

Season  at  Geneva,  January  to  May  or  June. 

TITUS  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:50.  1841.  2.  Downing,  1857:224. 
3.  Hooper,  1857-93.  4-  Warder,  1867:734.  5.  Downing,  1869:383.  6.  Thomas, 
1875:514.  7.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:58.  1903.  8.  Ragan, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:311-  1905. 


t 

A 


TITUS 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  339 

SYNONYMS.  Hang-On  (5).  Timothy  (5).  Timothy  Titus  Sort  (5) .  TITUS 
(7,8).  Titus  Pippin  (7,  8).  Well  Apple  ($}. 

This  variety  evidently  belongs  in  the  Yellow  Bellflower  group. 
The  fruit  is  large,  predominantly  yellow,  smooth,  fair,  attractive, 
agreeably  flavored,  good  either  for  dessert  or  culinary  uses.  The 
tree  is  a  good  grower,  hardy,  healthy,  long-lived,  comes  into  bearing 
rather  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  good  to  heavy  crops 
biennially  or  almost  annually.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree. 
Usually  a  rather  high  percentage  of  the  crop  is  of  marketable  size, 
but  it  does  not  ripen  evenly.  Some  of  the  fruit  becomes  very  ripe 
before  winter  sets  in,  but  as  grown  at  this  Station  the  bulk  of  the 
crop  keeps  well  into  the  winter  in  ordinary  storage.  A  considerable 
portion  of  it  may  be  held  in  pretty  good  condition  till  April  in  cold 
storage  and  it  has  been  held  till  May  firm  and  with  no  decay  or 
scald  (7).  As  grown  on  Long  Island  it  is  in  season  in  fall  and 
early  winter. 

The  accompanying  plate  should  bear  the  legend  Titus  Pippin 
instead  of  Titus,  since  the  name  Titus  has  been  used  for  a  fall  apple 
of  Russian  origin. 

Historical.  Originated  near  Hempstead,  Long  Island  (5).  We  find  no 
record  of  the  time  of  its  origin  but  as  long  ago  as  1841  Manning  gave  a 
description  of  this  fruit  and  stated  that  he  received  the  variety  from  Flushing, 
N.  Y.  (i).  It  is  quite  commonly  cultivated  on  Long  Island  but  is  little  known 
in  other  portions  of  the  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  rather,  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading,  rather  dense.  Twigs 
below  medium  to  short,  straight,  moderately  stout,  with  large  terminal  buds ; 
internodes  short  to  rather  long.  Bark  olive-green  tinged  with  reddish-brown, 
lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  brownish,  very 
scattering,  small  to  medium,  roundish,  slightly  raised.  Buds  rather  prominent, 
about  medium  size,  plump,  acute,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large.  Form  oblong  conic  varying  to  roundish  conic, 
often  irregularly  elliptical  or  obtusely  ribbed ;  sides  somewhat  unequal ;  axis 
often  somewhat  oblique.  Stem  medium  in  length  and  thickness.  Cavity  small 
to  medium,  acuminate  or  acute,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  narrow  to  rather 
broad,  somewhat  furrowed,  often  partly  russeted  and  with  narrow,  outspread- 
ing russet  rays.  Calyx  usually  large  and  open  or  partly  so;  lobes  leafy,  long, 
acute.  Basin  small,  often  distinctly  oblique,  shallow  to  moderately  deep, 
narrow  to  medium  in  width,  abrupt,  often  prominently  ribbed,  sometimes 
with  mammiform  protuberances. 


340  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  rather  tender,  smooth,  waxy,  yellow,  often  clouded  with  green,  some- 
times with  orange  blush,  rarely  with  distinct  red  lines  or  dots.  Dots  numer- 
ous, small,  russet  or  submerged.  Prevailing  effect  attractive  clear  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  large,  wide  above,  deep,  cone-shape  with  fleshy  pistil  point  pro- 
jecting into  the  base.  Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  large,  abaxile;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  wide  open,  sometimes  partly 
closed ;  core  lines  partly  clasping  or  meeting.  Carpels  elongated  ovate,  emar- 
ginate,  tufted.  Seeds  irregular,  often  imperfectly  developed,  medium  to  rather 
large,  long,  moderately  acute. 

Flesh  white  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  rather  crisp,  moderately 
tender,  juicy,  subacid  with  pleasant  aroma,  good  to  very  good. 

TOBIAS. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Goff,  .V.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:90.  1888.    2.  Macomber,  Amer. 
Card.,  11:140.  1890.     3.  Beach  and  Clark,  .Y.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:146.  1904. 
SYNONYM.     TOBIAS  APPLE  (i,  2). 

As  fruited  at  this  Station  this  is  a  yellow  apple  of  fairly  attractive  appear- 
ance averaging  hardly  medium  size.  It  is  fair  to  good  in  quality.  It  is  in 
its  prime  in  midwinter  but  its  season  extends  from  November  to  April.  The 
tree  is  hardy,  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yield- 
ing from  moderate  to  good  crops  biennially  or  almost  annually.  It  does  not 
excel  standard  varieties  for  any  purpose  and  is  not  worthy  of  the  attention 
of  fruit  growers  except  perhaps  in  Northern  New  York  where  it  may  be 
desirable  on  account  of  its  superior  hardiness. 

Historical.  Originated  with  Mr.  James  Tobias  in  Grand  Isle  county,  Vt. 
(2).  So  far  as  we  know  it  is  practically  unknown  outside  of  the  Lake  Cham- 
plain  district.  It  was  received  for  testing  at  this  Station  in  1888  from  J.  T. 
Macomber,  Grand  Isle,  Vt. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  roundish  or  spreading,  rather  dense. 
Twigs  long  to  medium,  irregularly  curved,  stout;  internodes  medium  to  long. 
Bark  dull  brown  tinged  with  red,  heavily  streaked  with  scarf-skin ;  slightly 
pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  medium  to  large,  roundish  to  oblong,  slightly 
raised.  Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  medium  size,  broad,  flat,  obtuse,  appressed, 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  sometimes  rather  large.  Form  oblate,  varying  to 
roundish,  often  a  little  inclined  to  conic,  regular  to  broadly-  angular,  some- 
times distinctly  furrowed  from  basin  to  cavity.  Stem  medium  to  rather  long, 
slender  to  moderately  stout,  pubescent,  often  obliquely  set.  Cavity  small  to 
medium,  varying  from  slightly  acuminate  to  a  little  obtuse,  deep,  moderately 
narrow  to  rather  broad,  somewhat  furrowed,  sometimes  thinly  russeted  and 
with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  to  rather  large,  usually  partly 
open ;  lobes  long,  acute.  Basin  small  to  medium,  shallow  and  obtuse  to  mod- 
erately deep  and  somewhat  abrupt,  narrow  to  medium  in  width. 

Skin  moderately  tender,  smooth  or  roughened  with  russet  dots  and  flecks, 
yellow,  occasionally  with  slight  blush.  Dots  distinct,  numerous,  medium  to 
small,  russet-gray  or  whitish,  often  submerged. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  341 

Calyx  tube  variable,  cone-shape  to  truncate  funnel-form.  Stamens  median 
to  basal. 

Core  small,  axile  to  somewhat  abaxile;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  closed 
or  sometimes  open ;  core  lines  meeting.  Carpels  rather  flat,  roundish,  slightly 
emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  often  with  some  abortive.  The  plump  ones  are 
large,  long,  rather  wide,  obtuse,  slightly  tufted,  clear  reddish-brown. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid,  fair  to  good. 

TOBIAS  BLACK. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Goff,  .V.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:54,  90.  1888.  2.  Macomber, 
Amer.  Card.,  11:140.  1890.  3.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:311-  1901. 

Fruit  of  desirable  size  and  fairly  good  form  but  of  an  unattractive  dull  red 
and  greenish  color.  The  flavor  is  nearly  sweet,  the  quality  hardly  good.  The 
tree  is  said  to  be  very  hardy  and  very  productive  (2).  As  grown  at  this 
Station  it  comes  into  bearing  rather  young,  yields  moderate  to  good  crops  and 
is  almost  an  annual  bearer.  Its  fruit  is  not  equal  to  standard  varieties  of  its 
season  and  the  variety  is  not  worthy  of  planting  where  these  can  be  grown. 

Historical.  Originated  with  Mr.  James  Tobias  in  Grand  Isle  county,  Vt. 
(2).  So  far  as  we  know  it  is  practically  unknown  outside  of  the  Lake  Cham- 
plain  district.  It  was  received  for  testing  at  this  Station  in  1888  from  J.  T. 
Macomber,  Grand  Isle,  Vt. 

TREE. 

Tree  rather  large,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  flat,  spreading,  open.  Twigs 
below  medium  to  above,  moderately  stout,  straight  or  somewhat  curved ;  inter- 
nodes  medium  or  below.  Bark  dark  clear  brown  with  reddish  tinge,  lightly 
streaked  with  scarf-skin,  quite  pubescent.  Lenticels  quite  numerous,  medium 
or  below,  elongated,  raised.  Buds  rather  prominent,  medium  size,  broad  or 
roundish,  plump,  obtuse,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  fairly  uniform  in  size,  somewhat  variable  in  shape. 
Form  roundish  oblate  varying  to  roundish  or  a  little  oblong,  somewhat  trun- 
cate, frequently  irregularly  elliptical  or  obtusely  ribbed;  sides  sometimes  un- 
equal. Stem  below  medium  to  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  medium  to  large, 
acute  to  acuminate,  deep,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  often  somewhat 
furrowed  or  compressed,  sometimes  partly  russeted.  Calyx  medium  size, 
closed  or  somewhat  open;  lobes  long,  acuminate.  Basin  rather  large,  deep, 
wide,  rather  abrupt,  furrowed,  sometimes  compressed. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  grass-green  becoming  clouded  with  yellow,  largely  over- 
spread with  dark  dull  red  and  striped  with  purplish-carmine,  often  clouded 
with  scarf-skin  toward  the  cavity  and  marked  with  scattering  flecks  of  russet. 
In  highly  colored  specimens  the  red  becomes  dark  and  bright  and  the  stripes 
indistinct.  Dots  conspicuous,  pale  green  or  grayish,  sometimes  with  russet 
point,  numerous  toward  the  cavity,  sometimes  areolar.  Prevailing  effect  dull 
red  predominating  over  dull  green. 

Calyx  tube  large,  elongated  cone-shape  or  funnel-form.  Stamens  median 
or  below. 


342  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Core  medium  or  below,  nearly  axile  with  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis;  cells 
usually  symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes  slightly  open;  core  lines  clasping. 
Carpels  thin,  broadly  roundish  to  elliptical,  obtusely  emarginate,  mucronate, 
somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  medium  or  below,  rather  short,  obtuse  to 
rather  acute,  slightly  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  green  or  yellow,  moderately  firm,  breaking,  moderately 
fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  fair  to  nearly 
good. 

Season  November  to  April. 

TOBIAS  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Goff,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:90.  1888.  2.  Beach  and  Clark, 
N.  Y.  Sta,  Bui.,  248:146.  1904. 

Tobias  Pippin  is  of  pretty  good  size,  fair  to  good  quality,  and  rather  attrac- 
tive appearance  for  a  yellow  apple.  It  comes  in  season  in  October  and  some 
portion  of  the  crop  may  be  kept  till  March,  but  in  ordinary  storage  November 
is  its  commercial  limit.  The  tree  is  a  pretty  good  grower  and  as  tested  at 
this  Station  comes  into  bearing  rather  young  and  produces  full  crops  in  alter- 
nate years.  As  compared  with  standard  sorts  of  its  season  it  does  not  appear 
to  be  worthy  of  general  planting.  Received  here  for  testing  from  J.  T. 
Macomber,  Grand  Isle,  Vt,  in  1888.  So  far  as  we  know  it  is  practically  un- 
known outside  of  the  Lake  Champlain  district. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading  or  roundish,  dense- 
Tu'igs  short  to  medium,  straight,  stout  to  somewhat  slender,  with  large  term- 
inal buds ;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  clear  brown  with  tinge  of  red, 
lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  quite 
numerous,  small  to  medium,  roundish  or  somewhat  elongated,  not  raised. 
Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  below  medium  to  small,  flat,  obtuse,  appressed,  but 
slightly  pubescent  if  at  all. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  varies  from  rather  small  to  nearly  large  but  when  well  grown  averages 
above  medium  size.  Form  oblate  conic  to  roundish  ovate,  often  somewhat 
ribbed,  fairly  uniform.  Stem  short  to  medium,  moderately  slender.  Cavity 
variable,  rather  large,  varying  from  rather  obtuse  to  nearly  acuminate,  moder- 
ately deep  to  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  broad,  often  furrowed  or  compressed, 
sometimes  partly  russeted  and  with  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  small  to 
medium,  closed  or  partly  open.  Basin  small  to  medium,  varying  from  shallow 
and  narrow  to  medium  in  depth  an4  width,  abrupt,  usually  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  rather  tender,  nearly  smooth,  rather  glossy,  yellow  mottled  and  streaked 
with  whitish  scarf-skin,  sometimes  distinctly  blushed-  Dots  numerous,  small, 
irregular,  whitish  and  submerged  or  areolar  with  russet  point. 

Calyx  tube  funnel-form  or  nearly  so.     Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  below  medium  to  rather  large,  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells  usually  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels 
broadly  elliptical,  emarginate.  Seeds  numerous,  rather  dark  brown,  medium 
to  small,  plump,  rather  acute. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  343 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  crisp, 
rather  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid  becoming  sweet,  aromatic,  good  or  some- 
times very  good. 

TOLMAN  SWEET. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Thacher,  1822:139.  2.  Buel,  N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826: 
476.  3.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:50.  1841.  4.  Downing,  1845:137.  5.  Phoenix, 
Horticulturist,  1:361.  1846.  6.  Thomas,  1849:162.  7.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  15: 
162.  1849.  fig.  8.  Cole,  1849:131.  fig.  9.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:87. 
1851.  fig.  10.  Elliott,  1854:110.  fig.  n.  Gregg,  1857:60.  fig.  12.  Hooper, 
1857:93.  13.  Horticulturist,  17:150,  167.  1862.  14.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1862. 
15.  Warder,  1867:557.  fig.  16.  Barry,  1883:355.  17.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1890:298.  18.  Manning,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1891:137.  19.  Taylor,  Me. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1892:57.  20.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:251.  21.  Woolverton, 
Ont.  Fr.  Assn.  An.  Rpt.,  26:169.  1894.  22.  Can.  Hort.,  17:229,  280.  1894.  col. 
pi.  23.  Hoskins,  Rural  N.  Y.,  53:310.  1894.  24.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui.,  130: 
125.  1901.  25.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:311.  1901.  26.  Hansen,  5".  D. 
Sta.  Bui,  76:106.  1902.  fig.  27.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:189.  fig.  28.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:58.  1903.  29.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:146.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Brown's  Golden  Sweet  (10).  TALLMAN'S  SWEET  (15).  TALL- 
MAN  SWEET  (26).  Tollman  Sweet  (27).  TALLMAN  SWEETING  (2,  6,  n). 
Tollman's  Sweeting  (10).  TALMAN  SWEET  (5,  17,  20,  21,  22,  23).  TALMAN'S 
SWEET  (14,  16,  19).  Talman  Sweet  (28).  TALMAN  SWEETING  (8).  TALMAN'S 
SWEETING  (9,  10,  12).  TOLMAN  (25,  28).  TOLMAN  SWEET  (3,  13,  18,  24). 
Tolman  5w^  (25,  28).  TOLMAN'S  SWEETING  (4,  7).  TOLMAN  SWEETING  (i). 
Tolman's  Sweeting  (6,  10). 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  rather  attractive  for  a  yellow  apple.  It 
meets  with  little  demand  in  the  general  market,  but  is  sold  to  a 
limited  extent  in  special  markets  and  to  special  classes  of  trade. 
The  fruit  is  generally  much  esteemed  for  certain  culinary  purposes 
as  pickling,  boiling  and  baking.  Its  keeping  quality  varies  in 
different  seasons.  In  ordinary  storage  it  is  in  season  from  Novem- 
ber to  January  with  December  as  the  commercial  limit.  In  cold 
storage  its  commercial  limit  varies  under  different  conditions  from 
February  i  to  April  (29).  Some  find  that  it  stands  heat  well  before 
going  into  storage ;  others  report  that  it  does  not.  It  shows  bruises 
very  readily  and  requires  careful  handling.  The  fruit  hangs  pretty 
well  to  the  tree,  is  quite  uniform  in  grade  and  suffers  comparatively 
little  loss  in  drops  and  culls.  The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  long-lived 
and  very  hardy.  Throughout  Northern  New  York,  Northern  New 
England,  certain  portions  of  Canada  and  the  northern  portion  of 
the  apple  belt  in  the  prairie  region  of  the  Middle  West,  Tolman 


344  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Sweet  has  gained  the  reputation  of  being  one  of  the  hardiest  of  the 
old  New  England  varieties.  For  this  reason  it  is  often  selected  as 
a  stock  upon  which  to  top-graft  less  hardy  kinds.  The  tree  comes 
into  bearing  at  a  moderately  early  age,  and,  generally  speaking,  is  a 
reliable  cropper,  yielding  from  moderate  to  heavy  crops  biennially 
or  sometimes  almost  annually. 

Historical.  Thacher's  description  of  this  variety  is  the  earliest  one  of 
which  we  have  any  record.  He  was  unable  to  trace  it  to  its  origin  (i). 
Manning  (18)  in  1891  called  attention  to  the  correct  orthography,  the  name 
having  been  differently  spelled  by  various  authors,  and  mentioned  the  sup- 
position that  the  variety  originated  in  Dorchester  (Massachusetts).  It  has 
long  been  known  in  cultivation  in  New  York  and  it  appears  that  it  is  more 
generally  grown  in  the  home  orchards  of  this  state  than  any  other  sweet 
apple. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright,  very  spreading,  drooping,  open; 
top  roundish;  branches  long,  moderately  stout,  curved  and  drooping.  Twigs 
medium  to  long,  straight  or  bowed,  stout;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark 
clear  brownish  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin, 
heavily  pubescent.  Lcnticels  rather  conspicuous,  scattering,  medium  or  above, 
roundish  or  oval,  not  raised.  Buds  medium  in  size,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  ap- 
pressed,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  commonly  averages  below  medium  but  sometimes  grows  rather  large. 
It  is  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  nearly  globular  or  varying  to 
roundish  conical  or  to  roundish  oblate,  often  inclined  to  elliptical  or  obscurely 
ribbed.  Stem  medium  to  rather  long,  slender.  Cavity  obtuse  to  acute,  broad, 
deep,  often  russeted,  often  obscurely  furrowed  yet  pretty  symmetrical.  Calyx 
medium  to  small,  somewhat  open  or  sometimes  closed ;  lobes  often  long  and 
acuminate.  Basin  small  to  medium,  often  oblique,  moderately  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  medium  in  width,  rather  abrupt,  furrowed,  wrinkled,  some- 
times compressed. 

Skin  tough,  often  marked  by  a  suture  line  extending  out  from  the  cavity, 
sometimes  reaching  even  to  the  basin;  color  pale  clear  yellow  or  whitish- 
yellow,  sometimes  a  little  blushed.  Dots  small,  inconspicuous,  pale  yellow 
or  faint  russet.  The  skin  is  apt  to  be  roughened  slightly  by  very  inconspicuous 
capillary  russet  lines  over  the  entire  surface,  becoming  heavier  and  concentric 
at  the  basin. 

Calyx  tube  urn-shape  to  truncate  funnel-form.     Stamens  basal  or  nearly  so. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile;  cells  symmetrical,  closed;  core  lines 
slightly  clasping.  Carpels  rather  flat,  broadly  roundish,  slightly  emarginate, 
tufted.  Seeds  medium  in  size,  wide,  plump,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse,  tufted. 

Flesh  white,  firm,  neither  tender  nor  crisp,  rather  hard,  moderately  fine, 
rather  dry  to  moderately  juicy,  decidedly  sweet,  good  to  very  good. 


TOLMAN    SWEET 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  345 

TOMPKINS  KING. 

REFERENCES.  i.  New  Genesce  Farmer,  3:57.  1842.  2.  Cultivator,  1:390. 
1844.  3.  Ellwanger  and  Barry,  Ib.,  2:57.  1845.  4.  Thomas,  Ib.,  5:306.  1848. 
fig.  5.  Cole,  1849:122.  6.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  Ar.  Y.,  3:73.  1851.  col.  pi.  No. 
38.  7.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  20:178,  509.  1854.  fig.  8.  Elliott,  1854:142.  9. 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1856.  10.  Horticulturist,  11:397.  1856.  fig.  n.  Mag. 
Hort.,  22:545.  1856.  12.  Downing,  1857:84.  fig.  13.  Hooper,  1857:50.  14. 
Mag.  Hort.,  24:111.  1858.  15.  Mattison,  Horticulturist,  15:213.  1860.  16. 
Mag.  Hort.,  27:98.  1861.  17.  Warder,  1867:655.  fig.  18.  Fitz,  1872:157.  19. 
Thomas,  1875:217.  20.  Barry,  1883:348.  21.  Hogg,  1884:124.  22.  Wickson, 
1889:245.  23.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:298.  24.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:242.  25.  Rural  N.  Y.,  53:28.  1894.  2^-  Hoskins,  Ib.,  53:310.  1894.  27. 
Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  2:10.  1895.  fig.  28.  Card,  and  For.,  9:10. 
1896.  29.  U.  S.  Pom.  Bui.,  7:356.  1898.  30.  Bunyard,  Jour.  Roy.  Hort.  Soc., 
1898:356.  31.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:297.  1901.  32.  Can.  Hort.,  26: 
405.  1903.  33.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:190.  34.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui,  48:58.  1903.  35.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:147.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Flat  Spitsenburg  (28).  KING  (5,  7,  17,  19,  24,  27,  31).  King 
(15,  34).  KING  APPLE  (i,  2,  3,  4,  32,  of  New  York  10,  of  Western  New  York 
8  and  13).  King  Apple  (12).  KING  OF  TOMPKINS  COUNTY  (12,  14,  15,  16, 
18,  20,  21,  22,  26,  30).  King  of  Tompkins  County  (17,  27,  28,  33,  35).  Toma 
Red  (15).  Tommy  Red  (21).  Tompkins  County  King  (19).  Tom's  Red 
(21).  WINTER  KING  (6). 

This  apple  is  commonly  called  King.  Less  frequently  it  is  called 
Tompkins  County  King  or  King  of  Tompkins  County.  Pomolo- 
gists  now  accept  Tompkins  King  as  the  correct  name. 

The  fruit  has  a  beautiful  red  color,  with  enough  clearly  contrast- 
ing yellow  to  make  a  very  attractive  appearance.  It  is  symmetrical, 
uniformly  large,  and  excellent  in  quality  for  either  dessert  or 
culinary  uses.  It  is  well  adapted  for  marketing  in  fancy  packages 
and  is  in  good  demand  for  both  special  and  general  trade,  often 
selling  at  an  advance  over  standard  varieties  in  both  domestic  and 
foreign  markets.  The  principal  demand  for  it  comes  in  late  fall 
and  early  winter.  It  does  not  keep  quite  as  late  in  storage  as 
Rhode  Island  Greening,  but  rather  later  than  Hubbardston.  It  is 
in  season  from  October  or  late  September  to  December  and  January 
or  later.  In  common  storage  its  commercial  limit  is  December,  or 
exceptionally  January,  and  in  cold  storage  usually  February,  but  in 
some  cases  later.  The  fruit  often  begins  to  show  some  decay  in 
November  and  sometimes  even  in  October.  Its  keeping  qualities  do 
not  vary  so  much  in  different  seasons  as  is  the  case  with  many  other 
sorts  (35).  Some  of  the  fruit  is  often  kept  in  cellars  till  spring, 


346  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

but  not  with  prime  flavor,  for  usually  it  begins  to  lose  flavor  by 
midwinter  or  earlier. 

Tompkins  King  has  been  quite  generally  cultivated  throughout 
the  principal  apple-growing  districts  of  the  state  and  often  with 
fairly  good  success,  particularly  when  planted  on  fertile,  well- 
drained  soils  or  top-worked  upon  thrifty,  hardy  stock.  In  the  lake 
region  of  Central  and  Western  New  York  in  many  cases  it  appears 
to  succeed  better  on  the  uplands  than  it  does  close  to  the  lakes.  The 
fruit  being  large,  there  is  often  a  considerable  loss  in  windfalls, 
and  on  this  account  it  is  well  to  select  a  location  for  this  variety 
that  is  well  sheltered  from  prevailing  winds.  Generally  it  is 
regarded  as  more  liable  to  loss  from  wormy  fruit  and  less  subject 
to  injury  from  apple  scab  than  either  Baldwin  or  Rhode  Island 
Greening.  As  a  rule  the  tree  does  not  come  into  bearing  very 
young,  but  with  maturity  usually  becomes  a  regular  bearer,  yielding 
rather  light  to  moderately  heavy  crops  biennially  or  sometimes 
nearly  annually.  Frequently  it  is  regarded  as  a  shy  bearer  and  too 
unproductive  for  a  good  commercial  variety,  and  it  nowhere  has  the 
reputation  of  being  a  heavy  cropper,  yet  many  fruit  growers  find  it  a 
profitable  commercial  variety.  Taking  the  state  as  a  whole,  it  prob- 
ably ranks  fourth  in  commercial  importance,  being  surpassed  by 
Baldwin,  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Northern  Spy.1 

Were  the  tree  hardier,  healthier,  longer-lived  and  more  productive, 
Tompkins  King  would  be  much  more  extensively  grown  in  com- 
mercial orchards.  In  the  nursery  it  makes  but  a  moderate  root 
growth,  and  in  the  orchard  it  is  somewhat  subject  to  sun-scald  and 
canker  as  well  as  to  injury  at  the  surface  of  the  ground  from  what 
is  commonly  called  "  collar  rot  "  or  "  collar  blight/'  The  cause  of 
this  collar  rot  is  not  definitely  known.  Some  suppose  that  it  may 
be  due  to  a  parasitic  fungus;  others  that  it  is  caused  primarily  by 
winter  injury.  Tompkins  King  is  certainly  more  liable  to  winter 
injury  than  are  most  of  the  standard  sorts  of  this  region.  Even  in 
some  parts  of  Central  New  York,  when  standing  in  unfavorable 
locations,  and  particularly  if  on  heavy,  poorly  drained  soils,  trees 
have  sometimes  been  entirely  killed  by  the  winter,  yet  in  many 

1  See  page   17. 


» 


TOMPKINS    KING 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  347 

localities  the  variety  has  succeeded  so  well  that  it  is  regarded  as 
pretty  hardy  and  long-lived.  E.  W.  Catchpole  of  North  Rose, 
Wayne  county,  reports  that  in  an  orchard  planted  in  that  locality 
in  1861  with  Baldwin,  Rhode  Island  Greening  and  Tompkins  King, 
the  Tompkins  King  has  been  neither  as  hardy  nor  as  productive  as 
either  of  the  other  two  varieties  named  and  already  shows  a  con- 
siderable number  of  vacancies  in  the  rows.  H.  D.  Cole  of  Inter- 
laken,  in  southern  Seneca  county,  reports  that  he  has  an  orchard  of 
Tompkins  King  top-grafted  about  seventy  years  ago  upon  trees 
which  were  planted  about  one  hundred  years  ago.  These  trees  are 
still  bearing  good  crops.  He  regards  this  variety  as  not  sufficiently 
hardy  if  grown  on  its  own  trunk,  but  vigorous,  healthy,  long-lived 
and  reliably  productive  when  top-worked  upon  hardy  stock.  The 
experience  of  many  other  fruit  growers  throughout  the  state  cor- 
roborates that  of  Mr.  Catchpole  and  Mr.  Cole  and  goes  to  show, 
that  because  of  its  comparatively  weak  root  development  and  liability 
to  collar  rot  and  winter  injury,  Tompkins  King  should  be  top- 
worked  upon  some  variety  which  has  a  stronger  root  development 
and  a  more  hardy  trunk.  Some  have  had  good  success  in  using 
common  seedling  stock  for  this  purpose  and  others  have  found 
satisfactory  results  from  top-working  it  upon  Tolman  Szueet, 
Northern  Spy,  Rhode  Island  Greening,  Oldenburg,  Golden  Russet, 
Roxbury  and  other  vigorous,  hardy  varieties. 

Historical.  Some  have  thought  that  the  original  tree  of  Tompkins  King 
grew  at  Jacksonville,  Tompkins  county,  N.  Y.,  but  Bailey  found  that  that  tree 
had  been  grafted  and  therefore  it  could  not  be  the  original  seedling  (28). 
The  variety  appears  to  have  originated  near  Washington,  Warren  county, 
N.  J.  It  is  said  to  have  been  brought  from  that  locality  to  Tompkins  county, 
N.  Y.,  by  Jacob  Wycoff  in  1804  by  whom  it  was  named  King.  The  Congress 
of  Fruit  Growers  at  Rochester  added  Tompkins  County  to  its  name  to  dis- 
tinguish it  from  other  King  apples  (15).  James  M.  Mattison  of  Jacksonville, 
N.  Y.,  investigated  the  subject  of  the  origin  of  Tompkins  King  during  the 
winter  of  1860  and  published  an  account  of  his  investigation  in  the  April 
number  of  the  Horticulturist  of  that  year.  We  quote  his  report  in  full. 

"  Having  given  the  subject  a  pretty  thorough  investigation,  I  present  the 
following  as  the  true  history  of  the  King  Apple  of  Tompkins  County: 

"About  fifty-six  years  ago,  Jacob  Wycoff  brought  it  from  Warren  county, 
N.  J.  Mr.  Wycoff  moved  to  this  county  about  sixty  years  ago,  and  finding 
the  art  of  grafting  practised  here,  procured  the  grafts  while  on  a  visit  fifty- 
six  years  ago.  Mr.  Wycoff  is  now  dead,  but  always  claimed  it  to  be  a  seed- 


348  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

ling,  andjt  was  named  by  him,  King.  The  Congress  of  Fruit  Growers  at 
Rochester  added  Tompkins  County  to  it,  to  distinguish  it  from  another  of  the 
same  name. 

"  On  a  visit  this  winter  I  undertook  to  trace  out  its  origin,  and  went  to  the 
place  where  it  is  said  to  have  originated.  This  is  about  one  and  a  half  to 
two  miles  from  Washington,  Warren  county,  N.  ].  I  found  very  old  trees 
that  had  been  grafted;  they  seemed  to  be  over  fifty  years  old;  two  aged  men, 
Daniel  Fleet  and  William  Crivling,  near  Asbury,  were  both  acquainted  with 
it  from  boyhood.  It  originated  on  the  north  side  of  the  Musconetcong  moun- 
tain, about  one  mile  from  where  these  gentlemen  live.  Mr.  Jesse  Weller  says 
he  knew  one  very  old  tree  on  his  farm  forty  years  ago;  it  has  been  dead 
several  years.  They  call  the  apple  Toma  Red  throughout  that  section.  It 
does  not  appear  to  be  much  disseminated,  being  confined  to  a  small  locality. 
I  brought  some  of  the  apples  with  me,  and  compared  them  with  mine.  I 
also  gave  them  some  that  were  raised  in  my  own  orchard.  They  are  not  quite 
as  high  flavored  in  New  Jersey  as  they  are  here  between  the  lakes  (Cayuga 
and  Seneca). 

"  The  tree  is  entirely  distinct  in  growth.  When  I  was  in  New  Jersey  I 
pointed  out  trees  as  I  was  going  along  the  road,  and  inquired  if  they  were 
not  what  we  call  the  King  of  Tompkins  Count}'',  and  they  said  they  were. 
The  limbs  grow  so  very  horizontal  that  the  tree  needs  scarcely  any  pruning, 
and  one  of  its  good  qualities  is,  it  is  a  regular  bearer  every  year,  and  a  fine, 
thrifty  grower.  Hundreds  of  barrels  have  been  sold  from  this  vicinity  this 
year,  and  we  are  all  of  one  mind,  that  it  is  the  most  productive,  and  will  sell 
for  the  largest  price  per  barrel  of  any  market  apple  that  is  raised  in  this 
vicinity.  Dealers  realized  four  and  five  dollars  per  barrel  last  fall.  The  apple 
is  one  of  those  crimson  red  with  yellow  ground  that  attracts  the  eye,  and  its 
color  v/ill  not  disappoint  you  when  you  come  to  eat  it.  Its  very  agreeable 
perfumed  flavor  is  equal  to  the  Swaar.  It  wants  gathering  ten  to  fifteen  days 
before  the  Baldwin  or  Greening,  and  if  carefully  done,  will  keep  good  until 
the  first  of  May." 

The  first  published  description  of  the  variety  which  we  have  found  is  that 
given  in  the  New  Genesee  Farmer  in  1842,  under  the  name  of  King  Apple  (i). 
The  earliest  mention  which  we  find  of  the  propagation  of  this  variety  by 
nurserymen  is  the  statement  made  by  Ellwanger  and  Barry  of  Rochester, 
N.  Y.,  in  1845,  that  they  had  trees  of  it  for  sale  (3).  In  1848  T.  C.  Maxwell 
and  Brothers  of  Geneva,  N.  Y.,  began  to  propagate  it  extensively  and  were 
active  in  disseminating  it.  Thomas,  in  1848,  described  it  under  the  name  of 
King  and  stated  that  it  was  cultivated  in  Tompkins  and  Cayuga  counties  but 
not  widely  spread  (4).  In  1849  Cole  mentioned  it  under  the  name  of  King 
from  Ellwanger  and  Barry,  and  in  1851  Emmons  described  it  as  the  Winter 
King  from  Tompkins  county  (5,  6).  In  1856  the  American  Pomological 
Society  at  its  Rochester  meeting  included  this  variety  in  its  catalogue  under 
the  name  of  Tompkins  King,  using  the  word  Tompkins  to  distinguish  it  from 
other  varieties  which  were  then  known  under  the  name  King. 

During  the  last  sixty  years  its  cultivation  has  extended  through  New  Eng- 
land, portions  of  Canada,  Michigan,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania  and  Ohio.  It 
has  practically  failed  to  establish  itself  in  the  Mississippi  valley  but  is  quite 
well  known  on  the  Pacific  Coast,  from  Washington  southward  into  California. 


\ 


TWENTY-OUNCE  PIPPIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  349 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  spreading,  open ;  lateral  branches  rather  slender  and 
somewhat  drooping.  Tivigs  long  to  above  medium,  curved  or  irregularly 
crooked,  moderately  stout  with  thick  tips;  internodes  long  to  below  medium. 
Bark  dark  brownish-red  mingled  with  yellowish-green,  lightly  mottled  with 
scarf-skin ;  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  dull  but  conspicuous,  numerous,  large 
to  small,  roundish  to  oblong,  raised.  Buds  prominent,  large,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse  to  acute,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  pretty  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Form  roundish 
to  somewhat  oblate,  sometimes  slightly  inclined  to  conic,  regular  or  obscurely 
ribbed.  Stem  short  to  rather  long,  often  stout,  sometimes  thick  and  swollen. 
Cavity  medium  to  rather  large,  obtuse  to  acute,  moderately  deep  to  rather 
shallow,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  often  gently  furrowed  or  wavy, 
occasionally  lipped,  often  russeted,  sometimes  with  fine  outspreading  russet. 
Calyx  medium  to  rather  large,  closed  or  some.what  open;  segments  long, 
"acuminate.  Basin  small  to  medium,  varying  from  narrow,  shallow  and  rather 
obtuse  to  moderately  wide,  rather  deep  and  abrupt,  regular  or  sometimes 
obscurely  ridged  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth  or  somewhat  roughened  with  russet  dots,  fine  yellow  mottled 
and  washed  with  orange  red,  often  shading  to  lively  deep  red,  striped  and 
splashed  with  bright  carmine.  Dots  rather  numerous,  conspicuous,  white  or 
russet.  Prevailing  color  attractive  red  over  yellow. 

Caly^:  tube  small  to  above  medium,  cone-shape  to  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  marginal. 

Core  below  medium  to  rather  large,  abaxile  to  nearly  axile;  cells  sym- 
metrical, closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping  the 
apex  of  the  tube  when  it  is  cone-shape  or  the  limb  when  it  is  funnel-shape. 
Carpels  roundish  to  somewhat  ovate  or  obovate,  tufted,  mucronate,  but  slightly 
emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  few,  rather  large,  long,  irregular,  obtuse  to  some- 
what acute,  often  abortive,  somewhat  tufted. 

Flesh  attractive  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  crisp,  tender,  aromatic,  juicy,  sub- 
acid,  very  good  to  best. 

TWENTY  OUNCE  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:140.  2.  Thomas,  1849:153.  3.  Emmons, 
Nat.  Hist..N.  Y.,  3:21,  33.  1851.  fig.  4.  Ib.,  3:64.  1851.  fig.  5.  Elliott,  1854: 
126.  6.  Warder,  1867:461.  7.  Downing,  1869:113.  8.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc. 
Rpt.,  1890:290.  9.  Woolverton,  Ont.  Fr.  Stas.  An.  Rpt.,  2:8.  1895.  fig-  IO- 
Ib.,  3:3.  1896.  figs. 

SYNONYMS.  CABASHEA  (7,  8,  9,  10).  KING  (4).  King  (7).  Oxheart. 
Not  TWENTY  OUNCE  (2,  5,  6,  9,  10). 

Attractive  in  appearance,  but  second  or  third  rate  in  quality.  In 
season  about  with  Tompkins  King.  It  is  grown  commercially  to  a 
limited  extent  and  some  find  it  profitable,  but,  generally  speaking,  it 
is  not  a  favorite  with  fruit  growers.  Undoubtedly  there  would  be 


350  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

fewer  trees  of  it  growing  to-day  had  it  not  sometimes  been  purchased 
by  mistake  for  the  true  Twenty  Ounce.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous 
grower,  hardy,  healthy  and  long-lived,  but  often  it  is  not  a  satis- 
factory cropper.  The  fruit  is  large,  noticeably  heavy  and  apt  to  drop 
from  the  tree. 

Historical.  The  origin  of  this  variety  is  uncertain.  So  far  as  we  can  learn 
it  has  always  been  commonly  known  to  fruit  growers  and  fruit  buyers  by  the 
name  Twenty  Ounce  Pippin  and  doubtless  will  continue  to  be  so  known  as 
long  as  it  remains  in  cultivation.  Occasionally  it  has  been  grown  under  the 
name  King.  It  should  be  remarked,  however,  that  it  is  quite  distinct  from 
Tompkins  King.  It  is  known  locally  as  Oxheart. 

Thomas  in  1849  (2)  recognized  it  as  less  desirable  than  the  Twenty  Ounce. 
Elliott  (5)  and  Warder  (6)  adopted  the  name  Caynga  Red  Streak  for  the 
Twenty  Ounce  hoping  thereby  to  prevent  their  readers  from  confusing  its 
name  with  that  of  Twenty  Ounce  Pippin.  Downing  (7)  added  to  the  con- 
fusion by  applying  the  name  Cabashea  to  the  Twenty  Ounce  Pippin  which  name 
had  already  been  given  to  a  fall  variety,1  and  was  so  recognized  by  Thomas, 
Emmons  and  Warder.  This  fall  Cabashea  comes  in  season  about  with  the 
true  Twenty  Ounce  but  is  quite  distinct  from  that  variety. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  spreading  or  somewhat 
drooping.  Tzvigs  medium  to  long,  moderately  stout  to  stout;  internodes  short. 
Bark  dark  brownish-red,  mottled  with  scarf-skin;  pubescent.  Lenticels 
numerous,  moderately  conspicuous,  round,  raised.  Buds  large,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse,  appressed,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  noticeably  heavy.  Form  variable,  somewhat 
oblate  to  globular  with  flattened  base,  often  slightly  inclined  to  conic,  pretty 
regular  but  often  somewhat  elliptical  or  obscurely  ribbed ;  sides  frequently  a 
little  unequal.  Stem  usually  short  and  thick  to  sometimes  moderately  thick 
and  of  medium  length.  Cavity  medium  or  below,  acute  to  nearly  obtuse,  mod- 
erately shallow  to  deep,  wide,  somewhat  furrowed,  sometimes  lipped,  bright 
deep  green  with  elongated  whitish  dots,  often  partly  russeted  and  with  out- 
spreading russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes 
separated  at  the  base,  wide,  nearly  flat  or  somewhat  reflexed,  pubescent. 
Basin  below  medium  to  large,  shallow  to  moderately  deep,  obtuse  to  some- 
what abrupt,  irregularly  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  smooth,  clear  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  in  highly 
colored  specimens  largely  washed,  mottled  and  blushed  with  bright  deep  red 
striped  and  splashed  with  carmine.  Dots  numerous,  small  or  narrow  and 
elongated,  moderately  conspicuous,  often  submerged  or  depressed,  whitish, 
sometimes  with  russet  point.  When  well  grown  the  general  appearance  is 
decidedly  attractive  and  the  color  is  somewhat  like  that  of  the  Baldwin, 
particularly  about  the  base. 

Calyx  tube  short,  varying  from  funnel-shape  with  wide  limb  to  obtuse  cone- 
shape.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

*N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1849 :3So. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  351 

Core  medium  to  rather  large,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  usually  symmetrical 
and  closed,  sometimes  open ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels 
broadly  roundish  or  inclined  to  ovate  or  to  obcordate,  slightly  emarginate, 
tufted.  Seeds  few,  often  abortive ;  when  well  developed  they  are  medium  to 
large,  rather  long,  plump,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse,  sometimes  tufted, 
medium  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  coarse,  rather  tender,  rather  crisp 
or  breaking,  moderately  juicy,  sprightly  subacid  with  a  peculiar  but  not  high 
flavor,  fair  or  sometimes  nearly  good  in  quality. 

Season  October  to  January  or  February. 

VANHOY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  8:356.  1889.  2.  Beach,  /&.,  15:276, 
284.  1896.  3.  Massey,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  149:318.  1898.  4.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Ed. 
Agr.  Bui,  1900:11.  5.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:194.  6.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:59.  1903.  7.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:148. 
1904.  8.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:319.  1905.  9.  J.  Van.  Lindley,  Cat. 
Pomona.  N.  C.  (cited  by  8). 

SYNONYMS.  VAN  HOY  (3).  VAN  HOY  NO-CORE  (i,  2).  Fan  Hoy  No- 
Core  (5,  8). 

As  grown  at  the  Geneva  Station,  Vanhoy  lacks  character,  being 
unattractive  in  general  appearance  and  only  fair  in  quality.  It  is 
not  desirable  for  any  purpose  and  is  remarkable  only  because  the 
core  is  small  and  usually  has  no  well-developed  seeds. 

Historical  This  is  a  variety  of  North  Carolina  origin  and  in  its  native 
state  it  is  said  to  be  a  fair  dessert  apple  with  good  market  qualities  (3,  4). 
It  is  practically  unknown  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  not  large.  Form  spreading,  rather  flat,  open. 
Twigs  below  medium  to  short,  straight,  slender  to  moderately  stout ;  inter- 
nodes  long  to  below  medium.  Bark  dark  clear  reddish-brown  with  some 
olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin,  but  slightly  pubescent  if  at  all. 
Lenticels  rather  conspicuous,  scattering,  medium  to  small,  elongated,  slightly 
raised.  Buds  large  to  below  medium,  broad,  plump,  acute  to  obtuse,  free  or 
somewhat  appressed,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium,  sometimes  large.  Form  oblate  to  roundish,  a  little  inclined 
to  conic;  axis  sometimes  oblique;  sides  often  somewhat  unequal.  Stem 
medium  to  long,  moderately  thick.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  acute  to  acumi- 
nate, moderately  narrow  to  rather  wide,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  often  com- 
pressed or  obscurely  furrowed,  sometimes  lipped,  sometimes  thinly  russeted. 
Calyx  below  medium  to  large,  closed  or  partly  open;  lobes  often  leafy,  long, 
acute  to  acuminate.  Basin  small  to  medium,  somewhat  obtuse  to  rather 
abrupt,  medium  in  width  and  depth  or  sometimes  deep,  occasionally  slightly 
furrowed. 


352  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  thick,  leathery,  smooth,  dull  yellowish-green  largely  overspread  with 
dull  red  and  marked  with  narrow,  obscure  splashes  or  stripes  of  dark  carmine. 
Dots  rather  conspicuous,  pale  yellow  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  cone-shape  to  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  small,  abaxile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  meet- 
ing or,  when  the  tube  is  cone-shape,  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  rather  flat, 
roundish  ovate  to  obcordate,  slightly  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds  few, 
rarely  plump,  wide,  rather  long,  obtuse  to  acute,  sometimes  tufted;  often  all 
are  abortive. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  yellow  or  green,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  quite  crisp, 
breaking,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  fair  quality. 

Season  at  Geneva  January  to  May. 

VIRGINIA  GREENING. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Prince,  N.  E.  Farmer,  8:1.  1829.  2.  Kenrick,  1832:60.  3. 
White,  Horticulturist,  7:319.  1852.  4.  Elliott,  1854:160.  5.  Downing,  1857: 
200.  6.  Hooper,  1857:95.  7.  Warder,  1867:416.  fig.  8.  Downing,  1869:393. 
9.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1873.  10.  Thomas,  1875:230.  n.  Barry,  1883:356. 
12.  Wickson,  1889:248.  13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:251.  14.  Budd-Hansen, 
1903:195. 

SYNONYMS.  Green  Mountain  Pippin  (8).  Ross  Greening  (8).  Virginia 
Pip  pint  (8). 

A  large,  oblate,  yellowish-green  apple  with  hard,  firm  flesh.  In  the  South, 
where  it  is  supposed  to  have  originated,  it  is  valued  as  a  late  keeper.  The 
tree  is  large,  spreading,  vigorous  and  productive.  It  is  but  little  grown  in 
this  state. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  nearly  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  oblate  or 
roundish  oblate  varying  to  roundish  conic,  regular  or  nearly  so,  symmetrical. 
Stem  medium  to  long,  moderately  slender.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  acute  to 
acuminate,  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  rather  broad,  often  slightly  furrowed, 
russeted  and  with  outspreading  russet.  Calyx  medium  or  below,  partly  open ; 
lobes  slightly  separated  at  the  base,  usually  short  and  obtuse  to  acute.  Basin 
medium  size,  usually  rather  shallow  but  varies  to  moderately  deep,  moderately 
wide,  obtuse  or  occasionally  rather  abrupt,  furrowed  obscurely  if  at  all,  slightly 
wrinkled. 

Skin  thick,  tough,  smooth  or  slightly  roughened  with  russet  dots  and  flecks, 
grass-green  sometimes  with  brownish  blush.  Dots  distinct,  usually  areolar 
with  russet  center,  whitish  or  fawn-colored  on  the  blushed  portion,  often 
irregular  toward  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  to  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 

Core  small  to  medium,  axile  or  with  a  narrow,  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis; 
cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes  slightly  open:  core  lines  meeting  the 
limb  of  the  calyx  tube  or  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  roundish  to 
broadly  obovate  or  approaching  obcordate,  deeply  emarginate,  smooth  or 
slightly  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  small,  rather  narrow,  plump,  acute  to  obtuse, 
usually  smooth. 


WABASH  RED 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  353 

Flesh  creamy  yellow  or  greenish,  very  firm,  hard,  breaking,  coarse,  moder- 
ately juicy,  mild  subacid  becoming  somewhat  sweet,  fair  to  good. 
Season  February  to  June. 

WABASH  RED. 

REFERENCES,     i.  Ar.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:223.  1892.     2.  Ib.,  13:170.  1894. 
SYNONYM.     W abash  Red  Winter  (2). 

As  grown  at  this  Station,  Wabash  Red  is  a  rather  attractive 
apple  of  fairly  good  size,  bright  color,  smooth  and  uniform  appear- 
ance and  good  dessert  quality  for  a  late-keeping  apple,  but  rather 
too  mild  in  flavor  for  most  culinary  uses.  It  has  the  merit  of 
retaining  its  texture  and  flavor  well  till  very  late  in  the  season. 
As  tested  here  the  fruit  shows  a  tendency  to  be  deficient  in  size. 
The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  is  not  slow  in  coming  into  bearing  and 
yields  moderate  to  good  crops  nearly  annually.  It  is  sufficiently 
promising  to  be  worthy  of  further  testing. 

This  is  distinct  from  Wabash  or  Wabash  Bellflower. 

Historical.  Received  in  1892  and  1894  from  Downing  and  Morris,  Clinton, 
Ind.,  for  testing  at  this  Station  (i,  2). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  upright  to  roundish,  rather  dense.  Twigs  short  to 
above  medium,  straight  or  somewhat  curved,  stout  and  with  large  terminal 
buds;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  brownish-red  mingled  with  olive- 
green,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin;  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  con- 
spicuous, quite  numerous,  small  to  medium,  roundish  or  a  little  elongated, 
slightly  raised.  Buds  medium  to  large,  broad,  plump,  obtuse,  free  or  nearly 
so,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium,  quite  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  roundish 
oblate,  a  little  inclined  to  conic,  usually  regular ;  sides  sometimes  unequal. 
Stem  short  to  above  medium,  rather  thick.  Cavity  small  to  medium,  acumi- 
nate to  nearly  obtuse,  moderately  deep  to  deep,  rather  narrow  to  moderately 
broad,  sometimes  lipped,  usually  russeted  and  with  outspreading  russet. 
Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  sometimes  separated  at 
the  base.  Basin  medium  size,  usually  shallow  and  obtuse  but  varying  to  mod- 
erately deep  and  somewhat  abrupt,  wide,  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  nearly  smooth,  bright  clear  yellow,  in  highly 
colored  specimens  largely  overspread  with  bright  red  or  orange-red  obscurely 
striped  with  darker  red.  Dots  numerous,  rather  conspicuous,  small  to  medium, 
whitish  or  pale  yellow  and  russet.  Prevailing  effect  red. 

Calyx  tube  cone-shape  to  truncate  funnel-form.     Stamens  median. 


354  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Core  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so;  cells  symmetrical,  usually  closed; 
core  lines  somewhat  clasping.  Carpels  roundish,  smooth  or  nearly  so.  Seeds 
compactly  filling  the  cells,  medium  or  above,  rather  wide,  somewhat  obtuse, 
tufted ;  often  some  are  abortive. 

Flesh  whitish  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  very  firm,  a  little  coarse,  crisp, 
not  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  pleasant,  sprightly,  good. 

Season  December  to  May. 

WAGENER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Trans.,  1847:315.  fig.  2.  Ib.,  1848:275, 
285.  figl  and  col.  pi.  frontispiece.  3.  Horticulturist,  3:95.  1848.  4.  Thomas, 
1849:173.  fig.  5.  Mag.  Hort.,  16:158.  1850.  6.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y., 
3:73.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  41.  7.  Elliott,  1854:114.  fig.  8.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1856.  9.  Downing,  1857:110.  fig.  10.  Hooper,  1857:95.  n.  Horticulturist, 
17:150.  1862.  12.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  29:261.  1863.  fig.  13.  Warder,  1867: 
490.  fig.  14.  Waring,  Mich.  Pom.  Soc.  Rfit.,  1871  :4O.  15.  Wagener,  Ib.,  1872 : 
454.  fig.  16.  Fitz,  1872:175.  17.  Barry,  1883:356.  18.  Rural  N.  Y.,  47:749. 
1888.  19.  Wickson,  1889:248.  20.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:298. 
21.  Can.  Hort.,  14:91,  131.  1891.  22.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  23.  Can. 
Hort.,  16:406.  1893.  24.  Rural  N.  Y.,  56:317,  359.  1897.  25.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta. 
Bui,  61:32.  1897.  26.  Ib.,  Rpt.,  14:311.  1901.  27.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui., 
130:125.  1901.  28.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:195.  fig.  29.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S. 
B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:59.  1903.  30.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:148. 
1904. 

Wagener,  at  its  best,  is  an  apple  of  superior  excellence.  The  color 
is  a  beautiful  bright  red  with  some  contrasting  pale  yellow ;  it  has 
fine  texture,  high  flavor  and  excellent  quality.  It  is  very  desirable 
for  culinary  uses  but  is  especially  esteemed  for  dessert.  It  is  in 
season  about  with  Tompkins  King  or  from  October  to  February, 
yet  often  some  portion  of  the  fruit  may  be  kept  in  ordinary  storage 
till  late  spring.  Its  commercial  limit  is  December,  or,  in  cold 
storage,  about  February  ist.  It  does  not  stand  heat  well  before 
going  into  storage  and  is  quite  apt  to  scald  toward  the  close  of  the 
season,  particularly  if  not  well  colored.  After  scalding  it  goes  down 
quickly  (29,  30).  Often  there  is  some  loss  from  drops,  especially 
if  the  crop  is  not  picked  as  soon  as  it  is  well  colored,  and 
many  times  there  is  a  rather  high  percentage  of  loss  in  fruit 
that  is  unmarketable  because  it  is  undersized  or  misshapen.  In 
the  nursery  Wagener  is  a  pretty  good  grower,  upright  and  well- 
formed ;  in  the  orchard  it  is  quite  vigorous  at  first,  but  as  it 
advances  in  maturity  it  usually  becomes  a  rather  weak  grower,  with 
branches  full  of  fruit  spurs.  It  comes  into  bearing  at  an  early  age 
and  so  long  as  it  remains  healthy  it  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding 


WAGENER 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  355 

moderate  to  rather  heavy  crops  biennially  or  nearly  annually.  In 
many  cases  it  overbears  so  that  the  fruit  does  not  all  develop  prop- 
erly in  size  and  color.  Under  such  circumstances  it  is  a  great 
advantage  to  thin  the  fruit.  To  get  best  results  the  thinning  should 
be  done  as  early  as  June.  Under  favorable  conditions  the  crop  is 
pretty  uniform  in  size,  color  and  quality. 

The  tree  is  often  short-lived,  but  some  report  that  it  is  longer- 
lived  when  top-worked  upon  hardier  and  more  vigorous  stock  such 
as  Northern  Spy,  Baldwin  and  Tolman  Sweet.  On  account  of  its 
dwarfish  form  and  habit  of  coming  into  bearing  at  an  early  age  it 
is  recommended  by  some  fruit  growers  as  a  filler  to  plant  between 
the  rows  of  longer-lived  apple  trees.  Some  fruit  growers  consider 
it  a  profitable  variety,  but  many  do  not.  Although  it  was  introduced 
about  a  half  century  ago  and  it  is  now  sufficiently  well  known  so 
that  it  may  perhaps  be  regarded  as  a  standard  market  variety,  yet 
it  has  not  established  itself  to  any  considerable  extent  in  the  com- 
mercial orchards  of  this  state  and  is  not  being  extensively  planted. 

.  Historical.  The  first  published  reference  to  the  Wagener  which  we  find  is 
that  given  in  the  Report  of  the  N.  Y.  State  Agricultural  Society  for  1847, 
in  which  it  is  stated  that  it  was  awarded  second  premium  as  a  seedling  of 
merit  (i).  In  1848  it  was  again  presented  for  competition  and  was  placed  by 
the  committee  in  the  list  of  first-class  apples,  awarded  an  additional  premium 
and  also  a  diploma.  An  illustrated  description  of  it  was  published  in  the 
report  of  this  Society  for  that  year  with  the  remark  "  This  very  fine  apple  the 
committee  consider  a  desirable  addition  to  the  list  of  first-rate  fruits.  Its 
appearance  is  prepossessing  as  is  also  its  size  and  form"  (2).  An  account 
of  the  history  of  Wagener  was  also  given  in  which  it  was  stated  that 
in  the  spring  of  1791  Mr.  George  Wheeler  brought  with  him  from  Dover, 
Dutchess  county,  N.  Y.,  to  Penn  Yan,  Yates  county,  a  quantity  of  apple 
seeds  which  he  sowed  that  spring  in  the  nursery  upon  his  farm  which 
he  was  then  reclaiming  from  the  wilderness.  In  1796  Abraham  Wagener, 
from  whom  the  name  of  the  apple  is  derived,  bought  this  seedling  nursery 
and  planted  trees  from  it  upon  his  place  in  what  is  now  the  village  of 
Penn  Yan.  In  1848  it  was  remarked  that  the  old  tree  was  producing  an 
annual  and  abundant  yield  of  beautiful  and  delicious  fruit  (2).  It  continued 
to  bear  full  crops  till  about  the  year  1865  (15).  After  it  was  brought  to 
the  notice  of  the  State  Agricultural  Society,  the  Wagener  soon  began  to  be 
propagated  quite  extensively  and  it  has  since  become  widely  disseminated 
throughout  the  country.  In  1892  Wagener  was  being  offered  quite  generally 
by  nurserymen  throughout  the  country  except  in  the  North  Mississippi  valley, 
the  Rocky  Mountain  region  and  the  plains  from  Nebraska  to  Texas  (22). 
It  is  generally  known  throughout  New  York  but  is  not  planted  extensively 
in  any  section  of  the  state. 


356  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

TREE. 

Tree  dwarfish  to  medium  size,  at  first  moderately  vigorous  but  soon  becom- 
ing a  slow  grower ;  branches  short,  stout  and  filled  with  spurs.  Form  roundish 
to  spreading,  open.  Twigs  short  to  medium,  often  somewhat  curved,  moder- 
ately stout,  usually  quite  blunt ;  internodes  medium  to  short.  Bark  clear  dark 
reddish-brown  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with  scarf-skin ; 
pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  scattering,  medium  or  below,  elongated  or 
sometimes  roundish,  not  raised.  Buds  medium  to  rather  large,  sometimes 
projecting,  plump,  acute,  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  rather  large.  Form  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  broadly 
ribbed  or  irregularly  elliptical ;  sides  often  unequal.  Stem  short  to  moderately 
long,  moderately  thick  to  rather  slender.  Cavity  variable,  acute,  moderately 
deep  to  deep,  broad  or  sometimes  compressed  and  rather  narrow,  often  angular 
or  furrowed,  sometimes  thinly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or 
partly  open ;  lobes  small,  usually  short,  acute  to  acuminate,  connivent,  reflexed. 
Basin  medium  in  width  and  depth,  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  glossy,  bright  pinkish-red  striped  with  bright 
carmine  and  mottled  and  streaked  with  thin  whitish  scarf-skin  over  a  clear, 
pale  yellow  background.  Dots  numerous,  whitish  or  russet,  sometimes  mingled 
with  light  russet  flecks.  Prevailing  color  bright  light  red. 

Calyx  tube  long,  rather  narrow,  funnel-form,  often  elongated  and  extending 
to  the  core.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  below  medium  to  moderately  large,  somewhat  abaxile  with  hollow 
cylinder  in  the  axis,  varying  to  nearly  axile ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  open ; 
core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  broadly  roundish  or  approach- 
ing elliptical,  but  little  emarginate  if  at  all,  smooth  or  nearly  so,  mucronate. 
Seeds  moderately  numerous,  rather  small  to  above  medium,  short  to  moder- 
ately long,  moderately  wide,  obtuse,  rather  light  brown ;  often  some  are 
abortive. 

Flesh  whitish  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  moderately  firm,  rather  fine- 
grained, crisp,  tender,  juicy  to  very  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic,  sprightly,  very 
good  to  best. 

Season  October  or  November,  to  February  or  later. 

WALBRIDGE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Rural  N.  Y.,  1870:204,  205.  fig.  2.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1873.  3-  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1875:36,  68,  124;  Cat.:  8.  4.  Downing,  1876:50 
app.  fig.  5.  ///.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1877:213.  6.  Burrill,  Ib.,  1878:226.  7.  la. 
Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1882:343.  8.  Gibb,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1883:124.  9. 
Thomas,  1885:527.  10.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  n.  Ib.,  1892:238.  12. 
Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1894:136.  13.  Can.  Hort.,  17:69,  70.  1894.  14. 
Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  13:592.  1894.  *5-  Maynard,  Putnam  and  Fletcher, 
Mass.  Sta.  Bui,  44:4.  1897.  16.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1897:15.  17.  Waugh, 
Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:311.  1901.  18.  Craig,  Can.  Hort.,  24:76.  1901.  fig. 
19.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1902:96.  20.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta. 
Bui.,  106:56.  1902.  21.  Hansen,  6".  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:112.  1902.  fig.  22.  Budd- 


WALBRIDGE 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  357 

Hansen,   1903:196.  fig.     23.  Powell  and  Fulton,   U.  S.   B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  48:59. 
1903.     24.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:149.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Edgar  County  Red  Streak  (7,  8).  EDGAR  REDSTREAK  (2,  n). 
Edgar  Redstreak  (9,  17,  21,  22).  EDGAR  RED  STREAK  (4).  Edgar  Red  Streak 
(16).  Kentucky  Red  Streak  (7).  Walbridge  ,(4).  WALLBRIDGE  (13,  20). 

The  accompanying  colored  plate  shows  the  whole  fruit  of  Wai- 
bridge.  The  section  is  shown  on  the  same  plate  as  that  w.hich  shows 
the  whole  fruit  of  Rambo. 

Fruit  red-striped,  rather  attractive  when  well  colored,  good  for 
culinary  purposes,  but  not  equal  to  standard  varieties  of  its  season 
for  dessert  use.  Season,  November  to  February  or  March.  Com- 
mercial limit,  in  ordinary  storage,  February ;  in  cold  storage,  April 
or  May  (23,  24).  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree  so  that  there  is 
little  loss  from  drops,  but  often  a  comparatively  large  amount  of  it 
is  undersized,  misshapen  or  otherwise  unmarketable.  This  variety 
has  been  planted  to  a  considerable  extent  in  Wisconsin,  Iowa  and 
adjacent  portions  of  the  Mississippi  valley  and  has  been  grown 
quite  successfully  in  many  localities  in  that  region.  It  appears  to 
be  less  well  adapted  to  New  York  conditions  and  is  of  comparatively 
little  value  for  planting  in  this  state.  The  tree  makes  a  good  growth 
in  the  nursery.  In  the  -orchard  it  is  moderately  vigorous,  comes 
into  bearing  rather  young  and  yields  full  crops  biennially. 

Historical.  The  first  description  of  this  variety  which  we  have  been  able 
to  find  is  a  very  good  one  which  appeared  in  the  Rural  New  Yorker  for  1870 
under  the  name  Walbridge  (i).  It  was  disseminated  from  Wisconsin  under 
the  name  Walbridge  and  has  long  been  in  cultivation  under  this  name  (4,  6). 
The  American  Pomological  Society  listed  it  as  Walbridge  in  1873  (2),  but 
at  the  following  meeting  of  the  Society  in  Chicago,  in  1875,  it  was  decided  that 
it  was  identical  with  Edgar  Red  Streak  which  originated  with  Joseph  Curtis, 
Paris,  Edgar  county,  111.,  in  1818  (3),  and  accordingly  it  was  entered  on  the 
Society's  Catalogue  as  Edgar  Red  Streak  with  Walbridge  as  a  synonym. 
It  continued  to  be  thus  listed  until  1897  when  the  popular  name  Walbridge 
was  finally  accepted  by  the  Society  (16). 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  becoming  round- 
ish or  spreading,  open.  Twigs  medium  to  long,  usually  curved,  moderately 
stout,  with  large  terminal  buds;  internodes  short  to  medium.  Bark  moder- 
ately dark  reddish-brown,  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly  streaked  with 
scarf-skin;  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  small  to  medium,  round 
to  oblong,  not  raised.  Buds  prominent,  medium  to  rather  large,  broad,  plump, 
obtuse,  free  or  nearly  so,  pubescent. 


358  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  sometimes  nearly  large  but  usually  medium  or  below.  Form  roundish 
conic,  flattened  at  the  base,  varying  to  roundish  or  to  oblate  conic,  often  one- 
sided. Stem  short  to  medium.  Cavity  medium,  acute  to  acuminate,  deep  to 
moderately  deep,  rather  narrow  to  broad,  symmetrical,  furrowed  gently  if  at 
all,  sometimes  partly  covered  with  fine  russet.  Calyx  small,  usually  closed, 
pubescent.  Basin  small,  characteristically  shallow  or  scarcely  at  all  depressed, 
often  oblique,  somewhat  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thin,  tough,  smooth,  green  becoming  clear  pale  yellow  or 
whitish,  washed  with  red,  conspicuously  mottled  and  striped  with  bright  car- 
mine and  overspread  with  thin  bloom.  Dots  numerous,  often  submerged, 
sometimes  whitish  and  rather  conspicuous ;  a  few  are  russet.  Prevailing  effect 
in  well-colored  specimens,  striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  long,  narrow,  cone-shape  to  truncate  funnel-form  j&ith  fleshy 
pistil  point  projecting  into  base.  Stamens  median  to  marginal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  abaxile  with  a  wide,  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis,  or 
sometimes  axile;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes  partly  open;  core 
lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  broadly  roundish,  emarginate, 
mucronate.  Seeds  few,  dark,  below  medium  to  rather  large,  moderately  wide, 
obtuse  to  somewhat  acute. 

Flesh  whitish  a  little  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine  to  a  little 
coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  rather  mild  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic,  fair  to  good  in  flavor  and  quality. 

WALKER  BEAUTY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:223.  1892.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:252.  3.  Smith  Co.,  W.  and  T.,  Cat.,  1897:14.  4.  Farrand,  Mich.  Sta. 
Bui.,  205:47.  1903.  5.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  56:223.  1905. 

DOUBTFUL  REFERENCES.  6.  ?  Warder,  1867:735.  7.  ?  White,  Card,  for  the 
South,  1868:349.  8.  ?  Downing,  1869:395.  9.  ?  Thomas,  1875:515. 

SYNONYMS.  WALKER  (4,  5).  Walker's  Beauty  (5).  WALKER  YELLOW  (7, 
8,  9)  ?  Walker's  Winter  (6)  ? 

Fruit  predominantly  yellow,  rather  attractive  in  color  but  not  very  uniform 
in  size  or  shape  and  rather  too  acid  in  flavor  to  be  acceptable  for  dessert. 
As  tested  at  this  Station  the  tree  is  a  good  grower,  comes  into  bearing  rather 
young  and  is  an  annual  cropper  but  not  very  productive.  In  the  nursery  the 
tree  makes  a  fine  upright  growth  but  it  is  somewhat  subject  to  bark-splitting 
in  the  spring. 

Historical.  Received  in  1892  from  W.  and  T.  Smith,  Geneva,  N.  Y.,  for 
testing  at  this  Station  (i).  Walker  Beauty  is  reported  to  have  originated  in 
Allegheny  county,  Pa.  (3),  but  we  have  been  unable  to  verify  this  statement. 
The  fruit  corresponds  closely  with  Downing's  brief  description  of  Walker 
Yellow,  a  native  of  Pulaski  county,  Ga.  (8).  Thus  far  it  has  been  dissemi- 
nated but  little  in  New  York. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous;  branches  long,  slender,  curved.  Form  upright  or  roundish, 
dense.  Tivigs  moderately  long,  curved,  slender;  internodes  medium.  Bark 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  359 

brown  tinged  with  olive-green,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  pubescent. 
Lenticels  quite  numerous,  small,  oblong,  not  raised.  Buds  set  deeply  in  the 
bark,  medium  in  size,  plump,  obtuse,  appressed,  slightly  pubescent 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  variable  in  size  and  form,  usually  medium  to  rather  large.  Form 
roundish  conic  varying  to  somewhat  oblong  or  sometimes  a  little  oblate,  often 
distinctly  inclined  to  conic,  regular  to  irregularly  elliptical,  sometimes  obscurely 
ribbed ;  sides  unequal.  Stem  short  to  medium,  slender  to  moderately  slender, 
sometimes  swollen,  pubescent,  usually  with  a  distinct  reddish  tinge  on  one 
side.  Cavity  medium  in  size,  acute  varying  to  somewhat  acuminate  or  some- 
times to  obtuse,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  deep  to  moderately  shallow,  often 
compressed  and  furrowed,  sometimes  partly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium, 
closed  or  partly  open ;  lobes  rather  leafy,  medium  to  long,  acute.  Basin  small 
to  medium,  varying  from  medium  in  width  and  depth  to  narrow  and  moder- 
ately shallow,  abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled,  often  compressed. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  tough,  smooth,  clear  yellow  usually  more  or  less 
blushed  and  sometimes  with  a  distinctly  red  cheek  with  a  few  obscure  car- 
mine stripes,  sometimes  marked  with  suture  line.  Dots  numerous,  inconspicu- 
ous, small,  green  or  whitish,  often  submerged,  sometimes  with  fine  russet 
point.  Prevailing  effect  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  rather  large,  conical  varying  to  funnel-form.  Stamens  median 
or  below. 

Core  small  to  medium,  usually  axile  but  varying  to  somewhat  abaxile ;  cells 
symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels 
roundish  to  elongated,  slightly  emarginate,  mucronate.  Seeds  below  medium 
to  above,  smooth,  plump,  wide,  obtuse  to  somewhat  acute,  rather  dark  brown. 

Flesh  whitish  with  yellow  tinge,  firm  or  very  firm,  moderately  coarse,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  very  brisk  subacid,  too  acid  for  dessert,  good. 

Season  November  to  April. 

WALLACE  HOWARD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1881:66.  2.  Ib.,  1883:93.  3.  /&.,  1887: 
93.  4.  Rural  N.  Y.,  46:751.  1887.  5.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  6.  Taylor, 
U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1893:288.  7.  Thomas,  1897:658.  8.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y. 
Sta.  Bui.,  248:149.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     BOATMAN'S  SEEDLING  (i,  2). 

Fruit  of  pretty  good  size  and  attractive  color,  but  the  flesh  lacks 
character.  Suitable  only  for  dessert  use.  As  tested  at  this  Station 
the  tree  is  a  pretty  good  grower,  comes  into  bearing  rather  young 
and  yields  moderate  to  good  crops  nearly  annually,  but  the  fruit 
is  not  specially  desirable  for  either  home  use  or  market.  It  is  not 
recommended  for  planting  in  New  York.  As  grown  in  the  South 
it  has  been  called  a  magnificent  fruit  of  best  quality  ( i )  and  one  of 
the  finest  apples  cultivated  in  that  region  (3). 


360  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Historical.  Originated  from  seed  by  Robert  Boatman,  Dillon,  Walker 
county,  Ga.,  on  the  Lookout  Mountain  Range  and  first  described  as  Boatman's 
Seedling  (i).  It  was  afterwards  called  Wallace  Howard  by  the  Atlanta 
Pomological  Society,  in  honor  of  Reverend  Wallace  Howard  of  Georgia 
(2,  6). 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  to  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading  to  roundish, 
rather  dense.  Twigs  short,  generally  straight,  stout  or  moderately  stout,  with 
large  terminal  buds ;  internodes  short  or  below  medium.  Bark  brown  or 
reddish-brown  with  some  olive-green,  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  pubes- 
cent. Lenticels  rather  conspicuous,  numerous,  medium  size,  roundish  or  oval, 
slightly  raised.  Buds  prominent,  medium  to  large,  broad,  plump,  acute,  free 
or  nearly  so,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  or  roundish  oblong,  often  somewhat  flattened  at  the  base  and  in- 
clined to  conic;  axis  sometimes  oblique;  sides  often  unequal.  Stem  short  to 
medium,  rather  slender.  Cavity  acuminate  or  somewhat  acute,  deep,  some- 
times compressed  and  rather  narrow  but  more  often  wide,  often  gently  fur- 
rowed, sometimes  lipped,  usually  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or 
partly  open;  lobes  often  long,  narrow,  acuminate.  Basin  rather  small,  often 
oblique,  sometimes  with  decided  protuberance  above  one  side,  narrow,  varying 
from  very  shallow  to  moderately  shallow  and  abrupt,  often  distinctly  furrowed, 
wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth  or  roughened  with  russet  dots  and  flecks,  yellow  nearly  over- 
spread with  orange-red  mottled  and  distinctly  striped  with  bright  carmine. 
Dots  numerous,  conspicuous,  gray  or  russet,  rather  large.  Prevailing  effect 
striped  red. 

Calyx  tube  rather  small,  rather  narrow,  short,  cone-shape  varying  to  trun- 
cate funnel-form  with  fleshy  pistil  point  projecting  into  the  base.  Stamens 
marginal. 

Core  rather  small  to  above  medium,  axile  or  somewhat  abaxile  with  a  hollow 
cylinder  in  the  axis ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel 
cylinder.  Carpels  rather  flat,  roundish  ovate,  but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all, 
somewhat  tufted.  Seeds  numerous,  small  to  medium,  moderately  wide,  rather 
short,  plump,  obtuse,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  a  little  coarse,  crisp,  moderately  tender, 
rather  juicy,  mild  subacid  becoming  nearly  sweet,  somewhat  aromatic,  good. 

Season  November  to  March  (8). 

WANDERING  SPY. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  2.  Mo.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1902: 
204. 

This  variety  originated  in  the  Ozarks  with  Wyatt  Coffelt,  Mason  Valley, 
Benton  county,  Ark.  It  has  not  yet  been  fruited  to  any  considerable  extent 
outside  the  locality  of  its  origin.  As  grown  in  that  region  the  fruit  appears 
to  be  pretty  uniform  in  size,  above  the  average  of  Jonathan,  fairly  free  from 
disease  and  of  satisfactory  color  and  is  in  season  from  December  to  March. 


WANDERING  SPY 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  361 

It  is  said  to  keep  well  in  storage,  holding  firm  with  good  color  and  fine  flavor 
till  late  in  the  season. 

Stock  of  this  variety  was  received  for  testing  at  this  Station  in  1900  from 
J.  B.  Wild  &  Bros.,  Sarcoxie,  Mo.  It  has  not  yet  been  tested  here  sufficiently 
to  show  whether  it  promises  to  be  of  value  for  commercial  planting  in  New 
York.  Thus  far  the  fruit  has  not  been  nearly  so  attractive  in  color  nor  as 
good  in  quality  as  Tompkins  King,  Baldwin  or  Northern  Spy,  but  it  averages 
good  marketable  size  and  is  superior  in  quality  to  Ben  Davis  and  other  apples 
of  that  class.  It  has  been  grown  here  on  heavy  clay  loam.  It  is  quite  prob- 
able that  on  warmer,  lighter  soils  it  would  develop  better  color  and  flavor. 
The  'tree  is  a  vigorous  grower,  comes  into  bearing  early  and  gives  evidence 
of  being  a  reliable  biennial  bearer. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium  as  grown  at  this  Station.  Form  slightly  oblate  in- 
clined to  conic.  Stem  medium  to  short.  Cavity  acute  to  acuminate,  deep, 
rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  symmetrical  or  slightly  furrowed,  russeted 
and  often  with  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  partly  open, 
sometimes  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  symmetrical  or  somewhat  compressed. 

Skin  rather  thick,  tough,  dull  greenish  becoming  yellow,  blushed  with  dull 
red  sparingly  and  faintly  striped  with  dull  carmine,  in  highly  colored  speci- 
mens developing  deep  dull  red  over  a  large  part  of  the  fruit.  Dots  scattering, 
medium  to  large,  pale  gray  or  russet. 

Calyx  tube  short  cone-shape  varying  to  short  funnel-form  with  fleshy  pistil 
point  projecting  into  the  base. 

Core  medium  to  below ;  cells  closed ;  core  lines  meeting  or  slightly  clasping. 
Carpels  roundish,  deeply  emarginate.  Seeds  medium  to  large,  light  brown, 
rather  narrow,  acute. 

Flesh  whitish  or  tinged  with  green,  firm,  fine,  moderately  crisp,  very  tender, 
moderately  juicy  to  juicy,  subacid,  good. 

Season  January  to  April  or  May. 

WASHINGTON  ROYAL. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Robbins,  N.  E.  Farmer,  7:231.  1855.  2.  Downing,  1857: 
201.  3.  Warder,  1867:735.  4.  Downing,  1869:396.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1871.  6.  Thomas,  1875:515.  7.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:298.  8. 
Bailey,  An.  Hort.}  1892:246.  9.  Maynard,  Putnam  and  Fletcher,  Mass.  Sta. 
Bui.,  44:4.  1897.  10.  Waugh,  Amer.  Card.,  20:221.  1899.  fig.  n.  Van  Deman, 
Rural  N.  Y.,  60:69.  1901.  12.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:312.  1901.  13. 
Mead,  Rural  N.  Y.,  61:67.  1902.  14.  Ib.,  62:50.  1903.  figs.  15.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  BuL,  48:60.  1903.  16.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui., 
248:149.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Lock's  Favorite  (12).  PALMER  GREENING  (8,  9,  13,  14). 
Palmer  Greening  (4,  10,  11,  12,  15).  Washington  Royal  (14). 

Fruit  yellow  or  greenish  usually  somewhat  shaded  with  red, 
rather  attractive  in  color,  quite  variable  in  size,  good  in  quality 
but  mild  in  flavor  and  eventually  becoming  nearly  sweet.  More 
suitable  for  dessert  than  for  culinary  use.  As  grown  at  Geneva 


362  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

some  portion  of  the  fruit  may  often  be  kept  till  May  or  June  in 
ordinary  storage,  yet  its  season  is  so  variable  that  November  may 
be  regarded  as  the  usual  safe  commercial  limit  for  handling  this 
variety  (16).  It  is  favorably  regarded  locally  in  New  England, 
where  it  is  commonly  grown  under  the  name  Palmer  Greening 
(9,  10,  12).  Taking  all  things  into  consideration,  it  is  hardly  equal 
to  standard  varieties  of  its  season  and  is  not  recommended  for 
commercial  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Originated  in  Sterling,  Mass.  It  was  brought  to  notice  by 
Ephraim  Robbins  of  Leominster  in  1855  (i).  It  has  been  planted  but  sparingly 
in  New  York  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading  to  roundish.  Twigs  below  medium 
to  rather  long,  curved,  slender  to  moderately  stout;  internodes  medium  to 
short.  Bark  dark  brown  writh  some  green,  heavily  streaked  with  scarf-skin, 
somewhat  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  small  to  medium,  roundish,  usually 
not  raised.  Buds  medium  to  small,  broad,  rather  plump,  obtuse,  free, 
pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  or  above.  Form  a  little  oblate,  often  somewhat  ribbed,  irreg- 
ular. Stem  short  to  medium.  Cavity  medium  to  rather  large,  acuminate  to 
acute,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  broad,  often  somewhat  furrowed,  usually 
smooth  and  green.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  partly  open,  sometimes  closed ; 
lobes  erect.  Basin  moderately  shallow,  rather  narrow,  abrupt,  often  some- 
what furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  moderately  tender,  waxy,  yellow  or  greenish,  usually  with  thin 
dull  orange  blush  which  sometimes  deepens  to  clear  red.  Dots  numerous, 
whitish  or  areolar  with  russet  center,  characteristic  and  conspicuous.  Pre- 
vailing effect  rather  attractive  greenish-yellow. 

Calyx  tube  conical  to  somewhat  urn-shape  or  funnel-form.   Stamens  median. 

Core  medium  to  large,  somewhat  abaxile  to  nearly  axile ;  cells  closed  or 
partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  rather  concave, 
broadly  roundish,  emarginate.  Seeds  dark,  medium,  rather  wide,  plump, 
obtuse,  or  somewhat  acute. 

Flesh  whitish,  firm,  moderately  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid 
becoming  nearly  sweet,  somewhat  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

WATWOOD. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  187671  app.  2.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  3. 
Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:223.  1892. 

Fruit  medium  size,  rather  dull  colored,  green  or  yellowish  partly  washed  and 
splashed  with  red,  mild,  pleasant  subacid,  good  quality;  in  season  from  Decem- 
ber to  May.  It  originated  at  Blandville,  Ballard  county,  Ky.,  and  is  valued 
in  that  region  because  it  is  a  long  keeper  and  the  tree  is  a  uniformly  good 


WASHINGTON   ROYAL 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  363 

cropper.  It  was  introduced  by  W.  M.  Samuels  and  Co.,  Clinton,  Ky.,  from 
whom  it  was  received  in  1892  for  testing  at  this  Station  (3).  As  grown  here 
it  is  inferior  to  standard  varieties  of  its  season.  It  is  not  recommended  for 
planting  in  New  York. 

WELLS. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Humrickhouse,  Mag.  Hort.,  14:113.  1848.  2.  Hovey,  Ib., 
15:27.  1849.  fig.  3.  Thomas,  1849:173.  4.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:68. 
1851.  fig.  5.  Elliott,  1854:161. 

DOUBTFUL  REFERENCES.  6.  ?  Hooper,  1857:96.  7.  ?  Downing,  1857:135.  8. 
?  Warder,  1867:735. 

SYNONYMS.  APPLE  OF  THE  WELL  (4).  Cheat  (2).  DOMINE  (7,  8)  ?  English 
Rambo  of  some  (2).  English  Red  Streak  (7)  ?  English  Winter  Red  Streak 
(i,  of  some  5).  Striped  Rhode  Island  Greening  (i,  2,  5,  7?).  Wells  (7,  8)  ? 
WELLS  APPLE  (3,  6?).  Wells  Apple  (4,  5). 

This  old  variety  probably  originated  in  Maryland.  It  has  been  much  grown 
in  Central  and  Southern  Ohio  under  the  name  Wells  (5).  So  far  as  we  can 
learn  it  was  first  described  under  this  name  by  Humrickhouse  (i).  Hovey 
(2),  Thomas  (3),  Emmons  (4),  Elliott  (5),  and  Hooper  (6),  recognize 
Wells  as  the  correct  name.  Downing  in  1857  (7),  stated  that  it  was  identical 
with  Domine  as  also  did  Warder  (8),  in  1867.  In  previous  reports  from  this 
Station  we  have  accepted  the  synonymy  of  this  variety  as  given  by  Downing, 
but  if  the  opinion  expressed  in  the  following  letter  is  correct  Downing  erred 
in  publishing  Wells  as  a  synonym  of  Domine.  In  1896,  R.  J.  Black,  of 
Bremen,  Ohio,  wrote  us  as  follows:  "I  observe  that  your  reports  follow 
Downing,  Thomas  and  others  in  keeping  the  error  of  the  Ohio  Pomological 
Society,  usually  so  accurate,  in  making  Domine  and  Wells  synonymous.  They 
are  very  distinct  in  both  tree  and  fruit.  Wells  is  a  thrifty  grower  with  olive 
shoots,  spreading  and  very  twiggy,  just  the  reverse  of  Domine;  the  fruit  of 
Wells  has  more  unbroken  red  with  few  stripes  or  none.  It  was  brought  to 
this  vicinity  from  Adams  county,  Pa.,  near  the  beginning  of  the  present  century 
by  a  gentleman  named  Dittoe."  Mr.  Black  very  kindly  furnished  us  with 
stock  of  the  true  Wells  but  this  has  not  yet  come  into  bearing  in  the  Station 
orchards. 

Elliott  says  "  The  trees  grow  vigorously  with  spreading  tops  and  slender 
branches  and  bear  abundantly  every  year  but  do  well  only  on  strong  clay 
soil"  (5). 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  moderately  long,  slender,  curved  branches. 
Form  roundish,  spreading,  open.  T^vigs  long,  curved,  moderately  stout ;  inter- 
nodes  short.  Bark  dull  brown  mingled  with  more  or  less  olive-green,  heavily 
mottled  with  scarf-skin;  slightly  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels  very  scatter- 
ing, medium  in  size,  oval,  slightly  raised.  Buds  deeply  set  in  the  bark,  medium 
in  size,  broad,  flat,  obtuse,  appressed. 

FRUIT  (5). 

Fruit  "  large,  roundish,  narrowing  to  the  eye ;  yellowish  green,  streaked  and 
blotched  with  red;  calyx,  closed;  basin,  shallow;  flesh,  white,  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly,  subacid ;  '  very  good.'  Nov.  to  March." 


364  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

WESTFIELD  SEEK-NO-FURTHER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:96.  2.  N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Trans.,  1846:207. 
fig.  3.  Kirtland,  Horticulturist,  2:544.  1848.  4.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  15:26. 
1849.  fig.  5.  Thomas,  1849:175.  fig.  6.  Cole,  1849:127.  fig.  7.  Horticulturist, 
4:470.  1850.  8.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:24.  1851.  fig.  9.  Elliott,  1854: 
115.  fig.  10.  Hooper,  1857:97.  n.  Gregg,  1857:61.  12.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1862.  13.  Warder,  1867:520,  707,  708.  fig.  14.  Downing,  1869:399.  fig.  15. 
Barry,  1883:356.  16.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:298.  17.  Bailey,  An. 
Hort.,  1892:249.  18.  Ib.,  1892:252.  19.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui., 
45:311,  340,  345.  1896.  20.  Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:312.  1901.  21. 
Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1902:90.  22.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:199.  23.  Powell  and 
Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:60.  1903.  24.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui., 
248:150.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  Connecticut  Seeknofurthcr  (5).  Connecticut  Seek-No-Furthcr 
(9).  Marietta  Seek-No-Further  (3,  4).  New-England  Seeknofurther  (5). 
Red  Winter  Pearmain,  of  some  (9).  Russet  Seek-No-Further  (4).  SEEK- 
NO-FURTHER  (17).  Seeknofurther  (23).  Seek-No-Further  (4,  19,  20,  21,  of 
Connecticut  i  and  2).  WESTFIELD  (16,  20,  21,  23).  WESTFIELD  SEEK-NO- 
FARTHER  (7).  WESTFIELD  SEEK-NO-FURTHER  (i,  2,  3,  4,  6,  9,  10,  n,  12, 
13,  14,  15,  18,  19).  West-field  Seek-No-Further  (5,  8). 

Among  fruit  growers  and  fruit  dealers  this  variety  is  commonly 
called  Seek  or  Seek-No-Further  and  doubtless  will  continue  to  be  so 
called  as  long  as  it  remains  in  cultivation.  Pomologists  recognize 
Westfield  Seek-No -Further  as  the  correct  name,  thus  distinguishing 
this  from  certain  other  varieties  which  have  been  cultivated  under 
the  name  Seek-No-Further.  In  1845  Downing  observed,  "  The  Seek- 
no-further  of  New-Jersey  and  Pennsylvania  is  the  Rambo,  that  of 
some  parts  of  New-York  is  the  (American)  Domine.  The  Seek- 
no-further  of  Coxe  is  a  large,  roundish  fruit,  narrower  at  the  eye. 
Skin  smooth,  pale  yellowish-green,  or  nearly  white.  *  *  *  Ripe 
in  October,  and  will  keep  a  couple  of  months." 

Westfield  Seek-No-Further  is  an  old  favorite  dessert  apple.  It  is 
but  little  valued  for  cooking.  The  fruit  usually  averages  about 
medium  size.  It  is  not  remarkably  attractive  in  appearance,  being 
creamy-yellow  striped  with  dull  red  and  sometimes  partly  russeted, 
but  at  its  best  it  has  a  peculiarly  pleasant,  rich,  mild  subacid  flavor 
which  has  made  it  popular.  Its  season  in  ordinary  storage  is  late 
fall  and  early  winter,  but  when  properly  handled  it  may  be  held 
in  cold  storage  about  as  late  as  Baldwin.  It  stands  handling  and 
shipping  well,  but  toward  the  close  of  the  season  it  is  apt  to  shrive! 
badly,  Since  it  is  not  particularly  attractive  in  color  and  is  used 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  365 

only  for  dessert  purposes  it  commonly  finds  but  a  limited  demand 
in  general  market  and  often  brings  less  than  the  average  prices  for 
the  leading  standard  commercial  varieties  of  its  season.  It  has 
gained  the  reputation  of  being  a  very  hardy  variety,  being  superior 
to  Baldwin  and  Rhode  Island  Greening  in  this  respect,  but  its  suc- 
cessful cultivation  is  more  restricted  to  particular  districts  or  regions 
than  is  the  case  with  either  of  the  other  varieties  named.  It  does 
not  commonly  develop  as  good  color  or  quality  ori  heavy,  cold 
soils,  particularly  if  they  are  not  well  drained,  as  it  does  on  well- 
drained,  fertile,  gravelly  or  sandy  loam.  In  1854  Elliott  observed 
that  in  Ohio  and  adjoining  states  the  fruit  of  this  variety  differed 
remarkably  when  grown  in  different  regions.  He  reported  that  as 
"  grown  in  rich  loamy  alluvial  soils  of  the  South,  it  is  much  rus- 
seted,  and  about  the  stem  the  russet  has  appearance  of  rich  bronze; 
progressing  northward,  it  gradually  loses  its  russet,  until  on  light 
sandy  soils  in  Michigan,  it  becomes  a  pale-yellow  ground,  with 
stripes  and  splashes  of  clear  red  and  minute  dots." 

In  many  parts  of  New  York  it  has  not  proved  reliably  productive, 
but  in  other  regions,  particularly  in  certain  localities  in  the  Lake 
Ontario  apple  belt,  it  has  been  a  regular  and  abundant  cropper, 
developing  good  color  and  fine  flavor  and  is  still  regarded  as  a  good 
commercial  variety.  Generally  the  tree  is  very  hardy,  remarkably 
healthy  and  long-lived.  There  is  usually  little  loss  from  drops  if 
the  crop  is  picked  at  the  proper  season.  The  fruit  is  quite  uniform 
in  grade  and  the  amount  of  culls  is  comparatively  small. 

Historical.  This  old  variety  found  its  way  into  this  state  from  New  Eng- 
land with  the  early  settlers  more  than  one  hundred  years  ago.  It  was  intro- 
duced into  Ohio  from  Connecticut  as  early  as  1796  (2).  In  1846 -the  com- 
mittee of  the  New  York  State  Agricultural  Society  on  the  selection  of  the 
best  varieties  of  apples  for  cultivation  in  New  York  reported  concerning  the 
Westfield  Seek-No-Further: 

"  This  truly-  excellent  apple  originated  in  Westfield,  or  its  neighborhood,  a 
beautiful  meadow  town,  about  ten  miles  west  of  Springfield,  in  the  Connecti- 
cut valley,  in  Massachusetts.  For  many  miles  up  and  down,  and  round  about 
that  river,  it  is  the  apple,  par  excellence,  of  that  locality;  as  much  so  as  is  the 
Newtown  Pippin  on  Long  Island,  or  the  Esopus  Spitzenburgh  in  Ulster. 
Whole  orchards  are  planted  of  this  fruit,  and  no  where  does  it  flourish  in 
higher  luxuriance  and  perfection.  It  loves  a  warm,  free  soil;  is  hardy,  vigor- 
ous and  prolific.  In  flavor,  it  is  excelled  by  few  apples  whatever  for  all  house- 
hold purposes.  It  flourishes  well  in  this  State,  particularly  in  the  western 


366  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

counties.     Wherever  it  will   grow,  its  cultivation  is  recommended,  both  for 
domestic  and  market  purposes." 

It  is  generally  well  known  throughout  the  state  but  for  the  most  part  is 
found  only  in  old  orchards,  and  there  are  few,  if  any,  localities  where  its  culti- 
vation is  being  extended. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  rather  slender,  moderately  vigorous  to  vigorous. 
Form  spreading  or  roundish.  Tivigs  above  medium,  sometimes  long;  inter- 
nodes  short,  varying  from  rather  slender  to  moderately  stout.  Bark  dark 
brownish-red  or  brownish-green,  mottled  or  blotched  with  gray  scarf-skin, 
sparingly  pubescent.  Lenticels  of  a  clear  light  color,  rather  conspicuous, 
irregular  in  size  and  shape.  Buds  medium,  often  projecting,  obtuse  or  some- 
times acute,  often  not  pubescent,  free  from  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  usually  about  medium  size,  sometimes  below  medium,  sometimes 
rather  large,  uniform.  Form  usually  roundish  conical  varying  occasionally 
to  roundish  ovate  and  less  often  to  rather  oblong  conical,  regular  or  obscurely 
ribbed,  symmetrical  or  nearly  so.  Stem  medium  to  long,  rather  slender. 
Cavity  medium  in  size,  acuminate,  deep,  narrow  to  medium  in  width,  usually 
symmetrical,  russeted  and  with  some  outspreading  green  or  yellow  russet. 
Calyx  small  to  medium,  usually  partly  open ;  lobes  short,  reflexed,  obtuse  or 
acute.  Basin  small,  shallow,  narrow  to  medium  in  width,  obtuse  or  some- 
what abrupt,  sometimes  decidedly  furrowed. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  rather  deep  yellow  or  greenish,  shaded  and  splashed 
with  rather  dull  red  but  in  highly  colored  specimens  largely  overspread  with 
bright  pinkish-red,  striped  with  deep  carmine.  It  is  overspread  with  a  thin 
bloom  which  gives  it  a  somewhat  bluish  cast  but  when  polished  it  is  bright 
and  glossy.  Dots  characteristically  large  and  conspicuous,  pale  yellow,  grayish 
or  russet,  often  areolar  with  russet  center,  smaller  and  more  numerous  toward 
the  basin,  larger  and  more  scattering  and  more  often  areolar  toward  the 
cavity. 

Calyx  tube  rather  wide,  cone-shape.     Stamens  basal. 

Core  medium,  axile ;  cells  usually  symmetrical,  open ;  core  lines  meeting  or 
slightly  clasping.  Carpels  somewhat  elliptical  or  varying  to  roundish  and  ap- 
proaching truncate  at  the  base  and  narrowing  toward  the  apex,  mucronate, 
but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all.  Seeds  numerous,  rather  small  to  medium, 
plump,  acute  to  somewhat  obtuse. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  pale  yellow,  firm,  medium  in  grain  or  a  little 
coarse,  crisp,  tender,  breaking,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  rich,  sometimes  a  little 
astringent,  peculiarly  aromatic,  sprightly,  very  good  to  best. 

RED  TYPE  OF  WESTFIELD  Seek-No-Further. 

Besides  the  general  type  of  the  Westfield  Seek-No-Further  above 
described  some  growers  hold  that  there  is  a  distinct  strain  with 
characteristically  deep  red  fruit.  W.  J.  Gahan  of  Clarkson,  Monroe 
county,  N.  Y.,  reports  that  he  has  always  thought  that  there  were 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  367 

two  strains  of  this  variety — a  red  Seek-No-Further  and  a  gray  Seek- 
No-Further.  D.  D.  Stone  of  Lansing,  Oswego  county,  N.  Y.,  grows 
Westfield  Seek-No-Further  which,  as  compared  with  the  common 
type,  is  considerably  more  highly  colored,  having  more  of  a  solid 
red  color  and  being  less  noticeably  striped.  The  dots  are  decidedly 
more  conspicuous;  the  flesh  is  perhaps  more  highly  flavored  but 
otherwise  identical  with  the  common  type  as  also  are  the  core 
characters.  Mr.  Stone  reports  that  the  tree  of  the  red  type  is  of  a 
more  roundish  form,  that  of  the  common  type  more  spreading.  We 
have  not  had  the  opportunity  of  determining  whether  there  is  in  fact 
a  distinct  type  characterized  by  more  highly  colored  fruit  or  whether 
such  differences  as  are  above  mentioned  are  brought  about  altogether 
by  differences  in  the  conditions  under  which  the  fruit  is  grown. 

WHITE  PEARMAIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Trans.,  1849:124.  2.  Phoenix,  Horticul- 
turist, 4:471.  1850.  3.  Downing,  1857:110.  fig.  4.  Hooper,  1857:59,  60,  99, 
100.  5.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1858.  6.  Mag.  Hort.,  27:60,  62.  1861.  7.  Warder, 
1867:508.  8.  Thomas,  1875:232.  9.  Barry,  1883:357.  10.  Wickson,  1889:248. 
ii.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  12.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  7:47.  1894. 
13.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1897:15.  14.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui, 
106:56.  1902.  15.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:60.  1903.  16. 
Budd-Hansen,  1903:201.  fig. 

SYNONYM.  WHITE  WINTER  PEARMAIN  (i,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  n,  12, 
14).  White  Winter  Pearmain  (15,  16). 

This  is  an  old  favorite  dessert  apple  in  portions  of  the  Middle 
West  from  Ohio  to  Kansas.  It  appears  to  succeed  better  in  those 
regions  than  it  does  in  New  York.  It  is  not  recommended  for 
planting  in  this  state. 

Historical.  Warder  says  "  This  favorite  fruit  was  brought  to  Indiana  by 
some  of  the  early  pomologists,  in  the  days  of  saddle-bag  transportation.  In 
a  lot  of  grafts,  two  varieties,  having  lost  their  labels,  were  propagated  and 
fruited  without  name.  Being  considered  Pearmain-shaped,  they  were  called 
respectively  Red  and  White  Winter  Pearmains.  The  former  proved  to  be  the 
Esopus  Spitzenberg;  the  latter  has  never  yet  been  identified,  though  believed 
to  be  an  old  eastern  variety."  For  a  time  it  was  confused  with  an  old  New 
Jersey  apple  by  the  name  of  Michael  Henry  Pippin,  and  Elliott  fell  into  the 
error  of  publishing  White  Pearmain  and  White  Winter  Pearmain  as  synonyms 
of  Michael  Henry  Pippin*  but  it  was  finally  conceded  that  White  Pearmain 
and  Michael  Henry  Pippin  are  distinct  varieties  (4,  7).  In  1858  it  was  cata- 

1  Elliott,    1854 :9i. 


368  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

logued  by  the  American  Pomological  Society  as  White  Winter  Pearmain  (5). 
Since  1897  (13)  it  has  been  listed  as  White  Pearmain  but  it  is  very  doubtful 
whether  this  change  will  be  generally  accepted  by  fruit  growers  and  fruit 
dealers.  This  variety  has  been  little  grown  in  New  York  and  is  now  seldom 
or  never  planted  here. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  spreading.  Twigs  short,  stout,  blunt  at  tips,  gener- 
ally straight;  internodes  vary  from  short  to  long.  Bark  reddish-brown  over- 
laid with  heavy  scarf-skin,  quite  pubescent.  Lcnticels  conspicuous,  numerous, 
above  medium,  elongated,  raised.  Buds  large,  projecting,  acute,  quite  pubes- 
cent, free. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  below  medium  to  nearly  large,  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form 
roundish  ovate  or  roundish  approaching  oblong  conic,  varying  to  roundish 
conic,  somewhat  ribbed,  pretty  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to  long.  Cavity 
rather  small  to  above  medium,  acute,  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  broad,  some- 
what furrowed,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  medium  to  large,  usually  closed; 
lobes  long,  acute.  Basin  small  to  medium,  oblique,  shallow  and  obtuse  to 
medium  in  depth  and  rather  abrupt,  medium  in  width,  often  distinctly  fur- 
rowed, wrinkled,  pubescent. 

Skin  tough,  smooth,  slightly  waxen,  pale  yellow,  or  at  first  greenish,  with 
a  shade  of  brownish-red.  Dots  numerous,  pale  or  russet,  often  submerged, 
usually  larger  and  much  elongated  about  the  cavity. 

Calyx  tube  long,  conical. 

Core  medium  to  rather  large;  cells  closed  or  partly  open;  core  lines  some- 
what clasping.  Carpels  rather  flat,  broad  or  roundish-cordate,  emarginate, 
mucronate,  tufted.  Seeds  light  brown,  medium  to  large,  rather  wide,  plump, 
obtuse  to  acute,  tufted. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  fine-grained,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
mild  subacid,  sprightly,  very  pleasantly  aromatic,  very  good  to  best. 

Season  December  to  March. 

WHITE  PIPPIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Mag.  Hort.,  14:113,  1848.  2.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y., 
3:85.  1851.  3.  Downing,  1857:203.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1860.  5.  Mag. 
Hort.,  27:100.  1861.  6.  Warder,  1867:647.  fig.  7.  la.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1880: 
277.  8.  Barry,  1883:356.  9.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:300.  10.  Bailey, 
An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  n.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:589,  596.  1892.  12. 
Ib.,  E.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:44.  13.  Ib,  W.  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1900:37.  14.  Brackett,  Amer.  Card.,  22:191.  1901.  15.  Budd-Hansen,  1903: 
202.  fig.  16.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  182:23.  1903.  17.  Powell  and  Fulton, 
U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:60.  1903.  18.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248: 
150.  1904. 

SYNONYM.     Canada  Pippin  (3). 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  often  averaging  rather  large.  The  gen- 
eral appearance  is  good  for  a  yellow  apple.  It  is  suitable  for  home 
use  or  for  general  market  purposes.  In  ordinary  storage  it  is  in 


A 


WHITE  PIPPIN 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  369 

season  from  November  to  May  with  February  as  the  ordinary  com- 
mercial limit.  It  varies  considerably  in  keeping  qualities  in  dif- 
ferent seasons  (18).  Warder  (6)  observes  that  "in  some  of  its 
external  characters  it  more  nearly  resembles  the  Yellow  Newtown 
Pippin  than  any  other  fruit ;  but,  while  it  lacks  the  high,  spicy  flavor 
of  that  apple,  it  is  found  to  be  much  more  profitable  in  the  orchard." 
It  has  long  been  highly  esteemed  in  some  sections  of  Ohio  and  other 
portions  of  the  Middle  West.  In  Central  and  Western  New  York 
it  generally  succeeds  better  than  does  either  the  Yellow  Newtown 
or  the  Green  Newtown.  The  tree  is  a  good  thrifty  grower,  comes 
into  bearing  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  moderate  to 
good  crops  annually  or  nearly  annually.  Some  New  York  fruit 
growers  consider  it  a  profitable  commercial  variety  because  the  fruit 
is  large,  pretty  uniform,  rather  attractive  and  generally  keeps  pretty 
well.  It  is  not  recommended  for  general  planting  in  New  York. 

Historical.  Warder  remarks  that  "  the  origin  of  this  valuable  fruit  is  en- 
tirely unknown,  and  its  history  can  only  be  traced  to  the  nursery  of  Silas 
Wharton,  who  may  have  brought  it  with  him  from  the  East.  For  a  time 
some  of  our  leading  pomologists1  thought  it  was  the  Canada  Reinette,  but 
this  idea  has  long  since  been  relinquished,  and  all  agree  that  it  is  sui  generis, 
though  it  may  have  had  a  different  name."  It  has  been  grown  to  a  limited 
extent  in  some  portions  of  New  York,  but,  so  far  as  we  can  learn,  its  planting 
is  not  being  extended. 

TREE. 

Tree  large,  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading  to  roundish,  rather  dense. 
Twigs  long  to  rather  short,  straight,  moderately  slender  to  rather  stout  and 
often  very  blunt;  internodes  short.  Bark  very  dark  brown,  lightly  streaked 
with  scarf-skin,  heavily  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  large  to  medium, 
oval  or  irregular,  raised,  conspicuous.  Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  medium  to 
short,  flat,  obtuse,  more  or  less  appressed  or  sometimes  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  often  averaging  rather  large,  pretty  uniform  in  size 
and  shape.  Form  roundish  or  roundish  oblate,  inclined  to  conic,  irregular  or 
somewhat  angular,  sometimes  symmetrical.  Stem  short.  Cavity  medium  or 
above,  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  rather 
wide,  often  wavy,  sometimes  lipped,  partly  russeted  and  often  with  a  strip  of 
russet  extending  out  on  one  side.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  closed  or  partly 
open;  lobes  long,  narrow,  acuminate.  Basin  small  to  medium,  moderately 
shallow  to  medium  in  depth,  rather  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  rather  abrupt, 
usually  somewhat  furrowed  and  slightly  wrinkled. 

iSee  Elliott,  1854:72,  who  describes  Canada  Reinette  under  name  of  Canada  Pippin; 
Cole,  1849: 1 54;  Thomas,  1849: 178. 


370  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Skin  pale  yellow  or  greenish,  sometimes  blushed,  mottled  and  striped  with 
thin  brownish-red  or  brownish-pink.  Dots  small,  characteristically  whitish 
and  submerged,  or  green  with  fine  russet  point.  They  are  more  scattering, 
larger,  irregular  and  more  often  russet  toward  the  cavity.  Prevailing  color 
yellow  or  green. 

Calyx  lube  long,  narrow,  elongated  conical  to  somewhat  funnel-form. 
Stamens  median  to  nearly  basal. 

Core  small  to  medium,  somewhat  abaxile  with  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis ; 
cells  not  uniformly  developed  but  usually  symmetrical,  closed  or  sometimes 
open;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  roundish  to  somewhat  ovate  varying  to 
elongated  and  narrow,  sometimes  emarginate,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  small  to 
above  medium,  plump,  rather  narrow,  elongated,  acuminate,  medium  brown 
to  rather  dark  brown. 

Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine-grained  to  a  little 
coarse,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  good  or  sometimes  very  good. 

WILLOW. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Mag.  Hart.,  14:113.  1848.  2.  Thomas,  1849:175.  3.  Em- 
mons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:77.  1851.  fig.  4.  Elliott,  1854:164.  fig.  5.  Horticul- 
turist, 10:87.  1855.  6.  Downing,  1857:204.  7.  Hooper,  1857:96.  8.  Am.  Pom. 
Soc.  Cat.,  1860.  9.  Mag.  Hort.,  27:99.  1861.  10.  Warder,  1867:619.  fig.  u. 
Barry,  1883:357.  12.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Kpt.,  1890:300.  13.  Taylor,  Me. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1892:57.  14.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  15.  Hoskins,  Rural 
-V.  Y.,  53:310.  1894.  16.  Burrill  and  McCluer,  ///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:346.  1896.  17. 
Richman,  Utah  Sta.  Bui.,  45:17.  1896.  18.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui.,  3:27. 
1902.  19.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:205.  fig.  20.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui.,  48:61.  1903. 

SYNONYMS.  James  River  (9,  10,  12).  Willow  Leaf  (4).  WILLOW  TWIG 
(2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  n,  12,  14,  15,  17,  18).  WILLOW  Twig  (19).  Willow  Ttvig 
(i,  3,  4,  10,  16,  20). 

Willow  is  a  southern  or  semi-southern  variety.  It  has  been  cul- 
tivated chiefly  in  the  central  portion  of  the  Mississippi  valley.  Like 
many  other  southern  winter  apples  its  quality  is  not  the  best,  but 
it  is  a  good,  long  keeper.  The  tree  is  a  strong  grower  and  a  rather 
early  and  regular  bearer.  Willow  is  less  attractive  than  Ben  Davis, 
both  in  size  and  in  color,  but  after  coming  into  season  it  does  not 
become  mealy  and  deteriorate  in  quality  as  soon  as  Ben  Davis  does 
in  the  regions  where  it  is  most  popular.  Willow  has  proved  to  be 
quite  hardy  in  the  North,  but  it  requires  a  rather  long  and  favorable 
season  for  the  proper  development  of  its  fruit.  The  fruit  is  not  as 
attractive  as  that  of  the  Baldwin,  neither  is  it  as  good  in  quality, 
but  it  is  valuable  because  it  keeps  late.  When  well  grown  it  is,  on 
the  whole,  rather  attractive,  being  quite  uniform  in  size  and  shape, 


WILLOW  TWIG 


WILLOW 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  37! 

large  and  nearly  symmetrical.  The  prevailing  color,  though  some- 
what dull,  is  a  pretty  good  red  with  contrasting  green  showing 
through  the  stripes.  It  is  not  recommended  for  general  planting  in 
New  York  state. 

Historical.  The  origin  of  Willow  is  uncertain.  The  first  that  written 
pomology  knows  of  this  variety  is  that  it  was  being  grown  in  the  state  of 
Ohio  about  the  middle  of  the  last  century.  It  was  said  to  have  been  brought 
there  from  New  Jersey  (i,  4),  but  these  statements  are  hardly  convincing 
because  they  lack  definiteness.  Warder  refers  to  it  as  a  Virginia  fruit  but  the 
authority  for  the  statement  is  not  given.  Its  cultivation  gradually  spread 
from  Ohio  throughout  the  Middle  West.  The  fruit  was  found  particularly 
desirable  for  shipping  to  New  Orleans  and  other  southern  markets.  Up  to 
about  twenty  years  ago,  Willow  was  esteemed  very  highly  as  a  commercial 
variety  in  the  apple-growing  portions  of  Illinois,  Missouri,  Arkansas  and 
Kansas,  but  during  the  last  two  decades  it  has  fallen  very  much  into  disfavor 
on  account  of  its  susceptibility  to  scab,  blight,  and  bitter  rot  and  many  culti- 
vators have  gone  so  far  as  to  cut  the  trees  out  altogether  on  account  of  the 
menace  from  the  spread  of  these  diseases  to  other  varieties.  So  far  as  we 
have  learned  it  has  been  quite  free  from  disease  when  grown  in  this  state. 
It  has  been  cultivated  in  New  York  in  a  limited  way  only  and  the  planting 
of  it  does  not  appear  to  be  increasing  very  much. 

TREE. 

Tree  makes  a  poor  growth  in  the  nursery  but  under  favorable  conditions 
it  becomes  large  and  vigorous  in  the  orchard.  Form  upright  spreading  with 
terminals  drooping  on  bearing  trees.  Twigs  short  to  medium,  very  slender, 
straight,  limber ;  internodes  long.  Bark  clear  yellowish-green  or  light  reddish 
with  no  noticeable  scarf-skin ;  quite  pubescent.  Lenticels  scattering,  small, 
generally  elongated,  raised.  Buds  small  to  medium,  projecting  a  little,  moder- 
ately obtuse,  rather  pubescent,  adhering  to  the  bark. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  large  to  medium.  Form  usually  roundish  inclined  to  conic,  varying 
sometimes  to  roundish  oblate,  regular  or  faintly  ribbed,  symmetrical.  Stem 
short.  Cavity  acute,  deep,  wide,  often  irregular  or  compressed,  sometimes 
lipped,  usually  smooth  green  or  red  with  pale  dots  but  sometimes  thinly 
russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  medium  size  or  above,  mcaerately  wide 
to  wide,  irregular  or  compressed,  rather  deep,  often  abrupt,  sometimes  ridged, 
wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  pale  yellowish-green  or  dull  green  mottled  and  blushed  with 
red  and  irregularly  striped  and  splashed  with  deeper  red.  Dots  numerous, 
rather  large,  russet-gray  or  yellowish.  Prevailing  color  fairly  good  red  but 
usually -rather  dull. 

Calyx  tube  rather  long,  narrow,  funnel-shape.     Stamens  marginal  to  median. 

Core  medium  or  above,  axile ;  cells  not  uniformly  developed,  symmetrical, 
closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  thin,  tender,  rather  flat, 
broadly  roundish  narrowing  toward  the  base.  Seeds  medium  to  large,  flat, 
wide,  plump,  rather  blunt. 


372  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

Flesh  yellowish   or   greenish,  very  firm,   coarse,    crisp,   moderately   tender, 
juicy,  sprightly,  slightly  aromatic,  fair  to  good. 
Season  January  to  May. 

WILLSBORO. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1869:409.  2.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:336. 
IQ05- 

Downing  describes  this  fruit  as  medium,  yellow  mostly  overspread,  mottled 
and  marbled  with  dull  red ;  flesh  sprightly  subacid ;  season  December  to  Feb- 
ruary. Supposed  to  have  originated  at  Willsboro,  Essex  county,  N.  Y.  (i). 

WINDSOR. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1889:442.  col.  pi.  2.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1891:123.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  4.  Am.  Pom.  Soc. 
Cat.,  1897:15.  5.  Thomas,  1897:285.  fig.  6.  Hansen,  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui.,  76:115. 
1902.  fig.  7.  Can.  Hort.,  25:49.  1902.  8.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:205.  fig.  g. 
Erwin,  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1903:252.  10.  Macoun,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt., 

1903:95 

SYNONYM.     WINDSOR  CHIEF  (3,  6,  9,  10).     Windsor  Chief  (5,  8). 

On  account  of  its  superior  hardiness,  Windsor  is  regarded  as  a 
promising1  variety  for  rigorous  climates.  The  fruit  is  of  good  size, 
attractive  red  color  although  rather  dark,  pleasant  subacid  flavor  and 
good  quality.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  comes  into  bearing  rather 
early  and  is  a  reliable  cropper,  yielding  moderate  to  good  crops 
nearly  annually.  The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree.  It  is  in  season 
from  December  to  April.  It  has  not  yet  been  grown  to  any  con- 
siderable extent  in  New  York,  but  it  probably  would  never  find  more 
than  a  very  limited  demand  in  our  markets  because  its  flavor  is 
rather  too  mild  for  a  good  culinary  apple  and  it  does  not  excel 
standard  varieties  of  its  season  for  dessert  purposes. 

TREE. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading  or  roundish,  dense, 
with  laterals  inclined  to  droop.  Twigs  below  medium  to  medium  length, 
slender,  irregularly  curved ;  internodes  medium  to  long.  Bark  clear  reddish- 
brown  lightly  mottled  with  scarf-skin ;  slightly  pubescent  near  tips.  Lenticels 
inconspicuous,  rather  numerous,  small  to  medium,  round  or  somewhat  elon- 
gated, not  raised.  Buds  medium  to  small,  projecting,  plump,  acute  to  acumi- 
nate, free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  above  medium  to  below  medium.  Form  roundish  conic  varying  to 
oblate,  rather  broad,  flat  at  the  base,  often  one-sided  and  faintly  ribbed. 
Stem  medium  to  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  rather  large,  obtuse  to  some- 
what acute,  wide,  rather  deep  or  sometimes  varying  to  moderately  shallow, 


WINDSOR 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  373 

russeted  and  with  coarse  outspreading  russet  rays.  Calyx  rather  small,  closed 
or  partly  open ;  lobes  small,  connivent,  acute,  pubescent.  Basin  medium  in 
size,  abrupt,  moderately  shallow  to  rather  deep,  usually  rather  wide,  often 
somewhat  furrowed,  wrinkled. 

Skin  moderately  thick,  smooth,  somewhat  waxy,  pale  yellow  or  greenish 
blushed  with  thin  dull  red  or  in  highly  colored  specimens  predominantly  deep 
red,  sometimes  obscurely  striped  with  dull  carmine.  Dots  characteristically 
conspicuous,  usually  rather  large,  dull,  pale,  often  areolar  with  russet  center, 
sometimes  mingled  with  flecks  of  russet. 

Caly.v  tube  funnel-form.     Stamens  median  or  below. 

Core  small,  axile;  cells  not  uniformly  developed,  closed;  core  lines  clasping 
the  funnel  cylinder.  Cartels  broad  narrowing  toward  base  and  apex,  varying 
to  obcordate,  tufted.  Seeds  variable,  below  medium  to  rather  large,  moder- 
ately narrow  to  rather  wide,  obtuse  or  approaching  acute,  tufted,  light  brown. 

Flesh  nearly  white,  tinged  with  green  or  yellow,  firm,  moderately  fine- 
grained to  somewhat  coarse,  juicy,  somewhat  aromatic,  mild  subacid  becoming 
nearly  sweet,  good  to  possibly  very  good  for  dessert. 

WINE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:121.  fig.  2.  Thacher,  1822:140.  3.  (?)  Wilson, 
1828:136.  4.  Fessenden,  1828:131.  5.  Kenrick,  1832:54.  6.  Floy-Lindley, 
1833:87.  7.  Mag.  H ort.,  i  -.364.  1835.  8.  Manning,  1838:55.  9.  Ib.,  Mag.  Hort., 
7:51.  1841.  10.  Downing,  1845:143.  n.  N.  Y.  Agr.  Soc.  Trans.,  1849:354. 
fig.  12.  Thomas,  1849:175.  13.  Cole,  1849:120.  14.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist. 
N.  Y.,  3:03.  1851.  15.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  16.  Elliott,  1854:116.  fig. 
17.  Gregg,  1857:60.  18.  Hooper,  1857:43,  96.  19.  Warder,  1867:466.  20. 
Fitz,  1872:143,  150.  21.  Barry,  1883:357.  22.  Lyon,  Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt., 
1890:300.  23.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:252.  24.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893: 
134.  25.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:206.  26.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  182:23.  1903 

SYNONYMS.  Fine  Winter  (i,  2,  5,  6).  Hays  (21,  25,  26).  Hays  Apple  (5, 
n,  12,  14,  18).  Hays  Wine  (24).  Hays  Winter  (i,  2,  6,  10,  n,  12,  13,  16, 
17,  18,  19,  22).  Hays  Winter  Wine  (16).  Hollow  Crown  Pearmain  (16). 
Large  Winter  Red  (i,  2,  5).  Pennsylvania  Redstreak  (19).  Pennsylvania 
Red  Streak  (21,  24,  25).  WINE  APPLE  (i,  2,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  n,  14,  17).  Wine 
Apple  (16).  Winter  Wine  (16,  21). 

Wine  is  a  large  and  rather  attractive  red  apple  of  good  to  very  good  quality 
for  dessert  use.  It  is  in  season  from  late  October  to  March  or  April.  Coxe 
published  the  following  description  of  it  in  1817  (i).  "An  uncommonly  large, 
fair,  handsome  red  apple — the  form  is  round,  flat  at  the  ends :  the  skin  is  a 
lively  red,  streaked  and  spotted  with  a  small  portion  of  yellow :  the  stalk  end 
frequently  of  a  russet  colour,  both  ends  deeply  indented ;  the  stalk  very  short, 
the  taste  is  rich  and  pleasant,  an  admired  table  fruit,  and  excellent  for  cooking 
as  well  as  for  cider ;  it  ripens  in  October,  and  keeps  well  through  the  fall  and 
winter.  The  tree  is  uncommonly  large  and  handsome,  the  leaves  small,  it 
bears  abundantly;,  from  its  spreading  form,  it  does  not  require  much  trim- 
ming— it  is  probably  as  saleable  an  apple  as  any  sold  in  the  Philadelphia 
market:  in  the  state  and  county  of  Delaware  it  is  called  Hays  Winter;  and 
in  some  places  in  New- Jersey,  the  fine  Winter,  and  large  Winter  Re4" 


374  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

In  1849  the  Committee  on  Fruits  for  the  N.  Y.  State  Agricultural  Society 
added  Wine  to  the  list  previously  recommended  for  general  dissemination  and 
cultivation  and  gave  the  following  description  of  the  variety  (n).  "Fruit 
large ;  form  globular  and  slightly  oblate ;  color  of  a  deep  rich  red,  striped  and 
dashed  with  yellow,  often  quite  indistinctly,  and  frequently  a  yellowish  russet 
around  the  base  of  the  stem;  texture  crisp,  but  tender  and  juicy;  flesh  yellow- 
ish-white ;  flavor  rich  and  sprightly  vinous,  acid.  Core  large ;  stem  short, 
seldom  or  ever  rising  above  the  outline  of  the  fruit,  and  inserted  in  a  deep, 
round  and  smooth  cavity ;  eye  large  and  set  in  a  deep  and  broad  basin ;  season, 
ripe  in  October  and  keeps  in  fine  condition  until  March.  Its  growth  is  thrifty 
and  vigorous,  making  a  beautiful  tree,  it  is  also  hardy  and  productive,  its 
leaves  are  small  and  easily  recognized. 

"  The  Wine  apple  is  richly  entitled  to  a  place  on  our  list,  for  it  is  not  only 
beautiful  in  appearance  but  it  is  hardy,  productive  and  of  a  flavor  which  is 
peculiarly  agreeable  to  most  persons ;  it  is  also  equally  well  adapted  to  the 
dessert  and  kitchen,  and  makes  most  delicious  cider;  in  fact  we  could  not 
recommend  to  our  agricultural  population  a  more  useful  fruit.  It  originated 
in  the  State  of  Delaware  and  is  very  popular  where  well  known.  As  there  are 
many  spurious  varieties  sold  as  the  Wine  apple,  cultivators  must  be  cautious 
of  whom  they  purchase  their  trees." 

In  regions  farther  south  and  west  it  has  long  been  a  favorite  fruit  for  either 
market  or  kitchen  use  for  which  its  size  and  form  render  it  peculiarly  attrac- 
tive (19).  It  appears  less  well  adapted  to  the  conditions  existing  in  this  state 
for  although  it  has  long  been  known  here  it  has  established  itself  in  but 
comparatively  few  localities  and  is  now  seldom  if  ever  planted. 

This  is  quite  distinct  from  the  Twenty  Ounce  which  is  known  to  some  under 
the  name  of  the  Wine  Apple.  The  name  Wine  has  also  been  applied  to  two 
other  varieties.1 

WINESAP. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Coxe,  1817:153.  fig.  2.  (?)Thacher,  1822:140.  3.  Buel; 
N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:476.  4.  Wilson,  1828:136.  5.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc. 
London,  1831:39.  6.  Manning,  Mag.  Hort.,  7:50.  1841.  7.  Downing,  1845: 
143.  8.  Kirtland,  Horticulturist,  2:545.  1848.  9.  Thomas,  1849:175.  10. 
Elliott,  Horticulturist,  3:420.  1840.  u.  Cole,  1849:130.  12.  Phoenix,  Horti- 
culturist, 4:472.  1850.  13.  Emmons,  Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:68.  1851.  14.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1852.  15.  Elliott,  1854:117.  fig.  16.  Hooper,  1857:97.  17. 
Gregg,-i8s7  :6o.  18.  Mag.  Hort.  30 : 162.  1864.  19.  Warder,  1867  :546.  fig.  20. 
Downing,  1872:10,  12  index,  app.  21.  Fitz,  1872:143,  155,  172.  fig.  22.  Barry, 
I883:357.  23.  Rural  N.  Y.,  47:749.  1888.  24.  Wickson,  1889:246.  25.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:300.  26.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:589,  596. 

1892.  27.  Bailey,    An.   Hort.,    1892:252.     28.  Clayton,   Ala.   Sta.   Bui,   47:7. 

1893.  29.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1893:134.     30.  Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  An.  Rpt., 
7:46.   1894.     31.  Mathews,  Ky.  Sta.  Bui,  50:32.  1894.     32.  Rural  N.  Y.,  54: 
859-   1895.     33.  Ib.,  55:1,   51,  190,  250,  341.   1896.     34.  Burrill  and  McCluer, 
///.  Sia.  BuL,  45:346.   1896.     35.  Taylor,   U.  S.  Pom.  Bui,   7:357.   1898.     36- 
Massey,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  149:318.  1898.    37.  Van  Deman,  Rural  N.  Y.,  59:224. 

^ole,  1849:io8.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:471.  1850.  Schroeder,  Montreal  Hort,  Soc, 
Rpt.,  1886-87  76, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  375 

1900.  38.  Alwood,  Va.  Sia.  Bui,  130:138.  1901.  figs.  39.  Munson,  Me.  Sta. 
Rpt.,  1902:96.  40.  Dickens  and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui.,  106:56.  1902.  41. 
Hansen.  S.  D.  Sta.  Bui,  76:116.  1902.  42.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui,  3:26. 

1902.  43.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:206.   fig.     44.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:27. 

1903.  figs.    45.  Powell,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Yr.  Bk.,  1903:232.  col.  pi    46.  Powell 
and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:61.  1903.     47.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta. 
Bui.,  248:151.  1904.  '•  ... 

SYNONYMS.  Holland's  Red  Winter  (20).  Royal  Red  of  Kentucky  (20). 
Texan  Red  (20).  WINE  SAP  (12,  13,  15,  17,  21,  27,  28,  31).  Wine  Sop 
d5,  ?7)- 

Winesap  is  one  of  the  oldest  and  most  popular  apples  in  America. 
It  is  known  in  all  the  apple-growing  sections  from  Virginia  west- 
ward to  the  Pacific  Coast.  An  indication  of  its  popularity  may  be 
gained  from  the  fact  that  according  to  Bailey's  Inventory  (27)  there 
were,  in  1892,  seventy-three  nursery  firms  offering  Winesap  for  sale 
as  compared  with  sixty-four  firms  offering  Baldwin,  fifty-eight 
offering  Northern  Spy  and  forty-eight  offering  Rhode  Island 
Greening.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind  however  that  the  number 
of  firms  selling  a  variety  is  not  an  altogether  true  criterion  of  the 
number  of  trees  sold. 

Like  various  other  old  varieties,  Winesap  has  many  seedlings 
which  partake  more  or  less  of  the  characters  of  the  parent.  The 
best  known  of  these  are  Arkansas,  Arkansas  Black,  Paragon  and 
Stayman  Winesap. 

The  tree  is  a  rather  vigorous  though  not  particularly  rank  grower, 
comes  into  bearing  early  and  is  a  remarkably  regular  cropper.  It 
does  best  on  rather  light,  rich,  deep  soils  and  does  not  succeed  on 
heavy  clays  or  in  low,  damp  locations.  In  unfavorable  situations 
the  trees  are  apt  to  be  short-lived  and  in  New  York  are  less  hardy 
than  the  leading  commercial  varieties  of  this  region.  Although 
Winesap  is  a  well-known  market  apple,  yet  with  the  exception  of  the 
Piedmont  region  in  Virginia  and  certain  districts  elsewhere  it  has 
not  proved  generally  successful  for  the  commercial  orchard.  In 
New  York  it  seldom  reaches  good  medium  size.  In  more  southern 
latitudes  and  under  favorable  conditions  the  fruit  is  well  colored 
and  of  good  quality,  but  excepting  on  young  trees  or  on  soils  of 
more  than  average  fertility  it  averages  too  small  for  a  good  market 
variety.  When  well  grown  it  is  of  very  good  quality  and  attractive 


376  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

in  appearance,  being  quite  uniform  in  shape  and  size  and  of  good 
dark  red  color.  As  grown  at  this  Station  it  is  in  season  from 
January  to  June  with  April  as  the  ordinary  commercial  limit  (47). 
When  grown  farther  south  its  season  extends  to  February  in  ordi- 
nary storage  and  to  April  in  cold  storage.  It  is  a  good  shipper  and 
stands  heat  well  before  going  into  storage,  but  late  in  the  season  it 
often  scalds,  particularly  when  not  well  colored. 

Historical.  Nothing  definite  is  known  of  the  origin  of  Winesap.  Coxe 
speaks  of  it  as  being  "  the  most  favored  cider  fruit  in  West  Jersey."  From 
this  fact  many  writers  have  referred  to  West  Jersey  as  the  region  of  its  origin 
or  probable  origin  but  such  statements  seem  hardly  warranted  by  the  evidence. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  size,  vigorous.  Form  roundish  spreading,  rather  straggling 
and  open.  Tzvigs  rather  stout,  rather  short  to  above  medium;  internodes 
short.  Bark  very  dark  reddish-brown  with  thin  gray  scarf-skin,  somewhat 
pubescent.  Lenticels  especially  clustered  just  below  the  nodes,  conspicuous, 
round  or  elongated,  variable  in  size  but  usually  above  medium.  Buds  large 
to  medium,  broad,  usually  rather  obtuse  but  sometimes  acute,  free  or  nearly 
so.  Foliage  thin ;  leaves  usually  not  large,  narrow. 

FRUIT.  ' 

Fruit  as  grown  in  New  York  averages  even  smaller  than  that  which  is  grown 
farther  south.  It  is  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Form  usually  conical, 
sometimes  roundish,  nearly  truncate  at  base,  nearly  regular  or  obscurely 
ribbed,  symmetrical.  Stem  medium  to  short,  rather  slender.  Cavity  medium 
to  rather  small,  acute  to  acuminate,  narrow  to  rather  broad,  deep,  symmetrical 
or  somewhat  furrowed,  often  more  or  less  lipped,  often  russeted  or  with  out- 
spreading russet  rays.  Calyx  medium  to  large,  closed;  lobes  long,  narrow, 
acuminate.  Basin  rather  small  to  medium,  often  oblique,  shallow  to  rather 
deep  and  abrupt,  narrow  to  moderately  wide,  distinctly  furrowed,  somewhat 
wrinkled. 

Skin  medium  in  thickness,  tough,  smooth,  glossy,  bright  deep  red  indistinctly 
striped  and  blotched  with  very  dark  purplish-red  over  a  distinctly  yellow 
ground  color  or  green  if  not  fully  mature,  overspread  with  faint  bloom.  Dots 
rather  small,  scattering,  whitish,  sometimes  in  conspicuous  contrast  with  the 
deep  red  skin  especially  toward  the  cavity.  Prevailing  effect  bright  deep  red. 

Calyx  tube  quite  variable,  conical  or  funnel-shape.     Stamens  marginal. 

Core  medium  to  small,  abaxile  with  a  hollow  cylinder  in  the  axis,  narrow- 
ing toward  the  apex;  cells  pretty  uniformly  developed,  symmetrical,  open  or 
nearly  closed ;  core  lines  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish,  much  concave, 
but  slightly  emarginate  if  at  all,  mucronate.  Seeds  below  medium  to  above, 
wide,  plump,  obtuse. 

Flesh  tinged  with  yellow,  veins  sometimes  red,  very  firm,  rather  coarse, 
moderately  crisp,  very  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  good  to  very  good, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  377 

WINTER  BANANA. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  11:224.  1892.  2.  Heiges,  U.  S.  Pom. 
Rpt.,  1895  :20.  3.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1897  136.  4.  Beach,  Eastern  N.  Y.  Hort. 
Soc.  Rpt.,  1900 144.  5.  Ib.,  Western  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900  137.  6.  Macoun, 
Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1901:98.  7.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:151. 
1904. 

SYNONYMS.     BANANA   (2,  3).     Winter  Banana  (2,  3). 

Fruit  large,  clear  pale  yellow  with  beautiful  contrasting  pinkish-red 
blush,  attractive  in  appearance,  characteristically  aromatic,  of  good 
dessert  quality,  but  too  mild  in  flavor  to  excel  for  culinary  uses.  The 
tree  is  a  pretty  good  grower,  comes  into  bearing  young,  is  almost  an 
annual  bearer  and  yields  moderate  to  rather  heavy  crops.  In 
ordinary  storage  the  fruit  is  in  season  from  mid-November  to  the 
first  of  April,  but  its  safe  commercial  limit  in  this  climate  probably 
would  not  extend  much  beyond  December.  In  cold  storage  it  ranks 
as  a  keeper  about  with  Rhode  Island  Greening,  but  is  not  equal  to 
Baldwin.  It  could  perhaps  be  used  to  advantage  commercially  to 
follow  the  Maiden  Blush  and  extend  the  season  for  fruit  having  the 
general  appearance  of  that  variety.  As  compared  with  Maiden 
Blush  this  is  larger,  neither  as  uniform  nor  as  symmetrical,  better 
for  dessert  use  but  less  desirable  for  culinary  purposes.  Its  color 
is  such  that  it  shows  bruises  more  readily  than  do  red  apples  like 
Baldwin  or  Tompkins  King.  It  is  sufficiently  promising  to  be 
worthy  of  further  testing  where  an  apple  of  this  color  is  desired. 

Another  variety  which  has  been  disseminated  under  the  name 
Banana  is  a  sweet  apple.  It  is  described  on  page  60  under  the  name 
Banana  Sweet. 

Historical.  Winter  Banana  originated  on  the  farm  of  David  Flory  near 
Adamsboro,  Cass  county,  Ind.,  about  1876.  It  was  introduced  by  Greening 
Brothers,  Monroe,  Michigan,  in  1890  (4,  5).  It  has  as  yet  been  but  little 
planted  in  this  state. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  in  size,  vigorous.  Form  rather  flat,  spreading  and  somewhat 
inclined  to  droop,  open.  Twigs  long,  curved  or  nearly  straight,  moderately 
stout ;  internodes  long.  Bark  reddish-brown  mingled  with  olive-green,  lightly 
and  irregularly  coated  with  scarf-skin,  pubescent.  Lenticels  conspicuous, 
numerous,  medium  to  large,  round  or  slightly  elongated,  raised.  Buds  sunk 
in  the  bark,  medium  or  above,  plump,  acute  to  obtuse,  free,  slightly  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  nearly  large  to  very  large,  not  very  uniform  in  size  or  shape.  Form 
roundish  conic  to  oblong  conic,  or  sometimes  oblate  ancj  noticeably  flat  at  the 


378  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

base,  often  irregularly  elliptical  and  somewhat  ribbed ;  axis  sometimes  oblique ; 
sides  often  unequal.  Stem  short  to  moderately  long,  medium  in  thickness  to 
rather  slender.  Cavity  usually  rather  large,  acute  to  acuminate,  moderately 
shallow  to  deep,  broad,  gently  furrowed,  sometimes  lipped,  smooth  or  some- 
times partly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to  medium,  partly  open  or  sometimes 
closed ;  lobes  convergent  or  connivent,  short  to  medium  length,  obtuse  to 
acute.  Basin  small  to  medium,  often  decidedly  oblique,  rather  shallow  to 
moderately  deep,  usually  rather  narrow  but  sometimes  moderately  wide,  obtuse 
to  rather  abrupt,  furrowed  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  moderately  thick,  tough,  waxy,  bright  pale  yellow,  often  with 
a  blush  which  in  well-colored  specimens  deepens  to  dark  pinkish-red.  Often 
a  suture  line  extends  from  the  basin  nearly  or  quite  to  the  cavity.  Dots 
numerous,  whitish  and  submerged  or  with  fine  russet  point.  Prevailing  effect 
yellow  with  a  pretty  contrasting  blush. 

Caly.r  tube  wide  above,  rather  short,  cone-shape  or  funnel-form.  Stamens 
median  to  marginal. 

Core  rather  small  to  above  medium,  abaxile ;  cells  not  uniformly  developed, 
usually  symmetrical  and  open,  sometimes  closed;  core  lines  somewhat  clasp- 
ing. Carpels  elongated  ovate,  narrow,  emarginate,  tufted.  Seeds  often  abor- 
tive;  the  plump  ones  vary  from  small  to  rather  large  and  are  more  or  less 
irregular,  usually  obtuse  to  acute,  dull  dark  bro\vn,  sometimes  tufted. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  pale  yellow,  moderately  firm,  a  little  coarse,  some- 
what crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  distinctly  aromatic,  good  to  very 
good. 

WINTER  HOG  ISLAND  SWEET. 

REFERENCE.     Downing,  1869:413. 

This  variety  is  mentioned  by  Downing  as  having  originated  on  Long  Island. 
We  are  unacquainted  with  it  and  have  received  no  reports  concerning  it  from 
any  portion  of  the  state.  Downing  describes  it  as  medium  or  below,  pale 
yellow  striped  and  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red;  flesh  tender,  rather  rich 
and  sweet,  good;  season  November  to  February. 

WINTER  PEARMAIN. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Forsyth,  1803:51.  2.  Thacher,  1822:131.  3.  Forsyth,  1824: 
118.  4.  Ib.,  1824:130.  5.  Floy-Lindley,  1833:62.  6.  Cultivator,  3:36.  1846. 
7.  Thomas,  1849:175.  fig.  8.  Gregg,  1857:60.  9.  Mas,  LeVerger,  4:19.  1865. 
10.  Warder,  1867:736.  n.  Downing,  1869:413.  12.  Fitz,  1872:167.  13.  Leroy, 
I873o4i.  fig.  14.  Hogg,  1884:169.  15.  Ib.,  1884:246.  16.  Bailey,  An.  Hort., 
1892:253. 

SYNONYMS.  Autumn  Pearmain,  erroneously  (7).  Ducks  Bill  (15).  Ger- 
maine  (13).  Great  Pearmain  (n).  Green  Winter  Pearmain  (12).  HERE- 
FORDSHIRE PEARMAIN  (6).  HERTFORDSHIRE  PEARMAIN  (i).  Hertfordshire 
Pearmain  (4).  OLD  ENGLISH  PEARMAIN  (3).  Old  English  Pearmain  (14). 
Old  Pearmain  (5,  7,  n,  14,  of  Lindley  13).  Par  main  d'Anglctcrre  of  Knoop 
1760  (13).  Par  main  d'Hiver  (5,  n).  Par  main-Pep  ping  (13).  PEARMAIN 
(2,  14).  Pearmain  (n).  Pearmain  Herefordshire  (12).  PEARMAIN  D'HIVER 
(13).  Pepin  Par  main  d'Angleterre  (5,  n).  Pepin  Parmain  d'Hiver  (n). 


WINTER  BANANA 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  379 

Peremenes  (n).    Permaine  (13).    Permein  (13).    Platarchium  (13).    Sussex 
Scarlet  Pearmain  (15).     Winter  Pearmain  (2,  6,  of  Ray  13). 

Several  different  varieties  have  been  known  under  the  name  Winter  Pear- 
main  both  in  Europe  and  in  this  country.  The  references  given  above  do  not 
all  refer  to  the  same  variety  and  in  some  cases  it  is  impossible  to  determine 
which  Winter  Pearmain  the  writer  has  in  mind. 

In  1822  Thacher  (2)  gave  the  following  account  of  the  Winter  Pearmain 
of  the  old  Plymouth  Colony  in  Massachusetts.  "  The  winter  pearmain  is 
among  the  first  cultivated  apples  by  the  fathers  of  the  old  Plymouth  colony, 
and  is.  undoubtedly,  of  English  descent.  Many  trees  of  this  kind  are  now 
supposed  to  be  more  than  one  hundred  years  old,  and  grafted  trees  from  them 
produce  the  genuine  fruit  in  great  perfection.  The  tree  is  tall  and  upright, 
forming  a  handsome  regular  top:  it  is  hardy,  and  will  flourish  in  a  light  soil. 
It  is  not  an  early  bearer,  but  when  attained  to  about  twelve  years,  from  having 
been  grafted,  it  produces  more  abundantly  and  uniformly  than  any  other  kind 
within  our  knowledge.  The  fruit  is  scarcely  excelled  as  a  table  apple  or  for 
cookery;  and  the  cider,  made  from  it,  is  said  to  be  inferior  to  none.  The 
apple  is  of  a  moderate  size ;  fair  and  smooth ;  of  a  reddish  colour ;  interspersed 
with  green  and  yellow ;  the  flesh  a  rich  yellow ;  the  flavour  slightly  aromatick, 
and  agreeable.  There  are  two  or  three  varieties  of  this  apple,  but  rather  of 
an  inferiour  quality." 

The  following  is  the  description  given  by  Floy-Lindley  (5)  of  the  Winter 
Pearmain  mentioned  by  Ray  in  1688:  "fruit  medium,  regular,  tapering  to  the 
crown,  grass-green  with  a  little  red  on  the  sunny  side ;  in  season  from  Novem- 
ber to  March."  Downing  (n)  remarks  that  the  tree  of  this  variety  is  a  free 
and  healthy  grower  and  productive.  This  is  the  Pearmain  d'Hiver  of  Leroy 
(13),  the  English  Winter  Pearmain  of  Mas  (9),  the  Winter  Pearmain  or  Old 
Pearmain  of  Downing  (n)  and  the  Pearmain  or  Old  Pearmain  of  Hogg  (14). 
Hogg  (14)  states  that  this  is  the  oldest  English  apple  on  record  and  that  its 
cultivation  in  Norfolk  can  be  traced  back  to  the  year  1200.  He  says  that  the 
Winter  Pearmain  of  the  London  market  is  a  different  apple  (15). 

An  apple  is  grown  in  the  Middle  West  under  the  name  of  Winter  Pearmain 
which  is  of  medium  size,  oblate  inclined  to  conic,  yellowish,  shaded  and  striped 
with  light  and  dark  red,  subacid,  good ;  in  season  from  November  to  Feb- 
ruary ( 1 1 ) . 

There  is  a  Winter  Pearmain  of  Pennsylvania  which  is  below  medium, 
oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  yellow  splashed  and  shaded  with  brownish-red,  mild 
subacid,  good;  in  season  from  January  to  May  (n). 

WINTER  ST.  LAWRENCE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Shepherd,  Montreal  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1885:17.  fig.  2.  Ib., 
1886-87:9,  99.  3.  Can.  Hort.,  n  17,  145.  1888.  col.  pi.  and  fig.  4.  Woolverton, 
Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1889:155.  5.  Hoskins,  Rural  N.  Y.,  48:88.  1889.  6. 
Burner,  Can.  Hort.,  12:337.  1889.  7.  Budd,  Ib.,  13:24.  1890.  8.  Hoskins, 
Amcr.  Card.,  15:288.  1894.  9.  Craig,  Can.  Dept.  Agr.  Rpt.,  1896:135.  figs. 
10.  Waugh,  Ft.  Sta.  Bui,  61:32.  1897.  n.  Can.  Hort.,  25:49.  1902.  12.  Budd- 
Hansen,  1903:206. 

SYNONYMS,    Mank's  Codling  (9).    Rambour  Barre  (9). 


380  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

The  following  account  of  Winter  St.  Lawrence  is  given  by  Macoun.  "  Im- 
ported in  1833  from  Manchester,  England,  under  the  name  of  Mank's  Codling, 
by  the  late  Wm.  Lunn,  of  Montreal.  Named  Winter  St.  Lawrence  by  the 
Montreal  Horticultural  Society  about  1873.  Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish, 
slightly  conical ;  skin  greenish  yellow  well  covered  with  deep  red  through 
which  are  dark  purple  splashes  and  streaks;  clots  fairly  numerous,  pale,  dis- 
tinct; cavity  rather  deep  and  medium  in  width;  stem  short,  slender;  basin 
narrow,  almost  smooth,  of  medium  depth ;  calyx  partly  open,  sometimes  closed. 
Flesh  white,  rather  soft,  melting,  moderately  juicy,  subacid,  good  flavour; 
core  small ;  quality  good ;  season,  early  winter.  Tree  a  moderately  spreading, 
strong  grower  and  apparently  very  hardy.  A  shy  but  annual  bearer  at 
Ottawa." 

This  variety  is  but  little  known  among  New  York  fruit  growers. 

WINTER  SWEET  PARADISE. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Downing,  1845:124.  2.  Cole,  1849:130.  3.  Emmons,  Nat. 
Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:85.  1851.  4.  Elliott,  1854:150.  fig.  5.  Hooper,  1857:102.  6. 
Mag.  Hort.,  27:99.  1861.  7.  Kirtland,  Ib.,  33:53.  1867.  8.  Warder,  1867:737. 
9.  Fitz,  1872  :i43,  156.  10.  Downing,  1872  :io  index,  app.  n.  Thomas,  1875  :2i2. 
12.  Barry.  1883:357.  13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:253.  14.  ///.  Sta:  Bui,  45: 
346.  1896. 

SYNONYMS.  Honey  Sweet  of  some  (4).  Paradise  Winter  (8).  PARADISE 
WINTER  SWEET  (4).  White  Robinson  (14).  Wine  Sweet  (10). 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  dull  green  with  brownish-red  blush,  fine- 
grained, juicy,  sweet;  in  season  during  early  winter  and  midwinter.  Tree  a 
vigorous,  upright  grower  and  productive,  but  it  is  not  an  early  bearer  (12). 

Historical.  In  1845  Downing  made  the  following  observation  concerning 
this  variety.  "  We  received  it  some  years  ago  along  with  the  Summer  Sweet 
Paradise  from  Mr.  Garber  of  Columbia,  Pa.,  and  consider  it  a  native  fruit" 
(i).  From  Pennsylvania  it  was  carried  into  Ohio  and  later  its  cultivation  was 
extended  into  other  portions  of  the  Middle  West.  Although  an  old  variety 
it  is  but  little  known  in  New  York.  It  is  still  propagated  to  a  considerable 
extent  by  nurserymen. 

WISMER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Amer.  Card.,  18:142.  1897.  fig.  2.  Can.  Hort.,  20:78.  1897. 
3.  Rural  N.  Y.,  56:54.  1897.  4.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:341.  1905. 

SYNONYMS.  WISMER'S  DESSERT  (i,  2,  3).  Wismer's  Dessert  (4).  Wisner's 
Dessert  (4). 

This  is  an  apple  of  Canadian  origin  introduced  in  1897  by  J.  H.  Wismer, 
Port  Elgin,  Ontario.  In  color  it  is  said  to  resemble  Esopus  Spitzenburg  (3). 
The  tree  is  said  to  be  very  hardy,  vigorous  and  productive  and  the  fruit 
medium  to  large,  yellow  shaded  and'  striped  with  bright  red ;  the  flesh  mild 
subacid,  of  excellent  flavor  and  exceedingly  fine,  tender  texture.  We  are  not 
acquainted  with  this  apple.  It  has  not  yet  been  tested  sufficiently  in  this  state 
to  indicate  whether  it  has  any  value  for  this  region, 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  381 

YELLOW  BELLFLOWER. 

REFERENCES,  i.  M'Mahon,  1806:585.  2.  Coxe,  1817,  120.  fig:  3.  Thacher, 
1822:121.  4.  Buel,  N.  Y.  Bd.  Agr.  Mem.,  1826:476.  5.  Fessenden,  1828:130. 
6.  Wilson,  1828  : 136.  7.  Cat.  Hort.  Soc.  London,  1831  :  No.  75.  8.  Kenrick,  1832  : 
42.  9.  Floy-Lindley,  1833  :86.  10.  Mag.  Hort.,  i  :326,  78.  1835.  "•  Manning, 
1838  :6o.  12.  Ib.,  Mag.  Hort.,  7  151.  1841.  13.  Downing,  1845  :ioo.  fig.  14.  Horti- 
culturist, 1:482.  1846.  15.  Ib.,  2:361,  482,  545.  1848.  16.  Cole,  1849:119.  fig. 
17.  Thomas,  1849:187.  18.  Phoenix,  Horticulturist,  4:472.  1850.  19.  Emmons,, 
Nat.  Hist.  N.  Y.,  3:79.  1851.  col.  pi.  No.  46  and  fig.  20.  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Cat., 
1852.  21.  Hovey,  Mag.  Hort.,  18:542.  1852.  fig.  22.  Ib.,  19:244.  1853.  23. 
Biedenfeld,  1854:102.  24.  Elliott,  1854:70.  fig.  25.  Hooper,  1857:16,  103,  106, 
1 08.  col.  pi.  26.  Gregg,  1857:50.  fig.  27.  Flotow,  1:69.  1859.  28.  Oberdieck, 
4:197.  1862.  29.  Warder,  1867:692.  fig.  30.  Regel,  1868:442.  31.  Fitz,  1872: 
143,145,163.  32.  Mas,  L<?F£rg?r,  1873:151.  33.  Leroy,  1873:432.  34.  Lauche, 
i  :  No.  3.  1882.  col.  pi.  35.  Barry,  1883  :358.  36.  Rural  N.  Y.,  47  749.  1888. 
37.  Cat.  Cong.  Porn.  France,  1889:278.  38.  Wickson,  1889:247.  39.  Lyon, 
Mich.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1890:300.  40.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:235.  41.  Ib., 
1892:253.  42.  Bredsted,  1893:405.  43.  Gaucher,  1894:  No.  6.  col.  pi.  44. 
Waugh,  Vt.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  14:313.  1901.  45-  Eneroth- Smirnoff,  1901:266.  46. 
Sears,  Can.  Hort.,  25:325.  1902.  47.  Budd-Hansen,  1903:210.  fig.  48.  Far- 
rand,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  205:43.  1903.  49.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I. 
Bui.,  48:62.  1903.  50.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:151.  1904. 

SYNONYMS.  BELLE  FLAVOISE  (28).  Belle  Flavoise  (33,  43).  BELLE- 
FLOUR  JAUNE  (32,  37).  Belle-Fleur  (33).  Belle-Flower  (33).  BELL-FLOWER 
(2).  BELLFLOWER  (9).  BELLFLOWER  (3).  BELLFLOWER  (4,6,8,11,21,24, 
40).  Bellflower  (13,  17,  25,  43,  49).  Bell-Flower  (5).  Bishop's  Pippin  of 
Nova  Scotia  (33).  GELBER  BELLEFLEUR  (23,  27,  34,  43,  45).  Gelber  Belleneur 
(28).  Gelber  Belle  Flcur  (33,  43).  Gelber  Englischer  Schonbluhcnder  (43). 
GUL.  BELLEFLEUR  (42).  Lady  Washington  (24,  33,43).  Lincoln  Pippin  (43). 
Lineous  Pippin  (43).  LINNOEUS  PIPPIN  (33).  Metzgerapfel  (43).  Metzgcr 
Cahill  (28).  Merger's  Calvill  (33,  43,  of  John  34).  YELLOW  BELLE  FLEUR 
(7,  13)-  YELLOW  BELLEFLEUR  (19,  20,  31).  Yellow  Bellefieur  (17,  21,  24,  33, 
43).  YELLOW  BELLEFLOWER  (46).  Yellow  Bellflower  (8,  13,  21,  24,  33,  40,  43). 
Warren  Pippin  (33,  43).  Weisser  Metsgerapfel  (43). 

Yellow  Bellflower  grows  large  or  even  very  large,  but  usually  it 
is  so  variable  in  size  that  the  marketable  grades  are  not  very  uniform 
and  there  is  a  relatively  large  percentage  of  apples  that  are  too  small 
for  market.  It  is  decidedly  attractive  in  color  for  a  yellow  apple 
and  the  color  improves  in  storage,  becoming  more  clearly  yellow  as 
the  fruit  matures.  It  is  well  known  throughout  the  state  and  is 
generally  highly  esteemed  for  culinary  uses  and  also  for  its  excellent 
dessert  qualities,  although  it  is  rather  too  briskly  subacid  to  suit  the 
tastes  of  some,  particularly  during  the  early  part  of  its  season.  It 
does  not  reach  its  best  condition  for  dessert  use  till  January  or  later, 
when  its  acidity  becomes  somewhat  subdued.  It  is  quite  susceptible 


382  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

to  injury  by  the  apple-scab  fungus.  It  must  be  handled  very  care- 
fully because  it  very  easily  shows  bruises.  It  does  not  stand  heat 
well  before  going  into  storage  and  when  it  begins  to  deteriorate 
goes  down  quickly.  Some  do  not  regard  it  as  a  good  keeper,  while 
others  find  that  it  keeps  pretty  well.  To  get  best  results  in  storage 
the  fruit  must  be  thoroughly  protected  from,  the  scab  in  the  orchard, 
picked  and  handled  with  extra  care  and  kept  from  heat  from  the 
time  it  is  picked  till  it  is  stored  as  well  as  while  it  is  in  storage.  As 
grown  at  Geneva  it  is  in  season  from  December  to  April  with 
January  or  February  as  the  commercial  limit.  In  cold  storage  it 
keeps  about  with  Tornpkins  King,  but  not  as  well  as  Rhode  Island 
Greening. 

The  tree  is  a  good  grower  and  pretty  hardy.  In  favorable  loca- 
tions it  is  healthy  and  long-lived.  It  seems  to  thrive  particularly 
well  on  warm,  well-drained  soils.  Many  orchards  are  found  through- 
out the  state  having  from  one  to  several  trees  of  this  variety  and  the 
aggregate  yield  of  Yellow  Bellflower  in  New  York  is  of  considerable 
importance.  The  surplus  over  what  is  required  for  home  use  is 
commonly  disposed  of  in  the  local  market.  Although  the  fruit  sells 
at  good  prices,  Yellow  Bellflower  is  not  generally  a  satisfactory 
cropper  and  is  not  a  good  variety  to  plant  in  commercial  orchards  in 
New  York  except  in  the  few  districts  where  it  has  proved  profitable. 

Historical.  In  1817  Coxe  (2)  reported  that  the  original  tree,  very  large  and 
old,  was  said  to  be  still  standing  on  a  farm  near  Crosswicks,  Burlington 
county,  N.  J.  In  1852  Hovey  (21)  remarked  that  the  Bellflower  was  then  ex- 
tensively cultivated  in  New  Jersey,  but  its  cultivation  in  New  England  was 
as  yet  extremely  limited.  A  century  or  more  ago  it  was  being  grafted  into 
the  farm  orchards  and  propagated  in  the  nurseries  throughout  New  York, 
and  it  is  to-day  well  known  among  fruit  growers  in  most  parts  of  the  state  but 
it  is  nowhere  extensively  cultivated.  It  was  early  introduced  into  cultivation 
through  the  Middle  West  and  within  recent  years  it  has  come  to  be  one  of 
the  important  commercial  varieties  in  certain  apple-growing  districts  in  the 
Pacific  states.  Wickson  says  that  "  The  Yellow  Bellflower,  as  grown  in  Cali- 
fornia, has  such  conspicuous  excellence  that  during  its  season  it  is  hardly 
likely  to  be  misplaced  for  any  other  variety."1  It  is  now  offered  by  nursery- 
men in  nearly  all  of  the  more  important  apple-growing  sections  of  the  country. 

TREE. 

Tree  medium  to  large,  vigorous  to  very  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading; 
laterals  drooping,  particularly  after  they  have  borne  heavy  crops.  Twigs 
medium  to  long,  rather  stocky,  geniculate ;  internodes  medium  to  large.  Bark 

better,  E.  J.  Wickson,  1899. 


YELLOW  BELLFLOWER 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  383 

dull  brownish-red  with  shades  of  green,  uniformly  overlaid  with  moderately 
thick  scarf-skin ;  more  or  less  pubescent.  Lenticels  rather  inconspicuous,  above 
medium  in  size,  roundish  to  elliptical,  rather  numerous,  dull,  not  raised.  Buds 
above  medium  to  large,  rather  prominent,  acute  to  roundish  acute,  free  or 
nearly  so,  quite  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  variable  in  size,  small  to  large  or  very  large.  Form  roundish  oblong 
narrowing  toward  the  basin  varying  to  oblong  conic,  frequently  somewhat 
ovate,  irregularly  elliptical  and  more  or  less  ribbed,  often  with  prominent 
ridges  at  the  apex ;  sides  usually  unequal.  Stem  medium  to  rather  long,  rather 
slender  to  moderately  stout.  Cavity  medium  to  large,  acute  to  acuminate, 
deep  to  very  deep,  moderately  narrow  to  wide,  furrowed,  sometimes  com- 
pressed, sometimes  lipped,  usually  with  outspreading  broken  rays  of  brownish- 
russet  Calyx  below  medium  to  above,  closed  or  partly  so;  lobes  narrow, 
acuminate,  pubescent.  Basin  small,  oblique,  abrupt,  narrow,  shallow  to  rather 
deep,  distinctly  ridged  and  wrinkled. 

Skin  smooth,  bright,  pale  lemon-yellow  varying  to  whitish  in  the  shade 
and  often  with  a  shade  of  brownish-red  in  the  sun  which  in  highly  colored 
specimens  deepens  to  a  pinkish-red  blush.  Dots  wrhitish  or  russet,  numerous 
and  small  toward  the  basin,  larger,  irregular  and  scattering  toward  the  cavity. 
Prevailing  effect  bright  pale  yellow. 

Calyx  tube  yellowish,  elongated  funnel-shape,  sometimes  extending  to  the 
core.  Stamens  median  to  basal. 

Core  large,  long,  remarkably  abaxile ;  cells  sometimes  unsymmetrical,  wide 
open  or  partly  closed;  core  lines  clasping  the  funnel  cylinder.  Carpels  long, 
narrow,  roundish  obovate,  much  concave,  much  tufted.  Seeds  large,  long, 
obtuse  to  acute. 

Flesh  whitish  tinged  with  pale  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  moderately  fine-grained, 
rather  tender,  juicy,  aromatic,  very  good  for  culinary  use,  rather  too  acid  for 
dessert  early  in  the  season  but  later  its  acidity  becomes  somewhat  subdued. 

THE  YELLOW  BELLFLOWER  GROUP. 

The  Yellow  Bellflower  belongs  to  a  group  of  apples  most  of 
which  have  fruit  that  is  predominantly  yellow.  The  fruit  of  the 
group  is  characteristically  oblong  or  roundish  oblong  and  often 
markedly  ovate  or  conic,  with  the  core  large  and  remarkably  abaxile, 
cells  wide  open  and  carpels  elongated,  rather  narrow  and  much  con- 
cave. The  group  is  now  represented  by  varieties  well  knov/n  in 
cultivation  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  It  appears  that  the 
oldest  members  of  which  we  have  any  record  in  this  country  are 
Yellow  Bellflower  and  Ortley,  both  of  which  originated  in  New 
Jersey.  The  varieties  mentioned  in  this  volume  which  appear  more 
or  less  closely  identified  with  the  Yellow  Bellflower  group  are  Dickin- 
son, Flory,  Kirkland,  Mason  Orange,  Minister,  Moyer,  Newman, 
Occident,  Ortley,  Titus  Pippin,  Yellow  Bellflower. 


384  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

YELLOW  FOREST. 

REFERENCED  i.  Gardener's  Monthly,  1885.  (cited  by  7).  2.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An. 
Rpt.,  8:349.  1889.  3.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:253.  4.  Beach,  N.  Y.  Sta.  An. 
Rpt-,  13:592.  1894.  5-  Stmson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui,  43:104.  1896.  6.  Beach  and 
Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui,  248:152.  1904.  7.  Ragan,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui.,  56:345. 
1905. 

SYNONYM.     Wild  Apple  (7). 

Fruit  medium  to  rather  small,  yellowish  or  green  with  dull  blush,  fair  to 
good  in  quality.  It  is  too  deficient  in  size  and  color  for  a  good  market  apple 
but  may  have  some  value  for  the  home  orchard  because  late  in  the  season 
it  is  of  fairly  good  quality  and  a  considerable  portion  of  the  fruit  may  be 
held  in  good  condition  in  cellar  storage  till  summer.  For  dessert  use  during 
June  it  has  been  one  of  the  best  in  quality  among  a  large  collection  of  late- 
keeping  varieties  grown  at  this  Station.  The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  comes 
into  bearing  rather  young  and  is  a  reliable  cropper. 

Historical.  This  variety  was  introduced  by  L.  T.  Sanders,  Collingsburg, 
La.,  from  whom  it  was  received  in  1888  for  testing  at  this  Station.  Mr. 
Sanders  states  that  it  is  a  wilding  which  Captain  Joe  Winston  found  in  the 
woods  near  his  residence  in  Bossier  Parish,  La.,  when  it  was  quite  small,  and 
transferred  to  his  orchard.  It  ripens  in  Louisiana  about  the  middle  of  Sep- 
tember. We  do  not  know  that  the  variety  is  being  grown  in  New  York  out- 
side of  the  orchards  at  this  Station. 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous.  Form  somewhat  upright  and  spreading,  moderately  dense. 
Twigs  slender,  long ;  internodes  below  medium.  Bark  rather  dark  reddish- 
brown  with  gray  scarf-skin,  slightly  pubescent.  Lenticels  numerous,  small  to 
above  medium,  conspicuous,  usually  round,  sometimes  raised.  Buds  medium 
in  size  or  below,  narrow,  acute,  appressed. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  quite  uniform  in  shape  and  size.  Form  roundish, 
slightly  oblate  or  sometimes  a  little  conic,  symmetrical.  Stem  variable,  often 
long  and  slender.  Cavity  acute  or  approaching  acuminate,  medium  in  depth 
and  width,  often  covered  near  the  base  of  the  stem  with  greenish-russet. 
Calyx  small,  closed  or  a  little  open ;  lobes  slender,  recurved.  Basin  rather 
abrupt,  medium  in  depth  and  width,  slightly  wrinkled. 

Skin  thin,  tough,  smooth,  green  or  eventually  more  or  less  yellow,  some- 
times with  brownish  blush.  Dots  small  to  medium,  numerous,  reddish  or 
greenish-russet  or  whitish  and  submerged. 

Calyx  tube  medium  in  size,  narrow,  conical  to  elongated  conical  or  funnel- 
shape;  pistil  persistent.  Stamens  below  median  to  above. 

Core  distant,  small,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  symmetrical,  closed  or  a  little 
open ;  core  lines  meeting  the  limb  of  the  calyx  tube  or  clasping  the  funnel 
cylinder.  Carpels  narrow,  roundish  ovate,  slightly  tufted.  Seeds  below 
medium  to  small,  plump,  moderately  acute  to  acuminate,  light  colored. 

Flesh  nearly  white  with  green  or  yellow  tinge,  fine,  sprightly,  rather  crisp, 
moderately  tender,  juicy,  aromatic,  agreeable  mild  subacid,  good. 

Season  for  home  use  January  to  the  last  of  June. 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  385 

YELLOW  NEWTOWN. 

This  variety  is  described  in  connection  with  the  Green  Newtown 
on  pages  145  to  152. 

YORK  IMPERIAL. 

REFERENCES,  i.  Mag.  Hurt.,  19:210.  1853.  2.  Horticulturist,  8:342.  1853. 
3.  Elliott,  1854:166.  4.  Downing,  1857:206.  5.  Warder,  1867:693.  6.  Am. 
Pom.  Soc.  Cat.,  1871:10.  7.  Fitz,  1872:143.  8.  Thomas,  1875:517.  9.  Rural 
N.  Y.,  46:494.  1887.  10.  Clark,  Mo.  Sta.  Bui.,  6:8.  1889.  u.  Stayman,  Amer. 
Card.,  11:272.  1890.  fig.  12.  Van  Deman,  U.  S.  Pom.  Rpt.,  1891:389.  col.  pi. 
13.  Bailey,  An.  Hort.,  1892:253.  14.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt.,  13:592.  1894.  15. 
Stinson,  Ark.  Sta.  Bui,  43:104.  1896.  16.  Can.  Hort.,  19:84,  343.  1896.  fig. 
and  col.  pi.  17.  Rural  N.  Y.,  55:1,  190.  1896.  18.  Wright,  Amer.  Card.,  17:33. 
1896.  19.  Powell,  Del.  Sta.  Bui,  38:20.  1898.  20.  Taylor,  U.  S.  Pom.  Bui, 
7:361.  1898.  21.  Massey,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  149:318.  1898.  22.  Rural  N.  Y.,  57: 
164,  178,  239.  1898.  23.  Taft  and  Lyon,  Mich.  Sta.  Bui.,  169:192.  1899.  24. 
Amer.  Card.,  20:540.  1899.  25.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui.,  21:130.  1900.  col.  pi. 
26.  Amer.  Card.,  21:76,  372.  1900.  27.  Can.  Hort.,  23:75,  249,  414.  1900.  28. 
Beach,  Western  N.  Y.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1900:37.  29.  Rural  N.  Y.,  59:450. 
1900.  30.  Brackett,  Amer.  Card.,  22:190.  1901.  31.  Alwood,  Va.  Sta.  Bui, 
130:142.  1901.  fig.  of  tree.  32.  Rural  N.  Y.,  60:68,  406,  470.  1901.  33.  Stewart, 
Md.  Hort.  Soc.  Rpt.,  1901:73.  34.  Munson,  Me.  Sta.  Rpt.,  1902:91.  35.  Dick- 
ens and  Greene,  Kan.  Sta.  Bui,  106:56.  1902.  36.  Stinson,  Mo.  Fr.  Sta.  Bui, 
3:27.  1902.  37.  Powell  and  Fulton,  U.  S.  B.  P.  I.  Bui,  48:62.  1903.  38.  Budd- 
Hansen,  1903:213.  fig.  39.  Bruner,  N.  C.  Sta.  Bui,  182:27.  1903.  figs.  40. 
Beach  and  Clar1:,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:152.  1904. 

SYNONYM.  Johnson's  Fine  Winter  (i,  2,  3.  4,  6,  8,  12,  16,  20,  21,  24,  25, 
28,  31,  37,  38,  39,  40). 

York  Imperial  is  an  important  apple  which  is  grown  commercially 
in  the  Middle  Atlantic  states  and  over  a  belt  of  country  extending 
from  these  states  westward  into  Missouri  and  Kansas.  The  tree  is 
a  thrifty,  vigorous  grower  and  a  pretty  regular  annual  or  biennial 
bearer.  It  seems  to  prefer  rather  heavy  clay  soils  and  seldom  does 
well  on  soils  that  are  light  or  in  any  way  thin  or  leachy. 

When  properly  developed  the  fruit  is  large,  finely  colored  and  of 
good  quality.  There  are  some  objections  to  it  on  account  of  the 
shape  of  the  fruit,  which  is  oblique  or  lopsided,  and  consequently 
difficult  to  pare  with  a  machine.  Storage  men  give  its  season  in 
cellar  storage  as  extending  to  December  and  in  cold  storage  to 
February.  It  stands  heat  fairly  well  before  going  into  storage,  but 
often  scalds  badly  and  when  it  begins  to  deteriorate  goes  down 
rather  quickly.  As  grown  at  this  Station  the  fruit  comes  in  season 
in  January  and  keeps  well  in  ordinary  storage  till  April  or  May  if  it 


386  THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK. 

does  not  scald.  Its  commercial  limit  is  March.  When  grown  as 
far  north  as  this  the  fruit  is  deficient  in  color,  size  and  quality.  The 
reports  from  the  growers  in  this  state  are  generally  adverse  to  its 
culture  here  and  it  is  not  recommended  for  planting  in  New  York 
except  perhaps  in  the  southeastern  part  of  the  state. 

Historical.  The  following  excellent  historical  account  of  the  York  Imperial 
is  given  by  Taylor  (20).  "The  variety  bearing  this  name  originated  early  in 
the  present  century  on  a  farm  adjoining  the  then  borough  of  York,  Pa.  The 
attention  of  the  owner,  a  Mr.  Johnson,  was  attracted  to  the  tree  by  the  pres- 
ence of  schoolboys  who  visited  it  in  early  spring  to  get  the  apples  that  had 
passed  the  winter  on  the  ground,  covered  by  leaves.  On  securing  some  of 
the  fruit  he  found  it  in  fine  condition,  and  when  the  next  crop  was  ripe  took 
specimens  to  Mr.  Jonathan  Jessop,  a  local  nurseryman,  who  began  the  propa- 
gation of  the  variety  before  1830,  under  the  name  '  Johnson's  Fine  Winter.' 
Under  this  name  it  was  known  until  after  the  middle  of  the  century,  when, 
after  an  inspection  of  specimens,  the  late  Charles  Downing  pronounced  it  the 
'  imperial  of  keepers '  and  suggested  that  it  be  named  '  York  Imperial.'  Mr. 
Jessop  did  not  find  ready  sale  for  trees  of  the  variety  at  first,  and  dumped  the 
surplus  trees  from  his  nursery  into  a  hollow  beside  the  turnpike  passing  his 
place.  They  were  picked  up  by  farmers  returning  from  market  and  taken 
home  for  planting  on  their  farms  in  the  lower  end  of  York  county.  After  its 
merit  as  a  variety  for  market  orchards  was  established,  it  became  widely  dis- 
tributed throughout  Pennsylvania,  Maryland  and  Virginia,  and  soon  became  a 
leading  market  variety  in  those  States.  So  far  as  known,  the  variety  was  first 
described  in  print  by  Dr.  W.  D.  Brinckle  in  1853. 

"  Warder  states  that  specimens  of  it  were  exhibited  at  the  meeting  of  the 
Ohio  State  Pomological  Society  in  1855,  but  it  does  not  seem  to  have  become 
generally  popular  west  of  the  Alleghany  Mountains  until  a  comparatively 
recent  date.  Since  about  1880  it  has  been  widely  disseminated  through  the 
Middle  Western  States  and  has  become  one  of  the  leading  market  varieties 
of  that  region." 

TREE. 

Tree  vigorous  or  moderately  vigorous.  Form  upright  spreading  or  round- 
ish, rather  dense.  Twigs  short  to  above  medium,  straight  or  nearly  so,  stout 
or  moderately  stout  and  tapering  at  the  tips;  internodes  medium  to  long. 
Bark  dull  brownish-red  streaked  and  mottled  with  scarf-skin,  quite  pubescent. 
Leniicels  dull,  moderately  conspicuous,  rather  scattering,  small  to  medium, 
roundish,  not  raised.  Buds  deeply  set  in  bark,  small  to  medium,  plump,  obtuse 
to  somewhat  acute,  appressed  except  the  largest  which  are  free,  pubescent. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit  pretty  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  When  it  is  well  grown  it  varies 
from  above  medium  to  large,  but  in  many  parts  of  the  state  when  the  trees 
become  mature  the  fruit  usually  averages  below  medium  to  small.  Form 
roundish  oblate  or  truncate,  usually  with  an  oblique  axis.  Stem  short.  Cavity 
medium  to  rather  large,  acuminate  to  acute,  deep,  medium  to  rather  broad, 
often  gently  furrowed,  smooth  and  green  or  partly  russeted.  Calyx  small  to 


THE  APPLES  OF  NEW  YORK.  387 

medium,  closed  or  sometimes  partly  open.  Basin  rather  large,  abrupt,  deep 
or  moderately  deep,  wide  to  medium,  often  slightly  furrowed. 

Skin  tough,  bright,  smooth,  green  or  yellow  blushed  with  moderately  light 
red  or  pinkish-red  and  indistinctly  striped  with  carmine.  Dots  pale  or  russet, 
often  conspicuous,  rather  numerous  toward  the  eye,  scattering,  very  large  and 
elongated  toward  the  cavity  where  they  are  often  mingled  with  narrow,  broken 
streaks  of  grayish  scarf-skin. 

Calyx  tube  elongated  cone-shape  to  funnel-form.  Stamens  median  to 
marginal. 

Core  medium  to  rather  small,  axile  or  nearly  so ;  cells  usually  symmetrical, 
closed  or  partly  open ;  core  lines  slightly  clasping.  Carpels  broadly  roundish, 
slightly  emarginate,  sometimes  tufted.  Seeds  few.  rather  dark,  wide,  flat, 
obtuse,  compactly  filling  the  cells ;  often  some  are  abortive 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  somewhat  breaking,  a  little  coarse,  moderately 
tender,  moderately  juicy,  at  first  sprightly  subacid  but  becoming  mild  subacid 
or  nearly  sweet,  somewhat  aromatic,  good  to  very  good. 

ZURDEL. 

REFERENCES,  i.  N.  Y.  Sta.  An.  Rpt,,  8:356.  1889.  2.  Burrill  and  McCluer, 
///.  Sta.  Bui,  45:345-  1896.  3.  Beach  and  Clark,  N.  Y.  Sta.  Bui.,  248:152. 
1904. 

SYNONYM.     WHITE  ZURDEL   (i,  2).     White  Zurdel   (3). 

Fruit  grass-green  with  dull  blush  somewhat  like  that  of  Rhode  Island  Green- 
ing. As  grown  at  this  Station  it  is  hardly  fair  in  quality.  It  is  in  season 
from  January  to  April  or  May.  It  is  worthy  of  mention  only  for  the  purpose 
of  stating  that  it  has  no  value  for  the  New  York  fruit  grower. 


INDEX  TO  TECHNICAL  TERMS. 


PAGE. 

Abaxile  core 38 

Abrupt  basin 32 

Acuminate  cavity   32 

Acute  cavity 32 

Acuminate  seeds  38 

Acute  seeds   38 

Angular  form 3* 

Angular  basin   32 

Apex 30 

Appressed  buds 30 

Areolar  dots 33 

Axial  diameter   3° 

Axile  core   38 

Basal  stamens   38 

Base 30 

Basin 32 

Bloom 33 

Blush  33 

Buds  30 

Calyx 32 

Calyx  tube   36 

Carpels   38 

Cavity 32 

Clasping  core  lines 36 

Closed  calyx 32 

Color  32 

Color  of  flesh 39 

Cone-shaped  calyx  tube 36 

Conical  form   31 

Connivent  calyx  lobes 32 

Convergent  calyx  lobes 32 

Cordate  carpels  38 

Core    38 

Core,  closed 38 

Core  lines   34 

Core,  open  38 

Corrugated  basin   33 

Cylinder  of  calyx  tube 37 

Diameter   30 

Deciduous  calyx  lobes 32 

Deep  cavity  32 


PAGF. 

Distant  core  38 

Divergent  calyx  lobes 32 

Dots    33 

Elliptical  form 31 

Elliptical  carpels 38 

Elongated  carpels  38 

Elongated  dots 33 

Emarginate  carpels    38 

Equatorial  diameter 30 

Fibrovascular  bundles   35 

Flavor   39 

Flesh 38 

Form  30 

Free  buds 30 

Funnel-form  calyx  tube 36 

Furrowed  basin 32 

General  rating 39 

Globose  31 

Globular  31 

Internodes 29 

Irregular   31 

Leaves    30 

Lenticels    30 

Limb  of  calyx  tube 37 

Lipped  32 

Lopsided    31 

Mammiform  33 

Marginal  stamens  37 

Median  core 38 

Median  stamens  38 

Medium  cavity 32 

Meeting  core  lines 36 

Mottled  color 33 

Mucronate  carpels   38 

Narrow  cavity 32 

Nomenclature,  code  27 

Obcordate  carpels 38 

Oblate  form 30,  31 

Oblique  form  31 

Oblong  carpels  38 

Oblong  form 31 


389 


390 


INDEX  TO  TECHNICAL  TERMS. 


Obtuse  basin   , , 32 

Obtuse  cavity 32 

Obtuse  seeds   38 

Open  calyx 32 

Ovate  form 31 

Pistil  point 37 

Pubescence   30 

Radiating   33 

Rating,  general   39 

Reflexed  calyx  lobes 32 

Regular  basin 32 

Regular  form    31 

Ribbed 31 

Ribbed  basin 32 

Ridged  basin 32 

Round  form  31 

Roundish  carpels   38 

Russet  skin 33 

Scarf-skin   30,  34 

Season   40 

Seeds  38 

Sessile  core 38 

Self-colored  33 

Shallow  cavity 32 


Size 30 

Skin 33 

Splashes    33 

Stamens  37 

Stellate 33 

Stem 32 

Submerged  dots  33 

Suture 33 

Symmetrical 31 

Symmetrical  basin   32 

Texture   39 

Top 29 

Transverse  diameter   30 

Truncate  form 31 

Tufted  carpels  38 

Twigs 29 

Uniform  shape    31 

Uniform  size   30 

Use   39 

Vertical  diameter   30 

Wavy  basin 32 

Waxen  33 

Waxy  skin 33 

Wide  cavity  32 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


(Accepted  names  appear  wholly  or  in  part  in  roman  type;  synonyms  in  italic.) 


Aberdeen 227 

Accidental 227 

Acuba-leaf  Reinette 52 

Acuba-leaved  Reinette 52 

JEsopus  Spitzemberg 120 

&sopus  Spitzenberg 120 

JEsopus  Spitzenburg 120 

JEsopus  Spitzenburgh 120 

Aiken 41 

Aikin's  Red 4* 

Athens  Winter  (of  Downing).. .  .  41 

Aken 41 

AKIN 41 

Akin  Red 41 

Akin  Seedling 41 

Akin's  Red 41 

Akin's  Seedling 41 

Albemarle  146 

Albemarle  Pippin 18,  146 

ALEXANDER 17,  1 8,  20,  25 

ALEXANDER  GROUP 25 

Alleghany  227 

ALLINGTON 42 

Allington  Pippin 42 

ALLISON  43 

Almindelig  181 

AMASSIA  44 

American  Beauty  (synonym  of 

Sterling)  45,  319 

American  Beauty  (synonym  of 

Sheriff)  308 

AMERICAN  BLUSH 45 

American  Blush 161 

American  Golden  Russet 89 

American  Golden  Russet  of  New 

England 164 


American  Newt  own  Pippin 146 

American  Nonpareille 161 

AMERICAN  PIPPIN 45 

American  Seek-No-Further 273 

American  Summer  Pearmain.  ...     15 

AMOS 46 

Amos  Jackson 46 

ANDREWS 46 

Andrews  Winter 46 

ANIS 26 

Apt 181 

Api  eller 181 

A  pi  Fin 181 

Api  Ordinaire 181 

Api  Petit 181 

Api  Rose 181 

Api  Rouge 181 

APORT  GROUP.  . ." 20,    25 

Apple  of  Commerce 66 

Apple  of  the  Well 363 

Apy  Rouge 181 

ARCTIC 24 

ARKANSAS 24,    47 

Arkansas  Baptist 140 

ARKANSAS  BEAUTY 49 

ARKANSAS  BLACK 24,    49 

Arkansas     Black     (synonym     of 

Arkansas)   47 

Arkansas  Black  Twig 47,     50 

Arkansas' 47 

ARNOLD 50 

Arnold's  Beauty 50 

Arsapple 1 16 

ARTHUR  51 

AUCUBA  52 

Aucubaefolia 52 


391 


392 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


Aunt  Dorcas 145 

Austin 236 

AUTUMN  BOUGH 15 

Autumn  Pearmain 378 

BABBITT 53 

Bachelor   88 

Back  Creek 146 

Baer 158 

Bailey's  Golden  Sweet 54 

BAILEY  Sweet 54 

Bailey  Sweet 54. 

Bailey  Sweet  (synonym  of  Sweet 

Winesap)    333 

BAKER 55 

BALDWIN.  .12,  15, 17, 18, 19,  24,  32,    56 

Baldwin  Rosenapfel 56 

Baldvvins  Rother  Pippin 56 

Ball  Apple 250 

Baltimore 292 

Baltimore  Pippin 69 

Baltimore  Red 69 

Baltimore  Red  Streak 69 

Banana  377 

BANANA  SWEET 60,  377 

BAPTIST   61 

BARBEL 61 

Barretts  Spitzenburgh 225 

BARRINGER  62 

BARRY 63 

Batchellor 88 

BATULLEN 64 

BAXTER 64 

Baxter's  Red 64 

BEACH 66 

Beauty  324 

Beauty  of  America 45,  319 

Bee  de  Lievre 264 

Belle  Bonde 75 

Belle  Bonne 75 

Belle  de  Rome 290 

BELLE  ET  BONNE 67 

Belle  Fillc 264 

Belle  Flavoise 381 

Belle-Fleur  381 

Belle-Hcur  jaune , .  . .   381 

Belle-Flower 381 

Bellenower  Improved 204 

Bell-Flower 381 


Bellfiower  381 

Bellyband 67 

BELMONT   67 

Belmont  Late 67 

Belpre  Russft 293 

BEN  DAVIS 17,  18,  19,  -21,  24,    68 

BENTLEY 71 

Bentley's  Sweet 71 

Bentley  Sweet 71 

BERGEN  72 

Berry   227 

Bersford   269 

BESS  POOL 72 

Best  Pool 72 

BETHEL 19,  24,  72,  321 

BETHLEHEMITE 74 

Bethlemite 74 

Big  Hill  (synonym  of  Nickajack)  227 
Big  Hill  (synonym  of  Pryor)  ....  269 
Big  Romanite  (synonym  of  Grey- 
house)    153 

Big  Romanite  (synonym  of  Pen- 
nock)    255 

BILLY  BOND 75 

Bishop's  Pippin  of  Nova  Scotia. .   381 

BISMARK   25 

Black  American 79 

BLACK  ANNETTE 76 

Black  Apple 79 

Black  Baldwin 60 

BLACK  BEN  DAVIS 76 

Black   Ben    Davis    (synonym    of 

Gano)   135 

Blackburn  88 

BLACK  GILLIFLOWER.  . .  .12,  16,  17,     18 

32,    77 

Black  Jack 153 

BLACK  Jersey 79 

BLACK  LADY  APPLE 182 

Black  Pennock 153 

Black  Spits 77 

Black  Spitzenberg 132 

Black  Spy 189 

Black  Szvcet 219 

Black  Twig 247 

Black  Vandervere 153 

Black  Vandevere 153 

Blair 208 

Blue  Baldwin , 60 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


393 


BLUE  PEARMAIN 17,  18,  19,  24,  So 

BLUE  PEARMAIN  GROUP 24 

Boatman's  Seedling 359 

Bogdanoff 81 

BOGDANOFF  GLASS 8l 

Bogdanoff' s  Glass 81 

BOIKEN    82 

Boiken  Apfel 82 

Boikenapple 82 

Bonford 269 

Borovitsky 25 

BORSDORF 83 

Borsdorfcr 84 

Borsdorfer 84 

Borsdorff 84 

Borsdorffer 84 

Borsdorffer  84 

BOSTON  RUSSET 85 

Boston  Russet  (synonym  of  Rox- 

bury)    293 

BOTTLE  GREENING 24,     85 

BOUCKEN  86 

BOUGH  SWEET 12,  15,     16 

Bower's  Apple 329 

BOYS  DELIGHT 86 

Brandywine 213 

Bread  and  Cheese 273 

BRISTOL 86 

Bristol  (synonym  of  Red  Canada)  276 

Broad  River 289 

Brooke  Pippin 146 

Brown's  Golden  Sweet 343 

BROWNLEES  86 

Brownlee's  Russet 86 

Brownlees'  Seedling  Russet 86 

BROWN  SWEET 87 

BUCKINGHAM 18,    88 

Buler 174 

BULLOCK 15,    89 

Bullock   (synonym  of  Hunt  Rus- 
set)        164 

Bullock's  Pepping 89 

Bullock'. s    Pippin     (synonym    of 

Bullock) 89 

Bullocks    Pippin     (synonym     of 

Ewalt)    124 

Burlington 225 

Burlington  Greening 282 

Burlington  Spitzemberg 225 


Burlington  Spitscnberg 225 

r>  QQ 

Byers oo 

Byers  Red 88 

CABASHEA    (  Winter} 91,  176 

Cabashea  349 

Calville  Butter 56 

CAMPFIELD 91 

Canfield 91 

CANADA  BALDWIN 25,    92 

Canada     Pippin      (synonym     of 

'Canada  Reinette) 93 

Canada     Pippin      (synonym     of 

White  Pippin) 368 

Canada  Red    (synonym   of    Red 

Canada)  276 

Canada   Red    (synonym    of    Ro- 
seau)    292 

Canada  Redstreak 276 

CANADA  REINETTE 32,    93 

Canadian  Reinette 93 

Canadisk  Reinet 93 

CANNON  Pearmain 95 

Cannon  Pearmain 95 

Capp  Mammoth 206 

Cardinale 181 

CARLOUGH 95 

Carnation  Apple 96 

Carolina 227 

Carolina  Red  Streak 69 

Carolina  Spice 227 

Caroline 227 

CARPENTIN 96 

Carpentin  Reinette 96 

Carthouse 138 

Caux 114 

CAYWOOD  96 

Chaltram  Pippin 227 

Champion   99 

Champion  Red 99 

Charles  Apple 199 

Chase  166 

Chatham  Pippin 227 

Cheat  (synonym  of  Domine)  .  . .    109 

Cheat  (synonym  of  Wells) 363 

Cheatan  Pippin 227 

Cheataw 227 

Christmas  Apple 181 

Christ's  Golden  Reinette 114 


394 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


Choice  Kentuck 311 

Cider 311 

Cider  Apple 311 

CLAYTON 96 

Cling  Tight 109 

Clothes-yard  Apple 145 

COFFELT 97 

Coffelt  Beauty 97 

Coggeswell  98 

COGSWELL 98 

Cogsivell  Pearmain 98 

Cogswell's  Pearmain 98 

COLLINS  99 

Collins'  Red 99 

Combermere  Apple 206 

Compound 329 

Conford 269 

Connecticut  Seek-No-Further. . . .  364 

Coon 107 

Coon  Red 107 

COOPER 16 

COOPER  MARKET 100 

Cooper's  Market 101 

Cooper's  Red  (synonym  of 

Cooper  Market)  101 

Cooper's  Red  (synonym  of 

Etowah) 123 

Cooper's  Redling 101 

Copmanthorpe  Crab 114 

Cornell's  Savewell 299 

CORNISH  GILLIFLOWER 138 

Coss  Champion 99 

Coss's  Champion 99 

CRANBERRY  PIPPIN 300 

Crane's  Pippin 244 

CROTTS  102 

CROWNS  102 

Cuir,  De 264 

CURRANT 3 

Curtis  Greening 331 

Dahlonega 227 

Dame  de  Menage 206 

DANVERS  Sweet 103 

Danvers  Sweet 103 

Danvers  Winter 103 

Danvers  Winter  Siveet 15,  103 

Dark  Baldivin 60 

DEACON  JONES 104 


PAGE. 

De  Bretagne 93 

De  Cuir 264 

Deiltz  201 

Delaware  273 

Delaware  Red  Winter 189 

Delaware  Winter 189 

DEMOCRAT  105 

Dept.  No.  410 ! 282 

Dept.  No.  418 282 

Dept.  No.  467 61 

Der  Carpentin 96 

Der  Schwere  Apfel 326 

Detroit 244 

DETROIT  RED 12 

Detroit  of  the  West 244 

Deivit  Apple 107 

De  Witt 107 

Dickenson 106 

DICKINSON 106 

Die  Haarlemer  Reinette 93 

Die  Weiberreinette 93 

DISHAROON  107 

DOCTOR 17,  107 

Doctor  Dewitt 107 

DOCTOR  WALKER 108 

Dodge's  Black 79 

DOMINE 17,  109 

Domine  (synonym  of  Wells?)  .  . .   363 

Dominie 109 

Doppelie  Casseler  Reinette 114 

D'Or  d'Angleterre 141 

DOUBLE  ROSE no 

Doivning  Winter  Maiden  Blush.  .   152 

Du  Bois in 

Ducks  Bill 378 

Duitsch  Mignonnc 114 

DUKE  OF  DEVONSHIRE in 

Duke  of  Wellington 112 

DUMELOW 112 

Dumelovj's  Crab 112 

Du  me  low's  Pippin 112 

Dumelow's  Seedling 112 

DUNCAN 113 

Durable  Trots  ans 1 16 

Dutch  Greening 253 

DUTCH  MIGNONNE 32,  114 

Dutch  Minion 114 

DUZENBURY H5 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


395 


EARLY  CHANDLER 16 

EARLY  HARVEST 15,  i7»  l8 

EARLY  STRAWBERRY 15,  17 

Edelborsdorfer 84 

Edgar  County  Red  Streak 357 

Edgar  Red  Streak 357 

Edgar  Redstreak 357 

Edgerly's  Szveet 54 

Edgerly  Sweet 54 

EDWARDS  115 

Edwards  (synonym  of  Nicka- 

jack)  227 

Edwards  Favorite 115 

Edward  Shantee 227 

EISER  116 

Riser  Rouge 1 16 

ELLSWORTH  117 

English  Beauty  of  Pa 109 

English  Golden 143 

English  Golden  Pippin 141 

English  Golden  Russet 143 

ENGLISH  PEARMAIN 16 

English  Pippin 142 

English  Rambo  (synonym  of 

Domine)  109 

English  Rambo  (synonym  of 

Wells)  363 

English  Red  Streak  (synonym  of 

Domine)  109 

English  Red  Streak  (synonym  of 

Redstreak)  278 

English  Red  Streak  (synonym  of 

Wells)  363 

English  Redstreak 278 

ENGLISH  RUSSET 118 

English  Russet  (synonym  of  Long 

Island  Russet  I) 194 

English  Spitzemberg 225 

English  Spitzenberg 225 

English  Vandevere 312 

English  Winter  Red  Streak 

(synonym  of  Domine) 109 

English  Winter  Red  Streak 

(synonym  of  Wells) 363 

Eppes  Sweet 103 

Epse's  Sweet 103 

Equinetely 88 

Esopus 120 

Esopus  Spitzemberg 121 


Esopus  Spitzenberg 121 

Esopus  Spitzenberg  (New} 172 

ESOPUS  Spitzenburg . . .  12,  15,  16,     17 
18,  19,  24,  120 

Esopus  Spitzenburg 121 

Esopus  Spitzcnburgh 121 

ETOWAH 123 

Etowah     (synonym     of     Cooper 

Market)  101 

ETRIS 123 

EVENING  PARTY 123 

EWALT 124 

Faldwalder 125 

FALIX  125 

FALLA WATER 18,  32,  125 

Fall  de  W  aides 125 

Fallenwalder 125 

FALL  PIPPIN 12, 15, 16, 17,  18,    24 

FALL  PIPPIN  GROUP 24 

Fall  Queen 88 

Fall  Queen  of  Kentucky 88 

Fall  Romanite 273 

Fall  Winesap 89 

FAMEUSE 15,  16,  17,  18,  19,  23,    25 

FAMEUSE  GROUP 20,    25 

FAMILY 127 

FARRIS 128 

Faust's  Rome  Beauty 290 

Fay's  Russet 164 

Felch    56 

Femme  de  Menage 206 

FERDINAND 129 

FERRIS 130 

Feuilles  D'Aucuba 52 

Filliken    153 

Fine  Winter 373 

Fink 336 

Fink's  Seedling 336 

FlSHKILL 32 

Flanders  Pippin 206 

Flat  Spitzenburg 345 

FLORENCE 130 

FLORY  131 

Flory  Bellfiower 131 

Flory's  BellAower 131 

Flushing,    (synonym  of  Flushing 

Spitzenburg}    132 


396 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


Flushing  (synonym  of  Newtown 

Spitzenburg) 225 

Flushing  Spitzenberg 132 

FLUSHING  Spitzenburg. ..........   132 

Flushing  Spitzenburg 132 

Flushing  Spitzenburg    (synonym 

of  Roseau ) 292 

Flushing  Spitzenburgh 132 

FOREST   133 

Fornwalder 125 

Forsythe's   Seedling 227 

Fowler 311 

FRAKER 133 

Fraker's  Seedling 133 

Frankfort  Queen 88 

FRENCH  PIPPIN 24,  134 

French      Pippin      (synonym     of 

Newark  Pippin) 223 

French  Russet 264 

French  Spitzenburg  of  Vt 292 

Fuller 311 

Funkhouser 69 

Gait 67 

GANG  21,  135 

Gate 67 

Gay's  Romanite 255 

Gelber  Bellefteur 381 

Gelber   F.nglischcr   Schonbluhen- 

der 381 

Genet 271 

Geneton 271 

GENEVA  PIPPIN 136 

Geniton    271 

Gennetin   271 

Genneting   271 

Gennctting 271 

Germaine 378 

German  Green 93 

German  Spitzenberg 153 

Gibbons  Smokehouse 312 

GIDEON  SWEET 24,  137 

Gillet's  Seedling 290 

GlLLIFLOWER l6,    138 

Gillinower 77 

GILPIN 17,  32,  138 

GlNET    271 

GlVENS 140 

GLADSTONE 25 

GLENLOCH 140 


PAGE. 

Golden  Gray 328 

GOLDEN  MEDAL 141 

GOLDEN  PIPPIN 16,  141 

Golden  Pippin  (synonym  of  Bel- 

mont)   67 

Golden  Pippin  (synonym  of  Ort- 

ley)    244 

GOLDEN  RED 142 

GOLDEN  REINETTE 142 

Golden  Rennet 142 

GOLDEN  RUSSET 17,  18,  143,  295 

Golden  Russet  (synonym  of  Bul- 
lock)  ." 89 

Golden     Russet      (synonym      of 

Perry  Russet) 257 

Golden  Russet,  American 89 

Golden  Russet  (not  of  N.  Y.) .  . .   164 

Golden  Russet  of  Mass 164 

Golden  Russet  of  Nciv  England.   164 

Golden  Russet  of  N.Y 143 

Golden  Russet  of  Western  New 

York 143 

Gold  Medal 141 

Gozi'den 227 

Gowdie •.  227 

Graham's  Red  Warrior 227 

GRAND  DUKE  CONSTANTINE 25 

Grandmother's  Apple 145 

GRANITE  BEAUTY 145 

GRAVENSTEIN  12,  15,  17,     18 

Gray    Apple    (synonym    of    Mc- 
Afee)       196 

Gray  Apple  (synonym  of  Pomme 

Grise)  264 

Gray  Baldwin 60 

Grayhouse 153 

Gray     Romanite     (synonym     of 

Greyhouse)   153 

Gray     Romanite     (synonym     of 

Rambo)  273 

Gray's  Keeper 196 

Greasy  Pippin 244 

GREAT  BARBE 145 

Great  Pear  main 378 

Green  Bellnower 244 

Greening 145,  282 

Green    Mountain    Pippin    (syno- 
nym of  Falla water) 125 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


397 


Green   Mountain    Pippin    (syno- 
nym of  Virginia  Greening)..  ..  352 
GREEN    NEWTOWN.  .17,  18,24,  145,  149 

Green  Newtown  Pippin 146 

Green  New  town  Pippin  (syno- 
nym of  Rhode  Island  Green- 
ing)    282 

GREEN   PIPPIN 16 

GREEN  SWEET 150 

Green  Sweet  (synonym  of  Repka 

Malenka)     282 

GREEN  SWEETING 151 

Green    Sweeting     (synonym     of 

Green   Sweet) 151 

GREENVILLE  152 

Green  Winter  Peartnain 378 

Green  Winter  Pippin 146 

GREYHOUSE  153 

GRIMES 18,  19,  23,  153 

Grimes  Golden 154 

Grimes  Golden  Pippin 154 

Grindstone 45 

Grise 264 

Gros  Api  Rouge 181 

Gros  Rambour  d'Hiver 206 

Grosse  Casselar  Reinette 114 

Grosser  Casselar  Reinette 114 

Grosse  Reinette  d'Angleterre.  ...  93 

Gul.  Bellefleur 381 

Hampshire  Greening 282 

Hang-On 339 

Hard  Red 153 

Hardwick 326 

HARGROVE 155 

Harrigan 208 

Haus  Miitterchen 206 

HAWLEY 15,    24 

Hays 373 

Hays  Apple ,.  373 

Hays  Wine 373 

Hays  Winter 373 

Hays  Winter  Wine 373 

HAYWOOD 155 

HAZEN 156 

Heaster 158 

Heister 158 

HELEN 183 

Hempstead  321 


H end-rick 333 

Hendrick  Sweet 333 

HENNIKER 156 

Henrick  333 

Henrick  Sweet 333 

Henry  Sweet 333 

Henshaw 88 

HEREFORDSHIRE 157 

Herefordshire  Beefing 157 

Herefordshire  Pear  main 378 

Herefordshire  Red  Streak 278 

Herefordshire  Redstreak 278 

Hertfordshire  Pearmain 378 

HIBERNAL 26 

HIESTER  . , 158 

HIGHLAND  BEAUTY 159,  183 

Hogan 109 

Holland  Pippin  (synonym  of 

Domine)  24,  109 

Holland  Pippin  (synonym  of 

Holland  Winter) 159 

Holland's  Red  Winter 375 

HOLLAND  WINTER 159 

Hollow  Cored  Pippin 244 

Hollow  Core  Pippin 244 

Hollow  Crown  Pearmain 373 

HOLMES  161 

HOLMES  SWEET 161 

Honey  Greening 16,  151 

Honey  Siveet 380 

Hoop 153 

Hoopes 153 

Hoopes  Pearmain 153 

Hoops 153 

Hopsey 153 

Hopson  153 

House  153 

Howard 227 

Howard's  Sweet 54 

Hubbard  .; 227 

HUBBARDSTON •  •  •  17,    l8,    l6l 

Hubbardston  Nonsuch  (synonym 

of  Hubbardston) 161 

Hubbardston  Nonsuch  (synonym 

of  Sutton) 324 

HUNT  RUSSET 164 

Hunt's  Fine  Green  Pippin 146 

Hunt's  Green  Nezvtown  Pippin..  .   146 
HUNTSMAN 18,  165 


398 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


Huntsman's  Favorite 165 

HYDE  KING 166 

Hyde's  King  (of  the  West) 166 

Illinois  Greening 331 

Indian 196 

Indiana  Jannetting 271 

Ingraham 167 

INGRAM  24,  167 

Ingram  Seedling 167 

Inman 244 

Isle  of  V/ight  Orange 202 

Isle  of  Wight  Pippin 202 

JACKSON 168 

Jackson  (synonym  of  Amos)  ....     46 

Jackson  Red 227 

Jackson  Seedling 168 

Jackson  Winesap 311 

Jacks  Red 135 

Jacobs 169 

JACOBS    SWEET 169 

Jacobs  Winter  Sweet 169 

James  River   (synonym  of  Lim- 

bertwig) 193 

James  River   (synonym  of  Wil- 
low)      370 

Janet 271 

Janetting 271 

Januarea 93 

Jefferson  Pippin 271 

Jeniton  271 

Jennett 271 

Jennette 271 

Jenniton  271 

Jersey  Black 79 

Jersey    Greening     (synonym    of 

Ortley )  244 

Jersey    Greening     (synonym     of 

Rhode  Island  Greening) 282 

JERSEY  SWEET 12 

JEWETT  Red 19,  170 

Jewett's  Fine  Red 170 

Jewett's  Red 170 

Joe  Berry 225 

Johnathan  172 

John  May 161 

Johnson   278 

Johnson's  Fine  Winter 385 


JONATHAN.  ....... .17,  18,  24,  32,  172 

JONATHAN  BULER 174 

Jonathan  of  Buler 174 

Jones  Seedling 43 

Josie  Moore. . . . '. 219 

KAIGHN  183 

Kanada  Reinette 94 

Kanada-renett 93 

Kansas 175 

KANSAS  GREENING 175 

KANSAS  KEEPER 175 

Kelley's  Sweet 219 

Kelley  White 67 

KENT  PIPPIN 16 

Kentucky  Pippin 69 

Kentucky  Queen 88 

Kentucky  Red  Streak 357 

Kentucky  Streak 69 

Kettageska 178 

Keystone 153 

King  (synonym  of  Buckingham)  88 
King  (synonym  of  Tompkins 

King)  176,  345 

King  (synonym  of  Twenty  Ounce 

Pippin)  349 

King  Apple 345 

King  George  the  Third 84 

King  of  Tompkins  County 345 

King  Philip 172 

KINNAIRD  18,  176 

Kinnaird's  Choice 176 

Kinnaird's  Favorite 176 

Kinnard 176 

Kinnard's  Choice 176 

Kirkes  Golden  Reinette. 142 

KlRKLAND     177 

KlTTAGESKEE    l8,    178 

Kleine  Graue  Reinette 96 

Kleiner  Api 181 

Kountz 225 

LACKER 179 

Lacquier , 179 

Lac  Victoria  Seedling 188 

Ladies  Favorite  of  Tennessee...  88 

Ladies  Sweet 184 

Ladies'   Szveet 333 

Ladies  Sweeting 184 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


399 


LADY 15,  17,  32,  180 

Lady  Apple 181 

LADY  FINGER 183 

Lady  Finger  (synonym  of 

Kaighn)  183 

Lady  Finger  Pippin 183 

LADY  GROUP 182 

Lady  Henniker 156 

Lady  Pippin 66 

LADY  SEEDLINGS 183 

Lady's  Szveet 184 

Lady's  Sweeting 184 

LADY  SWEET 184 

Lady  Sweet  (synonym  of  Sweet 

Winesap)  333 

Lady  Sweeting 333 

Lady  Washington 381 

Lambertivig 193 

LANDON 185 

Lane  Albert 268 

Lane  Prince  Albert 268 

Lane's  Prince  Albert 268 

Langford 186 

LANKFORD 18,  186 

Lankford's  Seedling 186 

Lansinburg 188 

LANSINGBURG  187 

Lansingburgh 188 

Lansingbitrg  Pippin 188 

Laquier 179 

LARGE  LADY  APPLE 182 

Large  Ncwtown  Pippin 146 

Large  Rambo 273 

Large  Romanite 255 

Large  Striped  Pearmain 196 

Large  Striped  Winter  Pearmain.  196 

Large  Winter  Red 373 

Large  Yellow  Newton  Pippin...  146 
Large  Yellow  Newtown  Pippin.  .  146 

La  Rue 64 

Late  Baldwin 56 

LATE  DUCHESS 25 

LA  VICTOIRE 188 

La  Victoria  Seedling 188 

LAWYER  18,  189 

Leanham  227 

Leather  Apple  of  Turic 264 

Lecker  179 

Leder  264 


LEE  SWEET 191 

LEHIGH  Greening 192 

Lehigh  Greening 134 

Lexington  Queen 88 

Lille  Api 181 

LILLY  OF  KENT 193 

Lily  of  Kent 193 

Limber  7  wig 193 

LlMBERTWIG 193 

LIMBERTWIG  (small  or  red) 193 

LIMBERTWIG  (large  or  green)  ....  194 

Lincoln  Pippin 381 

Lineous  Pippin 381 

Linnoeus  Pippin 381 

Litsey 108 

Little  Pearmain 89 

Little  Red  Romanite  (synonym 

of  Gilpin) 138 

Little  Red  Romanite  (synonym 

of  Romanite) 289 

Little  Repka 282 

Little  Seedling 282 

Livre 206 

Lock's  Favorite 361 

Logan's  Northern  Pippin 213 

Long  Bois 181 

LONGFIEU)  26 

LONG  ISLAND  PIPPIN 16 

LONG  ISLAND  RUSSET  (I)....  17,  194 

LONG  ISLAND  RUSSET  (II) 195 

Long  Island  Seek-No-Further. . .  130 

Long  Pippin 183 

LONG  STEM  OF  PENNSYLVANIA...  196 

Lopside 153 

Lop-sided  Pearmain 153 

Lop-side  Pearmain 153 

LOUISE 20,  25 

LOWELL  16,  24 

MABIE  SWEET 24 

MCAFEE  196 

McAfee  Red 196 

McAfee's  Nonesuch 196 

McAfee';  Nonsuch 196 

McAfee's  Red 196 

McAffee 197 

McAffee's  Nonesuch 197 

McClouds  Family 127 

McLouds  Family 12? 


400 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


MclNTOSH 17,  l8,  20,      25 

Mackinlay 197 

McKlNLEY IQ7 

McKlNNEY    198 

MAGENTA 198 

MAIDEN  BLUSH 17,  18 

MAKEFIELD 312 

MALA  CARLE 199 

Malcarle 199 

Mai  Carle 199 

Male  Carle 199 

MALINDA  199 

Mamma  Beam 67 

Mamma  Bean 67 

Mammoth  Black  Twig  (synonym 

of  Arkansas) 47 

Mammoth  Black  Tzvig  (synonym 

of  Arkansas  Black) 50 

Mammoth  Black  Twig  (synonym 

of  Paragon)  247 

MANCHESTER 200 

Manks  Codling 379 

MANN 201 

Marietta  Russet 293 

Marietta  Seek-No-Further 364 

MARIGOLD  202 

Marigold  Pippin 202 

Marie  Carle 199 

Maroquin 264 

MARTHA 3 

Mary  gold  202 

MASON  ORANGE 204 

Mason's  Improved 204 

Mason's  Orange 204 

Massachusetts  Golden  Russet . . . .  164 

MASTEN  204 

Masten's  Seedling 204 

Matchless 225 

May 153 

May  Apple 153 

May  Seek-No-Farther 153 

May  Seek-No-Further 153 

Mela  Carla 199 

Mela  de  Carlo 190 

Mela  di  Carlo 199 

Mela  Januera 94 

Mclinda 199 

MELON 15,  24,  204 

Melon  Apple 204 


PAGE. 

Melon  de  Norton 204 

Melon,  Norton 204 

Melting  Pippin: 244 

Menage   206 

MENAGERE 206 

Menagerie 206 

Mere  de  Menage 206 

Merit 88 

MERRILL  207 

Merrill's 207 

Merrill's  Apple 207 

Metzgerapfel 381 

Metzger  Calvill 381 

Merger's   Calvill 381 

Michel  Miller 158 

MIDDLE 207 

MILAM  208 

MILDEN 209 

Milding   209 

Millcreek 312 

Alillcreek  Vandevere 312 

Miller 158 

MILWAUKEE 25,  211 

MINISTER 212 

Minister  Apple 212 

MINKLER  1 8,  213 

MISSING  LINK 214 

Missouri    215 

Missouri  Janet 271 

Missouri  Keeper 215 

Missouri  Orange 215 

MISSOURI  Pippin 18,  215 

Missouri  Pippin 215 

Missouri    Pippin     (synonym     of 

Nickajack) 227 

Missouri  Red 227 

Missouri  Superior 197 

Mittle   207 

Mobbs 227 

MONMOUTH  216 

Monmouth  Pippin 217 

MONROE  SWEET 24 

MOON  ....,..; 218 

Moore's  Late  Sweet 219 

Moore's  Shanty 219 

Moore's  Sweet 219 

Moore's  Sweeting 219 

MOORE  SWEET 219 

Moor's  Sweeting 219 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


401 


Morris  Red 324 

MOTHER 15,    24 

Mountain    Pippin    (synonym    of 

Fallawater)    125 

Mountain  Pippin 146 

MOVER 220 

Moyer  Prize 220 

Mumper  Vandevere 213 

Neisley's  Winter 255 

Neisley's  Winter  Penick --'55 

NELSON 221 

Nelson  Sweet 221 

Ne  Plus  Ultra 88 

NERO  222 

Neustadt's  gelber  Pepping 146 

Never  Fail 271 

Neverfail 271 

NEWARK  PIPPIN 223 

Newark  Sweeting 91 

Newby  107 

New  England  Golden  Russet. . .  .  164 

New  England  Russet 164 

New  England  Seeknofurther. . . .  364 

New  Greening 331 

NEWMAN 24,  224 

Newman  Seedling 224 

New  Missouri 197 

New  Rhode  Island  Greening,  . .  .  331 

Newton's  Pippin u,6 

Newton  Spitzemberg ...  225 

Newton  Spitzenburgh 225 

Newton  Yellow  Pippin 1.46 

Newtozvn  Pippin...  n,  15,  16,  19,  146 

Newt  own  Spitzemberg -. .  225 

Newtown  Spitzenbergh 225 

NEWTOWN  SPITZENBURG.  ..15,  17,  225 

Newtown  Spitzenburgh 225 

NEW  WATER .  226 

New  York  Greening 146 

New   York  Pippin   (synonym  of 

Ben  Davis) 69 

New  York  Pippin 146 

NlCKAJACK     1 8,  227 

Nickejack   227 

Nodhead   170 

Nonesuch      (synonym     of     Red 

Canada)  276 


Nonesuch     (synonym    of    Hub- 

bardston)  161 

Nonpar  eille  de  Hubbardston 161 

Nonsuch  (synonym  of  Hubbards- 
ton)       161 

Nonsuch  (synonym  of  McAfee)  .   197 
Nonsuch       (synonym      of      Red 

Canada)  -276 

Normanton   Wonder 112 

North  Carolina 227 

NORTHERN  SPY..  12,  15,  17,18,21,    24 

37,  229 

NORTHERN  SPY  GROUP 24 

NORTHWESTERN  Greening 24,  233 

Northwestern  Greening 233 

North  West  Greening 233 

Norton's  Melon 204 

Norton   Watermelon. 204 

OAKLAND 234 

Oakland    County    Seek-No-Fur- 
ther    234 

OCCIDENT 24,  235 

Oel 236 

OEL  AUSTIN 24,  236 

Ohio  Favorite 244 

OHIO  NONPAREIL 98 

OLDENBURG 17,  1 8,  25,    26 

OLDENBURG   GROUP 25 

Old  English  Pear  main 378 

Old  Golden  Pippin 141 

Old  Nonsuch ' 276 

Old  Pear  main 378 

OLIVE 237 

OLIVER 238 

Oliver's  Red 238 

OLYMPIA   24,  60,  239 

Olympia  Baldwin 239 

ONTARIO 21,  24,  240 

OPALESCENT 242 

Orange  Pippin 202 

Orleans    161 

ORNAMENT 243 

Ornament  de  Table 243 

Ornement  de  Table 243 

ORTLEY 244 

Ortley  Apple 244 

Ortley  Pippin 244 


402 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


Ox-Eyc  (synonym  of  Bucking- 
ham)    88 

Ox  Eye  (synonym  of  Nevvtown 
Spitzenburg)  225 

Oxheart 349 

Ozark 135 

PALMER 246 

Palmer  Greening 361 

Palmer  of  N.  Z 246 

Paradise  Winter 380 

Paradise  Winter  Sweet 380 

PARAGON 24,  246 

Paragon  (synonym  of  Arkansas)     47 

Pariser  Rambour  Reinette 94 

Park   (synonym  of  McAfee)  ....   197 
Park  (synonym  of  Park  Spice)  .  248 

Park  Apple 248 

Parks  Keeper 197 

PARK  SPICE 248 

PARLIN 248 

Parlin's  Beauty 248 

Par  main  d'Angleterre 378 

Parmain  d'Hiver 378 

Par  main-Pep  ping T 378 

PARSON 249 

Parson's  Sweet 249 

Paternoster  Apple 114 

Paterson's  Sweet 54 

Patterson's  S^vect 54 

Patterson  Siveet 54 

PAWPAW 250 

Pawpaw  Seedling 250 

PAYNE   250 

Payne  Late  Keeper 250 

Payne's  Keeper 250 

Payton 135 

PEACH 251 

Peach  of  Kentucky 251 

PEARMAIN 252 

Pearmain    (synonym    of    Winter 

Pearmain)     378 

Pearmain  d'Hiver 378 

Pearmain  Herefordshire 378 

Peau 264 

Peck   253 

Pecker  56 

PECK  Pleasant 12,  24,  32,  253 

Peck's  Pleasant 253 


Peewaukee 258 

Pelican ". 255 

Penick   255 

Pennick  255 

PENNOCK 17,  255 

Pennock's  Red  Winter 255 

Pennsylvania  Cider 311 

Pennsylvania  Red-Streak 373 

Pennsylvania  Red  Streak 373 

Pepin  de  New-York 69 

Pepin  d'Or 141 

Pepin  Parmain  d'Angleterre 378 

Pepin  Parmain  d'Hiver 378 

Peremenes 379 

Pcrmaine 379 

Permein 379 

PERRY  RUSSET 256 

PETER   25 

Petersburgh  Pippin 146 

Petit  Api 181 

Petit  Api  Rose 181 

Petit  Api  Rouge 181 

Petit  Apis 181 

Petite  Reinette  Grise 96 

PEWAUKEE  25,  258 

Pfeifer  262 

Pfeiffer 262 

Pfund 206 

Philip  Rick 172 

Phoenix  (synonym  of  Pennock)  .  255 
Phoenix  (synonym  of  Rome) . .  .  290 

Picard    260 

Picard's  Reserve 260 

Pickard   260 

PICKARD  RESERVE 260 

Pickard' s  Reserve 260 

PIFER 262 

Pilliken 153 

Pirn's  Beauty  of  the  West 125 

Pineapple 257 

Pineapple  Russet 257 

Pine's  Beauty  of  the  West 125 

PINE  STUMP 263 

Piper 262 

PIPPIN 263 

Pippin     (synonym    of    Newtown 

Pippin)    146 

Pippin,  Bullock 89 

Pitzer  Hill 269 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


403 


PAGE. 

Platarchium  379 

Polhemus 219 

Pomme  d'Api 181 

Pomme  d'Api  Rouge 181 

Pomme  d'Apis 181 

Pomme  de  Caen 94 

Pomme  de  Charles 199 

Pomme  de  Cuir 264 

Pomme  de  Per 292 

Pomme  de  Laak 114 

Pomme  de  Transylvania 64 

Pomme  Finale 199 

Pomme  Gree 264 

Pomme  Gris 264 

Pomme  Grise 264 

Pomme  Grise  d'Or 328 

Pomme  Rose 181 

Pommeroy 184 

Pomme  Roye 255 

Pomone  d'Apis 181 

Poplar  Bluff 311 

Popular  Bluff 311 

PORTER 12,  15 

Portugal 94 

Poughkeepsie  Russet  (synonym 

of  English  Russet) 118 

Poughkeepsie  Russet  (synonym 

of  Perry  Russet) 257 

Pound  (synonym  of  Fallawater).  125 
Pound  (synonym  of  Nickajack).  227 

POUND  vSwEET 266 

Pound  Siveet  (synonym  of  Moore 

Sweet)  219 

Prager  Reinette  Franche  de 

Grandville  264 

Pratt 266 

PRATT  SWEET 266 

Pride  of  Hudson 62 

Pride  of  Texas 337 

Pride  of  the  Hudson 62 

Priestley 267 

Priestley's  American 267 

PRIESTLY 267 

PRINCE  ALBERT 268 

Prince  Albert  (Lane} 268 

Princesse  Noble 142 

Prior's  Late  Red 269 

Prior's  Red 269 


PROLIFIC  BEAUTY 16 

Prolific  Beauty  (synonym  of  Pen- 

'  nock)    255 

Prolific  Beauty  (synonym  of  Blue 

Pearmain)   80 

PRYOR  269 

Pry  or  Red 269 

Pry  or s  Pearmain 269 

Pryor's  Red 269 

PUMPKIN  SWEET 16,  17,     18 

Putman's  Russet 293 

Putnam  Russet 293 

Putnam's  Savewcll 299 

Quaker  321 

QUEEN    88 

Queen  of  Haywood 155 

Queens  84 

QUINCE 17 

RALLS  18,  24,  270 

RALLS  GROUP 24 

Rail's  Genet 271 

Rails  Janet 271 

RAMBO  17,  18,  32,  273 

Rambouillet    273 

Ramboulette 273 

Ramboulrette 109 

Rambour  Barre 379 

Raule  Jannet 271 

Raule's  Genet 271 

Raule' s  Janet 271 

Raule's  Janett 271 

Raule's  fanette 271 

Raule's  Jannet 271 

Raule's  Jannette 271 

Raule's  Jannetting 271 

Raule's  Jennetting 271 

Raul's  Gennetting 271 

Razvle's  Genet 271 

Razvle's  Janet 271 

Rawle's  Janett 271 

Razvle's  Jannet 271 

Raivle's  Jennet 271 

Razvle's  Jenneting 271 

Rawle's  Jennette 271 

Rawl's  Janet 271 

Reagan 135 

RED  ASTRACHAN.  .  .15,  17,  1 3,  25,    26 
Red  Baldwin  Pippin 56 


404 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


Red  Ben  Davis 135 

RED  CANADA 15,  24,  37,  275 

Red  Canada  of  Ont 292 

Red  Cathead 267 

Red  Cheek 217 

Red  Cheeked  Pippin 217 

Red  Cheek  Pippin 217 

Red  Codlin 132 

Red  Doctor 107 

Red  Eiser 116 

Red  Everlasting 153 

Red  Gilliflower • 77 

Red  Gloria  Mundi 88 

Red  Hazel 227 

Red  Horse. 88 

Red  Lady  Finger 183 

Red  Limbertwig 193 

Redling   101 

Red  Neverfail 271 

Red  Ox 255 

Red  Pennock 255 

Red    Pippin     (synonym    of    Ben 

Davis)    69 

Red  Pippin  (synonym  of  Nicka- 

jack) 227 

Red       Pippin        (synonym       of 

Streaked  Pippin) 321 

Red  Pound 64 

Red  Rock 188 

Red  Romanite 289 

Red  Romanite  of  Ohio 138 

RED  RUSSET 278 

Red  Russet  (synonym  of  Pryor)  .  269 

REDSTREAK 278 

Red  Streak 278 

Red  Sweet  Pippin 219 

Red  Sweet  Winesap 333 

RED  TYPE  OF  WESTFIELD  Seek-No- 
Further  366 

Red  Vandevere 312 

Red  Warrior 227 

Red  Winter 276 

RED  WINTER  PEARM AIN 183 

Red  Winter  Pearmain 279 

Red  Winter  Pearmain  (synonym 
of  Westfield  Seek-No-Further}  364 

RED  WINTER  PIPPIN 183 

Red  Winter  Sweet 219 

REINETTE 279 


PAGE. 

Reinette  a  feuille  d'Acuba 52 

Reinette  Canada 94 

Reinette  Carpentin 96 

Reinette  de  Caen 94 

Reinette  de  Canada 94 

Reinette  de  Canada  a  Cotes 94 

Reinette  de  Caux 114 

Reinette  de  Darnetal 264 

Reinette  de  New  York 146 

Reinette   d'Or 1 14 

Reinette  Doree 114 

Reinette  du  Canada 94 

Reinette  du  Canada  a' Cortes....     94 

Reinette  du  Canada  Blanche 94 

Reinette   Grise 264 

Reinette  Grise  Brownlees' 86 

Reinette  Grise  de  Darnetal 264 

Reinette  Grise  Double 265 

Reinette  Grise  de  Grandville ....  265 

Reinette  Grise  d'Hiver 265 

Reinette  Grise  Extra 265 

Reinette  Grise  Franchaise 264 

Reinette  Grosse  de  Angleterre.  . .     94 
Reinette  Monstreuse  de  Canada. .     94 

Reinette  Pepin 280 

REINETTE  PIPPIN 280 

Reinette  toute  Grise 265 

Reinette  Von  Canada 94 

Reipka  Melenkaya 282 

REPKA  MALENKA 281 

Rhode  Island 282 

RHODE  ISLAND  Greening.  ..12,  15,     16 

17,  1 8,  19,  24,  282 

RHODE  ISLAND  Greening  GROUP.  .     24 

Rhode  Island  Russet 257 

Rhode  Island  Seek-No-Further. .   130 

RIBSTON  PIPPIN 17 

Richardson's  Red 66 

Richfield  Nonsuch 276 

Rickmans  Red 227 

RIDGE 287 

Ridged  Pippin 287 

Ridge  Pippin 287 

Roa  Yon 184 

Robinson  3J6 

Rock 289 

Rock  Apple 188 

ROCK  PIPPIN 288 

Rock  Remain 271 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


405 


Rockremain    271 

Rock  Rimmon 271 

Rockrimmon 271 

Rolland    67 

Roman  Beauty 290 

ROMANITE    289 

Romaniie   (synonym  of  Gilpin) .   138 
Romanite     (synonym    of     Grey- 
house)    153 

Romanite     (synonym     of     Pen- 
nock)    255 

Romanite  (synonym  of  Rambo).  273 

Romanite  of  the  South 289 

Romanite  of  the  West 138 

Romanite,  South 289 

Roman  Knight 255 

ROMAN  STEM 17,     :8 

ROME 32,  290 

Rome  Beauty 290 

ROSEAU 292 

ROSE-COLORED  LADY  APPLE 182 

Rose  Sweet 333 

Rosseau  292 

Ross  Greening 352 

Rother  Riser 116 

Rother  Eiserapfel 116 

Rouge  de  Pry  or 269 

Rouge  Rayee  (synonym  of  Eiser)   116 
Rouge  Rayee   (synonym  of  Red- 
streak)    278 

Rox 294 

ROXBURY 15,  16,  17,  18,  23,  293 

Roxbury  Russet 293 

Roxbury  Russeting 293 

Rox  Russet 294 

Royal   Janette 271 

Royal  Red  of  Kentucky 375 

Rubicon   250 

Rucktnan 227 

Ruckmans  Red 227 

Russet   294 

Russet  BALDWIN 59 

Russet,  Boston  or  Roxbury 294 

Russet,  Golden 143 

Russet  Pearmain. . . .  % 164 

Russet  Seek-No-Further 364 

RUSSIAN  BALDWIN 295 

RUTLEDGE 296 


St.  Helena  Russet 94 

ST.  LAWRENCE 17,  18 

SALISBURY 297 

Salisbury  Pippin 297 

Salisbury  Winter 297 

SALOME 24,  297 

SAVEWELL 299 

SCARLET  BEAUTY 24 

SCARLET  CRANBERRY 299 

SCARLET  PIPPIN 25 

SCHODACK  300 

Schoolmocker    301 

SCHOONMAKER    3OI 

Schwere  Apfel,  Der 326 

SCOTT 301 

Scott  (synonym  of  Baker) 55 

Scott's  Red  Winter 302 

Scott's   Winter 302 

Scott  Winter 302 

SCRIBNER     3O3 

Scribner's  Spitzenberg 303 

Scribner's  Spitzenburgh 303 

Scudamore's  Crab 278 

Scudamous  Crab 278 

Seek-No-Farther  273 

Seeknofurther  364 

Seek-No-Further  (synonym  of 

Rambo)  273, 

Seek-No-Further  . ' 303 

Seek-No-Further  of  Delaware, 

N.  J.,  and  Penn 273 

Senator  238 

SHACKLEFORD  304 

Shackleford's  Best 304 

SHANNON  (I) 305 

SHANNON  (II) 306 

Shannon  Pippin 305 

SHEDDAN  306 

Sheepnose  (synonym  of  Bullock)  89 
Sheepnose  (synonym  of  Lady 

Finger)  183 

SHEEPNOSE 307 

Sheep  Shire 131 

Sheep's  Nose 89 

Sheep's  Snout 89 

SHERIFF  308 

SHIAWASSEE  25 

Shippens  Russet 294 

SHIRLEY 308 


406 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


SIBERIAN  CRAB 17 

SKANK  309 

Sklanka  81 

Sklanka   Bogdanoff 81 

Skunk  321 

SLEIGHT  310 

Sleight's  Lady  Apple 310 

Slight's  Lady  Apple 310 

SMITH  CIDER 18,  310 

Smith's 311 

Smith's   Cider 311 

SMOKEHOUSE 15,  312 

Smoke  House 312 

Snorter    197 

Sol  Carter 88 

Sondergleichen  von  Hubbardston  161 

Southern,  Romanite " 289 

SPICE  SWEET 12 

Spiced  Ox  Eye 225 

Spitzenberg 121 

Spitzenberg  Newtown 225 

Spitzenburg    314 

Spitzenburgh   (synonym  of  Eso- 

pus  Spitzenburg) 121 

Spitzenburgh  (synonym  of  New- 
town  Spitzenburg) 225 

Spitzenburgh  Newtown 225 

SPRING  PIPPIN 314 

Springport 314 

Springport   Pippin 314 

Spy 229,  315 

Staalclubs  225 

STANARD 315 

Stanard's  Seedling 315 

Stannard  315 

Stannard's  Seedling 315 

STAR  LADY  APPLE 182 

STARK 316 

Starke  Apple 316 

S toyman   318 

Stay  man's  Wine  sap 318 

STAYMAN  WINESAP 318 

Steele's  Red 324 

Steele's  Red  Winter  (synonym  of 

Baldwin )   56 

Steele's  Red  Winter  (synonym  of 

Red  Canada) 276 

Steele's  Red  Winter  (synonym  of 
Sutton)    324 


PAGE. 

Steel's  Red 276 

Stehly 158 

Steklianka  Bogdanoff 81 

STERLING   319 

Sterling  Beauty 45,  319 

Stettin  Pippin 114 

Stevenson  Pippin 197 

Stine  197 

STONE    24,  320 

Stone     (synonym     of     American 

Pippin)    45 

Stor  Casseler  Reinet 114 

Stor  Kasselrenett 114 

Starr's    Wine 197 

STOWE 321 

Stozve's   Winter 321 

STREAKED  PIPPIN 321 

STRIPED  GILLIFLOWER 16 

Striped  Pearmain 197 

Striped  Rambo 273 

Striped   Rhode   Island    Greening 

(synonym  of  Domine) 109 

Striped   Rhode   Island    Greening 

(synonym  of  Wells) 363 

STRIPED  SWEETING 16 

Striped  Sweet  Pippin 197 

Striped  Winter  Pearmain 197 

Stuart  323 

STUART  GOLDEN 323 

Stuart's  Golden 323 

Stump,    incorrectly 323 

Sugar  Barbel 61 

Summerour    227 

SUMMER  PIPPIN 11 

SUMMER  QUEEN 16 

SUMMER  ROSE 15 

Summer  Russet 333 

Sussex  Scarlet  Pearmain 379 

SUTTON  32,  324 

Sutton     Beauty      (synonym      of 

Dumelow)     112 

Sutton  Beauty  (synonym  of  Sut- 
ton)      324 

SWAAR 15,  16,  17,  18,  326 

Swaar  Apple 326 

Swaysie  Pomme  Gris  ' 328 

Swayzie  328 

Swaysie  Pomme  Grise 328 

SWAZIE 328 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


407 


Swazie  Pomme  Grise 328 

Swazie's  Pomme  Gris 328 

Swazy 328 

Swazy  Pomme  Gris 328 

SWEET  AND  SOUR 329 

SWEET  GREENING  151,  331 

SWEET  KING 333 

Sweet  Maiden's  Blush 91 

Sweet  Pearmain 333 

Sweet  Pippin 219 

Sweet  Rhode  Island  Greening. ..  331 

SWEET  RUSSET 333 

SWEET  WINESAP 333 

Sweet  Wine  Sap 333 

SWENKER 335 

Sylvan  Russet 294 

Tollman's  Sweet 343 

Tallman  Sweet 343 

Tollman  Sweeting 343 

Taiwan's  Sweet 343 

Talman  Sweet 343 

Taiwan's   Sweeting 343 

Talman  Sweeting 343 

Teller 206 

Tenon   Hills 67 

Terry's  Redstreak 273 

TETOFSKY  25,    26 

Tcwkesbury  Blush 336 

Tewkesbury  Winter  Blush   336 

Tewksberry  Winter  Blush 336 

Teivksbcry  Winter  Blush 336 

TEWKTSBURY 336 

Tewksbuty  Blush 336 

Tewksbury  Winter  Blush 336 

Texan  Red 375 

TEXAS 337 

Thomas  208 

Timothy 339 

Timothy  Titus  Sort 339 

TITUS  339 

Titus  (synonym  of  Titus  Pippin)  339 

TITUS  PIPPIN 338 

TOBIAS   340 

Tobias  Apple 340 

TOBIAS  BLACK 341 

TOBIAS  PIPPIN 342 

Tolman    343 

TOLMAN  Sweet 16,  17,  18,  343 


Tolman  Sweet 343 

Tolman  s   Sweeting 343 

Tolman  Sweeting 343 

To  ma  Red 345 

Tommy   Red 345 

Tompkins  County  King 345 

TOMPKINS  KING 17,  18,  19,  345 

Tom's  Red 345 

Tom  Woodward  Pippin 244 

Treanham    227 

Trenham   227 

True  Spitzenburgh 121 

Trumpington   273 

TUFTS 24 

Tulpahocken 125 

Tulpehocken 125 

TWENTY  OUNCE 17,  18,  193 

TWENTY  OUNCE  PIPPIN 349 

Tzvitty's   Paragon 247 

Ulster  Seedling 172 

Valandingham  197 

Vandervere    (synonym   of    New- 
town  Spitzenburg) 225 

Vandervere  (synonym  of  Smoke- 
house)      312 

Vandervere  of  New  York 225 

VANDEVERE 18 

Vandevere     (synonym    of    New- 
town    Spitzenburg) 225 

Vandevere  English 312 

Vandevere  of  New  York 225 

Van  Dyme 244 

Van  Dyne 244 

VANHOY 351 

Van  Hoy 351 

Van  Hoy  No  Core 351 

Van   Vleet 161 

VARICK 105 

Verte  de  I' lie  de  Rhodes 283 

Verte  de  Rhode  Island 283 

Vickers    186 

VICTOIRE,  LA 188 

Victoria  Pippin 69 

Victoria  Red 69 

VICTORIA  SWEET 24 

VIRGINIA  GREENING 352 


408 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


Virginia  Pippin 146 

Virginia    Pippin     (synonym     of 
Virginia    Greening?) 352 

WABASH 353 

W abash  Bellfloiver 353 

WABASH  RED 353 

W abash  Red  Winter 353 

WAGENER 21,  24,  354 

IVahr  Reinette 94 

Walb 227 

WALBRIDGE 356 

Walker 358 

WALKER  BEAUTY 358 

Walker's  Beauty 358 

Walker's    Winter 358 

Walker   Yellow 358 

Wall  227 

WALLACE  HOWARD 359 

Wallbridge   357 

Waltz   Apple 253 

Wander  227 

WANDERING  SPY 360 

Warren  Pippin  (synonym  of  Ort- 

ley)    244 

Warren  Pippin  (synonym  of  Yel- 
low Bellflower)  381 

WASHINGTON  ROYAL 361 

Watermelon  204 

Watts  Apple 253 

WATWOOD 362 

Waxen   67 

Waxen   Apple 67 

WEALTHY 17,  19,    25 

WEALTHY  GROUP 25 

Weisser  Metzgerapfel 381 

Well  Apple    (synonym  of  Dom- 

ine)  109 

Well  Apple    (synonym   of  Titus 

Pippin)    339 

Wellington   112 

Wellington's  Reinette 112 

WELLS    363 

Wells  (synonym  of  Domine)  ....   109 

Wells  Apple 363 

Wesse  Antillische  Winterreinette    94 
Westchester  Seek-No-Further.  . .   130 
Western   Baldwin    (synonym    of 
Babbitt)   53 


PAGE. 

Western  Baldwin    (synonym   of 

Pawpaw)  250 

Western  Beauty 166 

Westfield  :....  364 

WestHeld  Seek-No-Farther 364 

WESTFIELD  Seek-No-Further.  .12,     16 
17,  18,  32,  364 

Westneld  Seek-No-Further 364 

WESTFIELD  Seek-No-Further;  Red 

type 366 

White  67 

White  Apple 67 

WHITE  ASTRACHAN 25 

White  Bellefieur 244 

White  BellHower 244 

White  Crow 197 

White  Detroit 244 

WHITE  PEARMAIN 367 

WHITE  PIPPIN 24,  368 

White  Pippin   (synonym  of  Can- 
ada Reinette) 94 

White  Pippin   (synonym  of  Ort- 

ley)    244 

White  Robinson 380 

WHITE  SEEK-NO-FURTHER 15 

White  Winter  Pearmain 367 

White  Zurdel 387 

Wile  ox's  Winter 302 

Wild  Apple 384 

Williamson  109 

WILLOW 18,  370 

Willow  Leaf 3?o 

Willow  Leaf  Pippin 244 

Willow  Twig 370 

WILLSBORO 372 

WINDSOR   372 

Windsor  Chief 372 

WINE 15,  373 

Wine  (synonym  of  Jonathan)  ...   172 
Wine     (synonym     of     Newtown 

Spitzenburg)    225 

Wine  Apple 373 

WINESAP 17,  24,  374 

WlNESAP    GROUP 24 

Winesap 172 

Wine  Sap 375 

Winesap  of  Vt 292 

Wine  Sop 375 

Wine  Sweet 380 


INDEX  TO  VARIETIES. 


409 


WINTER  BANANA 377 

Winter  Belle  Bonne 67 

Winter  Blush  (synonym  of  Fall- 

awater)    125 

Winter  Blush  (synonym  of  Rock 

Pippin  of  Eastern  New  York)  .  288 

Winter  Genneting 271 

WINTER  HOG  ISLAND  SWEET 378 

Winter  Horse 227 

Winter  Jannetting.  . 271 

Winter  King 345 

Winter  Nonsuch 276 

Winter  Peach 251 

Winter   Pearmain    (synonym    of 

McAfee)    197 

Winter   Pearmain    (synonym    of 

Milam)    208 

WINTER  PEARMAIN 378 

Winter  Pippin 197 

Winter  Pippin  of  Geneva 136 

Winter  Queen 88 

Winter    Queening 88 

Winter  Queen  of  Kentucky 88 

Winter  Rose 227 

Winter     Russet      (synonym     of 

English  Russet) 1 18 

Winter     Russet      (synonym     of 

Perry  Russet) 257 

WINTER  ST.  LAWRENCE 379 

Winter  Sweet  Paradise 380 

Winter   Wine 373 

WlSMER    380 

Wismer's  Dessert 380 

Wisner's  Dessert 380 

WOLF   RIVER .20,    25 

Wonder 227 

Woodman's  Song. ,,,,,..,.,,,,,  244 


Woodpecker 56 

Woodward's  Pippin 244 

Woolman's  Long 244 

Woolman's  Long  Pippin 244 

Woolnary  Long 244 

World's    Wonder 227 

Wyandotte    196 

Yeats    316 

Yellow  Bellefleur 381 

Yellow  Belle  Fleur 381 

Yellow  Belleflower 381 

YELLOW  BELLFLOWER.  .  .15,  16,  17,  18 
19,  23,  381 

YELLOW  BELLFLOWER  GROUP 383 

YELLOW  FOREST 384 

Yellow  German  Reinette 142 

YELLOW  HARVEST 12 

Yellow  fanett 271 

Yellow  Janette 271 

Yellow  Newton's  Pippin 146 

YELLOW  NEWTOWN.  ..  .17,  18,  24,  145 

150,  385 
Yellow  Newtown  (synonym  of 

Canada  Reinette) 94 

Yellow  Newtown  Pippin 146 

Yellow  Pippin  (synonym  of 

Newark  Pippin) 223 

Yellow  Pippin  (synonym  of  Ort- 

ley)  244 

YELLOW  TRANSPARENT 17,  25 

Yopp's  Favorite 18,  146 

YORK  IMPERIAL 18,  19,  32,  385 

York  Pippin 24 

Zeeke  197 

ZURPEL  387 


^B« 

'  "1  l 


