m 


JBRARY  AGRIU.  L 


A   HANDBOOK   OF    HARDY   FRUITS 

MORE   COMMONLY   GROWN 

IN   GREAT   BRITAIN 


FURTHER   VOLUMES 
IN  PREPARATION 

STONE    FRUITS— 

Cherries,     Plums,      Peaches     and 
Nectarines 

BUSH    FRUITS— 

Currants,  Raspberries,  Nuts,  &c. 


A    HANDBOOK    OF 

HARDY   FRUITS 

MORE    COMMONLY    GROWN    IN 
GREAT    BRITAIN 

APPLES  AND   PEARS 


BY 

EDWARD   A.   BUNYARD,    F.L.S. 


LONDON 

JOHN    MURRAY,   ALBEMARLE   STREET 
1920 


35? 


i^y  W»e.  ow" 


PREFACE. 

THE  present  work  is  designed  to  fill  the  place  formerly 
occupied  by  Dr.  Hogg's  Fruit  Manual  which  has  now 
been  out  of  print  for  some  time,  and  as  it  is  more  than 
thirty  years  since  the  last  edition  appeared,  there 
are  a  large  number  of  fruits  which  have  not  yet  been 
described  save  in  the  weekly  gardening  Journals. 
In  preparing  the  present  handbook,  the  author  has 
endeavoured  to  provide  information  in  a  popular  form 
without  any  loss  of  accuracy,  and  the  references  given 
to  the  coloured  plates  in  the  standard  Pomologies 
will  facilitate  a  study  of  the  fuller  descriptions  in  these 
works. 

The  present  volume  will  shortly  be  followed  by  a  similar 
one  on  Stone  Fruits,  Peaches,  Nectarines,  Plums  and 
Cherries,  and  completed  by  one  containing  the  smaller 
fruits,  Gooseberries,  Raspberries,  Currants,  Nuts,  etc. 
It  was  thought  well  to  publish  the  Apples  and  Pears 
at  once  rather  than  wait  another  year  or  eighteen  months 
before  presenting  the  complete  volume. 

There  are,  of  course,  a  large  number  of  varieties 
not  included  in  the  work,  but  the  Author  has  thought 
it  unwise  to  include  other  than  those  which  are  more 
generally  cultivated.  In  Pears,  for  instance,  the  list 
might  easily  have  been  quadrupled  but  without  any 
corresponding  advantage  to  the  general  reader. 

5 

744192 


The  Author  will  be  glad  to  receive  from  any  readers 
any  historical  facts  respecting  fruits  and  also  any  old 
varieties  which  he  has  not  included  so  that  they  may 
appear  in  a  second  edition  should  such  be  needed. 

He  has  to  thank  a  large  number  of  friends,  too  many 
to  mention  individually,  for  their  help  in  sending  him 
grafts  of  various  kinds  and  in  many  other  ways. 

E.  A.  BUN  YARD 

Allington, 

Maidstone. 

September,  1920. 


INTRODUCTION. 

THE  descriptions  will  be  easily  followed,  but  the  follow- 
ing points  require  explanation.  Following  the  name 
will  be  found  a  reference  where  possible  to  a  coloured 
plate  of  the  variety  described.  Thus  Adams  Pear- 
main  is  illustrated  in  the  Herefordshire  Pomona,  Vol.  I.t 
plate  14,  abbreviated  as  Her.  Pom.  I.,  14,  the  volume 
being  given  in  Roman,  and  the  number  of  the  plate 
in  Arabic  figures.  For  a  complete  list  of  the  works 
referred  to,  see  below.  Next  follows  the  name  in 
French  where  it  is  different,  abbreviation  F.,  and  in 
German,  abbreviation  G.  Next  follow  the  synonyms 
in  brackets.  The  season,  use  and  size  of  fruit  is  then 
given,  the  latter  being  in  inches,  the  breadth  always 
coming  first,  height  second.  A  word  of  caution  must 
be  given  as  to  the  very  deceptive  appearance  of  many 
fruits.  Thus  Adams  Pearmain  is  in  appearance  conical 
but  the  measurements  of  height  and  breadth  are 
identical.  It  must  also  be  noted  that  these  dimensions 
are  only  given  from  average  specimens  and  are  chiefly 
of  value  in  denoting  the  relation  between  height  and 
width. 

The  descriptions  of  fruits  follow  the  accepted  methods, 
but  those  of  leaves  need  some  explanation.  These 
always  refer  to  the  spur  leaf,  not  that  of  the  shoot. 

7 


I  have  chosen  this  as  on  many  older  trees  it  is  often 
difficult  to  find  a  young  shoot.  After  the  size  has  been 
given  the  pose  is  next  considered.  This  is  a  very 
valuable  aid  to  recognition  which  has  hardly  received 
the  attention  it  demands.  The  leaf  may  be  fiat  or 
the  edges  may  be  folded  upwards  (upfolded}  giving 
a  V  shape,  it  may  be  curved  upwards  as  a  spoon, 
upcupped,  or  the  reverse,  downcupped,  The  edge  of 
the  leaf  may  also  be  curved  or  undulating,  or  if  much 
so,  twisted,  thus  an  upfolded  leaf  may  also  have  its 
edges  curved.  The  small  teeth  or  serrations  of  the 
leaf  may  be  either  serrate  or  with  sharp  angular  teeth 
like  a  saw,  or  they  may  be  rounded  without  a  point. 
These  are  crenate.  An  intermediate  type  occurs  which 
is  called  curved  serrate.  In  this  the  tooth  is  pointed, 
but  the  edges  are  curved  and  not  straight  as  the  serrate 
toothing. 

This  all  refers  to  the  pose  taken  by  the  leaf  blade 
and  its  edges.  The  leaf  further  be  held  on  its  petiole 
in  an  erect  position,  held  up,  or  if  horizontally  it  is 
outheld.  If  the  petiole  is  weak,  the  whole  leaf  hangs 
down  it  will  be  down-hanging  or  lax. 

After  the  origin  a  general  note  is  given  of  the  value 
of  the  fruit  in  my  experience.  It  will,  of  course,  often 
be  that  a  variety  which  is  unsatisfactory  with  me 
may  do  well  on  another  soil. 


TABLE   OF  THE 
WORKS    REFERRED  TO. 


ABBREVIATION  : 

Arbor.  Beige.  "  Bulletin  d' Arboriculture  Beige/' 

Bivort.  "  Album  de  Pomologie."  A.  Bivort, 

4  Vols.,  1847-51. 

Decaisne.  "  Le  Jardin  Fruitier."     J.  Decaisne, 

1858-75- 

Deutsh.  Obstb.          "  Deutsche    Obstcabinet."      L.    E. 
Langethal,  1855-8. 

Fl.  and  Pom.          "  The  Florist  and  Pomologist." 
G.  Mag.  "  Gardener's  Magazine." 

Garden.  "  The  Garden  "  in  publication. 

Gard.  Chron.  "  The    Gardener's    Chronicle "    in 

publication. 

Her.  Pom.  "  Herefordshire  Pomona  "  by  Hogg 

and  Bull,  2  Vols.     London  and 
Hereford,  1876-1885. 

///.  Hort.  "  Illustration    Horticole." 

Jo  urn.  Pom.  "  The    Journal    of    Pomology,"    a 

periodical  in  publication . 

Lanche.  "  Deutsche     Pomolgie,  '     6     Vols., 

1882-3. 


ABBREVIATION  : 
Lind.  Pom.  Brit. 

Ned.  Boom. 
New  York. 
Rev.  Hort. 
Ronalds. 
Svensk.  Pom. 
Trans.  R.H.S. 
Verger. 


Pomologia  Britannica."  J.  Lindley 
3  Vols.,  1828-30. 

Nederlandsche  Boomgard."   Otto- 
lander  and  others.     2  Vols.,  1868. 

The  Apples  of  New  York."    S.  A. 
Beach,  2  Vols.,  1905. 

Revue   Horticole."    A   periodical 
in  publication. 

Pyrus  Malus  Brentfordiensis  "  by 
Hugh  Ronalds,  London,  1831. 

Svensk  Pomona  "  by  Olaf  Eneroth, 
1864-66. 

The   Transactions   of   the   Royal 
Horticultural  Society,  1815-35." 

Le    Verger."    Alphonse    Mas.,    8 
Vols.,  1865-74. 


10 


KEY  TO  APPLES   DESCRIBED 
IN   THIS   WORK. 


IT  is  extremely  difficult  if  not  impossible  to  formulate; 
a  key  or  classification  to  apples.  The  differences  of 
colour,  size,  flavour,  which  result  from  varying  external 
conditions  are  perhaps  greater  in  fruits  than  any  other 
garden  plants. 

I  have,  however,  attempted  to  make  a  key  to  the 
varieties  described  in  the  following  pages  in  the  hope 
that  it  will  be  of  some  service  to  the  pomological  student. 
Even  a  faulty  classification  is  better  than  none  and 
this  attempt  must  be  regarded  only  as  a  ladder  which 
can  be  discarded  when  it  has  served  its  purpose.  The 
arrangement  of  the  key  is  purposely  made  as  simple 
as  possible  and  is  based  first  on  the  external  appearance 
and  secondly  on  season  and  form. 

Each  variety  is  placed  as  nearly  as  possible  in  the 
middle  of  its  season,  thus  a  winter  apple  in  season  from 
November  to  February  will  be  found  in  December. 
In  shape  the  following  rules  have  guided  the  grouping. 
Flat  apples  are  those  which  are  wider  than  high,  round 
are  those  which  are  apparently  equal  in  both  dimen- 
sions. Conical  are  those  which  are  higher  than  wide 
and  which  taper  more  or  less  to  the  eye ;  oblong  those 
which  are  higher  than  broad  but  with  an  inclination 
to  flatness  at  eye  and  stem.  Oval  fruits  are  those 
which  taper  equally  to  eye  and  stem,  but  are  higher 
than  broad.  Intermediate  forms  are  placed  as  far  as 
possible  in  an  intermediate  position.  In  using  the 
key  the  greatest  reliance  must  be  placed  upon  season 
next  upon  form. 

Apples  which  are  round  and  even  in  shape  in 
transverse  section,  such  as  Stirling  Castle,  are  marked 
with  an  asterisk. 

II 


There  are  certain  apples  of  which  the  ground  colour 
turns  quite  white  when  fully  ripe,  e.g.,  Lord  Grosvenor 
in  the  Codlins  and  Emperor  Alexander  in  the  striped 
group,  these  are  marked  with  a  dagger.  Large  fruits 
are  printed  in  the  large  type,  and  medium  in  medium, 
and  small  in  italics. 

Other  special  marks  will  be  found  in  the  different 
talks.  Thus  if  a  flat  green  apple  is  found,  of  which  the 
cross  section  is  round,  e.g.,  Ecklinville  Seedling  and  the 
r-eison  is  not  known,  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  glance 
'down  'the  column  headed  "  Flat  "  and  pick  out  those 
marked  with  the  asterisk.  Similarly  if  the  apple  turns 
white  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  refer  to  those  marked 
with  the  dagger. 

Table  I. — Lord  Derby  Group. — This  contains  the  green 
skinned  apples  which  are  not  striped  and  only  rarely 
flushed  of  which  Lord  Derb}^  may  be  considered  a  type. 
In  this  come  the  Codlins  and  large  cooking  apples, 
which  are  as  a  rule  green  when  on  the  tree.  They 
are  all  such  as  would  be  classed  as  cooking  apples. 
There  are,  however,  a  tew  which  turn  white  on  the  tree 
such  as  Lord  Grosvenor,  Domino,  Venus  Pippin.  These 
are  marked  with  a  dagger  to  show  this  typical  character, 
as  described  above. 

Table  II. — Lanes  Group. — This  contains  those 
smooth  skinned  apples  which  will  also  in  most  cases 
be  classed  as  "  cookers "  but  which  are  distinctly 
striped,  the  typical  representative  being  Lanes  Prince 
Albert.  A  few  here  are  a  little  sweet  and  are  specially 
designated  by  //. 

Table  III. — Peasgood  Group. — This  contains  the 
smooth  skinned  striped  apples  which  are  nearly  all 
of  sufficient  sweetness  to  be  classed  as  dessert.  In 
cases  where  doubt  might  exist  as  to  this  quality,  they 
are  also  placed  in  Table  II. 

All  these  have  the  stripes  distinctly  marked  and  not 
obscured  by  any  extent  of  flush. 

12 


Table  IV. — Golden  Noble  Group. — This  contains 
those  apples  which  have  a  markedly  golden  skin,  such 
as  Golden  Noble  and  Golden  Spire,  and  are  occasionally 
flushed,  but  not  striped.  A  few  of  these  turn  white 
when  fully  ripe  and  are  so  marked. 

Table  V. — Baumann  Group. — This  contains  those 
fruits  which  have  a  dark  brown  red  flush  covering 
nearly  the  whole  of  the  fruit  and  which  are  rarely 
striped,  or  if  so,  the  stripes  are  not  prominent  as  in 
Class  III.,  but  are  largely  obscured  by  the  overlying 
flush.  This  may  be  called  the  Baumann  group. 

In  this  group,  flavour  is  not  a  special  distinction, 
but  a  few  are  notable  for  this  and  are  so  indicated. 
They  are  distinguished  from  Class  VI.  by  the  absence 
of  Russet. 

Table  VI. — Cox's  Group. — This  contains  the  Reinettes 
and  includes  a  very  large  proportion  of  the  best  flavoured 
fruits.  The  characteristic  is  a  mixture  of  red  and 
russet  as  in  Cox's  Orange  Pippin  and  Blenheim  Orange, 
coupled  with  a  good  or  fairly  good  flavour.  No  acid 
cooking  varieties  will  be  found  in  this  group. 

Table  VII. — Russet  Group. — This  contains  the  russet 
varieties  which  have  no  red  flush  or  striping.  The 
Russet  may  be  golden  as  in  Egremont  Russet,  gray 
as  in  White  Nonpareil,  or  dark  brown  as  in  Golden 
Knob. 


O< 


o 


*•  S  S,-. 

•I  i*B*s3g 

g;    33 « og § 

f|  111  il 

=  S       0«t4      £0 

5k    PMOH    Q^ 


Horm 
Gospa 


D 

O 


a  g. 


. 


e  Islan 
berry. 


^  ^ 
Ji  § 


ss 


II 


!1 
11 


II 


s    i 


o 
o 


o 


£         H 


1     *      12     * 

sa  1  I     !s     I 

•  '.        a 


o 
5  £ 


Cfl  O 

w  a         — -  a     § 

1 1  * 

t  I 

~  H  3  ~     £>     £ 


S       W 


1 


a     . — .  s          R.E  s    §. 


*      o 


If  y  I    ijg 


S 

O 

K 


S 


I 


|1 


I      e 

OD  O 


I 


o 
o 


111          ,1 

i  %     s     .|,     I   ..    S  |l? 

i  ^  1 1  I  Ji  I II  j    j    | 

1     Illlll     III  J       I 
a.* 


o 


Ji 


g          1^    r  fijl!  I 

s       ss  Ssg  -  g 


H  -3  S=     EZ 


«.H  •= 

"^    Igl  I*- 

=S\11I  SI. 

^P5«^0«J  «g{zi 


c 


3  L.    I 

1       t,i 


K . 

*       ^-  -s  I  s  si  s=-=|- 

5       e8  3  "S  ~  .2  I 

0  M    W<y  o£«& 

o 


1     I     I      I       I     3     I     I 


o 


O     S      X— N 

fiCJ 

i! 

PQ     w 

I   S 


I     * 

I! 


il 


if 

s- 

ja® 

ill 


,0 


•ks  J     I 


ill 


*    £    H    > 

&       H       O       O 

<u    09    o    Jz; 


o« 


o 


fc 


! 


(V 


a       g 


73  g  M 
0*3  S 


' 


«,*§*«  ^ 

dialt  i 

silfijj  -s. 


tx  S3 

•OP 

£fc 


11 


APPLES. 

ADAM'S  PEARMAIN.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  14.  F., 
Rousse  de  Norfolk  ;  G.,  Adam's  Parmane.  (Hanging 
Pearmain,  Norfolk  Pippin.)  Dessert,  December  to 
March,  medium,  2j  by  2  J,  conical,  colour,  deep  yellow, 
red  stripes  and  flush,  with  russet  patches.  Flesh,  firm, 
yellow,  very  aromatic.  Eye  open,  tips  reflexed  in  a 
shallow  plaited  basin.  Stem  very  short  in  a  shallow 
even  russet  cavity.  Growth  slender,  fertile.  Leaf, 
medium,  narrow  oval,  slightly  up-cupped,  boldly 
serrate,  grey  green,  nearly  smooth  below.  Origin 
probably  English,  brought  to  notice  about  1826,  and 
it  was  named  after  the  donor  of  the  grafts  to  the  Royal 
Horticultural  Society.  This  is  one  of  the  best  late 
dessert  sorts ;  it  thrives  in  nearly  all  soils. 

Akero  :    see  Akero. 

^ 

AKERO.  Svensk  Pom.,  15.  (Akera,  Okera.) 
Dessert,  September  to  October,  meolium,  2j  by  2\, 
conical.  Colour,  pale  creamy  yellow  with  crimson 
peach-like  flush  and  bloom.  Flesh,  white,  firm,  and 
juicy.  Growth,  moderate,  fertility  moderate.  Leaf, 
rather  large,  upward  folded,  much  twisted,  coarsely 
crenate.  Origin,  probably  Swedish.  This  is  now 
rarely  grown,  but  is  of  interest  only  from  its  remarkable 
coloration. 

Albermarle  :    see  Newtown  Pippin. 

ALBURY  PARK  NONSUCH.  Cooking,  December 
to  March,  medium,  3  by  2|,  round  coni9al,  ribbed, 

15 


irregular.  Colour,  creamy  yellow  with  faint  stripes  and 
flush.  Flesh,  crisp  juicy,  slightly  yellow,  sub-acid,  no 
flavour.  Growth,  spreading.  Leaf,  medium,  oval, 
sharply  pointed,  held-up,  much  up-folded,  much  twisted, 
coarsely  serrate.  Origin  undiscovered.  An  award  of 
Merit  was  given  to  this  variety  in  1892  to  Mr.  Leach. 
Not  worthy  of  retention. 

ALFRISTON.  Ronalds  p.  35.  (Shepherds  Pippin, 
Shepherds  Seedling),  culinary,  keeps  till  April,  large, 
3i  by  2f,  round,  conical,  flattened,  irregular.  Colour, 
green  to  yellow  russet  veined.  Flesh,  crisp,  pale  yellow, 
sub-acid.  Growth,  vigorous,  fertile.  Leaf,  pea  green, 
flat  undulating,  broadly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  a 
Mr.  Shepherd  at  Alfriston,  Sussex,  about  the  end  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  This  apple  cooks  a  tender,  golden 
brown  with  a  delicious  pear-like  flavour. 

ALLENS  EVERLASTING.  Card.  Chron.  1899, 
p.  222.  F.,  Eternelle  d'  Allen;  G.,  Aliens  Dauerapfel. 
Dessert,  April  to  May,  z\  by  if,  flat,  regular.  Colour, 
pale  greenish-yellow,  with  brown  red  flush  and  russet 
netting.  Flesh,  crisp  and  juicy,  greenish,  excellently 
flavoured.  Eye,  large,  open,  in  a  wide  angular  basin. 
Stem  rather  slender  in  a  very  wide  and  deep  cavity. 
Growth,  dwarfish  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  small,  oval,  flat,  finely 
serrate.  Origin,  undiscovered  ;  said  to  be  a  seedling 
from  Sturmer  Pippin.  Known  before  1870.  One  of  the 
best  late  dessert  sorts. 

American  Mother  :    see  Mother. 

ALLINGTON  PIPPIN.  The  Garden.  1906,  131. 
(South  Lincoln  Pippin.)  Dessert,  October  to  December, 
Medium,  2j  by  2j,  round,  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
lemon  yellow  slight  red  flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh, 
crisp,  juicy,  pale  yellow,  sub-acid,  pleasantly  aromatic. 
Eye,  slightly  open,  very  long,  tips  reflexed  in  a  slightly 
plaited,  shallow  basin.  Stem  medium  in  a  moderately 
deep,  even  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  very  fertile. 
Leaf,  narrow  oval,  grey  green,  upfolded  undulating, 

16 


coarsely  rounded  serrate,  nearly  crenate.  Origin,  raised 
in  South  Lincolnshire  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  G. 
Bunyard  &  Co.,  Ltd.,  in  1896.  A  most  valuable  variety, 
which  is  now  in  the  front  rank.  Thrives  in  nearly  all 
soils.  Its  fault  is  in  making  rather  too  much  lateral 
growth  as  a  pyramid. 

American  Plate  :   see  Golden  Pippin. 
American  Red  :    see  Astrachan  Red. 
Anglesea  Pippin  :    see  Astrachan  Red. 
Anis  :    see  Caraway  Russet. 

ANNIE  ELIZABETH.  Her.  Pom.  52.  Culinary, 
December  to  June,  medium  to  large,  3  by  2|,  oblong 
conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  flushed  and 
striped  brilliant  red.  Flesh,  crisp,  white,  acid.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  rather  broad  and  deep  basin.  Stem  short 
in  a  fairly  deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  upright. 
Fertility  good  when  tree  is  developed.  Leaf,  large,  long 
oval,  dark,  upfolded  and  twisted,  regularly  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Greatorex  at  Leicester  about  1857, 
and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Harrison  of  Leicester  about 
1868.  A  valuable  fruit  deserving  of  extended  cultivation . 
It  can  be  recognised  by  the  "  hammered  "  appearance  of 
the  skin,  especially  marked  on  the  sunny  side. 

ANTONOWKA.  Culinary,  October,  December, 
3  by  2f,  round  conical,  ribbed,  five-sided,  uneven. 
Colour,  pale,  whitish  yellow,  with  dots  under  the  skin, 
greasy.  Flesh,  white,  loose  grained,  rather  dry, 
aromatic.  Eye,  closed,  on  a  level  basin  surrounded  by 
knobs  and  beads.  Stem,  moderately  long  in  a  rather 
narrow,  russet  lined  cavity,  the  russet  spreading  out. 
Growth,  very  vigorous,  moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  very 
large,  little  upfolded,  sharply  serrate.  Origin,  a  very 
popular  central  Russian  variety.  This  is  hardly  worthy 
of  retention  and  is  best  described  as  a  late  edition  of 
White  Transparent. 

17 


API.  Ronalds,  32.  F.,  Api  ;  G.,  Kleine  Api. 
{Api  rouge,  Api  petit,  Lady.)  Dessert,  November 
to  April,  very  small,  2  by  ij,  flat,  regular.  Colour, 
bright  yellow,  rich  crimson  flush.  Flesh,  tender, 
aromatic.  Eye,  half  open  in  a  shallow  wide  basin. 
Stem  short  in  a  rather  wide  cavity.  Growth,  upright, 
very  slender  making  a  small  close  tree,  fertile.  Leaf, 
small,  oval,  upfolded,  shallow  crenate.  Origin,  of  great 
antiquity ;  possibly  dating  from  Roman  days.  Known 
in  this  country  in  the  seventeenth  century.  It  is 
hardly  worthy  of  cultivation  except  as  a  curiosity. 

Api  Petit :    see  Api. 

Api  Rouge  :    see  Api. 

Aporta  :    see  Emperor  Alexander. 

Arbroath  Pippin  :    see  Oslin. 

Aromatic  Pippin  :    see  Kerry  Pippin. 

ARD  CAIRN  RUSSET.  Garden,  1911,  570.  Des- 
sert, January  to  February,  medium,  2j  by  2f,  round 
conical.  Colour,  dark  red,  nearly  covered  with  pale 
russet.  Flesh,  yellow,  firm,  good  russet  flavour.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  moderate  even  basin.  Stem,  very  long 
and  slender  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity.  Leaf,  long 
oval,  upfolded,  coarsely  serrate.  Growth,  rather 
upright,  compact.  Origin,  an  old  Irish  variety,  intro- 
duced to  notice  by  Messrs.  Hartland,  of  Ard  Cairn, 
Co.  Cork. 

ARMOREL.  Card.  Chron.,  1893,  March  4th. 
Dessert,  February  to  May,  very  small,  2j  by  if,  oblong, 
regular.  Colour,  yellow,  covered  with  russet.  Flesh, 
crisp,  of  good  flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  and  wide 
basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  meolium  sized  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  fertility  moderate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Charles  Ross,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Cheal,  in 
1893.  Now  almost  out  of  cultivation,  as  it  is  too  small 
for  present  day  needs. 

18 


AROMATIC  RUSSET.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  54.  F., 
Rouge  aromatisee.  Dessert,  December  to  February, 
medium,  2|  by  2,  round,  conical,  irregular.  Colour 
entirely  cinnamon  russet,  faint  red  showing  through. 
Flesh,  firm,  aromatic,  greenish  white.  Eye,  very  small, 
closed  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  rather 
deep  even  cavity.  Growth,  weak ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
long,  slightly  upfolded,  little  undulating,  coarsely 
crenate.  Origin  unrecorded,  came  into  notice  about 
1830.  A  nice  winter  fruit,  of  Nonpareil  flavour.  There 
is  some  confusion  about  this  fruit,  it  is  probably  the 
Aromatic  Russet  of  Hogg,  but  not  of  Ronalds  or 
Lindley.  It  is  possibly  the  Petit  Barbaric  of  Normandy. 

Aromatic  Russet :    see  Caraway  Russet. 

ARTHUR  TURNER.  Culinary,  October  to  Novem- 
ber, large,  4  by  3^,  very  even.  Colour,  yellow  with 
brown  red  flush.  Flesh,  white,  slightly  acid,  baking 
very  well.  Eye,  open  in  a  rather  wide  even  basin. 
Stem,  medium  in  a  wide  cavity.  Growth,  moderate, 
slightly  upright  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  narrow  oval, 
grey  green,  little  up-cupped,  shallow  serrate  or  crenate. 
Origin,  introduced  by  Mr.  Chas.  Turner,  in  1914,  when 
it  gained  an  Award  of  Merit.  A  very  handsome  apple, 
which  deserves  cultivation  for  an  early  winter  cooking 
variety. 

ASHMEAD'S  KERNEL.  Ronalds,  p.  32.  F.,  Semis 
d'Ashmead.  G.,  Saemling  von  Ashmead.  Dessert, 
December  to  March,  medium,  2j  by  2j,  round-square. 
Colour,  greenish-yellow,  faint  brown  flush,  covered 
with  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  yellow,  very  aromatic. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  fairly  deep  and  wide  basin,  which  is 
slightly  ribbed.  Stem,  variable  in  a  deep  wide  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate,  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  oval, 
up-folded,  twisted,  bi-serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Dr. 
Ashmead,  of  Gloucester,  about  1720.  A  valuable 
fruit  for  late  use  but  a  poor  cropper.  A  larger  form 
exists  known  as  Improved  Ashmead's  Kernel,  q.v. 


ASTRACHAN  RED.  Ronalds,  p.  V.  (American 
Red,  Anglesea  Pippin.)  Dessert,  early  August,  medium, 
2i  by  2j,  flattened  round,  fairly  regular.  Colour, 
deep  crimson,  unstriped.  Flesh,  crisp,  white,  sweet. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  scaly 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  fertility  poor.  Leaf, 
long  oval,  pale  green,  held  flat,  crenate.  Origin,  pro- 
bably from  the  country  of  its  name.  Introduced  to 
England  in  1816.  A  most  attractive  fruit  but  too  poor 
a  cropper  for  general  use. 

ATALANTA.  Card.  Chron.,  1893.  Culinary  or 
dessert,  November  to  January,  small,  2f  by  2},  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  lemon  yellow  with  red  streaks. 
Flesh,  firm,  flavour  moderate.  Growth,  moderate, 
very  fertile.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Chas.  Ross,  from 
Scarlet  Nonpareil,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Cheal 
and  Sons,  in  1893.  It  has  now  dropped  out  of  cultiva- 
tion, presenting  no  marked  advantages  over  other 
varieties  of  the  same  season. 

AUTUMN  PEARMAIN.  Ronalds,  p.  22.  (as 
Royal  Pearmain).  F.,  Pearmain  d'Ete.  G.,  Sommer 
Parmaene.  [American  Pearmain,  Royal  Pearmain  (in 
error).]  Dessert  or  culinary,  September  to  October 
medium,  2,\  by  2,  conical,  fairly  regular.  Colour, 
golden-yellow,  partly  covered  with  russet  which  is 
netted,  and  slight  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  highly 
flavoured.  Eye,  open  in  a  very  shallow,  faintly  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  moderate  cavity,  always 
with  a  fleshy  bump  on  one  side,  forcing  the  stem  side- 
ways. Growth,  vigorous,  upright,  fertile.  Leaf, 
roundish,  pale,  upfolded,  undulated,  finely  serrate. 
Origin,  an  Old  English  variety  mentioned  by  Parkinson, 
in  1629.  It  is  the  Summer  Pearmain,  of  Hogg,  but 
not  of  Continental  Authors.  It  makes  a  fine  standard 
tree. 

AUTUMN  ROUGE.  Culinary.  September,  med- 
ium, 2j  by  2j,  round,  conical,  slightly  flattened  at  eye. 
Colour,  bright  yellow,  flushed  with  dull  red  faint  stripes. 

20 


Flesh,  close,  pale  yellow,  acid.  Growth,  moderate, 
fertility  moderate,  makes  a  flat  headed  tree.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  pale,  upfolded,  very  undulated,  boldly 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  undiscovered.  A  worthless 
fniit. 

Backhouse's  Lord  Nelson  :    see  Nelson  Codlin. 
Baddow  Pippin  :    see  D'Arcy  Spice. 
Balgone  Pippin  :    see  Golden  Pippin. 

BALLINORA.  Culinary  or  dessert,  December  to 
January,  medium,  3  by  2j,  nearly  even.  Colour, 
golden-yellow,  with  bright  red  flush  and  very  faint 
stripings.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  yellow,  fair  flavour,  of 
Blenheim  character.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  much 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  wide  shallow  cavity. 
Growth,  vigorous,  spreading.  Leaf,  large,  flat,  down 
hanging,  roundish,  boldly  serrate.  Origin,  unrecorded. 
This  apple  may  be  called  a  Red  Blenheim  Orange, 
but  it  is  not  quite  so  good  in  flavour  or  so  fertile. 

Baltimore  :    see  Gloria  Mundi. 

BARCELONA  PEARMAIN.  Ronalds,  p.  21.  G., 
Kleiner  Casseler  Reinette.  (Speckled  Golden  Reinette, 
Speckled  Pearmain.)  Dessert,  November  to  January, 
smallish,  2j  by  2j,  roundish-oblong,  regular,  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  flushed  with  red.  Flesh,  crisp,  pale  yellow, 
aromatic.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  medium, 
flat,  oval,  with  a  long  point,  broadly  serrate.  Origin, 
continental ;  country  uncertain.  It  is  now  almost 
out  of  cultivation. 

BARCHARDS  SEEDLING.  Her  Pom.,  p.  67. 
Culinary  or  dessert,  October  to  November,  2f  by  2\, 
medium,  irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  with  dull 
brown-red  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  yellowish,  sub-acid. 
Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  broad  basin.  Stem,  rather 
long  in  a  medium  sized  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ; 

21 


fertile.  Leaf,  rather  small,  much  twisted,  oval,  shallow 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  in  the  garden  of  J.  H.  Barchard, 
Putney,  and  introduced  to  notice  in  1852.  It  is  now 
little  cultivated. 

Bardfield  Defiance  :    see  Waltham  Abbey. 

BARNACK  BEAUTY.  Card.  Chron.,  1900,  p.  251. 
Culinary  or  dessert,  December  to  March,  medium, 
2 1  by  2 1,  oval,  regular.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  dark 
red  flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  crisp,  fair  flavour, 
briskly  acid,  yellowish.  Eye,  large  open  in  a  shallow 
even  basin.  Stem,  moderate  in  a  very  narrow  russet y 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  small, 
pale,  slightly  upfolded,  very  finely  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  by  a  cottager  at  Barnack,  Northants. 
Introduced  by  Messrs.  Brown,  of  Stamford,  about  1870. 
A  useful  and  handy  sort  which  does  well  on  chalky 
sub-soils.  Quite  one  of  the  most  interesting  fruits  in 
February,  as  it  keeps  its  acid  flavour  later  than  many. 

Baroveski :    see  Duchess  of  Oldenburg. 
Baron  Wolseley :    see  Dewdney's  Seedling. 

BAUMANN'S  REINETTE.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1879, 
p.  121.  F.,  Reinette  Baumann.  G.,  Baumann's  Rein- 
ette  (Couronne  des  Dames,  Reinette  de  Bolwyller). 
Culinary  or  dessert,  December  to  January,  medium, 
2j  by  2j,  round  flattened,  curving  most  to  eye. 
Colour,  almost  covered  with  brilliant  crimson  flush 
with  broad  stripes.  Flesh,  white,  crisp,  juicy,  slightly 
aromatic.  Eye,  small,  closed,  in  a  rather  deep  slightly 
plaited  basin.  Stem,  rather  thin,  short,  in  a  very 
wide  russet ed  cavity.  Growth,  compact  ;  fertility 
remarkable.  Leaf,  rather  large,  very  dark,  held  out, 
down  cupped,  finely  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised 
probably  by  Van  Mons,  and  generally  cultivated  in 
Germany  in  1820.  A  remarkable  cropper  but  of  poor 
quality. 

22 


BAXTER'S  PEARMAIN.  Dessert  or  culinary,  Dec- 
ember to  February,  medium,  2f  by  2  J,  roundish  conical, 
slightly  flattened.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  red-brown 
flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  yellowish,  tender,  pleasantly 
acid.  Eye,  open  in  a  moderately  deep  and  wide  basin, 
which  is  slightly  plaited.  Stem,  short,  rather  slender 
in  an  even  basin.  Growth,  moderate ;  very  fertile. 
Leaf,  long,  dark  green,  much  upfolded,  sharply  serrate. 
Origin,  a  Norfolk  variety,  introduced  to  notice  by  Mr. 
G.  Lindley,  in  1821.  It  is  rather  too  acid  for  some 
palates. 

Bayfordbury  Pippin  :    see  Golden  Pippin. 

BEACHAMWELL.  Ronalds,  p.  27.  G.,  Samling 
von  Beachamwell.  (Motteux's  Seedling.)  Dessert,  Dec- 
ember to  March,  small,  2j  by  2,  flattened  oval,  regular. 
Colour,  green-yellow,  faint  stripes  with  russet.  Flesh, 
crisp,  pale  yellow,  sugary.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth, 
medium  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  ovate,  faintly  crenate. 
Origin,  raised  at  Beachamwell  in  Norfolk,  probably 
about  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century.  It  is 
now  almost  out  of  cultivation. 

BEAUTY  OF  BATH.  Card.  Chron.,  1900,  p.  145. 
Dessert,  early  August,  small  to  medium,  2j  by  if, 
round,  much  flattened,  even.  Colour,  pale  yellow, 
red  flush  and  stripes,  a  little  rough  to  touch.  Flesh, 
tender,  yellowish,  often  stained  with  red,  sweet  and 
pleasant.  Eye,  closed,  tips  of  the  segments  reflexed, 
in  a  round  even,  rather  deep  basin.  Stem,  stout,  half 
inch  in  a  rather  shallow  and  even  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  round  oval,  dark  green, 
nearly  flat,  undulating,  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised 
at  Bailbrook,  Batheaston,  near  Bath,  and  brought  to 
notice  by  Messrs.  Cooling,  about  1864.  This  is  a  very 
attractive  fruit,  which  is  now  largely  grown  for  market 
purposes.  Its  chief  fault  is  premature  dropping  which 
leads  many  growers  to  place  straw  beneath  the  trees 
to  prevent  injury. 

23 


BEAUTY  OF  BEDFORD.  Dessert,  September, 
fairly  large,  2j  by  2|,  round  conical,  flattened  at  eye. 
Colour,  pale  yellow  with  brown-red  flush  and  stripes. 
Flesh,  yellow,  firm,  juicy  and  sweet.  Eye,  closed,  very 
broad  segments,  in  a  shallow,  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
unusually  short,  one-eighth  inch  set  in  a  level  or  even 
on  a  raised  bump,  a  very  unusual  feature.  Growth, 
rather  upright.  Leaf,  round,  rather  large,  dark,  up- 
folded,  undulated,  deeply  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Messrs.  Laxton,  Lady  Sudeley  +  Beauty 
of  Bath. 

BEAUTY  OF  HANTS.  Ft.  and  Pom.,  1882,  p.  89. 
F.,  Seedling  Offine.  Dessert,  December  to  March, 
very  large,  3  by  2|,  roundish  square,  rather  irregular. 
Colour,  dull  yellow-green,  brick  red  flush,  russet  patches. 
Flesh,  very  crisp,  yellowish,  highly  aromatic.  Eye, 
open  in  a  broad  even  basin,  which  is  rather  deep.  Stem, 
short  and  stout  in  a  rather  shallow  cavity  which  is 
slightly  russet.  Growth,  very  strong,  Leaf,  up- 
cupped,  round  oval,  dark  green,  boldly  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  at  Basset,  Southampton,  in  Mrs.  Eyre 
Crabbes  garden,  and  introduced  to  notice  about  1880. 
A  fine  form  of  Blenheim  Orange.  Barron  places  this 
as  a  synonym  of  Blenheim,  which  is  quite  wrong  as 
is  it  perfectly  distinct  since  the  core  of  a  Blenheim  is 
axile  and  the  seeds  are  long  and  pointed,  while  the  core 
of  Beauty  of  Hants  is  abaxile  and  the  seeds  are  short 
and  plump. 

BEAUTY  OF  KENT.  Ronalds,  p.  15.  F.,  Beaute" 
de  Kent ;  G.,  Schoner  aus  Kent.  (Worling's  Favourite, 
Countess  of  Warwick.)  Culinary,  3^  by  3,  fairly  large, 
till  March,  round  conical,  flattened  at  base,  irregular. 
Colour,  yellow  green,  bright  red  flush,  broad  dark  stripes. 
Flesh,  tender,  yellowish,  slightly  acid.  Eye,  closed 
in  a  very  wrinkled  and  knobbed  basin.  Stem,  stout 
and  long  in  a  wide,  shallow,  russeted  cavity.  Growth, 
strong ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  dark,  down  held, 
flat,  very  deeply  curved  serrate.  Origin,  unknown, 
recorded  first  about  1800.  A  very  valuable  cooking 
apple  for  late  use. 

24 


BEAUTY  OF  STOKE.  Culinary  or  dessert.  Jan- 
uary to  March,  medium  to  fairly  large,  2\  by  2j,  round 
conical.  Colour,  pale  greenish  yellow,  occasional  faint 
brown  flush  and  slight  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  rather  dry, 
yellowish,  pleasant  flavour.  Growth,  vigorous,  a  little 
spreading ;  fertile.  Leaf,  narrow,  oval,  pea  green, 
little  upfolded,  boldly  curved  serrate,  little  downy 
below,  held  out.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Doe,  gardener 
to  Lord  Saville,  Rufford  Abbey  ;  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Veitch.  A  valuable  late  variety,  resembling  Diamond 
Jubilee  but  distinct. 

BEDFORDSHIRE  FOUNDLING.  Ronalds,  p.  28. 
F.,  Trouve  dans  le  comte  de  Bedfordshire  ;  G.,  Fundling 
aus  Bedfordshire.  (Cambridge  Pippin.)  Culinary, 
January  to  March,  3j  by  2|,  large,  square  oval,  slightly 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow-green,  faint  red  flush. 
Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  sub-acid.  Eye,  half  open  in  a 
shallow  wrinkled  basin.  Stem,  rather  long  and  thin 
in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity,  lined  with  faint  russet. 
Growth,  spreading,  vigorous  ;  moderately  fertile.  Leaf 
very  large,  dark,  long  oval,  upward  folded  and  twisted, 
sharply  bi-serrate.  Origin,  uncertain.  Probably  arose 
about  1800,  in  Bedfordshire.  An  excellent  cooker  of 
the  Blenheim  style,  but  apt  to  canker. 

BELLE  DE  BOSKOOP.  Ned.  Boom.,  43.  G., 
Schoener  aus  Boskoop.  (Reinette  Monstreuse,  Reinette 
von  Montfort.)  Culinary  or  dessert,  December  to 
April,  medium  to  rather  large,  2|  by  2j,  roundish  oval, 
fairly  regular.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  brick  red  flush, 
with  much  thin  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  yellowish,  flavour 
acid  and  aromatic.  Eye,  closed  or  slightly  open  in  a 
rather  deep  basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  deep  cavity 
lined  with  russet.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
round,  light,  slightly  upfolded,  deeply  curved  serrate. 
Originated  at  Boskoop  in  Holland  in  1856.  It  must  not 
be  confused  with  the  Calville  von  Boskoop.  Reinette 
von  Montfort  is  considered  by  some  authorities  to  be 
the  correct  name.  A  valuable  fruit  much  grown  for 
market  in  Holland  and  Germany,  and  worthy  of  trial 
for  this  purpose  in  England. 

25 


BELLE  DE  PONTOISE.  G.,  Schoener  von  Pontoise. 
Culinary,  December  to  February,  large,  3j  by  2j,  flat, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow-green,  red  flush,  and 
broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  tender,  white,  sweetish 
and  juicy.  Eye,  open  in  a  rather  deep  and  wide  basin. 
Stem,  very  long  in  an  unusually  wide  and  deep  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  very 
large,  undulating,  very  coarsely  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  at  Pointoise,  from  a  seed  of  Emperor  Alexander, 
by  M.  Remy,  and  introduced  in  1879.  A  very  useful 
variety,  keeping  firm  and  acid,  but  rather  tender  and 
best  for  garden  use. 

Belle  de  Rome  :    see  Rome  Beauty. 
Belle  des  Vennes :    see  Wellington. 
Belle  du  Bois  :    see  Gloria  Mundi. 
Belle  Fille  :    see  Reinette  Grise. 
Bell's  Scarlet:  see  Scarlet  Pearmain. 
Belmont :    see  Manks  Codlin. 
Bennet's  Defiance  :    see  Fearn's  Pippin. 

BENONI.  Her.  Pom.,  47.  Dessert,  mid-Septem- 
ber, small,  2j  by  2j,  oval,  regular.  Colour,  pale 
yellow,  with  crimson  flush,  and  stripes.  Flesh,  tender, 
yellow,  aromatic.  Eye,  small,  a  little  open  in  a  fairly 
deep  even  basin.  Stem,  short  and  rather  slender 
in  a  deep  even  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  makes  a 
roundish  tree ;  moderately  fertile.  Origin,  raised  at 
Dedham,  Mass.,  U.S.A.,  about  the  middle  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century.  Introduced  to  England  about  1870. 
A  very  good  early  fruit. 

BEN'S  RED.  Card.  Chron.,  1899.  p.  261.  Dessert, 
September,  medium,  2j  by  2,  flat,  a  little  irregular. 
Colour,  pale  yellow,  almost  entirely  covered  with  darkest 

26 


crimson  flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  yellow, 
sweet,  aromatic.  Eye,  closed  in  a  wide  shallow  slightly 
wrinkled  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  wide  and  djeep 
slightly  russeted  cavity.  Growth,  dwarf ;  fertility 
remarkable.  Leaf,  long  oval,  dark  green,  flat,  a  little 
down  curved,  neatly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Benjamin  Roberts,  of  Trannack,  Penzance,  about 
1830.  A  very  useful  fruit,  valuable  for  its  great  cropping 
qualities. 

^  BESS  POOL.  Ronalds,  p.  23.  (Black  Blenheim, 
Stadway  Pippin,  Walsgrove  Blenheim.)  Dessert  or 
culinary,  November  to  March,  medium,  2j  by  2  J,  round, 
conical,  irregular.  Colour,  greenish-yellow,  nearly 
covered  with  crimson  flush,  darker  stripes  and  russet. 
Flesh,  tender,  white  sweet.  Eye,  nearly  closed  in  a 
shallow  much  ribbed  basin,  generally  showing  five 
beads  of  flesh  at  the  base.  Stem,  short  in  a  shallow 
cavity,  always  with  a  knob  at  the  side.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upward  spreading,  making  a  round  headed 
standard  ;  fertile  when  aged,  Leaf,  large,  long,  rather 
pale,  upfolded,  shallow  serrate.  Origin,  a  seedling 
found  in  a  wood  near  Nottingham,  and  named  after 
the  young  girl  who  discovered  it.  A  good  old  sort, 
keeping  firm  and  crisp  to  the  last. 

BETTY  GEESON.  Culinary,  till  March,  medium, 
2|  by  2,  flat,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  pea  green  to  deep 
yellow,  greasy.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish-white,  sub-acid, 
juicy.  Eye,  large,  open  in  an  unusually  wide  and  deep 
basin.  Stem,  rather  slender  and  short  in  a  very  wide 
and  deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  slightly  spreading, 
compact  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  very  broad,  very  coarsely 
serrate,  dark,  held  flat  but  slightly  undulating.  Origin, 
said  by  Hogg  to  be  a  Worcestershire  variety.  Intro- 
duced to  notice  about  1854.  A  useful  late  variety 
now  superseded  by  Bramley's  Seedling  and  Newton 
Wonder. 

Bide's  Walking  Stick :    see  Burr  Knot. 

27  • 


BIELA  BORODOWKA.  Dessert  or  culinary,  August 
to  September,  large  3^  by  3,  round,  oblong,  flattened 
both  ends.  Colour,  pale  milky  yellow,  pink  flush  with 
broken  red  stripes.  Flesh,  soft,  yellow,  pleasantly  acid. 
Eye,  closed,  tips  reflexed,  in  a  boldly  ribbed  and  deep 
basin.  Stem,  short  and  stout.  Growth,  compact, 
very  upright ;  extremely  fertile.  Leaf,  very  large, 
oval,  upward  folded,  down  curved,  coarsely  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  Russian.  Of  the  style  of  Duchess  of 
Oldenburg,  but  not  so  attractive  in  appearance. 

BIETIGHEIMER.  F.,  Rouge  de  Stettin;  G., 
Rother  St ettiner .  Synonyms  number  more  than  twenty- 
five.  Culinary,  November  to  February,  large,  3  by  2}, 
round  flattened,  regular.  Colour,  a  rich  crimson,  with 
a  curious  milky  tinge  in  the  lighter  portions.  Flesh, 
firm,  greenish- white,  sweet  but  with  no  aroma. 
Growth,  spreading  ;  vigorous.  Leaf,  rather  pale,  flat, 
finely  and  sharply  serrate.  Remarkable  for  its  distinct 
colouring.  Not  worthy  of  cultivation.  The  correct 
name  is  Rother  Stettiner. 

BISMARK.  Card.  Chron.,  1898,  p.  257.  Culinary, 
November  to  February,  large  to  very  large,  tapering 
to  eye  and  sides,  flat,  angular.  Colour,  pale  yellow, 
almost  covered  with  dark  crimson  flush.  Flesh,  crisp, 
juicy  and  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  much  ribbed  and, 
angular  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  wide  russet  lined 
cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  rather  spreading.  Leaf, 
very  long,  soft  grey-green,  lax,  edges  very  undulated, 
shallow  serrate  or  nearly  crenate.  Origin,  raised  at 
the  German  settlement  of  Bismark,  in  Hobart,  in  Tas- 
mania. Another  account  claims  it  to  have  been  raised 
by  a  Mr.  Fricke,  of  Carisbrooke,  Victoria,  but  the  first 
is  I  presume  correct.  It  must  not  be  confused  with  the 
Bismark  of  Germany,  which  dates  from  1877.  A  valu- 
able fruit,  cooking  excellently. 

Black  Blenheim  :   see  Bess  Pool. 

Black  Blenheim :    see  Hambledon  Deux  Ans, 
28 


BLENHEIM  ORANGE.  Ronalds  p.  31.  F., 
Reinette  de  Blenheim  ;  G.,  Goldreinette  von  Blenheim. 
(Kempster's  Pippin,  Northwick  Pippin.)  Culinary  or 
dessert,  November  to  January,  3j  by  2f,  medium  to 
fairly  large,  flattened,  round,  regular,  Colour,  yellow, 
flushed  and  striped  dull  red  and  fine  russet.  Flesh,  crisp, 
yellow,  sub-acid,  with  a  characteristic  flavour.  Eye, 
large,  open,  in  a  broad  even  basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a 
rather  deep  even  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  spreading  ; 
fertile  when  aged.  Makes  a  large  flat  headed  tree. 
Leaf,  large,  broad,  very  dark,  flat,  sharply  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  at  Woodstock,  near  Blenheim,  by  Mr. 
Kempster.  It  came  into  notice  about  1818,  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  London.  There  are  doubtless  many  seed- 
lings now  in  cultivation  which  closely  resemble  this  fine 
variety,  but  are  not  quite  identical.  One  of  the  best 
all  round  apples  grown,  cooking  excellently,  and  of  fine 
quality  and  texture  for  dessert. 

BLUE  PEARMAIN.  New  York,  So.  Culinary  or 
dessert,  January  to  March,  medium,  2}  by  2j,  round, 
conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow  entirely  covered  with 
dull  crimson  flush  and  broad  broken  stripes,  heavily 
covered  with  bloom  on  the  tree.  Flesh,  tender,  yellow, 
rather  dry,  highly  aromatic  and  sweet.  Eye,  slightly 
open  in  a  moderately  wide  and  deep  basin.  Stem, 
rather  short  in  a  rather  wide  and  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  rather  spreading ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather 
large,  greyish-green,  upfolded,  finely  serrate.  Origin, 
American,  date  uncertain,  known  before  1800.  A 
hardy  variety  worthy  of  further  trial.  It  does  well  in 
Western  Counties. 

Blue  Stone  Pippin  :    see  Hambledon  Deux  Ans. 
Blumen  Calville  :    see  Gravenstein. 
Bonne  Rouge  :    see  Hollandbury. 

Borowinka  :    see  Duchess  of  Oldenburg. 
29 


BORSDORFER.  Her.  Pom.,  3.  F.,  Borsdorfer  ; 
G.,  Edelborsdorfer.  (King  George  III.,  Queen  Char- 
lotte's Apple,  etc.,  etc.)  Dessert,  December  to  Feb- 
ruary, small,  2  by  if,  round-square,  regular.  Colour, 
milky  yellow  with  dull  red  flush,  slight  russet  veins. 
Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  pale  yellow,  poor  flavour.  Eye, 
usually  open  in  a  shallow  wide  basin.  Stem,  slender, 
in  a  moderately  deep  cavity,  slightly  russet ed.  Growth, 
compact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  small,  oval,  held  out 
flat,  curved  serrate.  Origin,  German,  where  it  has  been 
cultivated  since  the  sixteenth  century.  Imported 
into  England  for  Queen  Charlotte,  wife  of  George  III. 
Recorded  by  Cordus  in  1561.  A  worthless  fruit  in  this 
country,  except  in  very  warm  seasons. 

BOSBURY  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  December  to  March, 
small,  2^  by  if,  flat,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  golden 
yellow,  with  crimson  flush,  nearly  covering  fruit.  Flesh, 
firm,  pale  yellow,  sweet.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile. 
Origin,  unrecorded.  Probably  a  West  of  England 
variety.  Of  the  Baumann's  Reinette  type  ;  it  is  not 
worthy  of  cultivation. 

BOSTON  RUSSET.  Her.  Pom.,  54.  F.,  Reinette 
Rousse  de  Boston.  (Roxbury  Russet,  Putnam  Russet.) 
Dessert,  January  to  March,  medium,  2f  by  2, 
flattened  roundish,  slightly  conical,  slightly  irregular. 
Colour,  entirely  covered  with  dull  brownish-green 
russet.  Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  greenish,  of  excellent  flavour 
Eye,  firmly  closed  in  a  wide  plaited  basin.  Stem, 
moderately  long  in  a  wide  shallow  cavity.  Growth, 
compact ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  roundish, 
dark,  upfolded,  curved  serrate.  Origin,  supposed  to 
have  originated  at  Roxbury,  Mass.,  early  in  the  seven- 
teeth  century.  The  correct  name  is  Roxbury  Russet. 
A  good  late  fruit.  Reinette  de  Canada  Grise  is  often 
wrongly  called  Boston  Russet. 

BOW  HILL  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  November  to  Feb- 
ruary, medium,  2f  by  2f ,  flattened  round,  even.  Colour, 
golden-yellow,  slight  flush  and  broad  broken  stripes. 

30 


Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  very  yellow,  good  Blenheim  flavour. 
Eye,  open  in  a  deep,  wide,  and  slightly  plaited  basin. 
Stem,  very  long  and  thin,  nearly  one  inch.  Growth, 
rather  slender,  little  spreading ;  moderately  fertile. 
Leaf,  narrow,  rather  pale,  nearly  flat,  finely  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  A.  S.  White,  of  Bow  Hill,  near 
Maidstone,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Bunyard  &  Co., 
about  1893.  A  very  good  winter  fruit  of  Blenheim 
character. 

BRABANT  BELLEFLEUR.  Ronalds,  p.  31.  F., 
Bellefleur  de  Brabant,  ;  G.,  Grosser  Brabant er  Belle 
Fleur.  (Glory  of  Flanders,  Iron  Apple,  Winter  Belle- 
fleur.) Culinary,  till  April,  3 J  by  3,  fairly  large,  irreg- 
ular. Colour,  golden-yellow,  orange  red  flush  and 
stripes.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  acid,  Eye,  open  in  a 
large  wide  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  deep  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  oval, 
curved  serrate  or  crenate,  held  flat.  Origin,  probably 
Flemish.  Brought  to  notice  at  the  end  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century,  and  imported  into  England  about 
1830.  It  is  not  the  Brabant  Bellefleur  of  Holland  and 
Belgium,  but  is  here  known  as  the  Westland  Belle- 
fleur. A  useful  late  fruit. 

BRADDICK'S  NONPAREIL.  Ronalds,  p.  34. 
F.,  Nonpareille  de  Braddick ;  G.,  Braddicks  Sonder- 
gleichen.  (Ditton  Pippin,  Lincolnshire  Reinette.) 
Dessert,  November  to  April,  2\  by  if,  rather  small, 
round,  flattened,  regular.  Colour,  greenish-yellow, 
flushed  with  brown  red,  with  russet  round  eye  especially. 
Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  aromatic.  Eye  small,  nearly 
closed  in  a  wide  shallow  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  wide 
even  russet  cavity.  Growth,  slender ;  moderately 
fertile.  Leaf,  long  oval,  flat,  edges  twisted,  very  deeply 
and  coarsely  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Braddick,  of  Thames  Ditton,  about  1800.  An  apple 
of  first  class  quality. 

BRAMLEYS  SEEDLING.  Her.  Pom.,  73.  Culin- 
ary, November  to  March,  large,  3j  by  2f,  flat,  round, 


irregular.  Colour  greenish-yellow,  red  flush  with  broad 
broken  stripes.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  pale  yellow,  acid. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  broad,  deep,  slightly  wrinkled  basin. 
Stem,  short,  in  a  wide  deep,  slightly  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  extremely  vigorous ;  very  regularly  fertile 
when  the  tree  is  developed.  Leaf,  very  large,  dark, 
round,  slightly  upfolded,  coarsely  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Bramley,  a  shoemaker,  of  South- 
well, Notts.  Introduced  by  Messrs.  Merryweather, 
in  1876.  This  is  the  most  popular  and  profitable  of 
cooking  apples ;  ironclad  in  constitution,  growing 
wherever  apples  will  grow.  It  makes  a  very  large 
spreading  tree  and  should  be  planted  at  least  thirty 
feet  apart  in  orchards. 

Brandy  Apple  :    see  Golden  Harvey. 

BROWNLEES  RUSSET.  Her.  Pom..  54.  F., 
Reinette  grise  Brownlees;  G.,  Brownlees  Graue  Rein- 
ette.  Dessert,  January  to  April,  medium,  2j  by  2, 
flat,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  entirely  covered  with 
brownish-green  russet,  with  faint  brownish-red  flush. 
Flesh,  tender,  greenish,  sub-acid,  of  Nonpareil  flavour. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  uneven  basin.  Stem,  short 
cavity.  Growth,  compact,  rather  upright ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  very  narrow,  dark,  upfolded,  down  hanging, 
coarsely  crenate.  Origin,  introduced  by  Mr.  Brownlees, 
a  nurseryman,  in  1848.  A  valuable  fruit  for  winter 
use. 

Brown's  Queen  Caroline  :   see  Queen  Caroline. 

BUFF  COAT.  Culinary,  December  to  March,  large, 
3i  by  2i>  flat>  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  dull  yellow- 
green,  with  large  patches  of  thick  russet.  Flesh,  firm, 
juicy,  yellowish,  sweet.  Growth,  sturdy ;  moderately 
fertile.  Origin,  unrecorded.  An  old  variety. 
Resembles  Alfriston,  but  is  flatter. 

Burlington  :   see  Newtown  Spitzenburg. 
32 


BURR  KNOT.  Ronalds,  p.  39.  (Hide's  Walking 
Stick.)  Culinary,  October  to  November,  large,  3}  by  3, 
round,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  faint 
red  flush.  Flesh  tender,  yellow,  acid.  Growth  moder- 
ate, compact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  small,  oval,  broadly 
serrate.  Origin,  uncertain.  This  name  has  been 
applied  to  many  different  fruits  on  account  of  the  knots 
on  branches,  from  which  roots  are  easily  emitted. 
Now  rarely  met  with,  save  in  old  orchards.  This  is 
quite  distinct  from  the  Oslin,  also  called  Burr  Knot. 

Burr  Knot :    see  Oslin. 

BUXTED  FAVOURITE.  Culinary,  December  to 
February,  medium,  2j  by  2|,  flattened  round  a  little 
conical,  even.  Colour,  pale  golden  yellow,  slight 
brown  red  flush  and  stripes  like  a  King  of  the  Pippins  ; 
smooth.  Flesh,  yellow,  crisp,  rather  acid,  very  little 
flavour.  Eye  open  in  a  deep  and  wide  plaited  basin. 
Stem,  short  in  a  deep  narrow  russet  cavity.  A  rather 
poor  fruit  with  me,  certainly  not  more  than  a  cooking 
variety. 

BYFORD  WONDER.  Culinary,  November  to  Decem- 
ber, very  large,  3j  by  2j,  flattened  round,  nearly 
regular.  Colour,  dull  yellow  with  conspicuous  russet 
dots.  Flesh,  loose,  yellowish,  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed 
in  a  rather  deep  basin  which  is  a  little  puckered.  Stem, 
short  and  stout  in  a  deep  and  very  wide  russeted  cavity. 
Growth,  very  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  very  large, 
roundish,  dark,  little  upfolded,  sharply  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  unrecorded.  Introduced  by  Messrs.  Cranstons, 
in  1894.  A  useful  fruit  often  reaching  enormous  size 
on  young  trees. 

CaldwelTs  Keeper  ;   see  Rymer. 

CALVILLE  BLANCHE  D'HIVER.  Ronalds,  p.  37. 
G.,  Weisser  Winter  Calville.  (Glace",  Reinette  a 
cotes,  White  Calville,  etc.)  Culinary  or  dessert, 
January  to  April,  3j  by  3,  medium,  round — conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow.  Flesh,  melting,  pale 

33 


yellow,  aromatic.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  and  much 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  long  in  a  deep  cavity. 
Growth,  weak  ;  infertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  roundish, 
finely  and  regularly  serrate.  Origin,  uncertain  ; 
recorded  in  1600.  Probably  French.  Of  delicate 
flavour  and  remarkably  melting  texture,  but  rarely 
well-finished  in  this  country.  Should  be  grown  under 
glass  or  on  a  wall.  Mr.  Leake,  of  Wisbech,  finds  this 
to  do  excellently  in  his  soil,  which  is  almost  free  from 
lime. 

CALVILLE  MALINGRE.  Her.  Pom.,  56.  G., 
Braunroter  Winter  Calville.  Culinary,  December  to 
March,  medium,  3  by  2j,  round,  a  little  flattened. 
Colour,  golden  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  dark  red 
flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  white.  Eye,  closed  in 
a  deep  and  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  and  stout  in 
a  deep  cavity.  Growth,  compact  ;  remarkable  fertile. 
Leaf,  long,  narrow,  upfolded  and  undulating,  crenate. 
Origin,  doubtful.  This  apple  has  been  always  much 
confused.  The  variety  described  above  is  that  known 
under  this  name  in  Britain.  Of  excellent  flavour  when 
cooked,  the  flesh  then  being  soft  and  pinkish-yellow. 

CALVILLE  ROUGE  D'HIVER.  Verger,  IV.,  76. 
F.,  Calville  Rouge;  G.,  Roter  Winter  Calville. 
(Passe  Pomme  d'Hiver.)  Culinary,  December  to  March, 
medium,  2|  by  2j,  round,  conical,  irregular.  Colour, 
greenish-yellow,  almost  covered  with  dark  crimson 
flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  white  with  occasional  red  touches, 
juicy,  sub-acid.  Leaf,  large,  pale,  upfolded,  undula- 
ting, variable,  finely  to  coarsely  serrate.  Eye,  usually 
closed  in  a  deep  and  wide  basin.  Stem,  long  and  thin 
in  a  very  deep  cavity.  Growth,  compact  ;  very  fertile. 
Origin,  one  of  the  oldest  varieties.  Known  in  France, 
since  1600.  Hardly  worthy  of  cultivation  nowadays. 

CALVILLE  DES  FEMMES.  G.,  Frauen  Calville. 
Culinary,  till  June,  very  large,  3|  by  3j,  round,  conical, 
uneven.  Colour,  green  to  pale  yellow,  often  with  a 
brownish-red  flush.  Flesh,  white  in  which  greenish 

34 


veins  are  noticeable,  acid,  firm.  Eye,  large,  closed  or 
open  in  a  very  large  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  usually  very 
short,  in  a  wide,  deep  cavity.  Growth,  very  vigorous, 
making  a  roundish  tree.  Leaf,  rather  large,  very  dark, 
upfolded,  down  hanging,  sharply  serrate.  Origin, 
uncertain,  but  very  probably  raised  about  1850  in  the 
garden  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  Angers,  France. 

Calville  Rouge  Precoce  :  see  Reinette  Rouge  Etoilee. 
Cambridge  Pippin  :  see  Bedfordshire  Foundling. 

CAMBUSNETHAN  PIPPIN.  Culinary  or  dessert, 
October  to  December,  medium,  3  by  2,  flat,  round, 
regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  broad,  broken  red 
stripes  and  flush.  Flesh,  soft,  yellowish,  fair  flavour. 
Eye,  open  in  a  very  wide  even  basin.  Stem,  of  medium 
length  in  a  fairly  deep  cavity.  Growth,  compact ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  roundish,  upfolded,  undulating,  regu- 
larly crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Paton,  gardener 
at  Cambusnethan  House,  about  1750.  It  is  much 
appreciated  in  the  North  of  England,  but  of  no  remark- 
able merit  in  the  South. 

CARDINAL.  F.,  Pierre  le  Grand.  (Peter  the 
Great,  Kiarolowski.)  Dessert,  mid- August-September, 
medium  to  large,  3  by  2|,  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
pale,  creamy  white,  pinkish  flush  with  broad  stripes. 
Flesh,  soft,  white,  juicy,  remarkably  sweet  and  aromatic. 
Eye,  closed  in  an  even  and  shallow  basin.  Stem, 
short  and  thick,  in  a  narrow  and  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
sturdy,  upright  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  pale,  upfolded,  down 
curved,  very  minutely  serrate.  Origin,  a  Russian 
variety  from  Riga,  called  Kiarolkowski  introduced  to 
England  about  1880.  It  was  also  imported  under  the 
name  of  Peter  the  Great.  A  most  attractive  early 
fruit,  worth  growing  if  only  for  its  beauty. 

CARAWAY  RUSSET.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  21.  F., 
Fenouillet  Gris ;  G.,  Grauer  Feucher  Apfel.  [Anis, 
Fenouillet  Anise,  Aromatic  Russet  (of  some)  Spice 
Apple,  etc.,  etc.]  Dessert,  November  to  March, 

35 


small,  2  by  ij,  flat,  regular,  Colour,  yellow  to  orange, 
with  russet ;  generally  warted.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow, 
aromatic.  Eye,  small,  generally  closed,  in  an  even 
and  shallow  basin.  Stem,  short  and  thin  in  a  rather 
small  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility  moderate. 
Leaf,  small,  longish  oval,  upfolded,  sharply  and  irre- 
gularly serrate.  Origin,  French,  dating  from  the 
seventeenth  century.  The  correct  name  is  Fenouillet 
Gris.  Leroy  considers  this  the  Epice  d'Hiver  of  Olivier 
de  Serres.  A  reliable  sort  still  grown  in  old  orchards. 

CARLISLE  CASTLE.  Culinary,  October  to  Nov- 
ember, small,  if  by  2j,  very  flat,  quite  even.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  bright  scarlet  flush 
and  stripes,  smooth,  greasy.  Flesh,  white,  juicy,  firm, 
sub-acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deepish,  wide  and  even 
basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  wide  russet  cavity.  Of 
no  value.  Resembles  Thorle,  but  the  closed  eye  and 
deep  basin  serve  at  once  to  distinguish  it. 

CARLISLE  CODLIN.  Ronalds,  p.  3.  (Irish  Codlin, 
Musk.)  Culinary,  August  to  December,  fairly  large, 
3  by  3,  conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow  with  slight 
red  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  white  and  sweet.  Eye,  closed 
in  a  narrow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  rather 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertility  great.  Leaf, 
large,  sharply  pointed,  finely  serrate.  Origin,  probably 
originated  near  Carlisle,  before  1830.  Now  superseded 
by  more  modern  sorts. 

Carse  O'Gowrie  :   see  Tower  of  Glamis. 

CATSHEAD.  Her.  Pom.,  L.  F.,  Tete  du  Chat; 
G.,  Schafsnase.  (Katzenkopf,  Catshead  Greening.) 
Culinary,  October  to  January,  large,  3$  by  3^,  long 
oblong,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellowish- 
green,  faint  brown  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  white,  sub-acid. 
Growth,  strong  ;  fertile  when  aged.  Leaf,  large,  round, 
pale,  flat,  curved  serrate.  Origin,  Old  English  sort, 
known  from  seventeenth  century.  Not  worthy  of 
cultivation.  Superseded  by  others  such  as  Lord  Derby. 

36 


Catshead  Beaufin  :   see  Norfolk  Beefing. 
Catshead  Greening  :    see  Catshead. 
Cayuga  Red  Streak :    see  Twenty  Ounce. 

CELLINI.  (Phillips'  Seedling.)  Her.  Pom.,  12. 
Culinary,  October  to  November,  medium,  3  by  2j, 
round,  slightly  flattened,  regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow- 
ish-green, strongly  striped,  and  flushed  brown  red. 
Flesh,  tender  white,  sub-acid,  with  curious  balsamic 
flavour.  Growth,  stocky  and  a  little  spreading  ; 
extremely  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  pale  green,  upfolded 
and  twisted,  boldly  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised 
by  Mr.  Leonard  Phillips,  nurseryman,  Vauxhall,  and 
introduced  about  1828.  Regular  cropping  is  its  chief 
recommendation,  but  the  curious  flavour  appeals  to 
some. 

Chalmer's  Large  :   see  Dutch  Codlin. 

CHARLES  EYRE.  Exhibition  or  culinary,  October 
to  November,  enormous,  4  by  3^,  roundish  oval,  even. 
Colour,  pale  greenish-yellow.  Flesh,  soft,  greenish- 
yellow,  Growth,  vigorous,  short  jointed,  a  little  spread- 
ing. Leaf,  rather  large,  long  pointed,  oval,  very 
minutely  crenate,  stipules  large  and  leafy.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross,  and  introduced  to  notice 
about  1911.  Will  probably  be  one  of  the  largest  apples 
grown.  A  larger  Pott's  Seedling. 

CHARLES  ROSS.  Culinary  or  dessert,  October  to 
December,  large,  4  by  3,  round  even.  Colour,  very 
pale  yellow  green,  covered  with  a  light  red  flush,  and 
bold  broken  stripes  over  the  whole  of  the  fruit  when 
fully  exposed.  Flesh,  tender,  short  texture,  fairly 
juicy,  quite  sweet,  pleasant  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a 
shallow  even  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  rather  wide 
shallow  cavity,  which  usually  retains  a  greenish  tinge 
when  the  fruit  is  ripe.  Growth,  upright,  a  little  spread 
ing ;  fertile.  Leaf,  narrow,  pea  green,  nearly  flat, 
finely  shallow  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Charles 
Ross,  and  introduced  in  1899.  This  apple  is  of  the 


37 


Peasgoods  style,  but  is  quite  distinct,  not  showing  so 
much  bloom  on  the  tree,  the  fruit  being  more  upright 
and  the  carpels  flatter  and  less  curved.  It  is  becoming 
a  popular  market  apple  and  does  extremely  well  on  thin 
soils  on  chalk. 

CHATLEYS  KERNEL.  Culinary,  January  to  May, 
medium,  2f  by  2,  round,-  flattened,  regular.  Colour, 
yellowish-green,  with  brown  red  flush.  Flesh,  very 
crisp,  greenish,  acid.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility, 
moderate.  Leaf,  grey-green,  rather  large,  flat  undula- 
ting, finely  serrate.  Origin,  undiscovered.  Hardly 
worthy  of  cultivation. 

CHELMSFORD  WONDER.  G.  Mag.,  April  nth, 
1891.  Culinary,  November  to  March,  large,  3j  by  3, 
round,  very  regular.  Colour,  deep  yellow  with  crimson 
flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  crisp  and  breaking,  flavour, 
acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  plaited  basin.  Stem, 
short  in  a  moderate  very  evenly  rounded  cavity. 
Growth,  sturdy,  upright,  spreading ;  fertility,  fair. 
Leaf,  much  down  folded.  Origin,  raised  near 
Chelmsford,  and  introduced  by  Mr.  Saltmarsh  in  1891. 
A  very  useful  fruit  of  the  Wellington  style  in  flesh  ; 
it  keeps  crisp  to  a  very  late  season.  The  foliage  is 
remarkably  distinct. 

Oliver's  Seedling  :    see  Histon  Favourite. 

CHRISTMAS  PEARMAIN.  Dessert,  November  to 
December,  medium,  2j  by  2,  oval,  conical,  regular. 
Colour,  dull  yellow  with  brownish-red  flush,  slight 
russet  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  yellowish, 
pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  wide  open  in  a  shallow 
even  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  small  round  cavity. 
Growth,  compact ;  extraordinarily  fertile.  Leaf, 
rather  pale,  slightly  upfolded,  undulated,  rather  small, 
finely  serrate.  Origin,  a  seedling  raised  by  Mr. 
Manser,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  G.  Bunyard  &  Co., 
in  1895.  This  fruit  is  valuable  for  small  gardens  on 
account  of  its  tree  cropping  powers. 

38 


Citron  D'Hiver  :    see  London  Pippin. 

CLARK'S  SEEDLING.  (Royal  George.)  Culinary, 
till  March,  fairly  large,  3  by  2  J,  round,  slightly  flattened 
at  each  end,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  yellow,  with  brown- 
ish red  flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  pale, 
yellow.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  very  dark,  upfolded,  undulating,  finely 
crenate  or  nearly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  a  Mr. 
Clark,  at  East  Bridgeford,  Notts.,  about  1800.  This 
is  considered  an  uncertain  cropper  in  some  districts 
but  it  is  likely  to  be  useful  in  the  South.  It  is  not  the 
Clark's  Pippin  of  Hogg.  There  is  another  apple  called 
Royal  George  of  the  Warner's  type. 

CLAYGATE  PEARMAIN,  Launche  II.,  72.  R, 
Pomme  de  Claygate,  G.  Claygate  Parmane.  (Ribston 
Pearmain.)  Dessert,  December  to  February,  medium, 
2j  by  2,  roundish,  flattened,  regular.  Colour,  dull  green, 
faint  red  flush  with  thin  russet.  Flesh,  crisp,  greenish- 
white,  juicy  and  of  excellent  flavour.  Eye,  half  open 
in  a  wide,  rather  shallow  basin.  Stem,  rather  long, 
thick  in  a  wide  cavity  only  slightly  russet ed.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  horizontal, 
upfolded,  sharply  curved  serrate.  Origin,  found  in  a 
hedge,  near  Claygate,  by  Mr.  John  Braddick,  of  Thames 
Ditton.  This  is  one  of  the  best  late  dessert  apples 
and  is  of  the  highest  quality. 

Clifton  Nonsuch  :    see  Fearn's  Pippin. 
Clissold's  Seedling  :    see  Lodgemore  Nonpareil. 
Coates :    see   Yorkshire  Greening. 

COBHAM.  (Pope's  Golden  Ducat.)  Dessert,  Dec- 
ember to  February,  medium,  3|  by  2f ,  roundish-square, 
uneven.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with  brown-red  flush 
and  faint  red  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  juicy  and  of 
good  flavour.  Eye  closed  in  a  shallow,  uneven  basin. 
Stem,  rather  short  in  a  wide  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
stout,  moderate,  very  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large, 

39 


roundish,  dark,  flat,  sharply  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
said  to  have  been  raised  in  Sittingbourne,  by  a  Mr. 
Pope,  about  1790.  Introduced  to  notice  about  1828. 
It  is  now  little  grown,  and  hardly  equal  to  Blenheim 
Orange,  as  stated  by  Dr.  Hogg. 

COCKLE'S  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  23.  G.,  Hahnen 
Peppin.  (Nutmeg  Pippin  (error),  Pilot  Russet.) 
Dessert,  December  to  March,  smallish,  2\  by  2|,  round, 
conical,  regular.  Colour,  greenish-yellow,  with  thin 
cinnamon  russet,  which  increases  towards  the  base. 
Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  moderate  flavour.  Eye,  closed 
in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  stout  and  fleshy  in 
a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  upright,  the  long 
willowy  shoots  being  very  distinct ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
long,  rather  pale,  flat  undulating,  very  markedly 
doubly  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  a  person 
named  Cockle,  in  Sussex,  probably  about  1800.  Of 
excellent  flavour  in  warm  seasons.  Keeps  well. 
Distinct  from  Nutmeg  Pippin,  with  which  it  is  often 
confused. 

COCKINGTON  CALVILLE.  Dessert,  January  to 
April,  medium,  2j  by  2j,  round,  conical.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  almost  covered  with  deep  crimson  flush. 
Flesh,  very  firm,  yellowish,  sub-acid.  Growth,  moder- 
ate ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  large,  long,  very  sharply 
curved  serrate,  pea  green,  upfolded.  Origin,  uncertain. 
Grown  at  Cockington,  near  Torquay.  Of  the  Calville 
Rouge  type.  Of  no  particular  merit. 

COLLOGET  PIPPIN.  (Lawry's  Cornish  Giant.) 
Culinary,  October  to  November,  very  large,  3i  by  3 
(often  much  larger),  flat,  conical,  very  irregular,  Colour, 
yellowish-green  with  red  flush,  and  bold  broken  stripes. 
Flesh,  yellow,  firm,  acid,  flavourless.  Eye,  a  little  open 
in  a  rather  deep  and  much  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
short  in  a  rather  wide  cavity.  Growth,  extra  vigorous, 
prolific.  Leaf,  undulating,  flat,  down  hanging.  Origin, 
an  old  Cornish  variety  named  after  the  place  of  its 
origin.  Of  no  particular  merit. 

40 


COLONEL  VAUGHAN.  Her.  Pom.,  74.  G.,  Rother 
Kentische  Peppin.  (Kentish  Pippin,  Scarlet  Incompara- 
able.)  Culinary  or  dessert,  November  to  January, 
medium,  2j  by  2f,  round  oblong,  Colour,  golden- 
yellow,  almost  entirely  with  broad  broken  stripes  of 
bright  red  and  slight  flush.  Flesh,  nearly  white,  firm, 
very  juicy  and  sweet,  often  stained  with  a  little  red. 
Eye,  closed  or  a  little  open  in  a  shallow  much  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  fairly  deep  even  cavity  into 
which  the  coloured  stripes  run.  Growth,  moderate, 
makes  a  nice  compact  tree ;  extremely  fertile.  Leaf, 
roundish,  pea  green,  nearly  flat,  twisted,  sharply  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  this  has  been  grown  in  Kent  from  the 
seventeenth  century.  It  crops  so  well  and  is  so  useful 
for  small  gardens  that  it  seems  a  pity  that  it  is  almost 
forgotten  in  these  days. 

Common  Codlin  :   see  English  Codlin. 
Copmansthorp  Crab  :   see  Dutch  Mignonne. 
Corby  Seedling  :  see  Hormead  Pearmain. 

CORNISH  AROMATIC.  Ronalds,  p.  15.  (as  Aro- 
matic Russet).  Dessert,  December  to  February, 
medium,  3  by  3,  round,  conical,  uneven.  Colour, 
golden-yellow  with  red  flush  and  russet.  Flesh,  yellow, 
crisp,  aromatic.  Eye,  very  small,  closed  in  a  shallow 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short  in  a  wide  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  compact,  twiggy  ;  moderately  fertile. 
Leaf,  medium,  rather  long  oval,  crenate.  Origin, 
originated  in  Cornwall,  perhaps  in  the  seventeenth 
century.  This  apple  is  of  the  highest  quality,  and 
appearance. 

CORNISH  GILLYFLOWER.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  41. 
F.,  Calville  d'Angelterre ;  G.,  Cornwalliser  Nelken 
(Regelans).  Dessert,  December  to  May,  2f  by  3, 
medium,  round,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  greenish- 
yellow,  streaked  dull  red  with  russet.  Flesh,  firm, 
pale  yellow,  very  richly  flavoured.  Eye,  closed  in  a 
deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  fairly  long  in  a  small  cavity. 

41 


Growth,  slender ;  moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  upward 
held,  upfolded.  Origin,  probably  Cornish,  introduced 
to  notice  about  1813.  Probably  not  the  July  flower  of 
Evelyn.  Of  delicious  flavour ;  requires  good  treat- 
ment and  a  warm  climate.  Best  as  a  standard  or  free 
bush. 

CORNISH  PINE.  (Red  Ribbed  Greening.)  Culin- 
ary, December  to  February,  medium  to  large,  2\  by  2|, 
oblong,  conical,  very  irregular.  Colour,  golden-yellow, 
with  thick  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  sweet, 
aromatic.  Moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  large,  long,  dark, 
upfolded,  down  held,  finely  serrate.  'Origin,  raised  at 
Exminster,  Devon,  from  a  pip  of  Cornish  Gillyflower. 

CORONATION.  Card.  Chron.,  1905,  p.  28.  Culin- 
ary or  dessert,  October  to  December,  3  J  by  2  J,  medium, 
round,  flattened  at  top  and  bottom,  slightly  conical, 
very  regular.  Colour,  yellow,  dusted  with  dark  red 
and  thick  blotchy  stripes.  Flesh,  fairly  firm,  yellowish, 
fair  flavour.  Eye,  closed  or  a  little  open  in  a  shallow 
plaited  basin.  Stem,  very  long  in  an  even  russet 
rather  wide  cavity.  Growth,  upright,  vigorous  and 
fertile.  Leaf,  long  oval,  pale  green,  very  regularly 
curved  serrate,  upfolded,  falls  early.  Origin,  raised  by 
Mr.  Prinsep,  gardener  at  Buxted  Park,  Sussex.  Intro- 
duced by  Mr.  Pyne,  of  Topsham.  Not  of  great  merit, 
but  pleasantly  flavoured  in  its  earlier  season  but  this 
soon  goes  off  leaving  it  mealy  and  tasteless. 

Councillor  :    see  Yorkshire  Beauty. 
Countess  of  Warwick  ;  see  Beauty  of  Kent. 
Couronne  des  Dames  :   see  Baumann's  Reinette. 

COURT  OF  WICK.  Ronalds,  p.  12.  (Fry's 
Pippin,  Golden  Drop,  Woods  Huntingdon.)  Dessert, 
December  to  March,  small,  2j  by  if,  rounded,  square, 
regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  flushed  with  rich  orange. 
Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  richly  flavoured,  slightly  acid. 
Eye,  open  in  a  wide  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  shallow 

43 


russet  cavity.  Growth,  medium,  spreading ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  medium,  long  oval,  sharply  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  near  Yatton,  Somerset,  and  introduced 
to  commence  in  1790,  by  Messrs.  Wood,  of  Huntingdon. 
A  good  old  sort,  now  little  grown. 

Court  Pendu  Blanc  :   see  Orleans  Reinette. 

COURT  PENDU  PLAT.  Ronalds,  p.  12.  G., 
Koeniglicher  Kurzstiel.  (de  Bertin,  Garnons,  Wise 
Apple,  Court  Queue,  Wollaton  Pippin,  etc.,  etc.) 
Dessert,  till  April,  smallish,  2\  by  if,  flat,  regular. 
Colour,  yellow  covered  with  dull  red  flush  and  slight 
russet.  Flesh,  yellow,  firm,  rich  flavour.  Eye,  open 
in  a  very  deep  even  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  deep 
cavity.  Growth,  small ;  fertility,  good.  The  latest 
of  all  to  flower,  hence  its  name,  Wise  Apple.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  much  upward  cupped,  sharply  serrate. 
Origin,  of  great  antiquity ;  known  in  the  sixteenth 
century,  and  possibly  dating  from  Roman  days.  A 
valuable  sort,  its  late  flowering  habit  often  enabling 
it  to  escape  early  frosts.  One  of  the  best  for  a  heavy 
clay  soil. 

Court  Queue  :  see  Court  Pendu  Plat. 

COX'S  ORANGE.  Her.  Pom.,  16.  F.,  Orange  de 
Cox  ;  G.,  Cox's  Orangen  Reinette.  Dessert,  November 
to  March,  medium,  z\  by  2j,  round,  conical,  regular. 
Colour,  golden  yellow  with  brownish-red  flush,  and 
russet  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  juicy 
and  of  the  highest  flavour.  Eye,  half  closed,  segments 
reflexed,  in  a  very  shallow  slightly  ribbed  basin,  often 
russeted.  Stem,  moderately  stout,  in  a  wide  shallow 
cavity,  always  a  little  russeted.  Growth,  slender  ; 
fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  narrow,  rather  pale,  undu- 
lated, upfolded,  crenate.  Origin,  raised  in  1825,  by 
Mr.  Cox,  a  retired  brewer  of  Colnbrook  Lawn,  near 
Slough,  and  introduced  by  Mr.  Charles  Turner,  about 
1850.  Generally  considered  to  be  the  richest  flavoured 
of  English  Apples. 

43 


COX'S  POMONA.  Her.  Pom.,  12.  F.,  Pomona 
de  Cox.  (Royal  Portugee,  Hill's  Seedling.)  Dessert 
or  culinary,  October  to  December,  medium,  3  by  2, 
round,  flattened,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  yellow 
flushed  and  striped  with  crimson.  Flesh,  tender, 
white,  sub-acid.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep  basin  which  has 
five  prominent  knobs.  Stem,  rather  short  in  a  very 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
medium,  roundish,  light  green,  nearly  flat,  broad 
shallow  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Cox,  in  1825, 
near  Slough,  Bucks.,  and  sent  out  by  Mr.  Smale,  Coin- 
brook  nursery.  A  very  attractive  fruit. 


CRAWLEY  BEAUTY.  Culinary,  December  to 
February,  medium  to  large,  3j  by  2f ,  flattened  round, 
even.  Colour,  pale  creamy  yellow,  red  flush  and 
broken  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish-white,  acid,  good 
flavour  when  cooked.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep  and  wide 
basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  broad  and  rather  deep 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  round- 
oval,  crenate  or  doubly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  in  a 
cottage  garden,  near  Crawley,  Sussex,  and  introduced 
by  Messrs.  Cheal  &  Co.  This  promises  to  be  a  very 
useful  variety,  flowering  very  late. 


CRAWLEY  REINETTE.  Dessert  or  culinary, 
December  to  March,  medium,  3j  by  3j,  round  oblong, 
nearly  regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  covered  with 
rich  red  flush  and  faint  inconspicuous  stripes ;  general 
colouring  being  like  King  of  the  Pippins.  Flesh, 
white,  crisp,  juicy,  of  fair  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a 
moderately  deep,  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather 
short  in  moderately  deep,  angular,  russeted  cavity. 
Growth,  vigorous,  little  spreading ;  fertility  said  to  be 
very  good.  Leaf,  long,  held  flat,  coarsely  crenate. 
Origin,  recent  ;  introduced  by  Messrs.  Cheal. 
This  apple  might  be  described  as  a  later  King  of  the 
Pippins,  but  I  have  not  grown  it  sufficiently  long  to 
speak  very  definitely  of  its  merits. 

44 


CRIMSON  BRAMLEY.  A  form  of  Bramley's 
Seedling,  differing  only  in  the  possession  of  a  rich  red 
colour  all  over  the  fruit.  Originated  as  a  bud  sport 
in  an  orchard  in  Southwell,  Notts. 

Croft-en-Reich  :    see  Galloway  Pippin. 
Croft-St.  Andrews  :   see  Galloway  Pippin. 
Culver  Russet :  see  Syke  House  Russet. 
Cumberland  Favourite  :   see  Yorkshire  Beauty. 

CUTLER  GRIEVE.  Dessert,  November  to  January, 
medium,  2f  by  2j,  rounded,  flattened,  conical.  Colour 
golden-yellow,  almost  covered  with  brilliant  scarlet 
flush,  under  which  are  seen  very  broad  stripes.  Skin, 
greasy.  Flesh,  white,  firm,  close  grained,  juicy,  sweet, 
but  no  particular  flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  medium, 
much  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  fairly  deep,  wide, 
cavity,  which  is  often  a  little  russeted.  Growth, 
vigorous,  rather  upright ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  round- 
ish, finely  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  James 
Grieve,  and  introduced  by  Mr.  Storrie.  The  brilliant 
appearance  of  this  apple  together  with  its  season  suggest 
that  it  is  the  successor  of  Worcester  Pearmain,  for  which 
market  growers  have  long  been  searching. 

Dainty  :  see  Hoary  Morning. 

D'ARCY  SPICE.  (Her.  Pom.,  25.  (Baddow 
Pippin,  Essex  Spice,  Spice,  Spring  Ribston).  Dessert, 
November  to  April,  medium,  2\  by  2j,  square-rounded 
irregular.  Colour,  green  to  yellow,  with  dull  red  flush, 
covered  with  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish,  highly 
aromatic.  Eye,  slightly  open  in  a  deep  wrinkled  basin. 
Stem,  short  rather,  deeply  inserted  in  a  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  weak ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  medium, 
dark,  upfolded,  sharply  serrate  or  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  probably  originated  in  Essex.  Introduced 
to  general  notice  about  1850.  Of  the  finest  quality, 
but  not  often  found  thriving  out  of  East  Anglia. 

45 


Dean's  Codlin :    see  Pott's  Seedling. 
De  Berlin  :   see  Court  Pendu  Plat. 

DELICIOUS.  Card.  Mag.,  1914,  p.  97.  Dessert, 
November  to  January,  medium,  2|  by  2  J,  round,  conical, 
angular.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with  dark  crimson 
flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  juicy  and  highly 
flavoured.  Eye,  slightly  open  in  a  rather  deep  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  fairly  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
compact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  long,  oval,  upfolded, 
deeply  curved  serrate.  Originated  in  the  garden  of  Mr. 
Jesse  Hiatt,  of  Peru,  Iowa,  U.S.A.,  about  1880,  and 
introduced  into  England  about  1912.  Extremely 
hardy  in  its  native  country,  and  likely  to  prove  a  valuable 
fruit  for  Great  Britain. 

Deux  Ans  :    see  Hambledon  Deux  Ans. 

DEVONSHIRE  QUARRENDEN.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  3. 
F.,  Quarrendon  du  Comte  de  Devon ;  G.,  Englisher 
Scharlach  Peppin.  (Sack,  Quarrington  (error).) 
Dessert,  end  August-September,  small  to  medium, 
2^  by  if,  flat,  irregular.  Colour,  covered  with  dark 
crimson  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  greenish,  aromatic.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  wide  shallow  basin.  Stem,  fairly  long  in  a 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  rather  spreading  ; 
fertility  irregular.  Leaf,  upfolded,  undulating.  Origin, 
this  is  mentioned  by  Worlidge,  in  his  Vinetum  Brit- 
annicum  in  1678,  and  probably  takes  its  name  from 
Carentan,  an  apple  district  in  Normandy.  Of  most 
distinct  and  refreshing  flavour  ;  rather  subject  to  canker. 

DEVONSHIRE  QUEEN.  Ronalds,  p.  25.  Culin- 
ary, October,  medium,  3|  by  2},  flattened,  round, 
irregular.  Colour,  bright  yellow,  flushed  and  striped 
with  scarlet.  Flesh,  soft,  yellowish-white,  tinged  with 
red.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  much  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  medium,  in  a  very  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  fertile.  Origin,  probably  from  the  county 
of  its  name.  Known  in  1820.  Not  worthy  ot 
cultivation. 


DEWDNEY'S  SEEDLING.  (Baron  Wolseley.) 
Culinary,  December  to  January,  large,  3  by  2j,  flat, 
conical,  rather  irregular.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  with 
brownish-red  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  yellow,  juicy 
and  brisk.  Eye,  closed  in  a  round,  moderately  deep 
slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short,  stout  in 
a  wide  cavity,  nearly  free  from  russet.  Growth, 
straggling,  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  moderate,  dark, 
nearly  flat,  undulating,  curved  serrate  .Origin,  raised 
at  Barrowby,  near  Grantham,  by  Mr.  Dewdney,  about 
1850.  A  useful  late  cooking  variety. 

DIAMOND  JUBILEE.  Dessert  or  culinary,  Jan- 
uary to  March,  rather  large,  2f  by  2f ,  round,  conical, 
even.  Colour,  even  grass  green,  changing  to  yellow. 
Flesh,  firm,  white,  flavour  rather  good.  Eye,  nearly 
closed  in  a  flat  and  shallow  plaited  basin,  Stem, 
short,  and  moderately  stout,  in  a  very  small  cavity. 
Growth,  rather  upright,  spreading,  twiggy,  making  a 
round  tree.  Leaf,  rather  large,  narrow,  flat,  a  little 
twisted,  undulating,  curved  serrate,  held  up.  Origin, 
raised  at  Rainham,  Kent,  and  introduced  in  1901.  A 
good  late  apple,  which  may  be  described  as  an  earlier 
Beauty  of  Stoke.  Royal  Late  which  is  sometimes  said 
to  be  the  same  is  quite  distinct. 

Diels  Sommer  Konig  :   see  Gravenstein. 
Ditton  Pippin  :   see  Braddick's  Nonpareil. 
Dr.  Harvey  :   see  Waltham  Abbey. 

DOCTOR  HOGG.  Culinary,  September  to  Febru- 
ary, fairly  large,  3  by  3,  oval,  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
yellow  with  pale  flush.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep  irregular 
basin.  Stem,  rather  long  in  a  wide  cavity.  Flesh, 
tender,  white,  sweet.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  horizontal,  upfolded.  Origin,  a  supposed  seedling 
from  Calville  Blanche.  Raised  by  Mr.  Ford,  gardener 
at  Leonardslee,  Horsham,  and  introduced  by  Messrs. 
W.  Paul  &  Son,  about  1880.  Now  little  grown,  having 
been  superseded. 

47 


Dolgoi  Squoznoi :  see  Sugar  Loaf  Pippin. 

DOMINO.  Culinary,  September  to  October,  medium, 
2\  by  2f,  oblong,  rounded,  irregular.  Colour,  pale 
yellowish  green  with  occasional  faint  flush.  Flesh, 
yellowish- white,  crisp,  acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  moder- 
ately deep  broad  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  narrow 
fairly  deep  cavity.  Growth,  upright,  compact  and 
twiggy;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  pale,  long  oval,  shallow 
serrate,  flat,  twisted,  falls  early.  Origin,  unrecorded ; 
much  grown  around  London  ;  probably  from  the  Mid- 
land Counties.  A  useful  fruit  of  the  Codlin  type. 

D.  T.  Fish  :   see  Warner's  King. 

DUCHESS'  FAVOURITE.  Her.  Pom.,  69.  Dessert, 
September  to  October,  medium,  2  J  by  2,  round,  flattened, 
regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  almost  entirely  covered 
with  crimson  red.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  brisk  and 
pleasant,  often  tinged  with  red.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
wrinkled  basin.  Stem,  moderately  long  in  a  rather 
deep  evenly  russeted  cavity.  Growth,  upright ;  very 
fertile.  Leaf,  rather  small,  light  green,  upfolded, 
finely  crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Cree,  a  nursery- 
man of  Addlestone,  before  1823.  This  apple  is  attrac- 
tive in  appearance  and  largely  grown  for  market  use. 

DUCHESS  OF  OLDENBURG.  Ronalds,  p.  6. 
F.,  Borovitsky  ;  G.,  Charlamovski.  (Baroveski, 
Borowinka.)  Culinary  or  dessert,  August  to  Septem- 
ber, medium,  3j  by  2|,  round,  flattened,  regular. 
Colour,  palest  yellow,  with  strong  red  stripes.  Flesh, 
soft,  white,  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  even  basin. 
Stem,  slender  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upright ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  medium, 
upfolded,  undulating,  nearly  serrate.  Origin,  Russian. 
Introduced  into  England  in  1824.  Of  most  attractive 
appearance,  and  a  refreshing  summer  fruit. 

DUKE  OF  DEVONSHIRE.  Dessert,  February  to 
March,  small  to  medium,  2j  by  2,  round,  conical,  fairly 
regular.  Colour,  dull  golden-yellow,  almost  covered 


with  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  greenish-yellow,  good 
flavour,  rather  dry.  Eye,  half  open,  almost  on  a  level 
with  the  fruit.  Stem,  very  short  and  stout  in  a  small 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  makes  a  fine  stand- 
ard ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  slightly  upward  folding, 
very  boldly  serrate,  sometimes  crenate.  Origin,  raised 
at  Holker  Hall,  Lanes.,  by  Mr.  Wilson,  gardener  to  the 
Duke  of  Devonshire,  in  1835.  It  is  quite  indispensable 
for  late  use.  Remarkable  for  the  variegation  of  fruit, 
leaves  and  wood.  This  is  best  seen  in  young  trees. 
Makes  a  fine  standard  tree. 

Duke  of  Wellington  :  see  Wellington. 

DUMMELOUS  SEEDLING.  Ronalds,  P.  19.  (Belle 
des  Vennes,  Dumelow's  Seedling,  Duke  of  Welling- 
ton, Normanton  Wonder.)  Culinary,  till  March, 
medium,  3  by  2j,  flattened  round,  regular.  Colour, 
creamy-yellow  with  scarlet  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  white, 
acid.  Eye,  open  in  a  flat  wrinkled  basin.  Stem, 
very  short  in  a  very  shallow  cavity  or  almost  on  surface. 
Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility  fair.  Leaf,  fairly  large, 
rather  pale,  nearly  flat,  very  coarsely  serrate  or  crenate. 
Origin,  raised  at  Shakerstone,  Leicester,  by  Mr.  Dumme- 
low,  in  the  latter  part  of  the  nineteenth  century.  One 
of  the  best  of  cooking  apples  for  those  who  like  a  brisk 
acidity.  It  is  apt  to  canker. 

Dummelow's  Seedling  :   see  Wellington. 
Dunster  Codlin  :   see  Tower  of  Glamis. 

DUTCH  CODLIN.  Ronalds,  p.  36.  G.,  Hollandische 
Kuchen  Apfel.  (Chalmers  Large,  White  Codlin, 
Royal  Codlin,  Glory  of  the  West  (error).)  Culinary, 
till  November,  large,  4  by  3j,  conical,  oblong,  very 
irregular.  Colour,  greenish-yellow,  with  faint  orange 
flush.  Flesh,  firm,  white,  acid,  Eye,  closed  in  a  very 
deep  basin.  Stem,  long,  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  not  very  fertile.  Leaf,  very  large,  roundish 
oval,  bi-serrate.  Origin,  probably  Dutch.  Brought 
to  notice  about  1783.  Hardly  worthy  of  cultivation 
nowadays. 

49 


DUTCH  MIGNONNE.  Ronalds,  p.  26.  F.,Reinette 
de  Caux ;  G.,  Grosser  Casseler  Reinette.  (Copmansthorp 
Crab,  Pomme  de  Laak,  Stettin  Pippin,  Paternoster,  etc.) 
Culinary  or  dessert,  till  March,  medium,  3  J  by  3,  flattened, 
round,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  with  bold  red 
stripes  and  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  moderate  flavour. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  moderate  basin.  Stem,  rather  long,  in 
a  narrow  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  very  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  pale,  slightly  up-folded,  boldly  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  probably  German.  Brought  into  England 
about  1780.  A  most  useful,  fertile  fruit.  Considered 
by  many  to  be  worthy  of  dessert  use  late  in  the  season. 
Grosser  Casseler  Reinette  is  the  original  name. 

Dymond's  Sugar  Loaf  :  see  Sugar  Loaf  Pippin. 
Early  Crofton  :   see  Irish  Peach. 
Early  Julien  :   see  Early  July  an. 

EARLY  JULY  AN.  Her.  Pom.,  41.  F.,  Julien 
Precoce.  (Early  Julien,  Fair  Lady.)  Culinary  or 
dessert,  August,  2\  by  2,  smallish,  flattened,  conical, 
angular.  Colour,  pale  golden-yellow,  occasionally  with 
a  slight  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  acid.  Eye,  closed, 
in  a  much  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  thick,  very  hairy,  in 
a  deep  cavity.  Growth,  rather  dwarfish ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  roundish  oval,  narrow,  undulating,  sharply  bi- 
serrate.  Origin,  uncertain.  Known  before  1800. 
Formerly  much  grown  for  market. 

Early  May  :    see  White  Joaneting. 

EARLY  NONPAREIL.     Her.  Pom.,  27.    F.,  Non- 

pareille  hative ;  G.,  Frueher  Nonpareil.  (Hick's 
Fancy,  Stagg's  Nonpareil.)  Dessert,  October  to  Dec- 
ember, small,  2j  by  if,  round,  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
green  to  deep  yellow,  with  russet.  Flesh,  tender, 
greenish,  aromatic.  Eye,  slightly  open  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  rather  long,  in  a  small  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  upright ;  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  round 

50 


oval,  crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  a  Mr.  Stagg,  of  Caister 
Great  Yarmouth,  about  1870,  from  a  seed  of  Old  Non- 
pareil. A  delicious  fruit,  seldom  grown  now. 

Early  Peach  :   see  River's  Early  Peach. 

Early  Pippin  :   see  Yellow  Ingrestrie. 

Early  Red  Calville  :   see  Reinette  Rouge  Etoilee. 

EARLY  RED  MARGARET.  Dessert,  early  August, 
medium,  2j  by  2j,  round,  conical,  tapering  to  eye. 
Colour,  pale  greenish-yellow  with  dull  brown-red  flush, 
not  striped.  Skin,  smooth,  greasy.  Flesh,  tender, 
greenish  white,  flavour  flat,  not  so  good  as  Red  Juneat- 
ing.  Eye,  open  in  a  narrow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  stout, 
quarter-inch,  protruding.  Growth,  moderate,  very 
fertile. 

Early  Victoria  :   see  Emneth  Early. 

EASTER  ORANGE.  Dessert,  February  to  April, 
medium,  2j  by  2j,  round,  a  little  flattened,  regular. 
Colour,  deep  golden-yellow  with  flush  and  stripes  of 
dark-red  brown  and  marked  scaly  russet  around  stem. 
Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  moderately  juicy  and  of  good 
flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  much  puckered 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  rather  slender  in  a  rather  wide, 
round  cavity  which  has  a  good  deal  of  scaly  russet. 
Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  held  flat,  rather  pale. 
Origin,  introduced  by  Messrs.  Hillier,  of  Winchester. 
A  fruit  of  attractive  appearance  and  good  flavour  for 
late  winter  and  spring  use. 

Easter  Pippin  :   see  French  Crab. 

ECKLINVILLE.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  17.  G.,  Saem- 
ling  aus  Ecklinville.  (Glory  of  the  West.)  Culinary, 
September  to  November,  fairly  large,  3j  by  2j,  round, 
flattened,  regular.  Colour,  pea  green  to  yellow,  with 
occasional  red  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  white,  acid.  Eye, 


closed  in  a  deep  and  wide  basin.  Stem,  very  short 
in  a  rather  deep  cavity,  which  is  veined  with  russet. 
Growth,  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  narrow,  light 
green,  flat,  undulating,  shallow  serrate  or  crenate. 
Origin,  raised  at  Ecklinville,  Ireland,  about  1820,  by 
a  gardener  named  Logan.  A  most  excellent  cooker. 
Rather  apt  to  canker  in  some  soils. 

Edmonton  :    see  Kerry  Pippin. 

EDWARD  VII.  Garden,  1911,  523.  Culinary,  Dec- 
ember to  April,  large,  3 J  by  2  J,  oblong,  regular.  Colour, 
pale  yellow  with  faint  brownish-red  flush.  Flesh, 
extremely  firm,  yellow,  acid,  juicy.  Eye,  open  in  a 
wide  rather  deep  basin  which  is  slightly  ribbed.  Stem, 
short  in  a  fairly  wide  not  deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigor- 
ous ;  moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  dark,  held  flat,  undulat- 
ing, roundish  oval,  crenate.  Origin,  said  to  be  Blenheim 
Orange  x  Golden  Noble.  Introduced  by  Messrs. 
Rowe,  of  Worcester,  about  1908.  A  valuable  fruit, 
which  should  be  more  widely  cultivated.  Cooks  dark 
red  and  transparent.  It  usually  has  a  small  raised 
line  down  one  side  as  in  Keswick  Codlin. 

Egg  :    see  Paradise  White. 

EGREMONT  RUSSET.  Dessert,  October  to  Dec- 
ember, medium,  2j  by  if,  round,  regular.  Colour, 
yellow,  golden-brown  flush  almost  covered  with  russet. 
Flesh,  firm,  greenish  yellow,  of  very  distinct  and  good 
flavour.  Eye,  wide  open,  in  a  shallow  even  basin. 
Stem,  very  short  in  a  very  narrow  cavity.  Growth, 
neat,  upright,  well  spurred  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  small 
very  narrow,  upfolded,  undulated,  finely  serrate,  often 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  unrecorded.  Introduced  to 
notice  about  1880.  A  delicious  fruit,  especially  suited 
for  garden  use. 

ELLISONS  ORANGE.  Dessert,  September  to  Oct- 
ober, medium,  2  J  by  2  J,  round,  slightly  conical.  Colour, 
golden,  yellow  with  crimson  stripes  and  slight  flush. 

52 


Flesh,  tender,  markedly  yellow,  of  fair  flavour.  Eye, 
nearly  closed  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  long  and  slender 
in  an  even  cavity.  Growth,  slender ;  fertility,  fair.  Leaf, 
long  pointed,  upfolded,  undulated,  very  boldly  crenate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Rev.  C.  C.  Ellison,  Bracebridge, 
and  Mr.  Wipf,  gardener  at  Hartshorne  Hall  (Cox  x 
Calville  Blanche).  Introduced  by  Messrs.  Pennell 
and  Sons,  1911.  Resembles  Cox's  Orange  very  closely 
in  appearance  and  is  of  good  flavour  for  a  short  period. 

Embersons  :    see  Waltham  Abbey. 

EMNETH  EARLY.  (Early  Victoria.)  Culinary, 
July  to  August,  medium  to  large,  2\  by  2|,  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  yellowish-green.  Flesh,  greenish- 
white,  rather  soft,  cooking  frothily.  Eye,  closed  in  a 
shallow  knobbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short  in  a  rather 
wide  and  deep  cavity,  which  has  no  russet.  Growth, 
compact,  upright,  moderate.  Leaf,  rather  large,  pale, 
twisted,  broadly  serrate.  Origin  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Cross,  Wisbech,  in  1899.  Said  to  be  Lord  Grosvenor 
x  Keswick  Codlin.  The  best  of  the  early  codlins 
for  crop,  vigour,  and  appearance. 

EMPEROR  ALEXANDER.  Ronalds,  p.  25.  F., 
Grand  Alexandre ;  G.,  Kaiser  Alexander.  (Aporta, 
English  King.)  Culinary  or  dessert,  September  to 
November,  large,  4  by  3,  round,  conical,  flattened 
on  five  sides.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  with  broad  red 
stripes  and  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  tender,  sweet. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  rather  deep  and  plaited  basin,  which 
is  topped  by  five  angular  ribs.  Stem,  rather  long  in 
a  deep  and  wide  russet-lined  cavity.  Growth,  vigor- 
ous, spreading ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  large, 
roundish,  pale  grey-green,  down  hanging,  nearly  flat, 
very  coarsely  crenate.  Origin,  Russian.  Imported 
into  England  in  1817.  It  has  suffered  often  at  the  hands 
of  re-christeners.  Valued  chiefly  on  the  exhibition 
table.  May  be  distinguished  from  Bismarck  by  the 
short  round  seeds. 

Emperor  Napoleon  :  see  Reynold's  Peach. 
53 


ENCORE.  Card.  Chron.,  1907,  p.  2.  Culinary, 
till  June,  large,  3j  by  2 J,  much  flattened,  nearly  regular, 
oblong  round.  Colour,  grass-green,  changing  to  pale 
yellow,  with  occasional  brown  flush  and  stripes.  Flesh, 
fairly  soft,  greenish-white,  slightly  acid.  Eye,  closed 
or  a  little  open,  in  a  broad  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very 
short  in  a  deep  narrow,  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigor- 
ous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  oval,  pale,  slightly  upfolded, 
undulating,  finely  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Charles  Ross  (Warner's  King  x  Northern  Greening). 
Introduced  by  Messrs.  Cheal,  in  1908.  A  very  promis- 
ing fruit,  heavy  and  keeps  with  me  later  than  either 
Bramley's  Seedling  or  Lane's  Prince  Albert. 

ENDSLEIGH  BEAUTY.  Dessert  or  culinary,  Oct- 
ober to  December,  large,  2  J  by  3,  round,  much  flattened 
each  end.  Colour,  yellow  with  a  faint  brown-red  flush 
and  pale  stripes,  dusted  with  a  little  fine  russet.  Flesh, 
firm,  pale  yellow,  of  Blenheim  style,  without  its  flavour. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  wide  shallow  basin,  slightly  plaited. 
Stem,  stout,  knobbed  at  end,  in  a  moderately  wide 
and  deep  cavity,  faintly  russet.  Growth,  upright, 
spreading.  Leaf,  pea  green,  upfolded,  sharply  serrate. 
Origin,  undiscovered.  A  handsome  fruit  of  Blenheim 
style. 

ENGLISH  CODLIN.  Her.  Pom.,  31.  (Common 
Codlin,  Quodlin.)  Culinary,  August  to  September, 
medium,  3j  by  2j,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  yellow 
with  red  flush  and  slight  russet.  Flesh,  tender,  white, 
acid,  pleasant  aroma.  Eye,  closed  in  a  wide  and  deep 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  fairly  long  in  a  wide  and  deep 
cavity  from  which  russet  veining  extends.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility  immense.  Leaf,  rather  large, 
round  oval,  sharply  serrate.  Origin,  English  and  of 
great  antiquity  ;  known  before  the  seventeenth  century. 
Very  little  grown  nowadays.  Much  used  in  olden 
times  for  espaliers,  and  propagated  by  rooted  branches. 

Englische  Granat  Reinette  :    see  Ribston  Pippin. 
English  King  :   see  Emperor  Alexander. 
54 


English  Nonpareil :   see  Nonpareil. 

English  Spitzenberg  :  see  Newtown  Spitzenberg. 

Essex  Spice  :   see  D'Arcy  Spice. 

EVAGIL.  Dessert  or  culinary,  September  to  Oct- 
ober, medium,  2f  by  2,  flat,  even.  Colour,  an  even 
golden-yellow.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  rather  hard  and 
dry.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  wide  basin.  Stem, 
very  short  in  a  very  narrow  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility,  poor.  Leaf,  small,  roundish, 
sharply  pointed,  sharply  curved  serrate.  Origin,  found 
at  Thielt  by  Dr.  Vander  Espt,  and  introduced  in  1863, 
by  Van  Houtte  &  Sons.  Not  worthy  of  cultivation. 

Eve  :    see  Mank's  Codlin. 
Eve :    see  Paradise  White. 
Eve  :    see  Red  Joaneting. 
Fair  Lady  :    see  Early  July  an. 

FAMEUSE.  Ronalds,  p.  I.,  F.,  De  Neige.  (Snow, 
Royal  Snow,  Sanguineous.)  Dessert,  November  to 
January,  small,  2j  by  2j,  round,  flattened,  regular. 
Colour,  brilliant  red  flush  almost  covering  fruit.  Flesh, 
crisp,  white,  flavour  poor.  Eye,  a  little  open  in  a  shallow 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  round  even  narrow 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf, 
medium,  narrow,  held  out,  nearly  flat,  sharply  serrate. 

Origin,  probably  Canadian ;  known  before  the 
seventeenth  century.  Known  in  England  about  1800. 
Of  no  value  in  Britain.  Notable  for  its  white  flesh. 

FARMER'S  SEEDLING.  Culinary,  till  May,  large, 
round,  slightly  conical,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  yellowish- 
green,  with  brick-red  flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh, 
greenish-white,  firm,  acid.  Eye,  closed,  the  long  seg- 
ment tips  reflexed  in  a  wide  boldly  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
fairly  long,  stout  and  woolly,  in  a  deep  russet  cavity. 

55 


Leaf,  large,  long  oval,  boldly  crenate,  upward  folded. 
Origin,  unknown.  Not  worthy  of  retention.  The 
appearance  generally  is  that  of  a  late  Allington  Pippin. 

FEARN'S  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  p.  12.  (Rennet's 
Defiance,  Clifton  Nonsuch.)  Dessert,  November  to 
March,  medium,  2j  by  2,  flat,  regular.  Colour,  pale 
yellow,  with  dark  crimson  flush,  crisp,  yellowish,  aro- 
matic. Eye,  open  in  a  very  wide  shallow  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  short  in  a  wide  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ; 
fertility  good.  Leaf,  medium  flat,  edges  down  curved, 
rather  coarsely  bi-serrate.  Origin,  raised  at  Fulham, 
in  the  garden  of  Mr.  Bagley,  before  1780,  according  to 
Rogers.  An  excellent  old  sort  which  keeps  well. 

FELTHAM  BEAUTY.  Card.  Chron.,  1908,  p.  178. 
Dessert,  August  to  September,  medium,  3  by  2f ,  oblong 
conical,  nearly  regular.  Colour,  yellowish-green  with 
red  stripes  and  flush.  Flesh,  yellowish,  crisp  and  very 
highly  flavoured,  sweet.  Growth,  slender,  upright ; 
fertile.  Origin,  raised  and  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Veitch,  from  Cox's  Orange  x  Gladstone.  A  very 
promising  fruit. 

Fenn's  Wonder  :    see  Lord  Stradbrook. 
Fenouillet  Anise  :    see  Caraway  Russet. 
Five  Crown  Pippin  :    see  London  Pippin. 

FLANDERS  PIPPIN.  Culinary,  November  to 
January,  moderately  large,  3j  by  2|,  flat  conical, 
uneven.  Colour,  greenish-yellow  with  brick-red  flush 
and  broad  crimson  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish- 
yellow,  juicy  and  acid  with  balsamic  flavour.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  much  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  medium,  in  a 
rather  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  large,  roundish,  pea  green,  nearly  flat, 
sharply  serrate.  Origin,  unrecorded.  Probably  con- 
tinental. Often  confused  with  Mere  de  Menage  from 
which  it  is  quite  distinct. 

56 


FpRFAR  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  till  March,  small  to 
medium,  2j  by  2,  roundish  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
pale  green  to  yellow,  with  russet  dots  and  veins.  Flesh, 
tender,  greenish-yellow,  sub-acid  and  pleasantly 
flavoured.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow,  wrinkled  basin. 
Stem,  fairly  long,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  com- 
pact ;  moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  oval, 
upfolded,  finely  serrate.  Origin,  uncertain  ;  probably 
from  the  county  after  which  it  is  named.  A  very 
excellent  fruit,  especially  for  those  of  riper  years. 

FORESTER.  Culinary,  December  to  January,  large, 
3l  by  3,  roundish,  slightly  flattened  at  each  end,  little 
angular,  but  ribs  well  rounded.  Colour,  green,  fading 
to  yellow  with  faint  brown  red  flush,  covered  with 
little  tlu'n  russet  and  large  black  dots.  Eye,  closed  in 
a  wide  slightly  deep  basin.  Stem,  medium,  in  a  wide 
shallow  faintly  russeted  cavity.  Flesh,  greenish- 
white,  soft  in  grain,  somewhat  acid.  Origin  unknown. 
A  favourite  in  many  parts  of  Shropshire  and 
Worcestershire. 

Formosa  Pippin :    see  Ribston  Pippin. 

FOSTER'S  SEEDLING.  Culinary,  November  to 
March,  medium,  2|  by  2,  flattened  round,  regular. 
Colour,  golden-yellow,  with  deep  brown  flush  and  faint 
stripes.  Flesh,  tender,  pale  yellow,  very  juicy  and 
slightly  acid.  Eye,  very  large,  wide  open  in  a  broad 
deep  basin .  Stem,  very  short  in  a  wide  cavity.  Growth, 
dwarf ;  fertility,  extraordinary.  Leaf,  rather  small, 
pea  green,  upcupped,  undulating,  irregularly  crenate 
or  serrate.  Origin,  a  seedling  raised  at  Maidstone, 
and  introduced  by  Messrs.  G.  Bunyard  &  Co.,  about 
1893.  Resembles  Cellini,  but  keeps  longer. 

FRAISE  D'  HOFINGER.  G.,  Hofingers  Himbeer 
Apfel.  Dessert,  November  to  March,  rather  large, 
2i  by  3>  round,  slightly  rounded  to  eye.  Colour,  pale 
yellow,  shaded  nearly  all  over  with  rich  carmine, 
approaching  Gascoynes  Seedling  in  colour.  Flesh, 

57 


greenish- white,  slight  musky  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in 
a  very  deep  and  slightly  irregular  basin.  Stem,  short 
and  stout,  in  a  moderately  deep  cavity,  rather  irregular 
in  shape.  Growth,  compact,  upright  spreading.  Leaf, 
upheld  and  upfolded,  regularly  crenate.  Origin,  found 
by  Liegel  in  the  Rev.  Hofinger's  garden,  at  St.  Peters, 
Brunau,  before  1851.  Of  no  merit  except  for  its  lovely 
colour. 

FRANKLYN'S  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  p.  18. 
Dessert,  October  to  December,  small,  2j  by  2,  round, 
flattened.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow, 
slightly  acid.  Eye  open,  in  a  wide  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  short  in  a  small  round  cavity.  Growth,  strong  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  roundish  oval,  slightly  upfolded,  sharply 
serrate.  Origin.  I  find  the  following  note  in  my  copy 
of  Brookshaw's  Pomona  Britannica  :  "It  was  not 
Dr.  Franklin,  who  introduced  this  apple  but 
Mr.  Franklyn,  a  florist,  whose  son  and  grandson, 
attended  to  Mr.  Percival's  tulips  for  many  years. 
The  grandson  now  lives  at  Highbury  (1853)."  Now 
almost  out  of  cultivation. 

FRENCH  CRAB.  Ronalds,  p.  42.  G.,  Gruener 
Oster.  (Easter  Pippin,  Ironstone  Pippin,  Iron  King, 
John  Apple,  Winter  Greening  (Hogg).)  Culinary, 
keeps  a  year  or  more,  medium,  3j  by  2j,  round,  fairly 
regular.  Colour,  pea  green.  Flesh,  greenish,  crisp, 
acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  wrinkled  basin  with 
five  prominent  ribs  at  top.  Stem,  rather  short  in  a 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
large,  round  oval,  upfolded,  coarsely  serrate.  Origin 
unknown.  Probably  imported  into  England  at  the 
end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  A  valuable  late  season 
fruit,  cooking  excellently.  The  desire  of  Hogg  to 
substitute  the  name  Winter  Greening  has  not  been 
adopted.  I  therefore  retain  the  name  by  which  it 
is  best  known. 

FROGMORE  PROLIFIC.  Culinary,  September  to 
December,  medium,  3  by  2},  round,  conical,  regular. 

58 


Colour,  greenish-yellow,  dusted  with  red  and  broad 
broken  stripes.  Flesh,  soft,  white,  sub-acid.  Eye, 
closed,  in  a  shallow  even  basin.  Stem,  long,  in  a  deepish 
cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf,  oval, 
bluntly  pointed,  finely  serrate.  Origin,  raised  in  the 
Royal  Gardens  at  Frogmore,  by  Mr.  Ingram.  Now 
little  grown. 

Fry's  Pippin  :    see  Court  of  Wick. 

GABALVA.  Card.  Chron.,  1900,  p.  165.  Dessert 
or  culinary,  December  to  January,  large,  3  by  2j, 
roundish,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  dull  yellow,  with 
shiny  red  flush,  and  often  half  covered  with  russet. 
Flesh,  soft,  yellow,  aromatic,  rather  dry ;  of  Blenheim 
class.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
very  short,  in  a  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth,  spreading  ; 
not  very  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  oval,  pea  green, 
upfolded,  undulated,  very  finely  and  doubly  serrate. 
Origin,  introduced  by  Messrs.  Treseder  &  Son,  Cardiff, 
1901.  Not  sufficiently  good  for  retention. 

GALLOWAY  PIPPIN.  FL  and  Pom.,  1872,  p.  193. 
(Croft-en-Reich,  Croft  St.  Andrews.)  Culinary,  till 
February,  large,  3  by  2 J,  round,  much  flattened,  regular. 
Colour,  pale  yellow,  with  slight  brownish  flush.  Flesh, 
crisp,  pale  yellow,  juicy.  Eye,  open,  in  a  rather  deep 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  in  a  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  and  a  regular  cropper.  Origin,  supposed  to 
have  originated  by  a  Crofter  at  St.  Andrews,  near 
Wigtown.  Known  in  the  South  of  England  about 
1872.  Very  valuable  for  the  Northern  counties. 

Garnons  :    see  Court  Pendu  Plat. 

GASCOYNE'S  SCARLET.  Exhibition,  September 
to  January,  large,  2f  by  2f,  slightly  flattened,  oval, 
very  slightly  ribbed.  Colour,  entirely  covered  with 
brilliant  scarlet,  faintly  striped,  with  a  delicate  bloom 
giving  a  blue  tinge.  Flesh,  loose,  pale  with  red  stainings  ; 
pleasant  balsamic  flavour.  Eye,  firmly  closed  in  a  deep 

59 


much  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  long,  stout,  in  a  deep 
narrow  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  rather  spreading 
and  uneven,  best  as  a  standard  or  bush  ;  fertility, 
poor,  hence  it  is  now  rarely  grown,  except  for  decora- 
tive purposes.  Leaf,  large,  pale,  flat,  lax,  irregularly 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Gascoyne, 
Bapchild  Court,  Sittingbourne,  Kent,  and  introduced 
by  Messrs.  G.  Bunyard  &  Co.,  Maidstone,  in  1871. 

German  Nonpareil :    see  Wyken  Pippin. 

GIPSY  KING.  Her.  Pom.,  69.  Dessert,  November 
to  January,  small,  2\  by  2,  round  flattened,  even. 
Colour,  golden-yellow,  with  deep  brown-red  flush, 
and  stripes  and  generally  nearly  covered  with  russet 
netting.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  juicy,  and  pleasantly 
sub-acid,  but  poor  in  flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  a  shallow 
wide  basin.  Stem,  fairly  long,  in  a  deepish  cavity. 
Growth,  slender ;  fertile.  Leaf,  small,  oval,  dark, 
nearly  flat,  flat  crenate.  Origin,  unrecorded.  A  very 
nice  little  fruit  with  a  brisk  acidity.  Of  the  Ross 
Nonpareil  style. 

Glace  :    see  Calville  Blanche  D'Hiver. 

GLADSTONE.  F.,  Monsieur  Gladstone.  (Jack- 
son's Seedling,  Striped  Quarrenden.)  Dessert,  July 
to  August,  medium,  2j  by  2,  round  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  greenish-yellow,  almost  covered  with  dark  red, 
occasionally  with  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  soft,  greenish- 
white,  pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  much 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  shallow  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate  ;  very  regularly  fertile.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  roundish,  pea  green,  upfolded,  undulating, 
shallow  serrate.  Origin,  found  near  Kidderminster, 
by  Mr.  Jackson,  of  Blakedown  Nursery,  and  introduced 
by  him  in  1868.  Much  grown  for  market  purposes, 
and  a  valuable  early  sort. 

GLORIA  MUNDI.  Ronalds,  p.  7.  (as  Mammoth). 
F.,  Josephine  ;  G.,  Gloria  Mundi.  (Baltimore,  Belle  du 

60 


Bois  (error),  Monstrous  Pippin,  Ox  Apple,  Grosse  de 
St.  Clement.)  Culinary,  till  January,  immense,  4  by  3j, 
square  conical,  angular.  Colour,  grass-green,  changing 
to  straw-yellow.  Flesh,  tender,  white,  sub-acid.  Eye 
open,  in  a  deep  wide,  boldly  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
short,  in  a  very  wide  and  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upright  ;  fertility  very  poor.  Leaf,  large, 
upcupped,  undulating,  boldly  serrate .  Origin,  American . 
Introduced  to  England  from  America  in  1817.  There 
is  some  disagreement  as  to  the  origin  of  this  apple. 
It  was  first  recorded  in  America  in  1804.  Too  uncertain 
a  cropper  in  most  parts.  It  cooks  a  brown  colour,  but 
is  very  sweet  and  rich. 

Glory  of  Flanders  :    see  Brabant  Bellefleur. 
Glory  of  the  West  :    see  Dutch  Codlin. 
Glory  of  the  West :    see  EcklinviUle. 
Goff :    see  Orange  Gojff. 
Golden  Drop  :    see  Court  of  Wick. 
Golden  Ducat :    see  Cobham. 

GOLDEN  HARVEY.  RonaMs,  p.  23.  F.,  Harvey 
dore.  (Brandy  Apple,  Round  Russet  Harvey.) 
Dessert,  till  May,  small,  2  by  if,  flattened,  round,  even. 
Colour,  greenish-yellow  with  dull  red  flush,  covered 
with  thin  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  very  sweet  and 
rich.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin,  Stem,  moderately 

Slong,  in  a  small  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  small,  nearly  flat.  Origin,  English ; 
known  early  in  the  seventeenth  century.  The  original 
tree  was  at  the  Royal  Horticultural  Show,  at  Chiswick, 
in  1821.  One  of  the  good  old  sorts  which  have  been 
neglected. 

GOLDEN  KNOB.  Ronalds,  p.  32.  (Old  Maid, 
Old  Lady.)  Dessert,  till  May,  very  small,  2j  by  if, 
round,  flattened,  regular.  Colour,  orange-brown, 

61 


covered  with  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish-yellow, 
sub-acid,  good  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  small  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  very  narrow  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf,  fairly  large,  very 
dark,  slightly  upfolded,  coarsely  serrate.  Origin, 
probably  English ;  popular  in  markets  in  the  early 
nineteenth  century.  Still  grown  in  Kentish  orchards ; 
of  distinct  flavour. 

GOLDEN  NOBLE.  Her.  Pom.,  23.  G.,  Gelber 
Edel  Apfel.  (Lord  Clyde,  Lord  Stanwick,  John  Peel, 
Rutlandshire  Foundling.)  Culinary,  September  to 
January,  medium,  2f  by  2j,  round,  slightly  flattened, 
regular.  Colour,  clear  yellow,  with  slight  russet. 
Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  acid.  Eye,  small,  closed,  in  a 
shallow  plaited  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  rather 
wide  slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertile. 
Cooks  frothily  and  of  golden  colour.  Leaf,  rather  large, 
little  upfolded,  regularly  crenate,  pea  green.  Origin, 
uncertain  :  brought  to  notice  in  1820.  According  to 
Boisbunel,  this  is  the  Drap  d'Or  of  France  (not  of  Hogg). 
See  Revue  Horticole,  1883.  One  of  the  very  best  cooking 
apples  for  colour  and  flavour.  Can  be  distinguished 
from  Queen  Caroline  by  its  closed  eye. 

GOLDEN  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  p.  18.  F.,  Pepin 
d'Or ;  G.,  Englischer  Gold  Pepping.  (American 
Plate,  Balgone  Pippin,  Bayfordbury  Pippin.)  Dessert, 
November  to  March,  small,  2  by  i},  oblong-round, 
regular.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  with  slight  russet. 
Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  aromatic.  Eye,  usually  closed  in 
a  broad  shallow  slightly  plaited  basin.  Stem,  very 
short,  in  a  small  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  weak  ; 
fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  rather  small,  narrow,  pale, 
slightly  upfolded,  finely  and  sharply  serrate.  Origin, 
English,  probably  dating  from  the  early  seventeenth 
century.  Imensely  popular  in  the  seventeenth  and 
eighteenth  centuries,  but  now  seldom  grown.  There 
are  many  seedlings  of  this  sort  of  doubtful  distinctness. 
Only  in  warm  years  and  on  light  soils  does  it  reach  first- 
class  flavour. 

62 


GOLDEN  RUSSET.  Ronalds,  p.,  29.  G.,  Ver- 
goldeter  Russet.  Dessert,  December  to  March,  medium, 
2f  by  2|,  roundish,  flattened.  Colour,  entirely  covered 
with  golden  russet,  with  an  occasional  red  flush.  Flesh, 
yellow,  firm,  sugary,  aromatic,  a  little  dry.  Eye, 
closed,  or  a  little  open,  in  a  round  even  basin.  Stem, 
short,  in  a  rather  deep  round  cavity.  Growth,  moder- 
ately vigorous,  a  little  spreading ;  fertility,  moderate. 
Origin,  probably  an  old  English  variety  of  some  150 
years  or  more.  I  have  never  been  able  to  obtain  this 
apple  true  and  the  above  description  is  borrowed  from 
Hogg  and  Ronalds.  There  has  been  much  confusion 
with  this  apple,  the  English  Russet  and  the  Roxbury 
Russet. 

GOLDEN  SPIRE.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1884,  185.  Culin- 
ary, September-December,  medium,  2|  by  3j,  oblong- 
rounded,  irregular.  Colour,  of  an  even  golden-yellow, 
very  occasionally  flushed.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  juicy,  soft, 
slightly  flavoured.  Eye,  open  in  a  fairly  deep  much 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short,  rather  slender  in  a  small 
russeted  cavity.  Growth,  upright ;  remarkably  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  small,  narrow,  dark  green,  nearly  flat, 
held  up,  broadly  serrate.  Origin,  uncertain  ;  probably 
from  Lancashire,  where  it  was  much  grown  in  1850. 
Its  regular  cropping  and  neat  habit  make  it  a  fruit 
highly  recommendable  for  small  gardens. 

GOLDEN  REINETTE.     Her.  Pom.,  49.     F.,  Rein- 

ette  Doree.  (Grosser  Borsdorfer,  Reinette  Gielen, 
Wyker  Pippin.)  Dessert,  November  to  March,  medium, 
2i  by  2j,  flattened  round,  regular.  Colour,  golden- 
yellow,  bright  red  cheek,  russeted.  Flesh,  very  firm, 
yellow,  well  flavoured.  Eye,  wide  open,  in  a  flat 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  long,  yellowish,  in  a  very  even 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  medium, 
dark,  nearly  flat,  curved  serrate.  Origin,  an  old  variety, 
which  has  been  known  in  England  for  several  hundred 
years.  It  is  widely  grown  on  the  Continent,  and  has  over 
fifty  synonyms.  A  nice  fruit,  but  hardly  of  first-class 
quality  now.  It  does  well  on  clay  soils.  " 

63 


GOLD  MEDAL.  (Ryland  Surprise.)  Culinary,  end 
August  to  September,  large,  4^  by  3j,  flat  conical. 
Colour,  yellowish-green.  Flesh  soit,  white,  slightly 
acid.  Eye,  closed,  segments  reflexed,  in  a  shallow 
and  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  very  wide 
and  deep  cavity.  Growth,  sturdy  and  compact, 
making  twiggy  snoots,  which  become  tortuous  when 
tree  ages ;  fertile.  Leaf,  round,  rather  large,  slightly 
upfolded,  undulated,  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Troughton,  a  nurseryman,  at  Preston,  and  introduced 
about  1882.  Originally  called  Ryland  Surprise.  Now 
little  grown,  Grenadier  having  replaced  it.  It  is 
often  confused  with  this  apple  owing  to  their  having 
been  mixed  when  introduced ;  see  under  Grenadier. 

Gold  Reinette  :  see  Reinette  du  Canada. 

GOOSEBERRY.  Her.  Pom.,  43.  Culinary,  Novem- 
ber to  June,  medium  to  large,  3  by  2f,  square 
round,  irregular.  Colour,  pea  green  to  pale  yellow, 
with  occasional  slight  brown  flush.  Flesh,  tender, 
greenish,  acid.  Eye,  half  open,  in  a  deep,  wide  much 
plaited  basin.  Stem,  stout,  fairly  long,  in  a  rather 
deep  cavity  from  which  russet  veins  spread  out  over 
the  base  of  fruit.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertile.  Origin, 
undiscovered.  Known  for  over  100  years.  Not  to 
be  confused  with  the  Gooseberry  Apple  of  Ronalds. 
This  apple  is  still  to  be  found  in  old  orchards. 

GOSPATRICK.  Culinary,  till  March,  medium, 
2}  by  2|,  rounded-oblong,  irregular.  Colour,  pale 
greenish-yellow.  Flesh,  sweetish,  firm,  pale  yellow, 
of  no  particular  merit.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility, 
fair.  Leaf,  medium,  long,  narrow,  pale,  flat,  doubly 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross,  in  1875, 
from  Golden  Reinette,  and  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Bunyard  &  Co.,  Maidstone.  Not  worthy  of  retention. 

Gowrie  :  see  Tower  of  Glamis. 
Graf  en  Apfel :  see  Gravenstein. 
Grand  Sultan  :  see  White  Transparent. 


GRANGE'S  PEARMAIN.  Culinary  or  dessert,  till 
May,  rather  large,  3j  by  2f,  round,  a  little  flattened, 
tapering  to  eye.  Colour,  grass-green,  fading  to  yellow 
with  dull  red  flush  and  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  pale 
yellow,  crisp,  very  juicy,  with  good  flavour.  Skin, 
slightly  rough.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  round,  moderately 
shallow,  slightly  ribbed  basin,  which  is  generally  a  little 
russet  ed.  Stem,  moderately  long,  in  a  rather  wide 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  rather  upright ;  fertility,  good. 
Leaf,  dark,  slightly  upheld,  upward  cupped,  undulated, 
medium,  oval,  serrate.  Origin,  according  to  Hogg, 
this  was  raised  by  a  Mr.  James  Grange,  of  Kingsland, 
Middlesex,  probably  early  in  the  nineteenth  century. 
It  was  I  think  introduced  by  Messrs.  Dickson,  of 
Chester.  This  is  a  much  neglected  fruit.  There  are 
few  apples  which  keep  better  and  retain  their  crisp 
juicy  flesh  in  the  spring  and  it  is  probably  the  nearest 
approach  we  have  to  Newt  own  Pippin. 

GRANTONIAN.  Culinary,  till  March,  medium, 
3  by  2j,  flat,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellowish- 
green  with  brownish  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish- 
white,  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  short,  stout,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upright ;  fertile.  Leaf,  oval,  long,  upfolded, 
lax,  shallow  crenate.  Origin,  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Pearson  &  Son,  Nottingham,  Now  little  cultivated. 

Grauer  Rabau  :    see  Reinette  Grise. 

GRAVENSTEIN.  Her.  Pom.,  39.  (Blumen  Calvill, 
Diel's  Sommer  Konig,  Grafenapfel,  Ohio  Nonpareil, 
Paradies.)  Dessert  or  culinary,  October  to  December, 
medium,  3  by  2j,  rounded  square,  irregular.  Flesh, 
crisp,  yellowish-white,  extremely  juicy,  of  most  distinct 
flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
short,  thick  in  a  large  deep  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  rather  dark,  upfolded,  finely 
serrate.  Origin,  said  to  have  been  found  at  the  Castle 
of  Grafenstein,  in  Schleswig-Holstein.  Introduced 
about  1760.  A  good  dessert  apple.  Its  fragrant 

65 


aroma  and  digestible  flesh  make  it  deserving  of  wider 
cultivation.  A  form  also  exists  which  is  much  redder 
than  the  above  and  which  arose  as  a  bud  sport.  It 
has  the  unusual  quality  of  ripening  on  the  tree  and  yet 
keeping  for  several  months.  It  very  rarely  sets  any 
seed. 

Gray  Apple :    see  Pomme  Grise. 

GRENADIER.  Culinary,  August  to  September, 
large,  round,  conical,  a  little  uneven.  Colour,  pale 
green  fading  to  light  yellow,  smooth.  Eye,  closed,  in 
a  moderately  deep  basin  which  is  rather  puckered. 
Stem,  stout,  knobbed  at  end,  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  excellent.  Leaf,  long, 
strap  shaped,  little  undulated,  boldly  crenate,  pale 
green.  Origin,  undiscovered,  recorded  about  1860. 
This  variety  has  often  been  confused  with  Gold  Medal 
and  they  are  still  mixed  by  some  cultivators.  They 
can  be  easily  recognised  in  winter  by  the  large  red 
buds  of  Gold  Medal.  A  very  valuable  cooking  apple 
for  August,  its  free  bearing  qualities  and  large  size 
making  it  the  most  popular  of  market  varieties.  Cooks 
to  a  froth. 

Green  Blenheim  :    see  Hambledon  Deux  Ans. 
Green  Cossings  :    see  Rymer. 
Greenups  Pippin  :    see  Yorkshire  Beauty. 
Grosser  Borsdorfer  :    see  Golden  Reinette. 
Grosse  de  St.  Clement :    see  Gloria  Mundi. 
Gruener  Reinette  :    see  Nonpareil. 
Hallingsbu-ry :    see  Hollandbury. 

HAMBLEDON  DEUX  ANS.  Ronalds,  p.  42. 
G.,  Dauer  Apfel  von  Hambledon.  (Black  Blenheim, 
Green  Blenheim,  Stone  Blenheim,  Blue  Stone  Pippin, 
Grahams,  Deux  Ans  (and  phonetic  renderings),  York- 
shire Queen,  etc.,  etc.)  Culinary,  January  to  August, 
fairly  large,  3  by  2|  oval  conical,  slightly  irregular. 

66 


Colour,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  brown-red  flush 
and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  dry,  hard,  yellow,  a  little 
sweet.  Eye,  firmly  closed  in  a  shallow  ribbed  and 
knobbed  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  shallow  russet 
cavity,  always  showing  a  lump  on  one  side.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  dark,  slightly 
upfolded,  very  finely  and  regularly  serrate.  Origin, 
at  Hambledon,  in  Hampshire,  about  1750.  A  good  late 
keeper. 

HAMBLING'S  SEEDLING.  Card.  Chron.,  1893, 
P-  535-  Culinary,  January  to  March,  very  large, 
3i  by  2f,  round  conical,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  even 
pale  yellow.  Flesh,  tender,  pale  yellow,  sub-acid, 
cooks  frothily.  Eye,  open  in  a  wide  shallow  basin, 
often  almost  level  with  surface.  Stem,  very  short, 
in  a  wide  russet  cavity.  Growth,  sturdy,  spreading, 
well  spurred  ;  fertile  when  mature.  Leaf,  rather  large, 
pea  green,  upcupped,  evenly  serrate.  Origin,  raised 
by  Colonel  Hambling,  Dunstable,  and  introduced  by 
Messrs.  G.  Bunyard  &  Co.,  Maidstone,  in  1894.  A 
valuable  late  cooker,  of  remarkably  good  flavour ; 
making  a  good  standard  tree. 

Hampshire  Greening  :    see  Newtown  Pippin. 
Hanging  Pearmain  :    see  Adam's  Pearmain. 

HANWELL  SOURING.  Ronalds,  p.  30.  (Land- 
mere  Russet,  Lawrence's  Seedling.)  Culinary,  till 
April,  medium,  3  by  2j,  round,  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  greenish -yellow  with  a  red  flush,  large  con- 
spicuous grey  dots.  Flesh,  firm,  white,  acid.  Eye. 
closed  in  a  broad  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  deep 
russeted  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  good, 
Origin,  probably  at  Han  well,  near  Banbury.  Came 
into  notice  in  1820.  A  good  late  variety. 

Haute  Bonte  :    see  Reinette  Grise. 
Hawley :    see  Hawthornden, 


HAWTHORNDEN.  Her.  Pom.,  6.  (Hawley, 
Lincolnshire  Pippin,  Old  Hawthornden.)  Culinary, 
October  to  December,  medium,  3  by  2^,  round,  slightly 
flattened,  irregular.  Colour,  creamy-yellow  with  faint 
red  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  white,  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed, 
in  a  moderately  deep  and  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short 
and  very  stout  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility  medium.  Leaf,  very  pale,  nearly 
flat,  rather  large,  shallow  serrate.  Origin,  raised  at 
Hawthornden,  Scotland  before  1790.  One  of  the  best 
cooking  sorts,  making  a  dwarfish  flat.  tree. 

HECTOR  MACDONALD.  Culinary,  October  to 
February,  medium,  to  large,  3  by  2j,  round  slightly 
conical,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  pale  yellowish-green 
with  faint  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  very  crisp,  juicy, 
greenish,  acid,  good  cooker.  Eye,  closed  in  a  rather 
deep,  wide  and  plaited  basin.  Stem,  nearly  always 
very  short  in  a  wide  rather  deep  cavity  without  russet. 
Growth,  very  dwarf  ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  large,  long, 
dark,  slightly  upfolded  and  undulated,  deeply  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross  and  intro- 
duced by  Messrs.  Pearson  in  1906.  Resembles  Lane's 
Prince  Albert,  but  it  proves  to  be  rather  too  poor  a 
grower  tor  market  use. 

HERRING'S  PIPPIN.  Culinary  or  dessert,  Nov- 
ember, medium  to  large,  3  by  2f ,  round,  conical,  uneven. 
Colour,  pale  greenish-yellow  with  a  brown-red  flush. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  tender,  with  a  spicy  aromatic  flavour. 
Eye,  open  in  a  deep  and  regular  basin.  Stem,  short,  not 
protruding,  stout,  in  a  deep,  round,  slightly  russet 
cavity.  Origin,  undiscovered.  I  have  not  grown 
this  apple  personally  but  the  above  description  is  taken 
from  fruits  kindly  sent  me  by  Mr.  Pearson  who  thinks 
very  highly  of  this  variety. 

HEUSGEN'S  GOLDEN  REINETTE.  F.,  Reinette 
dore"e  de  Heusgen;  G.,  Peter  Heusgen's  Gold  Reinette. 
Dessert,  March  to  April,  medium,  2j  by  2,  round, 
conical,  often  rather  flat.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with 

68 


bright  crimson  flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  firm, 
yellow,  very  juicy,  nice  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  or 
slightly  open,  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very 
stout  in  a  wide,  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth,  compact, 
upright ;  remarkably  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  narrow, 
little  upfolded,  grey-green,  broadly  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  the  Pastor  Henzen,  and  named  after  the 
pomologist  Heusgen.  Introduced  about  1877.  A 
valuable  addition  to  late  dessert  sorts. 

Hick's  Fancy  :    see  Early  Nonpareil. 

HIGH  CANONS.  Card.  Chron.,  1907,  p.  113. 
Culinary,  till  April,  medium,  3  by  2j,  flat,  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  faint  red  flush  and 
spots.  Flesh,  extremely  crisp,  pale  yellow,  acid. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  wrinkled  basin.  Stem,  short 
and  stout  in  a  shallow,  strongly  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate ;  moderately  fertile.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Thrower,  of  High  Canons,  Barnet,  and  introduced  by 
Messrs.  G.  Bunyard  &  Co.,  about  1887.  A  good  apple 
of  the  Wellington  style,  cooking  well. 

Hill's  Seedling  :    see  Cox's  Pomona. 

HISTON  FAVOURITE.  (Oliver's  Seedling.) 
Dessert  or  cooking,  November  to  December,  medium, 
2i  by  2j,  round,  slightly  flattened,  regular.  Colour, 
pale  yellow  with  red  flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh, 
soft,  pale  yellow,  juicy,  slight  aromatic  flavour.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  shallow  wide  basin.  Stem,  fairly  long, 
stout,  in  a  wide  and  rather  deep  cavity,  which  always 
has  a  lining  of  yellow  feathery  russet.  Growth,  vigor- 
ous ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  long  oval,  pale,  slightly 
upfolded,  very  bodily  serrate.  Origin,  raised  at  Histon, 
Cambs.,  by  Mr.  John  Chivers  early  in  the  nineteenth 
century.  A  nice  fruit,  but  rather  too  small  with  me. 

HITCHIN  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  end-August-Septem- 
ber,  medium,  2\  by  2j,  round,  oblong,  flattened,  regular. 
Colour,  greenish-yellow  with  crimson  flush  and  irregular 
broken  stripes.  Flesh,  moderately  soft,  pale  yellow, 

69 


pleasantly  flavoured,  very  juicy.  Growth,  moderate 
compact,  making  a  flat  spreading  tree ;  very  fertile. 
Leaf,  pea  green,  long,  upfolded,  very  finely  serrate. 
Origin,  undiscovered.  A  very  nice  fruit  which  may  be 
described  as  an  early  King  of  the  Pippins. 

HOARY  MORNING.  Ronalds,  p.  28.  F.,  Brouil- 
lard  ;  G.,  Morgendust.  (Dainty,  Downy  Apple,  Sam 
Rawlings.)  Culinary,  October  to  December,  small, 
to  medium,  3}  by  2\,  flattened  conical.  Colour,  pale 
yellow  with  broad  red  stripes,  entirely  covering  fruit, 
and  with  a  remarkable  bloom.  Flesh,  crisp,  pale  yellow, 
acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  very  shallow  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  short  and  thick  in  a  wide  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  roundish,  rather 
dark,  down  hanging,  upfolded,  undulating,  serrate. 
Origin,  probably  from  Somersetshire.  First  recorded 
about  1819.  A  favourite  in  the  West  of  England  ; 
attractive  in  appearance,  but  of  poor  quality. 

HOLLANDBURY.  Ronalds,  p.  40-  F-,  Beau 
Rouge,  G.,  Kirke's  Schoener  Rambour.  (Bonne 
Rouge,  Hallingsbury,  Kirke's  Scarlet  Admirable,  Red 
Flanders.)  Culinary,  November  to  December,  large, 
3l  by  3}'  round,  conical,  flattened,  irregular.  Colour, 
clear  yellow  with  scarlet  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  white, 
acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  large  basin.  Stem,  medium, 
in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  moder- 
ately fertile,  Leaf,  held-up,  upfolded,  twisted,  large, 
roundish,  sharply  serrate.  Origin,  uncertain  ;  known 
at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  A  striking  fruit 
but  now  superseded. 

Holland  Pippin  :    see  Pott's  Seedling. 

HORMEAD  PEARMAIN.  (Corby  Seedling.)  Nov- 
ember to  March,  a  little  above  medium,  size  3  by  3j, 
round,  conical,  flattened  at  top.  Colour,  pale  yellow- 
green,  occasional  slight  brown-red  flush,  many  con- 
spicuous large  dots.  Flesh,  firm,  short,  yellowish- 
white,  especially  under  the  skin.  Eye,  open,  in  a  shallow 

70 


even  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous ;  extremely  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large, 
narrow,  pale,  nearly  flat,  widely  and  bluntly  serrate. 
Origin,  this  was  received  at  the  Royal  Horticultural 
Society's  garden  in  1826,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been 
raised  at  Hormead,  Herts.  A  very  useful  fruit ;  a 
smaller  Hambling's  Seedling. 

HOUBLON.  Card.  Chron.,  1902,  p.  n.  Dessert, 
December  to  January,  small  to  medium,  2\  by  if, 
flattened,  round,  very  regular.  Colour,  orange-yellow 
with  dark  crimson  stripes  and  russet  veinings.  Flesh, 
firm,  yellow,  of  good  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  very 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  long  and  thin  in  a  moderately 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility  moderate. 
Leaf,  roundish,  rather  dark,  flat,  a  little  undulating, 
crenate  or  shallow  serrate,  variable.  Origin,  raised 
by  Mr.  Charles  Ross,  and  introduced  in  1901.  An 
attractive  fruit  very  nearly  first-class  in  flavour. 

HOUNSLOW  WONDER.  Culinary,  December  to 
March,  medium,  3  by  2j,  flattened  round,  tapering  to 
eye.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  dark  spots,  brown-red 
flush  and  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  crisp, 
after  Wellington  style.  Eye,  small,  closed,  in  a  shallow 
plaited  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  narrow  deep  and  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf, 
moderate,  oval,  deeply  curved  serrate.  Origin,  this 
new  apple  was  introduced  by  Messrs.  Spooner,  of  Houns- 
low,  who  find  it  a  valuable  market  variety. 

HUBBARD'S  PEARMAIN.  Lind.  Pom.  Brit.,  27. 
Dessert,  November  to  March,  small,  2j  by  2,  conical, 
regular.  Colour,  pale  yellowish-green,  occasionally 
flushed  with  dull  brownish-red,  slightly  russet.  Flesh, 
crisp,  juicy,  greenish,  very  richly  flavoured.  Eye, 
open,  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  rather  short  in  an 
even  cavity.  Growth,  slender ;  very  fertile.  Leaf, 
small,  oval,  nearly  flat,  irregularly  and  finely  serrate. 
Origin,  a  Norfolk  variety,  known  before  1800.  An  old 
English  variety  deserving  more  recognition  for  late 
use. 

71 


HUNTS  EARLY.  Dessert,  mid-August,  medium, 
2j  by  if,  flattened,  round,  slightly  ribbed.  Colour, 
greenish-yellow,  nearly  covered  with  brown-red  flush 
and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  soft,  pale  yellow,  pleasant 
flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  wide,  boldly  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  rather  long  and  slender  in  a  narrow  and  deep 
cavity,  which  has  slight  russet  occasionally  in  marked 
rings.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility  good.  Leaf 
moderate,  round,  oval,  blunt  pointed,  greyish-green, 
slightly  upfolded,  shallow  curved  serrate,  stipules, 
large,  leafy.  Origin,  undiscovered.  A  Mr.  Hunt  was 
a  raiser  of  many  apples  about  1800,  and  it  is  probably 
one  of  his  seedlings.  Esteemed  for  market  use  in  some 
districts. 

Hunt's  Nonpareil :  see  Nonpareil. 
Hutching's  Seedling  :    see  Sugar  Loaf  Pippin. 

IMPROVED  ASHMEAD'S  KERNEL.  Dessert, 
February  to  March,  medium  to  rather  large,  round 
flattened,  fairly  regular,  generally  higher  on  one  side. 
Colour,  golden  yellow  almost  entirely  covered  with 
reddish-brown  russet  with  golden-brown  flush.  Flesh, 
firm,  pale  yellow,  of  pleasant  sub-acid  flavour.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  rather  deep  wide  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  very 
wide  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  moderate. 
Leaf,  roundish,  pale,  nearly  flat,  deeply  curved  serrate, 
very  large.  Origin,  undiscovered.  Hogg  considered 
this  identical  with  the  original  Ashmead's  Kernel, 
but  it  is  certainly  distinct  and  much  larger. 

Irish  Codlin  :    see  Carlisle  Codlin. 
Irish  Codlin  :    see  Mank's  Codlin. 

IRISH  PEACH.  Ronalds,  p.  8.  (as  Early  Crofton). 
F.,  Peche  de  Irlande  ;  G.,  Irlandischer  Pfirsich.  (Early 
Crofton.)  Dessert,  August,  2|  by  if,  small,  flat,  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  washed  and  mottled 
with  milky  red,  darker  stripes.  Flesh,  yellow,  tender, 

72 


aromatic.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
short  and  stout  in  a  fairly  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
slender ;  moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  narrow, 
shallow  serrate  or  almost  crenate,  undulating,  slightly 
upcupped.  Origin,  an  Irish  variety,  introduced  to 
England  early  in  the  nineteenth  century.  A  delicious 
early  variety. 

Iron  Apple  :    see  Brabant  Bellefleur. 
Iron  King  :    see  French  Crab. 
Ironstone  Pippin  :    see  French  Crab. 
Jackson's  Seedling  :    see  Gladstone. 

JAMES  GRIEVE.  Deutsh.  Obstb.,  1910.,  133. 
Dessert,  September  to  October,  medium  to  large, 
3  by  3,  round,  conical,  slightly  irregular.  Colour,  pale 
creamy  yellow,  with  crimson  flush  and  stripes.  Flesh, 
tender,  very  juicy,  yellow,  of  excellent  flavour.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  rather  deep  even  basin,  of  which  the  sides 
are  a  little  plaited.  Stem,  moderately  long,  knobbed 
at  end,  in  a  deep  rather  narrow  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  rather  upright ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  rather 
long,  dark  green,  very  finely  crenate.  Origin,  a  seedling 
from  Pott's  Seedling,  raised  by  Mr.  James  Grieve, 
and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Dickson,  of  Edinburgh, 
about  1890.  A  most  excellent  fruit  quite  the  best  of 
its  season  ;  its  faults  in  the  South  are  liability  to  rot 
and  to  fall  prematurely. 

JAMES  WELSH.  Culinary,  end-September,  fairly 
large,  3^  by  3,  round,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pale 
greenish  yellow.  Flesh,  firm,  crisp,  white,  acid.  Cooks 
white  and  frothy.  Eye,  small,  closed  in  a  moderately 
deep  narrow,  much  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short, 
in  a  small  not  russet  cavity.  Growth,  strong  ;  fertility, 
very  good.  Leaf,  rather  large,  oval,  twisted,  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  James  Grieve  from 
Ecklinville.  Very  subject  to  rot  on  tree  in  the  South 
of  England.  The  style  of  Lord  Suffield. 

73 


JEANNE  HARDY.  Rev.  Hort.,  1890,  324.  Culin- 
ary or  exhibition,  November  to  February,  very  large, 
4  by  3l>  round,  conical,  much  ribbed.  Colour,  pale 
creamy-yellow  with  brilliant  carmine  flush  and  stripes. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  soft,  juicy,  sweet,  no  particular 
flavour.  Eye,  open  set  in  a  deep  wide  basin  which  is 
boldly  ribbed.  Stem,  short  in  a  very  deep  and  unusually 
wide  cavity.  Growth,  strong  and  compact.  Leaf, 
very  large,  pale,  crenate,  upfolded,  upheld,  round- 
oval.  Origin,  raised  at  the  School  of  Horticulture,  at 
Versailles,  in  1878,  first  fruited  in  1882,  and  dedicated 
to  Mile.  Jeanne  Hardy.  A  very  beautiful  fruit,  that 
may  be  best  described  as  a  large  Cox's  Pomona  with  the 
appearance  of  Emperor  Alexander. 

Jenetting  :    see  White  Joaneting. 
John  Apple :    see  French  Crab. 
John  Apple  :    see  Northern  Greening. 
John  Peel :    see  Golden  Noble. 

JOLLY  BEGGAR.  Her.  Pom..  31.  Culinary, 
August  to  November,  medium,  2f  by  3,  round,  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  very  slight  orange 
flush.  Skin,  very  smooth.  Flesh,  tender,  white,  sub- 
acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  basin,  which  has  ten 
knobs  at  the  top.  Stem,  moderately  long  in  a  narrow 
deep  cavity,  faintly  streaked  with  russet.  Growth, 
moderate ;  rather  spreading ;  very  fertile.  Leaf, 
rather  large,  roundish,  little  up-cupped,  boldly  crenate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Dr.  John  Lyell,  Newburgh,  Fife, 
and  introduced  about  1858.  A  useful  variety ;  now 
little  grown. 

JUNEATING.  Dessert,  end  July,  small,  flattened 
round,  even.  Colour,  pale  greenish-yellow.  Skin, 
slightly  greasy.  Stem,  small.  Growth,  rather  upright, 
moderate ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  small,  irregu- 
larly serrate,  sometimes  crenate,  little  upfolded.  Origin, 
a  very  old  variety  known  from  the  seventeenth  century. 
Not  to  be  confused  with  the  Red  Juneating. 

74 


KANDIL  SINAP.  Rev.  Hort.,  1892,  36.  (Sari 
Sinope.)  F.,  Candile  Sinope.  Dessert  or  culinary, 
till  February,  medium,  2\  by  3|,  oblong,  even.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  almost  entirely  covered  with  deep  red 
flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
and  slight  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  broad  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  short  and  slender  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  extremely  fertile.  This  Russian 
fruit  is  remarkable  for  its  elongated  barrel  shape  and 
is  occasionally  met  with.  It  is  one  of  the  most  popular 
market  varieties  in  the  Crimea. 

Katzenkopf  :    see  Catshead. 

Kempster's  Pippin  :    see  Blenheim  Orange. 

KENTISH  FILL  BASKET.  Ronalds,  p.  9.  G., 
Weisser  Kentischer  Pepping.  (Lady  de  Grey's,  Potter's 
Large.)  Culinary,  November  to  January,  very  large, 
4  by  34,  flattened,  round,  angular.  Colour,  greenish- 
yellow  with  distinct  red  stripes  and  flush.  Flesh, 
tender,  greenish-white,  acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  very 
deep  and  wide  russeted  basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a 
wide  deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertility,  good. 
Leaf,  roundish,  nearly  flat,  dark,  finely  and  sharply 
serrate.  Origin,  unknown.  An  old  and  good  apple, 
now  seldom  grown. 

Kentish  Pippin  :    see  Colonel  Vaughan. 

KERRY  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  p.  6.  (Edmonton, 
Aromatic  Pippin.)  Dessert,  September,  small  to 
medium,  2  by  2J,  roundish  oval,  regular.  Colour, 
greenish-yellow  with  slight  flush  and  red  stripes.  Flesh, 
very  crisp,  yellow,  aromatic,  brisk  and  juicy.  Eye, 
closed,  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  very  shallow 
cavity,  or  often  on  level.  Growth,  medium ;  fertility 
moderate.  Leaf,  oval,  slightly  upfolded,  coarsely 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  in  Ireland  and  received 
in  England  in  1819.  A  good  fruit  of  the  sub-acid  type. 

KESWICK  CODLIN.  Ronalds,  p.  3.  G.,  Kes- 
wicker  Kuchenapfel.  Culinary,  August  to  September, 

75 


medium,  2f  by  2j,  conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow 
with  faint  red  flush.  Flesh,  soft,  palest  yellow,  acid. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  basin  which  has  five  marked 
knobs  around  the  eye.  Stem,  short,  in  a  rather  narrow 
even  cavity,  sometimes  faintly  russet  with  pearly  spots 
showing  below  the  skin.  Growth,  medium,  compact  ; 
fertility  immense.  Leaf,  long  oval,  curved  serrate, 
greyish-green.  Origin,  at  Gleastone  Castle,  Ulverstone, 
about  1790.  Introduced  by  Mr.  John  Sander,  Keswick. 
Much  grown  in  North  Britain.  Still  appreciated  for 
culinary  use  and  its  reliable  cropping  habits.  Nearly 
always  shows  a  raised  line  on  one  side  of  the  fruit. 

Kiarolowski :    see  Cardinal. 
Killick's  Apple  :    see  Stones. 
Killick's  Apple  :    see  Warner's  King. 
King :    see  King  of  Tomkins  County. 

KING'S  ACRE  BOUNTIFUL.  Card.  Chron.,  1905, 
p.  341.  Culinary,  October  to  November,  rather  large, 
2f  by  2j,  round,  much  flattened,  fairly  regular.  Colour 
pale  yellowish-green,  turning  creamy-white,  occasionally 
faintly  flushed.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish- white.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  rather  deep,  knobbed  and  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  short  in  a  very  shallow,  wide  cavity,  slightly 
russet.  Growth,  stout  and  compact ;  very  fertile. 
Leaf,  oval,  tapering  to  point,  little  upfolded,  sharply 
serrate,  undulating.  Origin,  introduced  by  the  King's 
Acre  Nurseries.  Not  of  any  remarkable  merit,  save 
free  cropping. 

KING'S  ACRE  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  till  March, 
medium,  2j  by  2,  round-conical,  irregular.  Colour, 
yellow  with  brown-red  flush  netted  with  russet.  Flesh, 
crisp,  juicy,  pale  yellow,  highly  aromatic.  Eye,  closed, 
in  a  shallow  cavity  which  is  surrounded  by  five  prom- 
inent ribs.  Stem,  rather  long  in  a  moderately  deep, 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  moder- 
ate. Leaf,  medium,  rich  green,  nearly  flat,  markedly 

76 


curved  serrate.      Origin,  reputed  Stunner  Pippin  x 

Ribston.     Introduced    by    King's    Acre    Nursery,  in 

1899.     Quite  one  of  the  best  late  dessert  sorts.  It 
is'said  by  some  to  be  a  variety  some  100  years  old . 

King  George  III. :    see  Borsdorfer. 

KING  HARRY.  Dessert,  October  to  November, 
medium,  2 \  by  2  j,  oval,  conical,  flattened  sides.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  with  russet  dots  and  patches.  Flesh, 
firm,  yellow,  good  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  in  a  shallow  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate,  upright ;  fertile.  Leaf,  pale, 
nearly  flat,  sharply  serrate,  long  oval.  Origin,  received 
by  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society  from  R.  Manning, 
Esq.,  of  London,  who  had  it  from  the  neighbourhood 
of  Woodstock,  Blenheim.  A  distinct  fruit  of  good 
quality. 

KING  OF  THE  PIPPINS.  Her.  Pom.,  14.  F., 
Reinette  d  Oree  ;  G.,  Winter  Gold  Parmane.  (Shrop- 
shire Pippin.)  Dessert,  October  to  December, 
medium,  round,  oblong,  Colour,  golden  yellow,  shaded 
reddish-brown.  Flesh,  creamy-yellow,  firm,  juicy  with 
a  distinct  slightly  bitter  flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  a 
shallow  even  basin.  Stem,  moderately  long  in  an 
even  russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  upright.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  slightly  upfolded,  finely  serrate.  Origin, 
this  apple  is  generally  attributed  to  England,  but  the 
history  of  this  variety  and  the  Reine  des  Reinettes  of 
France,  is  a  tangle  which  I  have  not  yet  been  able  to 
unravel.  The  name  of  King  of  the  Pippins  was  given 
by  Kirke  early  in  the  nineteenth  century.  This  is 
the  Golden  Winter  Pearmain  of  Hogg,  the  original 
King  being  an  earlier  fruit.  It  cannot  be  the  King 
apple  of  Rea,  as  Hogg  suggests  as  this  ripens  at  the  end 
of  June. 

KING  OF  TOMKINS  COUNTY.  New  York,  346. 
(King,  Winter  King.)  Dessert,  till  April,  large,  3 \  by  3 J, 
oval,  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with 

77 


bright  red  flush  and  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh, 
crisp,  rather  dry,  tender,  markedly  yellow,  sweet  and 
of  excellent  flavour,  slightly  fragrant.  Eye,  closed,  in 
a  moderately  ribbed  basin,  generally  higher  on  one 
side.  Stem,  slender,  in  a  wide  slightly  russeted  cavity. 
Growth,  vigorous,  rather  drooping  ;  moderately  fertile. 
Leaf,  large,  long-oval,  upfolded,  undulating,  sharply 
serrate,  down-hanging.  Originated  in  New  Jersey 
before  1800.  Very  delicious  when  well  grown.  This  I 
have  seen  equal  to  American  samples  from  a  Sandstone 
soil. 

Kirke's  Scarlet  Admirable  :    see  Hollandbury. 

Knight's  Codlin  :    see  Wormsley  Pippin. 

Lady :    see  Api. 

Lady  de  Grey's  :    see  Kentish  Fillbasket. 

Lady  Derby  :    see  Thorle. 

Lady's  Finger  :    see  Paradise  White. 

LADY'S  FINGER  OF  LANCASTER.  Culinary, 
November  to  January,  medium,  3^  by  3f,  conical, 
uneven,  flat -sided.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  very 
faint  red  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  rather  dry  and 
almost  astringent.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  much 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous  ;  very  fertile.  Origin,  unknown.  This  apple 
seems  to  be  grown  in  many  parts.  I  have  seen  trees 
near  Oxford,  and  have  frequently  received  fruit  from 
Worcester. 

LADY  HENNIKER.  Her.  Pom.,  67.  Culinary, 
November  to  January,  large  to  very  large,  3j  by  2\, 
roundish-oblong,  irregular,  Colour,  golden-yellow  with 
bright  red  flush  and  a  few  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh, 
tender,  yellow,  Blenheim  flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  wide, 
deep  and  boldly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  moderately 
long  in  a  deep,  rather  narrow  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upright ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  long, 

78 


flat,  sharply  serrate,  very  dark  green.  Origin,  raised 
by  Lord  Henniker,  at  Thornham  Hill,  Suffolk,  about 
1845.  A  good  old  sort  still  worth  growing. 

LADY  SUDELEY.  Dessert,  August  to  September, 
large,  2f  by  2j,  oblong-conical.  Colour,  bright  golden- 
yellow,  heavily  splashed  with  brilliant  scarlet  stripes 
and  flush.  Flesh,  yellow,  tender,  very  juicy,  of  delicious 
flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  and  boldly  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  rather  short  in  a  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  compact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  narrow, 
down-curved,  upfolded,  undulating,  bi-serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  Jacobs,  of  Petworth.  Introduced  by 
Messrs.  George  Bunyard  &  Co.,  in  1885.  This  variety 
has  sported  since  its  introduction  into  a  paler  and 
slightly  russet  form,  which  keeps  quite  distinct  when 
propagated. 

Lady  Suffield  :    see  Lord  Suffield. 

LAMB  ABBEY  PEARMAIN.  Ronalds,  p.  21. 
Dessert,  January  to  April,  very  small,  2j  by  2,  oblong, 
regular.  Colour,  clear  yellow  with  dull  red  flush  and 
stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  yellow,  sugary  and  rich. 
Eye,  large  and  open  in  a  wide  basin.  Stem,  slender, 
in  a  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  rather  upright  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  round,  oval,  very  boldly  bi-serrate, 
held  flat.  Origin,  raised  near  Dartford,  at  the  end  of 
the  eighteenth  century  from  a  pip  of  a  Newt  own  Pippin. 
Of  good  quality  but  little  grown  now. 

Lammas  :    see  Red  Joaneting. 
Lancashire  Crab  :    see  Minchall  Crab. 
Landmere  Russet :    see  Hanwell  Souring. 

LANDSBERGER  REINETTE.  Her.  Pom.,  49. 
F.,  Reinette  de  Lansberg.  Dessert,  October  to  Jan- 
uary, medium,  2|  by  2j,  round  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  yellow  with  crimson  flush.  Flesh,  tender, 
white,  sweet.  Eye,  open  or  closed,  in  a  broad  basin. 
Stem,  thin  and  long  deeply  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity. 

79 


Growth,  strong ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  large, 
variable  in  shape,  boldly  crenate.  Origin,  German 
Raised  by  Councillor  Burchardt,  at  Lansberg.  Now 
little  cultivated.  It  is  said  to  be  very  firmly  attached 
to  the  tree,  thus  withstanding  autumnal  gales. 

Lane's  :    see  Lane's  Prince  Albert. 

LANE'S  PRINCE  ALBERT.  Her.  Pom.  52.  G., 
Prinz  Albert.  (Prince  Albert,  Lane's.)  Culinary, 
January  to  March,  large,  3  J  by  3,  round  conical.  Colour, 
yellowish-green  with  distinct  red  stripes  and  slight 
pinkish  flush.  Skin,  remarkably  smooth.  Flesh, 
tender,  greenish-white,  acid.  Eye,  generally  closed  in 
a  deep  wide  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a 
wide  deep,  russet  free  cavity.  Growth,  dwarf,  spreading  ; 
very  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  pale,  lax,  nearly  flat, 
very  coarsely  serrate.  Origin,  found  in  a  garden  at 
Berkhampstead,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Lane, 
of  that  town  in  1857.  Perhaps  the  most  reliable 
cropper  of  all  cooking  apples. 

LANGLEY  PIPPIN.  Card.  Mag.,  September  3rd, 
1898.  Dessert,  August  to  September,  medium,  2  J  by  2  J, 
oblong-conical,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  yellow  with 
crimson  flush  and  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  yellow- 
ish, soft ;  flavour  moderate.  Eye,  open  in  a  rather 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  long  in  a  moderately  deep  cavity. 
Leaf,  rather  small,  light  green,  very  twisted,  finely 
serrate.  Origin,  Cox's  Orange  x  Mr.  Gladstone. 
Raised  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Veitch,  Chelsea. 
There  are  many  better  fruits  of  the  same  season. 

Large  American  :    see  Mrs.  Barron. 
Lawrence's  Seedling  :    see  Hanwell  Souring. 
Lawry's  Cornish  Giant :    see  Colloget  Pippin. 
Leather  Coat :    see  Royal  Russet. 
Leather  Coat  of  Turic :    see  Pomme  Grise. 
Leder  Apfel :    see  Reinette  Grise. 
80 


LEMON  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  p.  10.  G.,  Konigin 
Sophiensapfel.  (Winter  Queen,  Quince,  Reinette  von 
Madeira.)  Culinary,  till  March,  medium,  2f  by  2}, 
oval,  regular.  Colour,  green  changing  to  lemon-yellow. 
Flesh,  firm,  greenish- white,  acid.  Eye,  closed  or  a 
little  open,  in  an  irregular  basin.  Stem,  very  short, 
often  enclosed  by  a  fleshy  protuberance,  the  cavity 
then  being  almost  nil.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility, 
moderate.  Leaf,  long  oval,  upfolded,  undulating, 
serrate.  Origin,  probably  before  1700.  Named  from 
its  resemblance  to  the  lemon  in  shape  and  colour. 
(This  name  has  also  been  applied  to  other  apples.) 
An  old  sort,  now  little  grown. 

Lincolnshire  Pippin  :    see  Hawthornden. 
Lincolnshire  Reinette  :    see  Braddick's  Nonpareil. 
Livesay's  Imperial :    see  Lord  Suffield. 

LOAN'S  PEARMAIN.  Ronalds,  p.  22.  Dessert, 
November  to  January,  medium,  2j  by  2j,  round 
oblong,  regular.  Colour,  greenish  yellow  with  red 
flush  and  stripes  and  slight  russet .  Flesh,  crisp,  greenish, 
sugary.  Eye,  open  in  a  wide  shallow  basin.  Stem, 
medium  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ; 
fertile.  An  old  English  sort,  known  in  the  seventeenth 
century.  Now  almost  out  of  cultivation. 

Loddington  :  see  Stones. 

LODGEMORE  NONPAREIL.  Her.  Pom.,  21. 
(Clissold's  Seedling.)  Dessert,  till  June,  small,  2  by  if, 
flattened  round,  slightly  conical.  Colour,  pale  yellowish- 
green,  nearly  covered  with  russet.  Flesh,  crisp,  greenish, 
sweet,  juicy,  and  well  flavoured.  Eye,  nearly  closed 
in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  very  short,  in  a  narrow 
cavity.  Leaf,  rather  small,  roundish,  boldly  curved 
serrate.  Origin ;  raised  by  a  Mr.  Cook,  at  Lodgemore, 
near  Stroud,  in  1808.  An  excellent  old  sort,  now  almost 
out  of  cultivation. 

London  Major  :    see  Lord  Derby. 
81 


LONDON  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  p.  14.  F.,  Pepin 
de  Londres ;  G.,  London  Peppin.  [Citron  d'Hiver, 
Five  Crown  Pippin,  Royal  Somerset  (error).]  Culinary, 
till  March,  medium,  3  by  2j,  round  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  yellowish-green  with  dull  brown-red  flush. 
Flesh,  crisp,  white,  acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow 
basin  which  has  five  prominent  ribs.  Stem,  slender, 
rather  short  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  vigor- 
ous ;  fertile.  Keeps  without  shrivelling,  Leaf,  oval, 
upfolded,  undulating,  held  out,  finely  serrate.  Origin, 
dates  probably  from  the  sixteenth  century.  A  valuable 
late  fruit  little  cultivated  but  much  grown  in  Australia 
and  exported  to  this  country. 

Lord  Burghleigh  :    see  Lord  Burghley. 

LORD  BURGHLEY.  Her.  Pom.,  65.  (Lord 
Burghleigh.)  Dessert,  till  May,  small,  2j  by  if,  flat- 
tened, round-conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pale  greenish- 
yellow  with  clear  brown  red  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow, 
juicy  and  sweet.  Eye,  nearly  closed  in  a  shallow 
irregular  basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  shallow  cavity. 
Growth,  slender  ;  moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  long  oval, 
slightly  upfolded,  slightly  undulated,  shallow  serrate 
or  nearly  crenate.  Origin,  raised  in  the  garden  of  the 
Marquis  of  Exeter,  at  Burghley,  near  Stamford. 
Distributed  in  1865,  by  Mr.  Hase,  of  Peterborough. 
One  of  the  best  late  dessert  varieties. 

Lord  Clyde  :    see  Golden  Noble. 

LORD  DERBY.  Her.  Pom.,  73.  (London  Major.) 
Culinary,  November  to  December,  large,  3j  by  3^, 
oblong-conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pea  green,  changing 
to  lemon-yellow.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  yellow,  sub-acid. 
Cooks  a  deep  golden  red.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  very  deep, 
wide  and  irregular  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  very  wide 
and  shallow  cavity  quite  without  russet.  Growth, 
sturdy,  upright ;  extremely  fertile.  Leaf,  long,  rather 
dark,  little  upfolded,  undulating,  oval,  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  Witham,  a  nurseryman  in  Stockport, 

82 


about  the  middle  of  last  century.  One  of  the  most 
appreciated  sorts  for  market  purposes,  as  it  is  an  almost 
certain  annual  cropper. 

LORD  GROSVENOR.  Culinary,  August  to  Sep- 
tember, medium,  $|  by  3j,  conical,  distinctly  ribbed, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  changing  to  white. 
Flesh,  white,  juicy,  acid,  cooking  excellently.  Eye, 
closed,  in  an  unusually  puckered  and  wrinkled  basin. 
Stem,  medium  much  swollen  at  end,  in  a  wide  deep, 
cavity.  Growth,  not  very  strong  ;  fertility,  excellent. 
Leaf,  very  pale  green,  large,  upfolded,  very  lax.  Origin, 
unknown.  One  of  the  most  prolific  of  all  apples  ; 
it  generally  needs  thinning  to  secure  well  shaped  fruit  ; 
it  does  well  on  dry  soil. 

LORD  HINDLIP.  Gard.  Chron.,  1896,  p.  115. 
Dessert,  till  April,  small  to  medium,  2j  by  2j,  conical, 
regular.  Colour,  nearly  covered  with  dark  crimson 
flush  and  stripes  and  netted  russet  patches.  Flesh, 
crisp,  white,  sub-acid,  juicy,  and  pleasantly  flavoured. 
Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  long,  in 
a  very  even  russet  cavity.  Growth,  slender,  upright, 
spreading ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  very  narrow,  very 
dark,  slightly  upfolded,  shallow  serrate.  Origin, 
a  seedling  raised  in  Worcestershire,  and  introduced  by 
Messrs.  Watkins,  of  Hereford.  Of  very  good  quality 
and  a  good  cropper  ;  a  likely  candidate  for  the  desired 
late  market  dessert  apple. 

LORD  LENNOX.  Dessert,  end-September,  small 
to  medium,  2j  by  if,  flat.  Colour,  dark  brownish-red 
over  a  pale  yellow-green  groundwork  ;  striping  very 
faint.  Flesh,  firm,  slight  green  tinge.  Eye,  closed  in  a 
rather  broad  shallow  basin,  which  is  slightly  ribbed. 
Stem,  half-inch  in  a  rather  wide,  fairly  deep  and  even 
cavity.  Origin,  this  is  the  variety  grown  around 
Northampton  under  this  name,  but  does  not  agree 
with  Dr.  Hogg's  description. 

Lord  Stanwick  :    see  Golden  Noble. 
83 


LORD  STRADBROOK.  Card.  Chron.,  1905,  p.  20. 
(Fenn's  Wonder.)  Culinary,  till  February,  large. 
Colour,  crimson  on  greenish  ground.  Growth,  free  ; 
very  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  long,  upfolded,  shallow 
crenate.  Origin,  a  chance  seedling  found  in  Henham 
Gardens,  Wangford,  about  1900.  Certificated  as  Fenn's 
Wonder. 

LORD  SUFFIELD.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  6.  (Lady 
Sufneld,  Livesay's  Imperial.)  Culinary,  August  to 
September,  medium  to  large,  3j  by  3,  oval,  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  lemon-yellow.  Flesh,  tender, 
white,  acid.  Eye,  small,  closed,  in  a  shallow  plaited 
basin.  Stem,  slender,  in  a  rather  narrow  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate,  making  a  compact  twiggy  tree ; 
very  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  oval,  held  out,  slightly 
upfolded,  coarsely  bi-serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Thomas 
Thorpe,  Middleton,  near  Manchester,  about  1820.  It 
cankers  badly  and  is  very  apt  to  rot  on  the  tree.  Now 
superseded  by  Early  Victoria. 

LUCOMBE'S  PINE.  Her.  Pom.,  47.  (Pine  Apple.) 
Dessert,  November  to  December,  small,  2|  by  2, 
round-conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow  with  faint 
orange  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  white,  with  pine  apple 
flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  plaited  basin.  Stem, 
fairly  stout,  in  a  shallow  round  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility  rather  poor.  Origin,  raised  by 
Messrs.  Lucombe  Pince  &  Co.,  of  Exeter,  about  1800. 
Now  almost  out  of  cultivation. 

MABBOTT'S  PEARMAIN.  Her.  Pom.,  61.  F., 
Pearmain  de  Mabbott ;  G.,  Parmane  von  Mabbott. 
Dessert,  November  to  January,  medium,  2j  by  2j, 
oval,  regular.  Colour,  golden-yellow  almost  covered 
with  rich  crimson  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  juicy,  yellowish, 
of  good  flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  slender  in  a  narrow  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
compact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  small,  pea  green,  little 
upfolded,  curved  serrate,  sharply  pointed.  Origin, 
uncertain  ;  known  around  Maidstone  for  many  years. 


MACKINTOSH  RED.  New  York.  II.,  132.  Culin- 
ary or  dessert,  October  to  December,  2f  by  2  J,  medium, 
round  tapering  to  eye,  even.  Colour,  pale  yellow, 
almost  covered  with  rich  crimson  stripes  and  flush. 
Skin  smooth.  Flesh,  greenish  white,  firm,  slightly 
sweet,  juicy.  Eye,  nearly  closed  in  a  medium  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  rather  short  in  a  large  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  rather  spreading  ;  fertility, 
fair.  Leaf,  rather  large,  slightly  upfolded  shallow 
serrate  or  crenate.  Origin,  a  chance  seedling  of  Ontario, 
and  named  after  Allan  Mackintosh,  the  owner  of  the 
estate,  on  which  it  was  found.  Another  account  says 
it  is  at  least  115  years  old.  This  resembles  Wealthy 
in  appearance  and  has  not  yet  been  sufficiently  tested 
at  AQington  to  decide  upon  its  value  for  this  country. 

MAIDSTONE  FAVOURITE.  Journ.  Pom.,  Vol.  I., 
No.  i.  Dessert,  end- August-Sept  ember,  medium, 
2 1  by  2,  oblate,  curving  to  eye.  Colour,  pale  creamy 
yellow  covered  with  carmine  stripes  and  flush.  Flesh, 
creamy  white,  fine  grained,  sweet  and  juicy,  very  firm. 
Eye,  closed  or  open,  in  a  deep  and  wide  even  basin. 
Stem,  very  short  and  stout,  in  a  rather  wide  cavity. 
Growth,  moderately  vigorous,  rather  spreading ;  ferti- 
lity very  good.  Leaf,  oval,  upfolded,  little  twisted, 
held-out,  shallow  crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  Messrs. 
George  Bunyard  &  Co.,  from  a  seed  of  Emperor  Alex- 
ander. One  of  the  most  beautiful  apples  of  Autumn, 
a  little  lacking  in  flavour  but  very  promising  for  market 
culture  as  it  fills  the  gap  between  Beauty  of  Bath  and 
Worcestershire  Pearmain,  and  travels  well. 

MALTSTER.  Culinary  or  dessert,  October  to  Jan- 
uary, large,  3  by  2j,  round  flattened  and  angular, 
irregular.  Colour,  greenish  yellow  with  slight  flush 
and  few  scattered  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  crisp  to  soft, 
yellowish,  of  quite  good  flavour  about  November. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  medium 
in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  rather 
spreading  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  oval,  upfolded,  boldly 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  unrecorded.  Known  in  1830^ 

85 


In  warm  seasons  the  flavour  and  texture  approach 
the  Newtown  Pippin,  but  usually  it  is  only  good  enough 
for  culinary  purposes.  I  think  this  will  probably 
be  found  to  be  of  continental  origin. 

Mammoth  :    see  Gloria  Mundi. 

MANK'S  CODLIN.  Ronalds,  p.  3.  F.,  Codlin 
de  Mank  ;  G.,  Manck's  Kuchenapfel.  (Belmont, 
Eve,  Irish  Codlin,  Pitcher.)  Culinary,  August  to 
November,  medium,  2|  by  2j,  oval-conical,  irregular, 
five  sided.  Colour,  yellow-green  with  slight  red  flush. 
Flesh,  firm,  white,  acid.  Eye,  very  small,  closed  in  a 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  stout,  in  a  fairly  deep,  wide 
cavity.  Growth,  very  compact  and  dwarfish  ;  fertility 
great.  Leaf,  narrow-oval,  broadly  serrate.  Origin, 
this  was  raised  by  Mr.  Kewley,  of  Ballanard,  Isle  of 
Man,  and  first  fruited  in  1815.  It  is  still  much  grown 
in  the  North  of  England  and  is  one  of  the  best  cooking 
apples  there. 

MANNINGTON'S  PEARMAIN.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  14. 
F.,  Pomme  de  Mannington.  Dessert,  November  to 
March,  medium,  2,\  by  2,  flattened  round,  regular. 
Colour,  dull  green-red  with  russet.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow, 
fair  flavour.  Eye,  nearly  closed  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  fairly  long  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  making  a  compact  well-spurred  tree.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  roundish,  pea  green,  slightly  upfolded, 
undulating,  very  boldly  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  at  Uckfield,  Sussex,  about  1770,  and  distributed 
by  Mr.  Cameron  of  the  same  town,  in  1849.  The 
flavour  of  this  variety  is  only  fair  and  as  there  are  so 
many  better  at  this  season  I  consider  it  not  worth 
growing. 

MARCH  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  till  April,  medium  to 
fairly  large,  2^  by  2j,  round  flattened,  fairly  even. 
Colour,  rich  golden-yellow  with  slight  flush  and  a  few 
broad  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  very  firm,  yellow,  of  good 
flavour.  Eye,  wide  open  in  a  very  broad  ribbed  basin. 

86 


Stem,  short  in  a  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous, 
upright ;  fertility,  poor.  Leaf,  round,  light,  flat, 
down-hanging,  bluntly  serrate,  almost  crenate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  Lane,  of  Kynaston,  Ross,  Hereford, 
before  1900,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  George  Bunyard 
&  Co.,  of  Maidstone.  A  fine  fruit  of  Newtown  Pippin 
style,  but  too  poor  a  cropper  to  retain. 

Margaret :    see  Red  Joaneting. 

MARGIL.  Ronalds,  p.  12.  F.,  Reinette  Musquee  ; 
G.,  Muskat  Reinette.  (Reinette  d'Hiver  Musquee, 
Small  Ribston.)  Dessert,  October  to  January,  small, 
2i  by  2  J,  rounded  conical,  angular.  Colour,  pale  yellow 
with  dull  brown-red  flush  and  russet.  Flesh,  firm, 
yellow,  highly  flavoured.  Eye,  very  small,  closed  in 
a  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  slender,  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Growth,  very  weak ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  very 
narrow,  much  upfolded,  dark,  boldly  crenate.  Origin, 
doubtless  Continental  (probably  Norman).  Of  the 
highest  possible  quality ;  it  makes  a  small  tree  and 
should  be  given  a  trial  in  every  garden.  The  name  is 
derived  from  Marg=marle=marrow,  according  to  one 
author. 

MAY  QUEEN.  Dessert,  till  May,  medium,  z\  by  2j, 
flat,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with  brown- 
red  flush  and  russet.  Flesh,  very  crisp,  yellow,  juicy, 
and  of  good  flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  a  broad  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a  very  deep  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  very  dwarf ;  fertility,  extraordinary.  Leaf, 
rather  dark,  nearly  flat,  small,  oval,  rather  boldly 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Haywood,  of  Worcester, 
and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Penwill.  A  neglected  fruit 
of  great  excellence  and  as  a  fruit  for  small  gardens  as 
cordons  or  bushes  it  can  hardly  be  surpassed.  It  is 
eatable  in  November  and  keeps  excellently.  Making 
but  few  laterals  pruning  is  reduced  to  a  minimum. 

MEDENHAM  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  September  to 
October,  medium,  2\  by  2j,  round,  slightly  conical 

87 


and  flattened.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  flushed  with 
brownish-red  and  with  broad,  indistinct  stripes. 
Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  juicy,  of  excellent  flavour.  Eye 
closed  in  a  wide,  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short, 
in  a  very  narrow  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  oval,  sharply  pointed,  held  stiffly  up, 
upfolded,  twisted,  bi-serrate,  dark  green.  Origin, 
this  was  distributed  in  error  with  grafts  of  Norfolk 
Beauty,  and  is  therefore  occasionally  confused  with 
that  sort.  Of  no  particular  merit. 

Mela  Januria :    see  Reinette  du  Canada. 

MELON.  New  York,  I.,  204.  Dessert,  December 
to  January,  medium  to  large,  3  by  2f,  round  conical. 
Colour,  pale  yellow  with  carmine  flush  and  stripes. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  somewhat  aromatic. 
Eye,  open  or  closed,  in  a  small  basin.  Stem,  long  and 
slender,  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  moder- 
ate ;  fertile.  Leaf,  light  green,  flat,  undulating,  coarsely 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  in  East  Bloomfield, 
Ontario,  in  the  orchard  of  Heman  Chapin,  and  intro- 
duced by  Messrs.  Ellwanger  &  Barry,  in  1845  ;  it  was 
introduced  into  England  about  1850.  A  good  useful 
late  fruit  now  seldom  met  with. 

Melville  Pippin  :    see  Scarlet  Pearmain. 

MERE  DE  MENAGE.  Culinary,  till  March,  very 
large,  3j  by  2j,  flat  conical,  very  irregular.  Colour, 
yellowish-green  almost  covered  with  dull  brown  crimson 
and  darker  broad  stripes,  and  conspicuous  white  dots 
widely  spaced.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish,  acid.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  broad  much  ribbed,  and  chanelled  basin. 
Stem,  very  short  and  stout,  in  a  wide,  irregular,  much 
russeted  cavity.  Growth  vigorous,  makes  a  large 
spreading  tree ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  very  large, 
curved  serrate,  little  undulating,  flat,  grey-green. 
Origin,  most  probably  Continental,  but  not  the  Mere  de 
Manage  of  France.  It  is  grown  in  Belgium  as  Queen 
Emma  and  under  other  names.  Much  grown  in  East 
Anglia.  A  useful  kitchen  fruit,  keeping  well. 

88 


MIDDLE  GREEN.  Card.  Chron.,  1903,  p.  291. 
Dessert,  December  to  February,  medium,  2\  by  2, 
flat,  slightly  conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow  streaked 
with  red.  Flesh,  soft,  yellowish,  pleasantly  sweet. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow,  wide,  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
fairly  long,  in  a  wide,  shallow  cavity,  not  russet ed. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fertility  moderate.  Origin,  raised 
from  Frogmore  Prolific  x  Blenheim  Orange,  by  Mr. 
Seden,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Veitch,  of  Chelsea. 
Of  no  particular  merit. 

MILLER'S  SEEDLING.  Card.  Chron.,  1906,  p.  239. 
(The  Shah.)  Dessert,  end  August,  medium,  2j  by  2\, 
round  conical,  nearly  regular.  Colour,  creamy-yellow 
striped  and  flushed  with  bright  crimson  on  one  side. 
Flesh,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasantly  sweet.  Eye,  closed  in  a 
shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  moderately  long,  thin, 
in  a  wide  deep  uneven  cavity.  Growth,  rather  compact, 
spreading ;  fertility  remarkable.  Leaf,  grey-green, 
nearly  flat,  round,  sharply  serrate,  very  large,  little 
twisted,  held  out.  Origin,  raised  at  Newbury,  Berks., 
by  Mr.  James  Miller,  nurseryman,  in  1848,  and  intro- 
duced by  him.  A  very  sweet  fruit,  appreciated  as  a 
market  variety  in  some  districts. 

MINCHALL  CRAB.  Ronalds,  p.  33.  G.,  Englische 
Rambour.  (Lancashire  Crab,  Mincham's  Crab,  Minchull 
Crab.)  Culinary,  till  March,  large,  3|  by  2j, 
flattened  round,  irregular.  Colour,  green  to  yellow 
with  slight  red  flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  firm, 
white,  sharply  acid.  Eye,  open  in  a  very  wide,  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth, 
makes  a  low  spreading  tree ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather 
large,  oval,  little  upfolded,  boldly  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  English ;  named  after  Minchall,  in  Cheshire, 
dating  from  the  eighteenth  century.  A  good  old  variety 
of  the  Bramley  type. 

Mincham's  Crab  :    see  Minchall  Crab. 
Minshull  Crab  :    see  Minchall  Crab. 


MONARCH.  Culinary,  till  April,  large  to  very 
large,  3j  by  2j,  flattened  round.  Colour,  pale  yellow 
with  bright  red  flush  and  fainter  striping  beneath. 
Flesh,  greenish-white,  firm,  moderately  acid.  Eye, 
open  in  a  wide,  shallow  basin,  similar  to  Wellington. 
Stem,  fairly  short  in  a  moderately  deep,  slightly  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  little  spreading ;  fertility, 
excellent.  Leaf,  very  large,  round,  very  boldly  doubly 
crenate.  Origin,  said  to  be  a  cross.  Peasgood's 
Nonsuch  and  Wellington.  Introduced  by  Messrs. 
Seabrook.  I  have  not  yet  grown  this  apple  myself 
but  am  indebted  to  the  introducers  for  specimens  from 
which  the  above  description  is  made. 

Monstrous  Pippin  :    see  Gloria  Mundi. 

MOTHER.  FL  and  Pom.,  1883,  121.  G.,  Mutter 
Apfel.  (So  many  apples  have  the  name  "  Mother  " 
that  Hogg  distinguished  this  one  by  prefixing  the 
country  of  its  origin  : — American  Mother.)  Dessert. 
October  to  November,  medium,  2j  by  2j,  oval  conical, 
slightly  ribbed.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with  dull 
brownish-red  flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  soft  and, 
juicy,  very  sweet,  yellow  or  slightly  green  of  distinct 
flavour,  resembling  Peardrops.  Eye,  very  small,  closed, 
in  a  small  fairly  deep  basin.  Stem,  rather  short,  slender 
in  a  moderate  cavity  which  is  compressed  on  one  side. 
Growth,  moderate ;"  fertility  rather  irregular.  Leaf, 
rather  large,  pale,  nearly  flat,  down-hanging,  sharply 
serrate.  Origin,  rather  uncertain,  but  recorded  in 
America  before  1848.  A  very  choice  dessert  fruit, 
which  often  keeps  good  till  mid  January. 

Mother  :    see  Oslin. 

Motteux's  Seedling  :    see  Beachamwell. 

MR.  PROTHERO.  Dessert,  till  June,  medium  to 
fairly  large,  3  by  2f,  round,  slightly  flattened.  Colour, 
golden-yellow  with  medium  red  flush  and  broad  stripes. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  good  flavour,  very  firm.  Eye, 

90 


closed  in  a  shallow,  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
rather  long,  slender  in  a  shallow  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
good ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  large,  round  oblong, 
little  undulating,  upfolded,  boldly  doubly  crenate. 
Origin,  introduced  by  Messrs.  Seabrook  &  Sons,  in  1918. 
I  have  not  been  able  to  test  this  apple  sufficiently  to  pass 
an  opinion  on  it  and  am  indebted  to  the  introducers 
for  specimens  from  which  this  description  is  made. 

MRS.  BARRON.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1884,  89.  (Large 
American.)  Culinary,  October  to  January,  fairly 
large,  2.\  by  2f,  rounded,  oblong,  irregular.  Colour, 
clear  golden-yellow.  Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  sub-acid. 
Eye,  large,  open  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
very  stout  in  a  rather  wide  ribbed  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  a  little  spreading  ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf, 
very  large,  light  pea  green,  long  oval,  very  sharply 
and  doubly  serrate,  upfolded.  Origin,  brought  to  notice 
at  the  Apple  Conference  of  1885,  and  there  named 
Mrs.  Barren.  Not  remarkable  for  any  special  merit. 

MRS.  PHILLIMORE.  Card.  Chron.,  1900,  p.  249. 
Dessert,  till  March,  smallish,  2  j  by  2,  flattened  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  covered  with  red  flush 
and  broad  broken  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  very  tender, 
greenish,  remarkably  sweet.  Eye,  open,  tips  reflexed. 
in  a  rather  deep,  boldly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  medium 
in  a  very  wide  and  deep  russet  lined  cavity.  Growth, 
upright,  spreading,  spurs  well,  moderate ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  undulating,  little  upcupped,  long  oval,  deeply 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross  from  Lord 
Burghley  and  Gladstone,  and  introduced  in  1900,  by 
Messrs.  George  Bunyard  &  Co.  A  nice  apple  worthy  of 
further  trial ;  it  may  be  described  as  a  smaller  and 
sweeter  Cox's  Pomona. 

MURFITTS  SEEDLING.  Culinary,  till  March, 
medium,  2|  by  2f ,  round  conical,  fairly  regular.  Colour, 
pale  greenish-yellow,  remarkably  greasy,  surface  of 
fruit  hammered.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish-yellow,  rather 
acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  very  shallow  basin  with  small 

91  7 


beads  at  base.  Stem,  stout  and  short,  in  a  moderately 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  very  spreading ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
medium,  round,  coarsely  serrate,  pea  green,  flat, 
undulating.  Origin,  brought  to  notice  about  1884,  and 
said  to  be  a  Cambridgeshire  variety. 

Musk  :    see  Carlisle  Codlin. 

NANCY  JACKSON.  Culinary,  till  March,  medium, 
2j  by  2\,  round  conical,  regular.  Colour,  dull  yellow 
with  red  flush  and  a  few  broad  crimson  stripes.  Flesh, 
tender,  juicy,  acid.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility, 
moderate.  Leaf,  large,  oval,  held  out  flat,  very  coarsely 
crenate,  undulating,  upward  folded.  Origin,  unrecorded 
according  to  Hogg  it  was  much  cultivated  in  Yorkshire. 

NANNY.  Dessert,  December  to  February,  medium, 
flattened,  round,  slightly  conical,  fairly  regular.  Colour, 
lemon  yellow  with  red  flush  and  broad  broken  stripes 
of  crimson.  Flesh,  tender,  greenish  yellow,  a  little 
sweet,  but  of  no  remarkable  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a 
rather  deep  and  even  basin.  Stem,  moderately  long, 
thin,  in  a  narrow,  deep  cavity,  which  is  strongly  marked 
with  thick  scaly  russet  spreading  out  in  veins.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  roundish,  pea  green,  nearly 
flat,  boldly  curved  bi-serrate.  Origin,  a  Sussex  apple, 
not  often  met  with  in  other  parts  of  the  country. 

NELSON  CODLIN.  Her.  Pom.,  10.  (Backhouse's 
Lord  Nelson,  Wilson's  Codlin.)  Culinary,  till  January, 
fairly  large,  3^  by  3^,  oval  conical,  irregular.  Colour, 
green  to  yellow.  Flesh,  soft,  white,  sub-acid.  Eye, 
open  in  a  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short  in 
an  uneven  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous;  very  fertile. 
Leaf,  medium,  oval,  sharply  bi-serrate.  Origin,  named 
after  the  Wesleyan  preacher  Nelson,  Hardly  required. 
Remarkable  for  its  magnificent  flower. 

NELSON'S  GLORY.  Culinary,  November  to  Feb- 
ruary, medium  to  rather  large,  3  by  2j,  irregular. 
Colour,  greenish-yellow  with  many  dark  spots.  Flesh, 

92 


loose,  yellowish- white,  acid.  Eye,  half  open  in  a  wide 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  thick  and  fleshy  in  a  rather 
shallow  russeted  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  very 
regularly  fertile.  Leaf,  oval,  very  finely  serrate. 
Origin.  I  am  informed  that  this  was  originally  known 
as  Stoke  Lump  Lemon  and  was  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Maule,  of  Bristol,  as  Nelson's  Glory.  This  apple  is 
often  confused  with  Warner's  King,  but  it  is  quite 
distinct  from  this  variety.  Grown  in  the  Northern 
Counties  of  England. 

NEW  BESS  POOL.  Her.  Pom.,  71.  Culinary, 
January  to  March,  medium,  2f  by  2j,  round,  slightly 
flattened.  Colour,  greenish-yellow  almost  covered  with 
dull  brown  crimson  flush  and  brown  blotches  of  the  same 
colour.  Flesh,  crisp,  juicy,  greenish-white,  sub-acid 
Eye,  open  in  a  much  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  extremely 
short  and  stout,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  roundish,  pale,  nearly  flat,  very  finely 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  J.  Stevens,  of  Stanton- 
by-Dale,  before  1850.  A  useful  late  keeper  similar 
to  Cellini  in  appearance. 

NEW  HAWTHORNDEN.  Culinary,  October,  large, 
flat,  evenly  rounded  to  each  extremity.  Colour,  pale 
green,  fading  to  yellow,  with  an  occasional  red  flush. 
Flesh,  greenish-white,  acid,  moderately  tender.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  wide  and  rather  deep  basin.  Stem,  remark- 
ably short  in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous, 
rather  spreading.  Leaf,  rather  large,  pale,  nearly 
flat,  undulating,  boldly  serrate.  Origin,  according  to 
Hogg  this  apple  was  introduced  by  Messrs.  Rivers,  in 
1847.  This  fruit  resembles  a  Warner's  King,  but 
can  of  course  easily  be  distinguished  when  the  tree  is 
examined. 

NEW  NORTHERN  GREENING.  Her.  Pom.,  5. 
Culinary,  till  March,  medium,  3  by  2,  round,  flattened. 
Colour,  pale  green  with  dull  red  flush  and  faint  stripes 
and  russet  spots.  Flesh,  greenish,  firm,  acid.  Eye, 
open  in  a  large  basin.  Stem,  generally  short  in  a  narrow 

93 


cavity.  Growth,  strong,  upright ;  fertile.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  J.  Stevens,  Stanton  Grange,  Derbyshire, 
before  1850.  Only  second  rate  ;  very  subject  to  spot 
and  rot  on  the  tree. 

NEW  ROCK  PIPPIN.  G.,  Neuer  Stein  Pepping. 
Dessert,  till  April,  small,  2j  by  if,  round  flattened, 
regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  golden-brown  flush 
and  almost  covered  with  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  juicy, 
excellently  flavoured.  Eye,  firmly  closed  almost  on 
level,  slightly  beaded  and  wrinkled.  Stem,  short  in 
a  shallow  cavity.  Leaf,  medium,  oval,  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  W.  Pleasance,  near  Cambridge,  and 
introduced  to  notice  about  1821.  One  of  the  best 
late  sorts. 

NEWTON  WONDER.  Card.  Chron.,  1900,  45. 
Culinary,  till  March,  large,  3j  by  2j,  round  flattened, 
regular.  Colour,  bright  yellow  with  slight  scarlet 
flush  with  broad,  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  crisp,  juicy, 
yellow,  acid  ;  cooks  excellently.  Eye,  open  in  a  wide 
rather  ribbed  basin.  Stern,  very  short  and  stout  in 
a  shallow  almost  level  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  round,  held  stiffly  out,  undulating,  very 
thick,  deeply  and  doubly  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  a  Mr.  Taylor,  of  King's  Newton,  in  Melbourne, 
Derby,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Pearson  &  Co., 
about  1887.  One  of  the  best  half-dozen  cooking 
apples.  Quite  a  welcome  dessert  fruit  in  March.  Makes 
a  fine  spreading  standard. 

NEWTOWN  PIPPIN.  New  York,  p.  146.  G., 
Kostliche  Reinette  von  Newtown.  (Albermarle,  Hamp- 
shire Greening.)  Dessert,  till  March,  fairly  large, 
3i  by  2J»  flattened  round,  fairly  regular.  Colour, 
straw  yellow.  Flesh,  very  crisp,  yellowish-green,  of 
rich  pineapple  flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  slender,  in  a  rather  deep  russet  lined  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility,  poor  in  England.  Leaf, 
large,  flat,  down-curved,  coarsely  bi-serrate.  Originated 
at  Long  Island,  early  in  the  eighteenth  century,  and 

94 


introduced  to  this  country  about  1760.  This  apple 
does  not  attain  to  the  same  flavour  in  this  country  as 
in  America,  even  under  the  most  favourable  conditions. 
There,  is  a  green  variety  considered  distinct,  in  which 
the  fruits  do  not  have  the  rich  yellow  and  faint  orange 
flush  of  this  variety. 

NEWTOWN  SPITZENBERG.  Ronalds,  p.  10. 
(Burlington,  English  Spitzenberg.)  Dessert,  till  Jan- 
uary, medium  to  large,  3  J  by  2  J,  round,  regular.  Colour, 
clear  yellowish-red  with  red  flush  and  faint  stripes. 
Flesh,  yellow,  crisp,  aromatic.  Eye,  open,  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  very  short,  in  a  deepish  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility  moderate.  Origin,,  probably 
introduced  into  England  by  William  Cobbett.  Very 
little  grown  in  England  nowadays. 

NONPAREIL.  Her.  Pom.,  21.  F.,  Nonpareille 
ancienne ;  G.,  Alter  Nonpareil.  (English  Nonpareil, 
Hunt's  Nonpareil,  Original  Nonpareil.)  Dessert,  till 
March,  small,  2j  by  2,  round  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
yellowish-green  with  red-brown  flush  and  covered 
with  russet,  with  some  large  conspicuous  dots  at  base. 
Flesh,  tender,  greenish,  aromatic.  Eye,  open,  in  a  very 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  fairly  long  in  a  moderate,  even 
cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  upright  spreading ;  ferti- 
lity, moderate;  Leaf,  medium,  narrow,  pea  green, 
held  up,  much  upfolded,  boldly  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
unrecorded ;  known  in  England  since  about  1600. 
This  fruit  is  worthy  of  all  commendation.  The  obovate 
cells  and  conspicuous  dots  serve  to  distinguish  it  from 
the  White  Nonpareil. 

Nonpareille  d'Angleterre  :    see  Ribston  Pippin. 

NONSUCH.  Ronalds,  p.  37.  Culinary,  September, 
round  flattened,  medium,  regular.  Colour,  yellowish- 
green  with  red  flush  and  broad  stripes.  Flesh, 
tender,  white,  sweet.  Eye,  closed  in  a  rather  deep 
and  regular  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  deepish  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf,  medium,  oblong, 

95 


finely  serrate.  Origin,  doubtful ;  possibly  French. 
Not  to  be  confused  with  the  Nonsuch  Paradise  apple, 
which  is  a  reputed  seedling  from  this  variety.  It  is 
now  superseded. 

NORFOLK  BEAUTY.  Gar  A.  Chron.,  1902,  p.  453. 
Culinary,  October  to  December,  large,  3^  by  2\,  round 
flattened,  regular.  Colour,  pale  lemon  yellow  with 
faint  red  flush.  Flesh,  loose,  yellowish,  cooks  frothily. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  moderately  deep  plaited  basin,  which 
has  prominent  knobs  at  the  top.  Stem,  long  and  thin, 
woody,  in  an  even  and  narrow  cavity,  which  is  feathered 
with  russet.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  medium. 
Leaf,  rather  large,  grey-green,  little  upfolded,  undulated, 
sharply  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Allan, 
gardener  at  Gunton  Park,  from  Warner's  King  and 
Waltham  Abbey.  Introduced  to  commerce  in  1902. 
A  very  excellent  fruit  worthy  of  extended  cultivation, 
cropping  well  when  the  tree  is  formed. 

NORFOLK  BEEFING.  Ronalds,  p.  33.  G.,  Schoener 
von  Norfolk.  (Catshead  Beaufin,  Red  Beefing,  Taliesin, 
Winter  Beefing.)  Culinary,  till  April,  medium,  3  by 
2},  round  flattened.  Colour,  green  nearly  covered 
with  dull  brown  crimson.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish-yellow, 
acid.  Eye,  open  in  a  wide  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very 
short,  in  a  deep  slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigor- 
ous, making  a  spreading  open  tree ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
round,  dark  green,  large,  flat,  coarsely  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  Norfolk ;  brought  into  notice  about  1800. 
A  useful  late  fruit,  keeping  plump  till  the  end. 

NORFOLK  DUMPLING.  Culinary,  September  to 
October,  large,  3  J  by  3,  round,  tapering  to  eye.  Colour, 
pale  green  yellow  ;  smooth  and  slightly  greasy.  Flesh, 
white,  coarse  grained,  acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  ribbed 
basin,  which  is  rather  small.  Stem,  extremely  short, 
in  a  flat  cavity.  Growth,  good ;  very  fertile.  Leaf 
rather  small,  narrow,  crenate  or  curved  serrate,  nearly 
flat,  dark  green.  Origin,  undiscovered. 

Norfolk  Pippin  :    see  Adam's  Pearmain. 
96 


NORFOLK  STONE  PIPPIN.  (White  Pippin, 
White  Stone  Pippin.)  Dessert,  or  culinary,  till  June  ; 
medium,  2\  by  2,  flat,  angular,  irregular.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  more  or  less  covered  with  cinnamon  russet. 
Flesh,  very  firm,  pale  yellow,  sub-acid,  aromatic  and 
very  distinct  in  flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  slender  in  a  medium,  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous  ;  very  fertile.  Origin,  an  old  variety  first 
described  by  Lindley  in  his  "  Guide  to  the  Fruit 
Garden."  A  good  old  sort  still  grown  in  Norfolk. 

NORMAN'S  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  January  to  March, 
medium,  2f  by  2,  round,  regular.  Colour,  pale  greenish- 
yellow  with  russet  markings  and  occasional  faint  flush. 
Flesh,  firm  but  soft,  yellowish,  of  rich  flavour.  Eye, 
open  in  a  shallow  even  basin.  Stem,  very  long  and  thin, 
in  a  rather  narrow,  deep  cavity.  Growth,  compact ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  upfolded.  Origin,  unrecorded ;  gener- 
ally considered  to  be  a  monastic  importation.  An 
excellent  variety  deserving  of  wider  cultivation.  The 
very  long  stem  and  remarkable  dots  on  fruit  render 
it  easily  distinguishable. 

Normanton  Wonder  :    see  Wellington. 

NORTHERN  GREENING.  Her.  Pom.,  43.  F., 
Verte  du  Nord ;  G.,  Gruener  Englischer  Pepping. 
(John  Apple,  Walmer  Court.)  Culinary,  till  April, 
medium,  2\  by  2j,  oval,  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
pea  green  to  pale  yellow  with  red  stripes  and  faint 
brown  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  greenish,  acid.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  deep  rather  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  fairly 
long,  in  a  deepish  cavity,  often  with  a  swelling  at  one 
side.  Growth,  vigorous,  upright  ;  very  fertile.  Leaf, 
long,  dark  green,  boldly  curved  serrate,  upheld  and 
upfolded.  Origin,  probably  English.  Known  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  Still  one  of  the  best  late  cooking 
apples. 

NORTHERN  SPY.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1862,  8.  G., 
Spaeher  des  Nordens.  (Spy.)  Dessert,  till  March, 
medium,  2j  by  2j,  round  conical,  almost  regular. 

97 


Colour,  greenish-yellow,  almost  covered  with  faint 
red  stripes  and  flush.  Flesh,  loose,  juicy,  greenish- 
yellow,  of  good  flavour.  Eye,  very  small,  closed  in  a 
shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very  long,  slender  in  a 
very  wide  and  deep  cavity,  faintly  russet  veined. 
Growth,  upright,  compact ;  only  moderately  fertile. 
Leaf,  oval,  nearly  flat,  undulating.  Origin,  at  the 
orchard  of  Mr.  R.  Humphrey,  East  Bloomfield,  New 
York,  soon  after  1840.  This  apple  only  does  well  in 
England  in  very  favourable  years. 

Northwick  Pippin  :   see  Blenheim  Orange. 

NUTMEG  PIPPIN.  (Cockles  Pippin  (error).)  Des- 
sert, till  March,  small,  2  by  2,  flattened  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  pale  yellow  almost  covered  with  cinnamon 
russet,  with  faint  brown  red  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  pale 
yellow,  juicy  and  pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  open  in 
a  shallow  basin  which  has  prominent  knobs.  Stem, 
very  short  in  a  very  narrow,  shallow  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  slender ;  fairly  fertile.  Origin,  unrecorded. 
Lindley  considered  this  to  be  the  same  as  Cockles 
Pippin,  but  the  fruit  grown  in  Kent  is  quite  distinct. 
A  nice  little  fruit  in  March. 

Ohio  Nonpareil :    see  Gravenstein. 

Okera :    see  Akero. 

Old  Hawthornden  :    see  Hawthornden. 

Old  Lady  :    see  Golden  Knob. 

Old  Maid  :    see  Golden  Knob. 

ONTARIO.  New  York,  L,  240.  Culinary  or 
dessert,  till  April,  medium,  2f  by  2,  flat,  irregular. 
Colour,  pale  yellow  with  bright  red  flush  and  faint 
stripes.  Flesh,  crisp,  juicy,  pale  yellow,  sub-acid. 
Eye,  very  small  in  a  broad  rather  deep  basin.  Stem, 
moderately  long,  rather  slender  in  an  extremely  wide 

98 


ribbed  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  and  sturdy ;  ferti- 
lity remarkably  regular.  Leaf,  rather  large,  rich  green, 
very  long  oval,  upcupped,  much  undulating,  coarsely 
serrate.  Origin,  a  cross  between  Wagener  and  Northern 
Spy,  made  by  Mr.  Charles  Arnold,  in  Ontario  before 
1874.  An  excellent  late  variety,  worthy  of  extended 
cultivation.  It  does  not  shrivel  when  kept  long. 

ORANGE  GOFF.  (Goff,  Pork  Apple.)  Culinary, 
till  March,  medium,  3  J  by  2j,  roundish,  slightly  flattened. 
Colour,  yellow  with  crimson  flush  and  darker  stripes. 
Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  rather  acid.  Eye,  open  in  a 
shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  shallow  or 
hardly  perceptible  cavity.  Growth,  sturdy ;  fertile. 
Origin,  known  for  many  years  in  Kentish  orchards. 
A  very  old  variety  of  excellent  cooking  qualities. 

ORANGE  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  p.  16.  Dessert,  till 
January,  medium,  3  by  2,  flattened  round,  regular. 
Colour,  orange-yellow,  flushed  with  red.  Flesh,  tender, 
yellow,  of  fair  flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  slender  in  a  fairly  deep  cavity.  Growth,  good  ; 
fertile.  Origin,  unknown.  It  has  been  grown  in 
England  at  least  200  years.  It  is  now  little  culti- 
vated. There  seem  to  be  two  varieties  under  this  name, 
the  above  and  a  large  fruit  of  the  Blenheim  style. 

Original  Nonpareil :    see  Nonpareil. 
Original  Pippin  :    see  Oslin. 

ORLEAN'S  REINETTE.  Lauche  I.  40.  (Reinette 
Triumphant,  Court  Pendu  Blanc.)  Dessert,  till  Feb- 
ruary, medium  to  fairly  large,  2|  by  2j,  flattened, 
very  even.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with  slight  red 
flush.  Skin,  covered  with  patches  of  fine  russet.  Flesh, 
yellow,  very  crisp,  sweet,  juicy  and  of  the  highest 
flavour  intermediate  between  Blenheim  Orange  and 
Ribston  Pippin.  Eye,  open  in  a  wide,  shallow,  slightly 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  and  stout,  in  a  moderately 
deep  wide  russeted  cavity.  Growth,  strong,  upright, 

99 


spreading  ;  fertility  fair.  Leaf,  large,  oval,  dark  green, 
boldly  curved  serrate,  held  nearly  flat .  Origin,  uncertain 
but  it  was  first  described  by  Knoop  in  1776.  This 
apple  has  been  much  confused  with  others  and  I  first 
received  it  mixed  in  with  Blenheim  Orange  to  which 
it  is  very  similar  in  some  respects,  but  is  quite  distinct 
the  flavour  being  much  better.  It  has  received  number- 
less synonyms  and  I  regret  that  my  firm  added  one  by 
calling  it  Winter  Ribston  until  the  real  name  was 
discovered.  This  magnificent  fruit  cannot  be  too 
highly  recommended. 

OSLIN.  Ronalds,  p.  6.  (Arbroath  Pippin,  Burr 
Knot,  Mother,  Original  Pippin,  Summer  Oslin.)  Dessert, 
August,  medium,  2\  by  2,  flattened  round,  regular. 
Colour,  pale  yellow,  thickly  spotted.  Flesh,  crisp, 
yellowish,  sweet,  aromatic.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth, 
good  ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  medium,  round,  irregularly 
serrate.  Origin,  Scotch  ?  (possibly  French)  probably 
dating  from  the  seventeenth  century.  Of  no  particular 
merit. 

Ox  Apple  :    see  Gloria  Mundi. 
Oxford  Peach  :    see  Scarlet  Pearmain. 
Paradies  :    see  Gravenstein. 

PARADISE.  The  name  Paradise  has  been  applied 
to  a  large  number  of  different  varieties  which  are  used 
for  stocks.  None  of  them,  however,  possess  any  special 
value  from  the  culinary  or  dessert  standpoint. 

For  description  of  the  fruits  see  Journal  R.H.S., 
Vol.  XLIL,  parts  II.  and  III. 

Paradise :    see  Thorle. 

PARADISE  WHITE.  Ronalds,  p.  2.  (Egg,  Eve, 
Lady's  Finger.)  Dessert,  October  to  November, 
2j  by  3j,  medium,  oval  conical.  Colour,  red  with  faint 

100 


stripes.  Flesh,  tender,  flavour  fair.  Eye,  open  in 
a  shallow  basin,  Stem,  fairly  long  in  a  narrow  round 
cavity.  Growth,  free ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf, 
small,  little  upfolded,  very  finely  serrate.  Origin, 
undiscovered.  An  old  variety  which  is  yet  found  grow- 
ing in  old  orchards  particularly  in  Ireland.  Not  worth 
growing  now.  The  synonyms  of  this  apple  are  much 
confused.  Eve  and  Lady's  Finger  being  also  used  for 
distinct  fruits. 


PAROQUET.    Culinary   or   dessert,    till    January, 
medium,   2j  by  2j,  round  conical.    Colour^  eatji 
covered  with  rich  crimson  red  with  russet  marki 


Flesh,  tender,  yellowish ;  flavour,  fair.  Eye,  wide, 
open  in  a  wide  very  shallow  basin.  Stem,  short  and 
stout,  in  a  small  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  compact ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  roundish,  light  green,  upcupped,  undula- 
ting, finely  and  deeply  doubly  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
a  chance  seedling  raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross,  and  intro- 
duced by  Messrs.  Cheal,  of  Crawley.  Attractive  on 
account  of  its  rich  colour,  but  its  flavour  is  not  good 
enough  as  grown  at  Allington. 

Passe  Pomme  d'ffiver  :  see  CalvUle  Rouge  d'Hiver. 
Paternoster  :  see  Dutch  Mignonne. 

PAUL'S  WINTER  HAWTHORNDEN.  Her.  Pom., 
10.  Culinary,  till  February,  medium,  3  by  2  J,  flattened 
round,  tapering  markedly  to  eye,  even.  Colour,  pale 
green  with  faint  red  flush,  smooth.  Flesh,  firm,  pale 
green,  acid  ;  flavour  nil.  Eye,  closed  almost  on  surface 
of  fruit,  basin  a  little  ribbed  and  rounded.  Stem, 
moderately  long  in  a  very  deep,  wide  cavity.  Growth, 
dense  and  compact ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  large, 
round  oval,  flat,  pale  green,  shallow  serrate.  Origin, 
undiscovered.  Makes  a  well  spurred  round  headed 
tree. 

PEARSON'S  PLATE,  Her.  Pom.,  47.  Dessert, 
till  March,  very  small,  2  by  if,  square-conical,  regular. 

101 


Colour,  greenish-yellow  with  brown-red  flush  and  stripes 
and  russet.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  rich.  Eye,  open  in 
a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  long  in  a  moderately 
even  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  oval,  bi-serrate.  Origin,  unknown. 
Robert  Thompson  considered  de  Hanovre  to  be  identical 
with  this.  Now  very  little  grown. 

PEASGOGD'S  NONSUCH.  Her.  Pom.,  61.  F., 
SaiiSpardlle  -de  Peasgood.  Culinary  and  exhibition, 
September  to  November,  large,  3!  by  2 £,  round  flattened, 
remarkably  regular.  Colour,  golden-yellow  with  faint 
flush  arid  a  few  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  tender, 
yellowish,  of  pleasant  flavour  and  cooks  frothily.  Eye, 
nearly  closed  in  a  deep  round,  even  basin.  Stem, 
short  in  a  very  wide  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  roundish,  pea  green,  flat 
lax,  finely  crenate,  falls  early,  turns  greenish-yellow. 
Origin,  raised  by  Mrs.  Peasgood,  of  Stamford,  in  1858, 
from  a  seed  of  the  Catshead  Codlin.  First  fruited  in 
1872.  The  original  tree  is  still  growing  at  Stamford. 
One  of  the  most  beautiful  fruits  grown  ;  first  rate  for 
cooking.  It  makes  a  flat  spreading  tree.  Rather 
liable  to  canker. 

Peter  the  Great :    see  Cardinal. 
Phillip's  Seedling  :    see  Cellini. 
Pilot  Russet :    see  Cockle's  Pippin. 
Pine  Apple  :    see  Lucombe's  Pine. 

PINE  APPLE  RUSSET  OF  DEVON.  Dessert, 
September,  fairly  large,  2f  by  2\,  flat  conical.  Colour, 
creamy-yellow,  golden-red  flush  and  thin  russet  patches 
and  veinings.  Flesh,  yellow,  rather  dry,  rather  hard, 
pleasant  flavour  of  pine.  Growth,  compact ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  small,  roundish,  slightly  upfolded,  very 
coarsely  crenate,  undulating.  Origin,  long  grown  in 
Devonshire  and  Cornwall.  A  very  distinct  fruit. 

102 


The  Devonshire  variety  Sops  in  Wine  much  resembles 
this  but  is  distinct  and  rather  smaller.  It  must  not  be 
confused  with  the  Pine  Apple  Russet  of  Hogg. 

PINE  APPLE  RUSSET.  Dessert,  October  to  Nov- 
ember, medium,  2  by  2  J,  oblong  rounded,  nearly  even. 
Colour,  greenish-brown  covered  with  fine  russet.  Flesh, 
pale  yellow,  firm,  a  little  dry.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow, 
even  basin,  tips  laid  back.  Stem,  moderately  long, 
thin,  in  a  small  even  cavity.  Fertility,  moderate. 
Leaf,  rather  small,  upfolded,  boldly  crenate.  Origin, 
found  in  a  garden  belonging  to  Mr.  Hardingham,  of 
Norwich,  in  1780,  and  first  described  by  Lindley. 
This  is  I  presume  Lindley's  apple  though  he  speaks 
of  its  abundant  juice  (and  Hogg  copies  him  almost 
verbatim),  but  as  grown  to-day,  it  is  rather  dry.  The 
apple  of  the  same  name  from  Devon  is  quite  distinct 
and  I  venture  to  add  the  name  Devon  to  distinguish 
that  variety.  The  flavour  distinctly  recalls  the  Pine 
Apple. 

Pitcher  :    see  Mank's  Codlin. 

PITMASTON  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  till  Jan- 
uary, small,  2§  by  2|,  round,  flattened  at  top.  Colour, 
pale  golden-yellow  with  russet  and  very  faint  brown- 
red  flush.  Flesh,  yellow,  very  crisp  and  juicy,  nicely 
flavoured.  Eye,  wide  open  in  a  very  broad  and  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  very  slender  and  short  in  a  very  even 
and  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertile. 
Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  about 
1838,  "  probably  from  a  seed  of  the  Golden  Pippin." 
A  very  nice  little  fruit  now  seldom  met. 

Pitmaston  :    see  Pitmaston  Nonpareil. 

PITMASTON  NONPAREIL.  Her.  Pom.,  33  (as 
Pitmaston  Russet).  F.,  Nonpareille  de  Pitmaston. 
(Pitmaston,  Pitmaston  Russet,  Pitmaston  Russet  Non- 
pareil.) Dessert,  till  January,  medium,  2|  by  2, 
roundish,  flat,  regular.  Colour,  heavily  covered  with 

103 


bronze  russet,  occasionally  with  red  flush.  Flesh, 
tender,  pale  yellow,  russet  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a 
shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short  in  a  round, 
even  cavity.  Growth,  compact,  upright ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
little  upfolded,  long  oval,  deeply  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  John  Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  near  Worcester, 
and  introduced  to  notice  in  1818.  A  very  good  fruit 
of  the  flavour  usually  found  in  "  russets  "  :  now  very 
little  grown. 

PITMASTON  PINE  APPLE.  Dessert,  till  December, 
small,  2  by  2,  oblong,  conical,  shape  of  Adam's  Pear- 
main.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  almost  covered  with 
very  fine  cinnamon  russet.  Flesh,  yellow,  firm, 
juicy  with  a  most  deliciously  scented  and  honeyed 
flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  very  shallow  basin  or  level 
with  surface  surrounded  by  many  minute  ribs.  Stem, 
rather  stout,  half-inch,  in  a  narrow,  shallow,  very  round 
cavity.  Origin,  this  was  first  shown  at  the  Royal 
Horticultural  Show,  in  1845,  and  the  origin  then  given 
was  that  it  was  raised  from  the  Old  Golden  Pippin, 
more  than  sixty  years  ago,  by  Mr.  White,  of  Witley, 
steward  to  Lord  Foley.  Hogg  says  it  was  raised  by 
Mr.  Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  but  this  is  evidently  wrong 
as  it  was  only  sent  to  London  by  him.  This  is  one  of 
the  old  fruits  which  have  been  neglected  on  account 
of  their  small  size,  but  its  distinct  and  delicious  flavour 
should  give  it  a  place  in  the  gardens  of  connoisseurs. 

Pitmaston  Russet :    see  Pitmaston  Nonpareil. 

Pitmaston  Russet  Nonpareil :  see  Pitmaston  Non- 
pareil. 

Plumderity  :    see  Venus  Pippin. 
Pomme  de  Cuir  :    see  Pomme  Grise. 
Pomme  de  Laak  :    see  Dutch  Migonne. 

POMME  GRISE.  Ronalds,  16.  (Gray  Apple, 
Leather  Coat  of  Turic,  Pomme  de  Cuir.)  Dessert, 

104 


till  March,  small,  2j  by  ij,  flat,  regular.  Colour, 
brown-gold  russet  with  dark  red  flush.  Flesh,  crisp, 
yellowish,  aromatic.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  even  basin. 
Stem,  moderately  long  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth, 
weak ;  fertile.  Origin,  probably  Canadian.  Intro- 
duced to  England  in  1794.  An  excellent  russet. 

Pope's :    see  Cobham. 

POPE'S  SCARLET  COSTARD.  Culinary  or  dessert, 
till  March,  medium,  2j  by  2\,  conical,  fairly  regular. 
Colour,  pale  yellow,  almost  covered  with  dark  brownish 
crimson.  Flesh,  crisp,  juicy,  greenish,  pleasantly 
flavoured.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin, 
much  knobbed  at  top.  Stem,  short  in  a  small  very 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility,  moderate. 
Leaf,  roundish,  flat,  undulating,  shallow  serrate.  Origin, 
unrecorded.  Not  worthy  of  cultivation. 

Pork  Apple  :    see  Orange  Goff. 
Portugal :    see  Reinette  du  Canada. 
Potter's  Large  :    see  Kentish  Fillbasket. 

POTTS'  SEEDLING.  Her.  Pom.,  10.  (Dean's 
Codlin,  Holland  Pippin.)  Culinary,  October  to  Nov- 
ember, large,  3  by  3,  round,  regular.  Colour,  light 
green  to  chrome  yellow ;  skin  very  smooth.  Flesh, 
firm,  white,  acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  wrinkled  basin  with 
prominent  knobs  at  top.  Stem,  short,  stout,  in  a  wide 
and  rather  deep  cavity.  Growth,  dwarf ;  fertility, 
remarkable.  Leaf,  pale,  upfolded,  undulating,  rather 
large,  shallow  crenate.  Origin,  named  after  its  raiser, 
who  lived  at  Ashton-under-Lyme.  Dates  from  1849. 
A  useful  kitchen  fruit.  Most  valuable  for  small  gardens. 
Rather  liable  to  canker. 

Primiting  :    see  White  Joaneting. 

Prince  Albert :    see  Lane's  Prince  Albert. 
105 


PRINCE  EDWARD.  Culinary  or  dessert,  till  Feb- 
ruary, medium,  2f  by  2j,  round  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  golden-yellow,  with  red  flush  and  broad  broken 
stripes.  Flesh,  tender,  juicy,  pale  yellow,  sub-acid. 
Growth,  compact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  pale,  medium,  little 
upcupped,  boldly  crenate.  Origin,  raised  and  intro- 
duced by  Messrs.  Rivers.  Of  no  particular  merit. 

Putnam  Russet :    see  Boston  Russet. 
Quarrington  :    see  Devonshire  Quarrenden. 

QUEEN.  Her.  Pom.,  39.  (Saltmarsh's  Queen, 
The  Claimant.)  Culinary,  October  to  December,  large, 
3j  by  2j,  flat,  irregular.  Colour,  pale  lemon-yellow 
with  distinct  red  stripes  and  flush.  Flesh,  very  tender, 
white,  sub-acid,  excellent  cooker.  Eye,  closed  in  a 
deep,  wide  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  very  wide  and  deep 
cavity,  which  has  scaly  russet.  Growth,  strong  and 
spreading ;  fertile.  Leaf,  large,  flat,  coarsely  serrate 
or  crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  W.  Bull,  a  farmer 
of  Billericay,  in  1858,  and  introduced  by  Mr.  Saltmarsh, 
of  Chelmsford,  in  1880.  A  useful  fruit ;  does  well  as 
a  standard,  making  a  large  flat  headed  tree. 

QUEEN  CAROLINE.  (Spencer's  Favourite, 
Brown's  Queen  Caroline.)  Culinary,  till  December, 
fairly  large,  3  by  2f ,  flattened  round,  regular.  Colour, 
pale  greenish-yellow.  Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  yellow.  Eye, 
large,  open  in  a  wide  even  basin.  Stem,  medium,  in 
a  rather  deep  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  large,  dark  green,  round  oval,  regularly 
serrate,  upfolded,  undulating.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
T.  Brown,  a  nurseryman  of  Measham,  near  Ashby- 
de-la-Zouch,  about  1820,  and  named  after  the  much 
discussed  Queen.  A  good  cooker,  makes  a  good 
standard  and  bears  well  thus. 

Queen  Charlotte's  Apple  :  see  Borsdorfer. 
Quince  :    see  Lemon  Pippin. 
Quodlin  :    see  English  Codlin. 
106 


RAMBOUR  PAPALEU.  Arbor.  Beige,  1882,  p.  33. 
Culinary  or  dessert,  till  March,  very  large,  3j  by  3, 
oblong-conical.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  green  with  bold 
red  striping  and  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  crisp,  juicy, 
sweet.  Eye,  open,  in  a  wide  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
rather  short,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  very  stout 
and  compact,  upright ;  fertility,  excellent.  Leaf, 
large,  dark,  flat,  regularly  serrate.  Origin,  raised 
by  Col.  Hartwiss,  of  Nitika,  in  the  Crimea,  about  1853, 
and  named  after  M.  Papaleu,  of  Ghent. 

Red  Astrachan  :   see  Astrachan  Red. 

Red  Beefing  :    see  Norfolk  Beefing. 

Red  Flanders  :    see  Hollandbury. 

Red  Hawthornden :    see  Yorkshire  Beauty. 

RED  INGESTRIE.  RonaUs,  PL  i.  F.,  Ingestrie 
Rouge ;  G.,  Roter  Pepping  von  Ingestrie.  Dessert, 
September  to  October,  small,  2,\  by  2,  square,  regular. 
Colour,  golden-yellow  with  red  flush  and  faint  stripes. 
Flesh,  crisp,  juicy,  yellow  ;  flavour,  good.  Eye,  open, 
in  a  moderately  deep  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  narrow 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  spreading.  Leaf,  medium, 
oval,  regularly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  T.  A.  Knight, 
about  1800  (Orange  x  Golden  Pippin).  Now  rarely 
met  with. 

RED  JOANETING.  Ronalds,  P.  6.  F.,  Mar- 
guerite ;  G.,  Roter  Morgareten.  (Eve,  Lammas, 
Striped  Quarrenden,  Margaret.)  Dessert,  early  August, 
small,  2j  by  2j,  oval,  slightly  irregular.  Colour, 
greenish-yellow,  nearly  covered  with  red  stripes  and 
flush.  Flesh,  soft,  greenish- white,  sub-acid.  Eye, 
open,  in  a  shallow,  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short 
and  stout,  in  a  wide,  not  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  making  a  shapely  upright  spreading  tree  ; 
fertility  great.  Leaf,  large,  roundish,  pea  green, 
upheld  and  upcupped,  deeply  bluntly  serrate  or  nearly 

107 


crenate.  Origin,  probably  English,  dating  from  the 
seventeenth  century.  The  second  earliest  of  all  apples. 
The  Red  Margaret  is  I  think  a  red  sport  from  this  apple 
as  it  agrees  in  all  respects  save  the  colour  is  very  much 
deeper  and  unstripecl. 

Red  Margaret :  see  Red  Joaneting. 

Red  Ribbed  Greening  :  see  Cornish  Pine. 

RED  VICTORIA.  Card.  Chron.,  1908,  p.  297. 
Culinary,  September,  large,  3j  by  2f,  flattened  round, 
a  little  irregular.  Colour,  rich  crimson,  red  all  over. 
Flesh,  pale,  soft,  sub-acid.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep  and 
uneven  basin.  Stem,  short  and  thick,  in  a  deep  and 
wide  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  Leaf,  rather  large, 
long  oval,  nearly  flat,  undulated,  doubly  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  a  chance  seedling  which  originated  near  Wisbech, 
about  1884.  Introduced  by  Messrs.  Miller,  Wisbech, 
Remarkable  for  its  high  colour,  which  approaches 
that  of  Gascoynes  Scarlet. 

Regelans  :    see  Cornish  Gillyflower. 
Reinnette  a  Cote's  :    see  Calville  Blanche  d'Hiver. 
Reinette  De  Bolwyller  :    see  Baumann's  Reinette. 
Reinette  De  Canada  Grise  :   see  Royal  Russet. 
Reinette  D'Hiver  Musquee  :    see  M argil. 

REINETTE  DU  CANADA.  Ronalds,  P.  n.  F., 
Reinette  du  Canada ;  G.,  Pariser  Rambour  Reinette. 
(Some  forty-eight  synonyms  exist ;  Gold  Reinette, 
Mela  Januria,  Portugal,  Reinette  Grandville.)  Dessert, 
till  April,  large,  3f  by  3,  round  conical,  slightly  angular. 
Colour,  greenish-yellow  with  thin  russet  and  slight 
brown  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  pale  yellow,  of  rich  flavour. 
Eye,  open,  very  large,  in  a  very  wide  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  short  and  thick,  not  protruding  from  a  very  wide 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  rather  spreading  ;  fertility, 

108 


moderate.  Leaf,  rather  large,  dark,  upfolded,  undulated, 
oval,  sharply  pointed,  very  deeply  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  uncertain ;  known  in  France  before  1771. 
Excellent  in  warm  seasons.  Very  subject  to  canker. 

Reinette  Etoilee  :   see  Reinette  Rouge  Etoilee. 
Reinette  Gielen  :   see  Golden  Reinette. 
Reinette  Grand ville  :   see  Reinette  du  Canada. 

REINETTE  GRISE.  Ronalds,  P.,  32.  G.,  Grau 
Franzosische  Reinette.  (Belle  Fille,  Grauer  Rabau, 
Haute  Bont(§,  Leder  Apfel.)  Dessert,  till  March, 
medium,  2  by  2,  oblong  round,  regular.  Colour, 
yellowish-green  with  dull  red  flush  covered  with  russet. 
Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  aromatic.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  rather 
deep  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  very  deep  cavity .  Growth, 
vigorous  ;  fertile.  Origin,  of  great  antiquity  ;  recorded 
in  the  sixteenth  century  in  France,  its  country  of 
origin.  An  apple  of  excellent  quality. 

Reinette  Monstreuse  :  see  Belle  de  Boskoop. 

REINETTE  ROUGE  ETOILEE.  Fl.  and  Pom., 
1884,  169.  F.,  Reinette  Rouge  Etoilee ;  G.,  Roter 
Stern  Reinette.  [Cal ville  Rouge  Pre*coce  (error),  Early 
Red  Calville,  Reinette  Etoile'e.]  Dessert,  October 
to  December,  small,  2j  by  2,  flattened  round,  regular. 
Colour,  rich  yellow,  almost  covered  with  carmine  red 
with  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  pale 
yellow  with  suffused  red  below  skin,  sub-acid,  of  slight 
strawberry  flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  a  very  even,  regular 
basin.  Stem,  very  short,  in  a  narrow  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  compact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  dark,  long 
oval,  held  flat,  tip  down  curved,  very  finely  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  it  has  been  grown  in  Eastern  Belgium 
for  some  100  years  or  more.  It  was  introduced  to 
England  probably  about  1830.  It  is  the  Early  Red 
Calville  of  Hogg.  Of  fair  quality  and  most  attractive 
in  appearance. 

109 


REINETTE  SUPERFINE.  Culinary  or  dessert, 
till  March,  medium,  2\  by  2j,  round,  markedly  conical, 
regular.  Colour,  pale  yellow  almost  covered  with  red 
flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  firm,  juicy, 
of  pleasant  flavour.  Leaf,  long,  greyish-green,  down 
hanging,  boldly  curved  serrate.  Origin,  uncertain  ; 
introduced  by  Transon  Freres,  of  Orleans,  in  1866. 
An  attractive  fruit  of  some  merit. 

Reinette  Triomphant :  see  Orleans  Reinette. 
Reinette  Von  Madeira :  see  Lemon  Pippin. 
Reinette  Von  Montfort :  see  Belle  de  Boskoop. 

RENOWN.  Card.  Chron.,  1908,  p.  292.  Dessert 
or  culinary,  October  to  November,  fairly  large,  3|  by  2|, 
broad  conical,  uneven.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  almost 
covered  with  red  flush,  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  firm, 
of  pleasant  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  broad  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  round  even  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  vigorous ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  round  oval, 
medium,  held  up,  flat,  boldly  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross  from  the  same  cross  as  pro- 
duced the  apple  Charles  Ross. 

REYNOLDS  PEACH.  (Emperor  Napoleon.)  Cul- 
inary or  dessert,  August,  2  J  by  2j,  flat,  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  entirely  covered  with  the  brightest  carmine 
with  heavy  bloom.  Flesh,  loose,  pale  yellow,  sub-acid. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  very  ribbed  irregular  basin.  Stem, 
short  and  thick  not  protruding.  Growth,  dwarf ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  pea  green,  upfolded,  boldly 
crenate.  Origin,  an  old  West  Country  apple  much  grown 
in  Devonshire  orchards.  Remarkable  for  its  earliness 
and  unusual  appearance  on  the  tree,  but  of  no  value. 

REV.  W.  WILKS.  The  Garden,  1910,  572.  Culin- 
ary, September  to  November,  very  large,  3|  by  3, 
flat  conical,  slightly  irregular.  Colour,  pale  creamy- 
white  with  slight  flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  tender, 

no 


white,  sub-acid,  cooks  frothily,  pale  yellow.  Eye, 
closed  or  slightly  open,  in  a  wide  ribbed  basin.  Stem,, 
short,  in  a  deep,  narrow,  slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
stout  and  dwarf  ;  fertility  extraordinary.  Leaf,  large, 
dark,  lax,  undulated,  doubly  curved  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Messrs.  Veitch,  from  Peasgood  Nonsuch 
and  Ribston.  A  very  large  and  promising  fruit,  of 
excellent  cooking  qualities. 

RHODE  ISLAND  GREENING.  New  York.,  I. 
282.  F.,  Verte  de  Rhode  Island.  Dessert  or  culinary, 
till  April,  medium  to  large,  3  by  2\,  round,  slightly 
conical.  Colour,  pea  green  fading  to  pale  yellow. 
Flesh,  crisp,  very  juicy,  pale  yellow,  spicy  flavour. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  medium  basin.  Stem,  rather  long, 
in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  sturdy  and  compact ; 
regularly  fertile.  Leaf,  long  oval,  very  dark  green, 
upfolded,  very  sharply  curved  serrate.  Origin,  Ameri- 
can, probably  over  150  years  old.  A  useful  late  fruit 
of  the  Newt  own  Pippin  style.  Quite  good  for  dessert 
in  March  and  April  when  well  ripened. 

Ribston  Pearmain  :    see  Clay  gate  Pearmain. 

RIBSTON  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  P.  27.  F.,  Pepin 
Ribston ;  G.,  Englische  Granat  Reinette.  (Formosa 
Pippin,  Nonpareille  d'Angleterre,  Travers  Pippin.) 
Dessert,  till  January,  medium  to  fairly  large,  3  by  2j, 
round  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  yellow  with  dull 
brownish-red  flush  and  few  stripes  and  russet.  Flesh, 
firm,  yellow,  highly  aromatic .  Eye,  a  little  open,  in  a  deep 
uneven  basin.  Stem,  rather  long,  in  a  narrow  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  medium.  Leaf, 
very  dark,  and  densely  woolly  below,  upcupped,  edges 
twisted,  shallow  serrate.  Origin,  English.  Raised  at 
Ribston  Hall,  Knaresborough,  about  1709,  from  seeds 
brought  from  Rouen.  One  of  the  richest  flavoured 
apples  when  well  ripened. 

RIVAL.  Culinary  or  dessert,  October  to  December, 
fairly  large,  3  by  2j,  round  flattened,  regular.  Colour, 

in 


pale  yellowish-green  with  carmine  flush  and  a  few 
broad  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  white,  flavour 
pleasant.  Eye,  half  open,  in  a  very  deep  and  wide 
basin,  which  is  a  little  plaited  on  the  sides.  Stem, 
short,  in  a  very  deep,  round  and  even  cavity.  Growth 
vigorous ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  medium,  flat 
serrate,  long  oval,  held  flat,  undulating,  turns  pale 
yellow.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross,  from 
Peasgood  Nonsuch.  Introduced  by  Messrs.  Clibran, 
Altrincham.  A  most  attractive  fruit  of  great  promise. 

River's  Codlin  :    see  Thomas  Rivers. 

RIVERS'  EARLY  PEACH.  Dessert,  mid-August, 
medium,  3j  by  2},  flat  conical,  falling  away  to  eye  in 
flat  sided  angles.  Colour,  palest  creamy-yellow  with 
sometimes  a  faint  flush.  Flesh,  white,  granular,  sweet, 
aromatic,  apt  to  be  a  little  dry.  Eye,  closed  in  a  broad 
slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  wide 
shallow  cavity,  a  green  tinge  remains  round  stem  when 
fruit  is  ripe.  Growth,  distinctly  upright.  Leaf, 
narrow,  oval,  down-hanging,  flat,  finely  crenate,  falling 
early.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Rivers. 

Roman  Beauty  :    see  Rome  Beauty. 
Rome  :    see  Rome  Beauty. 

ROME  BEAUTY.  New  York,  I.  p.  290.  (Belle  de 
Rome,  Roman  Beauty,  Rome.)  Culinary  or  dessert, 
till  May,  large,  3  by  2|,  nearly  round,  even.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  almost  covered  with  bright  red  flush  and 
some  broad  broken  stripes  showing  through.  Flesh, 
palest  yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  a  little  sweet,  not  any  marked 
flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow,  slightly  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  always  long,  in  a  shallow  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  medium,  at  first  upright,  then  slightly  dropping. 
Leaf,  long  oval.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Gillett,  in 
Lawrence,  Ohio  Co.  Introduced  in  1848.  This 
American  variety  is  under  trial  and  so  far  seems  promis- 
ing, and  if  it  crops  sufficiently  well  and  is  resistent  to 
canker  it  should  be  a  valuable  late  market  variety. 

112 


ROSEBERRY.  Dessert,  October  and  in  the  North 
till  December,  medium,  2\  by  2j,  round-conical,  uneven. 
Skin,  smooth,  a  little  greasy,  Colour,  almost  entirely 
covered  with  bright  scarlet  flush  and  bright  stripes. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  very  tender,  sweet.  Eye,  medium, 
firmly  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
variable,  half  to  one  inch,  in  a  shallow,  narrow,  faintly 
russet  cavity.  Fertility  good.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Storrie  in  his  nursery,  at  Glencarse. 

ROSEMARY  RUSSET.  Ronalds,  P.,  16.  Dessert, 
till  February,  small  to  medium,  z\  by  2,  round  conical, 
flattened  at  base,  regular.  Colour,  yellowish-green 
with  slight  red  flush,  covered  with  light  russet.  Flesh, 
crisp,  yellow,  very  rich  and  brisk.  Eye,  a  little  open, 
in  a  small  even  basin.  Stem,  unusually  long,  in  a  wide 
cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf, 
rather  large,  light,  held  flat,  boldly  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  unknown  ;  first  recorded  by  Ronalds,  in  1831. 
Quite  the  best  of  late  winter  apples. 

RpSS  NONPAREIL.  Her.  Pom.,  21.  F.,  Non- 
pareille  de  Ross.  Dessert,  till  January,  medium, 
2\  by  2,  round  regular.  Colour,  greenish-yellow,  with 
crimson  flush  and  stripes,  covered  with  russet.  Flesh, 
tender,  greenish,  aromatic,  strongly  scented.  Eye, 
wide  open  like  a  clove  in  a  shallow  regular  basin.  Stem, 
long  and  slender,  in  a  narrow  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
slender,  making  a  compact  tree  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather 
small,  pea  green,  held  up,  flat,  very  irregularly  serrate, 
often  nearly  entire.  Origin,  Irish ;  introduced  to 
England  in  1820.  A  first  rate  garden  fruit,  as  good  in 
flavour  as  it  is  attractive  in  appearance.  Makes  a  nice 
round  headed  standard. 

Round  Russet  Harvey :    see  Golden  Harvey. 

ROUNDWAY  MAGNUM  BONUM.  Dessert  or 
culinary,  till  March,  large,  3  by  2j,  flat,  conical.  Colour, 
yellowish-green  with  dull  brown  flush  and  a  few  broad 
broken  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  greenish-yellow,  rather  dry, 


flavour  very  sweet  and  pear  like.  Eye,  a  little  open 
in  a  broad  irregular  basin.  Stem,  stout  in  a  wide 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  spreading  ;  fertility,  moderate. 
Leaf,  large,  dark,  held  out,  slightly  upcupped  and 
undulating,  boldly  curved  serrate,  very  downy  below. 
Origin,  raised  at  Roundway  Park,  Devizes,  and  brought 
to  notice  about  1864.  A  fruit  of  remarkable  flavour, 
deserving  wider  cultivation. 

ROUND  WINTER  NONSUCH.  Her.  Pom.,  61. 
Culinary,  till  February,  large,  3  by  2j,  round  flattened, 
fairly  regular.  Colour,  pale  greenish-yellow  with  slight 
flush  and  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  soft,  greenish- 
white,  sweet.  Eye,  closed,  on  a  level  with  the  surface, 
Basin  a  little  wrinkled.  Stem,  short  and  stout,  in  a  round, 
moderately  deep,  very  slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
upright  and  free  ;  fertility,  said  to  be  good.  Leaf, 
large,  upfolded,  reflexed,  irregularly  serrate.  Origin, 
unrecorded  ;  known  in  1842.  A  useful  cooking  variety, 
but  hardly  needed. 

Rousette  Royale  :    see  Royal  Russet. 
Roxbury  Russet :    see  Boston  Russet. 
Royal  Codlin  :    see  Dutch  Codlin. 
Royal  George  :    see  Clark's  Seedling. 

ROYAL  JUBILEE.  Culinary,  October  to  December, 
medium,  2\  by  2|,  oval,  conical,  very  slightly  ribbed. 
Colour,  pale  lemon  yellow  occasionally  with  the  faintest 
orange  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  sub-acid :  cooks 
well.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  narrow  much  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  short  and  stout,  in  a  rather  wide,  slightly  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  very  dwarf  ;  extremely  fertile.  Leaf, 
medium,  tapering  to  petiole,  little  down-folded,  coarsely 
crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  John  Graham,  of 
Hounslow,  was  introduced  by  Messrs.  G.  Bunyard  &  Co., 
Maidstone,  in  1893.  Valuable  for  its  late  flowering 
and  regular  cropping  habits. 

114 


ROYAL  LATE.  Card.  Chron.,  1896,  p.  114.  Culin- 
ary, till  March,  large,  3  by  2j,  round  conical,  slightly 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellowish-green  with  russet 
nettings.  Flesh,  soft,  yeflow,  juicy  (almost  Reinette 
like),  sub-acid.  Eye,  open,  in  a  very  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  short  and  stout,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth, 
strong,  wide  spreading ;  fertility,  fair.  Origin,  found 
in  the  Royal  Gardens,  at  Frogmore,  and  said  to  have 
been  raised  by  Mr.  Powell.  It  has  now  been  given  up 
as  it  is  very  liable  to  canker. 

Royal  Pearmain  :    see  Autumn  Pear  main. 
Royal  Portugee  :    see  Cox's  Pomona. 

ROYAL  RUSSET.  Ronalds,  P.  29.  F.,  Reinette 
Grise  Royale ;  G.,  Koeniglicher  Russet.  (Leather 
Coat  (of  some),  Reinette  de  Canada  Grise  (an 
error),  Rousette  Royale.)  Culinary,  till  March, 
fairly  large,  3  J  by  2  J,  flattened  round,  irregular.  Colour, 
entirely  green,  covered  with  brown  russet.  Flesh, 
tender,  greenish-yellow,  sweet.  Eye,  closed  in  a  wide 
and  shallow  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  very  wide 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  long  oval 
very  dark,  upfolded  and  undulated,  broadly  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  probably  English.  First  recorded  in 
1597.  One  of  the  best  of  its  class. 

Royal  Snow  :    see  Fameuse. 

Royal  Somerset :    see  London  Pippin. 

RUDDY.  Early  September,  medium,  2|  by  2j, 
round  flattened,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  palest  yellow- 
green,  almost  covered  with  rich  crimson  flush,  faintly 
mottled.  Flesh,  of  loose  texture,  white,  fairly  sweet 
and  slightly  aromatic.  Growth,  compact ;  fertility, 
moderate.  Leaf,  long  oval,  undulating,  curved  serrate, 
grey-green.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross  from 
Ecidinville  and  Mere  de  Manage.  It  resembles  Red 
Astrachan  but  is  of  no  particular  merit. 


Russian  Ice  Apple  :    see  Astrachan  White. 
Rutlandshire  Foundling  :    see  Golden  Noble. 
Ryland  Surprise  :    see  Gold  Medal. 

RYMER.  Ronalds,  P.  41.  (Caldwell's  Keeper, 
Green  Cossings.)  Culinary,  till  March,  fairly  large, 
3j  by  2f ,  flattened  conical,  slightly  irregular.  Colour, 
covered  with  deep  crimson  red  flush  and  faint  stripes. 
Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  acid.  Eye,  closed,  or  a  little 
open,  in  a  deep  wide  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  extra  short, 
often  only  three-eights-of-an-inch,  in  a  small,  shallow 
cavity,  or  often  level  with  the  surface,  or  often  raised. 
Growth,  strong ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  large,  flat, 
down  curved,  round  oval,  doubly  shallow  serrate. 
Origin,  named  after  its  raiser,  Mr.  Rymer  of  Thirsk, 
Yorkshire,  about  1750.  Now  almost  out  of  cultivation, 
but  a  good  fruit.  This  apple  has  probably  the  shortest 
stem  of  any. 

Sack  :    see  Devonshire  Quarrenden. 

SACK  AND  SUGAR.  Ronalds,  P.  i.  Dessert  or 
culinary,  September,  medium,  2j  by  2j,  round,  tapering 
to  eye,  irregular,  showing  one  rib  more  prominent 
than  the  rest.  Colour,  pale  yellowish-green,  sprinkled 
with  prominent  dark  green  dots.  Flesh,  pale  yellow, 
very  tender,  juicy,  with  pleasing  aromatic  flavour. 
Eye,  closed,  segments  reflexed,  in  a  fairly  deep  rather 
uneven  basin,  which  is  slightly  ribbed.  Stem,  always 
very  short  and  stout,  not  protruding  from  cavity  which 
is  moderately  deep,  rather  narrow,  free  from  russet. 
Origin,  a  very  old  West  country  apple. 

ST.  EDMUNDS  PIPPIN.  (St.  Edmunds  Russet.) 
Dessert,  October  to  November,  small,  2j  and  2,  flattened 
conical,  even.  Colour,  entirely  covered  with  golden 
russet.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  very  juicy  and  fine  flavoured. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  small  even  basis.  Stem,  slender, 
in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  medium,  upright  spreading, 

116 


making  a  good  garden  tree.  Leaf,  medium,  narrow, 
pale,  upfolded,  undulating,  blunt  serrate.  Origin, 
rrised  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds  by  a  Mr.  Harvey,  about 
1870.  Quite  the  best  early  russet. 

St.  Edmunds  Russet :    see  St.  Edmunds  Pippin. 

ST.  EVERARD.  Dessert,  September,  medium, 
2l  by  2if  round,  regular.  Colour,  yellow,  almost 
covered  with  deep  crimson,  with  faint  stripes.  Flesh, 
crisp,  yellow,  juicy  and  of  excellent  flavour.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  shallow  or  almost  level  basin  with  a  few 
radiating  puckers.  Stem,  short  and  stout,  protruding 
from  a  wide  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  sturdy  and 
compact.  Leaf,  medium,  dark,  upcupped,  coarsely 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  a  gardener  at  Pap- 
worth  Everard  near  Cambridge,  supposedly  from  Cox's 
Orange  by  Margil  and  introduced  in  1910,  by  Messrs. 
Veitch  &  Co.  This  apple  is  of  great  promise  and  should 
be  included  in  all  collections. 

ST.  MARTINS.  Dessert,  till  February,  medium, 
oval,  tapering  to  eye,  very  even.  Skin,  smooth,  faint 
russet  in  patches.  Colour,  golden  yellow  almost 
covered  with  brownish  red  and  greyish  general  appear- 
ance. Flesh,  moderately  firm,  pale  yellow,  juicy, 
remarkably  sweet.  Eye,  closed  in  a  rather  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  rather  thin,  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Leaf,  long,  narrow,  regularly  crenate,  upfolded  and 
twisted.  Origin,  raised  and  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Rivers.  Perhaps  the  sweetest  of  all  apples. 

Salopian  :    see  Warner's  King. 
Salt  marsh's  Queen  :    see  Queen. 
Sam  Rawlings  :    see  Hoary  Morning. 

SANDRINGHAM.  Culinary,  till  February,  large 
2|  by  2j,  round  conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow, 
with  occasional  faint  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  but  soft, 

117 


yellowish,  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  rather  deep 
slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  moderately 
deep,  very  even  slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth,  moder- 
ate, rather  upright ;  fertile  when  adult.  Leaf,  rather 
small,  narrow,  upfolded,  undulated,  minutely  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Perry,  of  Sandringham  Gardens, 
and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Veitch  &  Sons,  in  1884. 
A  useful  fruit  which  does  well  in  the  Western  Counties. 

Sanguineous :    see  Fameuse. 

SANSPAREIL.  The  Garden,  1911,  523.  Culinary 
or  dessert,  till  April,  medium,  2f  by  2j,  round-conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  orange-yellow  with  brilliant  scarlet 
flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  sweet,  juicy 
and  aromatic.  Eye,  half  open,  in  a  rather  deep  and 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  narrow  russet-free 
cavity.  Growth,  compact ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  oval, 
rather  pale,  upfolded,  undulated,  held  out,  irregularly 
and  finely  serrate.  Origin,  unknown.  It  has  been 
cultivated  in  this  country  for  thirty  years  at  least.  A 
most  valuable  late  sort,  keeping  well  without  shrivelling 
It  deserves  to  be  more  widely  known. 

Sapsovine  :    see  Sops  in  Wine. 
Sapson  :    see  Sops  in  Wine. 
Sari  Sinope  :    see  Kandil  Sinap. 

SCARLET  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.  Her.  Pom.,  37. 
Dessert,  till  March,  very  small,  if  by  ij,  square  round. 
Colour,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  scarlet  flush.  Flesh, 
crisp,  yellow,  aromatic.  Eye,  open,  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  rather  long,  and  slender  in  a  small  cavity.  Growth 
moderate ;  fertile.  Origin,  as  a  bud  sport  of  Golden 
Pippin  in  Scotland,  about  1820.  Now  little  grown 
and  of  no  remarkable  merit. 

Scarlet  Incomparable  :    see  Colonel  Vaughan. 
118 


SCARLET  NONPAREIL.  Ronalds,  P.  34.  F., 
Nonpareil  Ecarlate ;  G.,  Scharlachroter  Nonpareil. 
Dessert,  till  March,  small  to  medium,  2|  by  2,  round 
conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow  covered  with  dull 
red  and  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  pale,  yellow,  sweet,  rather 

food  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  regular  basin, 
tem,  rather  long,  in  an  even  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
slender,  a  little  upright,  compact ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
very  narrow,  sharp  pointed,  held  out  flat,  light  green, 
boldly  crenate,  nearly  smooth  below.  Origin,  probably 
raised  at  Esher,  Surrey,  about  1773,  from  a  seed  of 
the  Old  Nonpareil.  A  good  old  sort  worthy  of  retention. 

SCARLET  PEARMAIN.  Ronalds,  P.  8.  F.,  Pear- 
main  Ecarlate  ;  G.,  Scharlach  rote  Parmane.  (Bell's 
Scarlet,  Melville  Pippin,  Oxford  Peach.)  Dessert, 
September  to  November,  medium,  2j  by  2j,  square- 
conical,  regular.  Colour,  crimson  scarlet  flush  with  faint 
stripes.  Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  red  tinged,  of  crab  apple 
flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  a  deepish  basin.  Stem,  medium, 
in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  slender,  rather  spreading 
making  a  close  twiggy  tree ;  fertility  good.  Leaf, 
long,  narrow,  upfolded,  coarsely  serrate.  Origin, 
introduced  to  notice  about  1800,  by  Mr.  Bell,  Agent 
to  the  Duke  of  Northumberland.  A  useful  fruit  of 
distinct  flavour,  but  should  be  eaten  soon  after  gathering. 

SCHOOLMASTER.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1882,  169.  Cul- 
inary, October  to  January,  fairly  large,  3  by  2f ,  conical. 
Colour,  bright  green  with  slight  flush.  Flesh,  crisp, 
white,  slightly  acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  deep  basin. 
Stem,  very  short,  in  a  small  irregular  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous  ;  fertile.  Origin,  raised  in  1855  from  the  seed 
of  a  Canadian  apple.  The  original  tree  grew  in  Old 
Stamford  Grammar  School  Garden.  Introduced  by 
Messrs.  Laxton,  in  1882.  Now  little  grown  in  the  South. 

SEATON  HOUSE.  Culinary,  September  to  Jan- 
uary, medium,  2\  by  2,  flat.  Colour,  pale  milky-yellow 
with  a  faint  flush  and  a  few  broken  stripes.  Flesh, 
crisp,  juicy,  pale  yellow,  flavourless.  Eye,  small,  closed, 

119 


in  a  very  shallow  basin,  which  is  slightly  plaited.  Stem, 
stout,  in  a  wide  and  deepish  cavity,  slightly  russet  lined. 
Growth,  compact ;  fertility  remarkable.  Leaf,  medium, 
long  oval,  pale,  held  flat,  sharply  serrate.  Origin,  raised  at 
Seaton  House,  Arbroath,  Scotland .  Of  the  Hawthornden 
class,  valuable  only  for  its  remarkable  cropping  powers, 
rather  tender  skin.  It  often  keeps  till  March. 

SEPTEMBER  BEAUTY.  Dessert,  September  to 
January,  medium,  2j  by  2,  round  flattened,  slightly 
irregular.  Colour,  lemon-yellow  with  very  bright 
crimson  flush  and  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  tender, 
yellow,  of  no  particular  flavour.  Growth,  moderate, 
makes  a  nice  upright  spreading  tree.  Leaf,  long  oval, 
nearly  flat,  undulating.  Origin,  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Laxton,  about  1885.  It  is  now  superseded. 

SHEPHERD'S  PEARMAIN.  Dessert  or  culinary, 
till  March,  large,  3f  by  3j,  markedly  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  golden-yellow  with  brown  red  flush  and  patches 
of  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  rather  dry,  yellow,  of  good 
flavour.  Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather 
dark,  nearly  flat,  little  undulated,  oval,  finely  shallow 
serrate.  Origin,  an  old  sort  still  grown  in  the  Eastern 
counties. 

Shepherd's  Pippin  :    see  Alfriston. 
Shepherd's  Seedling  :    see  Alfriston. 
Shropshire  Pippin  :    see  King  of  the  Pippins. 

SIGNE  TILLISCH.  Culinary,  October  to  December, 
fairly  large,  2f  by  3j,  round  conical,  ribbed  and  angular 
on  sides.  Colour,  pale  milky-yellow  with  faint  brown- 
red  flush,  very  greasy.  Flesh,  white,  moderately 
firm,  a  little  sweet.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  deep  and  much 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  narrow  and  deep 
cavity,  free  from  russet.  Growth,  upright,  spreading, 
moderately  vigorous.  Leaf,  rather  large,  upfolded, 
twisted,  sharply  serrate.  Origin  unknown. 

1 20 


SIR  JOHN  THORNYCROFT.  Dessert,  October 
to  December,  medium,  2|  by  2j,  round  flattened. 
Colour,  rich  yellow  with  pinkish  red  flush.  Flesh, 
crisp  and  juicy,  yellowish  ;  flavour,  pleasantly  aromatic 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  rather  deep,  slightly  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  moderately  long  in  a  wide  shallow  russet  cavity. 
Growth,  upright  and  free ;  fertile.  Leaf,  oval,  dark, 
nearly  flat,  very  finely  crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr. 
Collister,  gardener  to  Sir  John  Thorny  croft,  at  Bern- 
bridge,  Isle  of  Wight,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  G. 
Bunyard  &  Co.,  in  1913.  An  attractive  fruit. 

Small  Ribston  :    see  Margil. 

SMALL'S  ADMIRABLE.  Her.  Pom.,  73.  Culinary, 
till  February,  round,  rather  flattened,  medium,  2\  by  2  J, 
Colour,  pale  yellow,  greasy,  dotted  with  large  russet 
dots.  Flesh,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  not  very  acid,  nearly 
white.  Eye,  small,  fast  closed,  in  a  very  shallow 
basin  which  has  a  few  beads  at  base.  Stem,  short,  in 
a  rather  wide  cavity.  Growth,  dwarf  and  compact  ; 
very  fertile.  Leaf,  large,  long,  little  upfolded,  twisted, 
doubly  crenate.  Origin,  raised  about  1850,  by  Mr. 
Small,  a  nurseryman,  of  Colnbrook,  near  Slough.  I 
think  it  doubtful  if  Hogg  describes  the  right  variety 
as  it  keeps  much  later  than  he  states. 

SMART'S  PRINCE  ARTHUR.  Card.  Chron.,  1899. 
p.  123.  Culinary,  till  March,  large,  2|  by  3j,  remark- 
ably conical,  and  contracted  at  the  top  of  the  fruit, 
irregular.  Colour,  yellow,  almost  covered  with  red 
flash  and  wide  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  dry,  very 
yellow,  rather  flavourless.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep  much 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  stout,  rather  long,  in  a  narrow, 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  weeping ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  pea  green,  flat,  undulating,  long  oval,  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Smart,  near  Sitting- 
bourne.  A  heavy  good  keeping  sort ;  it  stands  rough 
usage  well. 

Snow  :    see  Fameuse. 

121 


SOPS  IN  WINE.  Fl  and  Pom.,  1882,  105.  (Sapson, 
Sapsovine.)  Culinary,  October  to  December,  medium, 
2|  by  2,  round,  slightly  flattened.  Colour,  greenish- 
yellow  almost  covered  with  dark  crimson  flush.  Flesh, 
tender,  white,  much  stained  with  red ;  flavourless. 
Eye,  a  little  open  in  an  even  shallow  basin.  Stem, 
medium  in  a  very  deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ; 
fertile.  There  are  many  red  fleshed  apples  to  which 
this  name  has  been  applied.  This  I  believe  to  be  the 
Old  English  apple  so  called.  It  is  of  no  particular 
merit. 

South  Lincoln  Pippin  :    see  Allington  Pippin. 

Speckled  Golden  Reinette  :   see  Barcelona  Pearmain. 

Speckled  Pearmain  :   see  Barcelona  Pearmain. 

Spencer's  Favourite  :    see  Queen  Caroline. 

Spice  :    see  D'Arcy  Spice. 

Spice  Apple  :    see  Caraway  Russet. 

vSpring  Ribston  :    see  D'Arcy  Spice. 

Spy  :    see  Northern  Spy. 

Stadway  Pippin  :    see  Bess  Pool. 

Stagg's  Nonpareil :    see  Early  Nonpareil. 

STAR  OF  DEVON.  Dessert,  till  February,  small 
to  medium,  2j  by  if,  round  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
golden-yellow,  almost  covered  with  red  flush  and 
bright  carmine  stripes.  Flesh,  soft,  nearly  white, 
of  poor  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  shallow  slightly 
ribbed  basin.  Stem,  often  very  long,  in  a  narrow,  deep 
russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility,  moderate. 
Leaf,  upfolded.  Origin,  raised  by  J.  Garland,  Esq., 
Broad  Clyst,  Devon,  and  introduced  to  notice  in  1905, 
by  Mr.  George  Pyne,  Topsham.  Up  to  the  present 
no  particular  merit  has  been  discovered. 

Stettin  Pippin  :    see  Dutch  Mignonne. 

122 


STIRLING  CASTLE.  Her.  Pom.  5.  G.,  Schloss 
Stirling.  Culinary,  September  to  October,  fairly  large, 
3j  by  2j,  round  flattened,  regular.  Colour,  pale  green. 
Flesh,  soft,  white,  acid.  Eye,  open,  in  a  remarkably 
wide  and  deep  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  deep  cavity 
which  has  russet  veins.  Growth,  compact  but  spread- 
ing ;  extremely  fertile.  Leaf,  long,  pale,  nearly  flat, 
shallow  serrate.  Origin,  raised  at  Stirling,  Scotland, 
about  1830,  and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Drummond, 
of  that  town.  A  valuable  fruit,  remarkable  for  its 
fertility,  a  little  liable  to  canker. 

Stone  Blenheim  :    see  Hambledon  Deux  Ans. 

STONE'S.  Her.  Pom.,  20.  (Loddington,  Killick's 
Apple.)  Culinary,  till  January,  large,  3  by  2f,  oblong 
conical,  slightly  irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellowish-green 
with  brown-red  flush  and  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh, 
crisp,  white,  very  juicy,  acid.  Eye,  large,  closed  in  a 
very  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  thin,  in  a  very 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  very  fertile.  Leaf, 
very  large,  dark,  nearly  flat,  very  boldly  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  at  Loddington,  near  Maidstone,  by  Mr. 
Stone.  A  useful  fruit,  but  rather  apt  to  canker  and 
now  little  planted. 

STRIPED  BEEFING.  Her.  Pom.  35.  F.,  Beaufin 
Strie* ;  G.,  Gestreifter  Beaufin.  Culinary,  till  May, 
fairly  large,  3j  by  3,  round,  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  pale  green  almost  covered  with  wide  red  stripes. 
Flesh,  firm,  greenish-yellow,  sub-acid.  Eye,  nearly 
closed,  in  a  deep  irregular  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a 
medium  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
large,  roundish,  dark,  slightly  upcupped,  very  boldly 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  probably  English.  Found  in 
Norfolk  and  introduced  to  general  cultivation  about 
1850.  A  useful  old  sort. 

Striped  Quarrenden  :   see  Gladstone. 
Striped  Quarrenden  :   see  Red  Joaneting. 
Stubb's  Seedling:   see  Winter  Quarrenden. 
123 


STURMER  PIPPIN.  Her.  Pom.,  25.  F.,  Pepin 
de  Sturmer ;  G.,  Sturmer  Pepping.  Dessert,  till 
May,  medium,  2|  by  2,  round  conical,  regular.  Colour, 
greenish-yellow  with  dull  brown  flush  with  slight  russet. 
Flesh,  crisp,  juicy,  greenish,  brisk  and  pleasantly 
flavoured.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  fairly  deep  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  rather  long,  in  an  even  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
slender ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rich  green,  little  upfolded, 
very  coarsely  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Dillistone, 
a  nurseryman,  at  Sturmer,  near  Haverill,  Suffolk  ; 
and  introduced  about  1843.  An  indispensable  fruit 
for  late  use.  It  should  be  left  on  the  tree  as  late  as 
possible.  It  does  well  on  either  light  or  heavy  soils. 

SUGAR  LOAF  PIPPIN.  F.,  Pain  de  Sucre  ;  G., 
Zuckerhut  Apfel.  (Dolgoi  Squoznoi  (original  name) 
Dymond's  Sugar  Loaf,  Hutching's  Seedling.)  Culinary, 
August,  medium,  2j  by  2f ,  tall,  oblong,  nearly  regular. 
Colour,  pale  whitish-yellow.  Flesh,  soft,  very  juicy, 
greenish  white,  sweet.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  deep,  wide 
and  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short,  in  an 
even  non  russet  cavity.  Growth,  spreading ;  fertile. 
Origin,  probably  Russian.  Known  in  England  since 
the  early  part  of  last  century.  Of  no  particular  value, 
but  very  refreshing  and  sweet. 

SUMMER  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.  Lind.  Pom.  Brit., 
50.  F.,  Pepin  d'Or  d'Ete* ;  G.,  Sommergold  Pepping. 
Dessert,  mid  to  end  August,  small,  2  by  2,  round, 
flattened  each  end,  slightly  conical.  Colour,  lemon- 
yellow  with  slight  orange  flush.  Flesh,  yellow,  crisp 
juicy,  pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  open,  in  a  very, 
shallow,  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  medium  in  a 
shallow  sloping  russet  cavity.  Growth,  moderate, 
upright  spreading  ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  medium, 
oval,  curved  serrate,  held  flat,  Origin,  probably 
English,  known  before  1800.  A  delicious  early  fruit, 
worthy  of  extended  cultivation ;  quite  distinct  from 
Yellow  Ingestrie. 

Summer  Golden  Pippin  :   see  Yellow  Ingestrie. 
124 


SURPRISE.  Culinary,  October  to  November, 
medium,  2,\  by  2f,  round  conical,  tapering  much  to 
eye.  Colour,  pale  creamy-yellow  with  slight  brown- 
red  flush  ;  skin  smooth  a  little  greasy.  Flesh,  soft, 
juicy,  slightly  yellow,  a  little  sweet.  Eye,  open,  almost 
on  level  with  surface,  basin  a  little  wrinkled.  Stem, 
moderately  long  and  stout,  in  a  rather  deep  and  wide 
cavity  which  is  faintly  russet  lined.  Origin,  undis- 
covered. This  is  not  the  Surprise  of  Downing. 

Sussex  Ducks  Bill :    see  Winter  Queening. 

SYKE  HOUSE  RUSSET.  Ronalds,  P.  38.  F., 
Reinette  de  Syke  House ;  G.,  Engh'scher  Spitals 
Reinette.  (Culver  Russet.)  Dessert,  till  February, 
small,  2 1  by  2j,  round  flattened,  regular.  Colour, 
yellow  covered  with  russet.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  rich. 
Eye,  open,  in  a  very  shallow  basin.  Stem,  medium,  in 
a  rather  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  small,  oval,  rather  coarsely  crenate  or 
serrate,  upcupped,  held  up.  Origin,  English.  Named 
after  a  village  in  Yorkshire,  and  dating  from  1780. 
Possibly  introduced  by  Messrs.  Perfect,  of  Pontefract, 
who  sent  it  to  Lee,  of  Hammersmith.  A  nice  little 
fruit. 

Taliesin  :    see  Norfolk  Beefing. 

TAMPLIN.  Dessert,  November,  large,  round 
tapering  to  eye,  slightly  uneven.  Skin,  smooth,  greasy. 
Colour,  deep  crimson  red  all  over  with  dark  broken 
stripes.  Flesh,  yellowish,  very  poor  flavour.  Eye, 
closed,  in  a  very  shallow  basin,  which  has  beads  at  base. 
Stem,  short  in  a  small  round  cavity.  Origin,  undis- 
covered. 

The  Claimant :    see  Queen. 

The  Shah  :    see  Miller's  Seedling. 

THOMAS  RIVERS.  (River's  Codlin.)  Culinary, 
September  to  December,  medium,  2j  by  2j,  round 
conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  slight 

125 


brownish  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellowish,  acid,  cooks 
extremely  well.  Eye,  open  in  a  very  small  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  slender,  fairly  long,  in  a  moderately 
deep  cavity,  which  is  free  from  russet.  Growth, 
vigorous ;  very  fertile.  Origin,  raised  by  Messrs. 
Rivers,  and  introduced  in  1894.  This  apple  is  most 
valuable  for  its  cooking  qualities,  having  a  distinct 
pear  flavour  with  an  almost  quince  like  acidity. 

THORLE.  Ronalds,  P.  2.  F.,  Thorle  d'Ete" ;  G., 
Wirtel  Apfel.  [Paradise  (error),  Watson's  New  Non- 
such, Whorle,  Lady  Derby.]  Dessert,  August  to 
September,  small,  2\  by  2  J,  flat,  regular.  Colour,  yellow 
with  crimson  stripes  all  over.  Flesh,  crisp,  juicy,  yellow  ; 
flavour  brisk.  Eye,  open  in  a  very  shallow  russet 
basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  wide  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  small,  round 
oval,  irregularly  serrate.  Origin,  Scotch.  A  very  old 
variety. 

TIBBETTS  PEARMAIN.  Culinary,  till  March, 
large,  3j  by  2|,  round,  conical,  tapering  markedly 
to  eye.  Colour,  pale  green  to  yellow  with  a  very  slight 
flush  and  a  few  very  broad  stripes  round  entire  fruit. 
Flesh,  greenish-white,  tender,  little  sweet.  Eye,  very 
small  closed  in  a  very  small  ribbed  basin,  almost  on 
surface.  Stem,  rather  short,  not  protruding  from 
a  very  deep  narrow  cavity  which  is  faintly  russet. 
Growth,  vigorous,  upright ;  fertility,  regular.  Leaf, 
large,  bright  green,  upcupped,  very  undulated,  crenate. 
Origin,  this  is  found  in  many  old  orchards  but  I  have 
not  been  able  to  find  any  account  of  its  history. 
This  is  quite  a  useful  apple  and  cooks  very  well,  but 
the  colour  is  rather  brown.  It  requires  little  sugar. 

Tom  Potter  :    see  Tom  Putt. 

TOM  PUTT.  Her.  Pom.  P.  6.  (Tom  Potter.) 
Culinary,  September  to  November,  medium,  3  by  2j, 
round  conical,  much  ribbed  around  eye.  Colour, 
covered  with  red  flush,  broad  blotches  and  stripes. 

126 


Flesh,  crisp,  acid,  greenish  white,  cooking  excellently. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  medium  much  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
short  and  stout,  in  a  medium  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
robust ;  fertility  fair.  Leaf,  broad,  round,  upfolded, 
sharply  crenate  or  serrate,  very  large.  Origin,  raised 
by  the  Rev.  Tom  Putt,  Rector  of  Trent,  Somerset, 
at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  A  great  favourite 
in  the  Western  counties.  The  fruit  described  by  Hogg 
is  not,  I  think,  the  true  variety. 

TOWAR  OF  GLAMIS.  Her.  Pom.,  10.  F.,  Tour  de 
Glammis ;  G.,  Schloss  Glammis.  (Carse  o'Gowrie, 
Dunster  Codlin,  Gowrie.)  Culinary,  till  April,  large, 
3j  by  3,  round  conical  (variable),  irregular.  Colour, 
dull  green  with  brown-red  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  white, 
acid.  Eye,  closed  in  a  rather  deep  basin.  Stem, 
fairly  long,  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous, 
spreading  ;  very  fertile.  Leaf,  large,  long  oval,  boldly 
serrate.  Origin,  probably  Scotch.  Known  before  1800. 
A  valuable  apple,  can  be  recognised  by  its  unusual 
heaviness. 

Transparent :    see  Astrachan  White. 

TRANSPARENT  DE  CRONCELS.  Culinary  or 
dessert,  October  to  December,  large,  3j  by  3,  round 
oblong,  flattened  considerably  at  each  end.  Colour, 
very  pale  milky-yellow  with  an  occasional  slight  brown- 
red  flush  ;  no  stripes.  The  dots  show  up  as  large  and 
red  when  flushed.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  with  a  distinct  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep, 
wide,  much  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  moderately 
deep  and  very  even  cavity.  Growth,  strong,  a 
little  spreading ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  large, 
round,  dark,  flat,  edges  undulated,  very  coarsely 
serrate,  Origin,  raised  in  1869,  ^Y  M.  Ernest  Baltet, 
and  introduced  by  his  firm.  One  of  the  few  apples 
in  France  which  was  quite  uninjured  by  the  great 
frost  of  1879. 

Transparent  de  St.  Leger  :    see  White  Transparent. 
Travers  Pippin  :    see  Ribston  Pippin. 
127 


TWENTY  OUNCE.  New  York,  V.  2.,  p.  228. 
F.,  Dix-huit  onces.  G.,  Zwanzig  Unzen.  (Cayuga 
Red  Streak.)  Exhibition,  till  January,  large,  3  by  3, 
round,  slightly  conical,  nearly  regular,  with  a  curious 
hammered  appearance.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  slight 
flush  and  broad  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  loose,  pale 
yellow,  sub-acid,  fairly  juicy.  Eye,  a  little  open  or 
closed,  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  short 
and  slender,  in  a  deep  narrow  russet ed  cavity.  Growth, 
moderately  vigorous,  makes  a  nice  spreading  tree ; 
moderately  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  little  upfolded, 
undulating,  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  in  America, 
early  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Of  value  only  for 
exhibition  and  pot  culture. 

TYLER'S  KERNEL.  Culinary,  till  March,  large, 
2j  by  3,  markedly  conical,  slightly  angular,  very  vari- 
able in  shape  and  size.  Colour,  soft,  pale  yellow, 
sweetish.  Eye,  a  little  open,  in  a  very  deep  basin. 
Stem,  generally  extremely  short,  in  a  medium  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  robust ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf, 
large,  roundish,  very  dark,  flat,  boldly  and  sharply 
serrate.  Origin,  a  Mr.  Tyler,  of  Hereford,  introduced 
this  fruit  to  notice  in  1884.  A  useful  late  fruit  rather 
subject  to  canker. 

UPTON  PYNE.  Exhibition,  till  March,  large, 
conical.  Colour,  golden-yellow,  striped  with  pale  pink. 
Flesh,  firm,  white,  juicy,  of  brisk  pine  flavour.  Eye, 
closed,  in  a  shallow,  much  wrinkled  basin.  Stem, 
short  and  stout,  in  a  moderate,  russet  free  cavity. 
Growth,  strong,  rather  upright ;  fertile.  Leaf,  long, 
pale,  upfolded,  held  up,  nearly  serrate.  Origin,  raised 
by  Mr.  Pyne,  of  Topsham,  and  introduced  in  1910. 
Of  very  distinct  flavour  and  likely  to  become  popular. 

VENUS  PIPPIN.  Card.  Chron.,  1899,  p.  261. 
(Plumderity.)  Dessert  or  culinary,  September  to  Oct- 
ober, medium,  2f  by  2f ,  roundish  oblong,  fairly  regular. 
Colour,  pale  yellow-green.  Flesh,  tender,  pale  yellow, 
juicy  and  refreshing  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  medium 

128 


basin.  Stem,  long  and  thin  in  a  shallow  cavity,  which 
is  faintly  russet.  Growth,  vigorous,  rather  upright  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  rather  large,  greyish-green,  nearly  flat, 
curved  serrate.  Origin,  said  to  have  been  raised  about 
1800.  Rather  too  soft  for  market  use  and  hardly 
worth  retention. 

WADHURST  PIPPIN.  Pom.  Beige,  1856,  49.  F., 
Reinette  de  Wadhurst.  Dessert  or  culinary,  till  March, 
medium  to  large,  2}  by  2j,  fairly  regular,  oblong- 
conical.  Colour,  creamy-yellow  with  carmine  flush 
and  faint  irregular  stripes.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  deep 
basin.  Stem,  medium  stout,  in  a  fairly  deep  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fairly  fertile.  Origin,  presum- 
ably raised  at  Wadhurst  in  Sussex,  before  1850.  Of 
no  particular  merit. 

WAGENER.  New  York,  I.,  354.  G.,  Wageners 
Preis  Apfel.  (Waggoner  (error).)  Dessert  or  culinary, 
till  April,  medium,  2f  by  2,  flat  roundish,  irregular. 
Colour,  golden-yellow,  with  bright  pinkish  carmine 
flush  and  faint  stripes.  Flesh,  firm,  juicy,  yellow, 
pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  deep  rather 
broad  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  rather  long,  slender,  in  a 
deep  irregular,  slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth,  com- 
pact ;  fertile.  Leaf,  long,  pale,  upfolded  and  twisted, 
regularly  curved  serrate.  Origin,  raised  in  a  garden 
of  Abraham  Wagener,  about  1796,  at  Dover,  New  York 
State.  One  of  the  best  late  varieties,  keeps  well  without 
shrivelling. 

Waggoner  :    see  Wagener. 
Walmer  Court :    see  Northern  Greening. 
Walsgrove  Blenheim  :    see  Bess  Pool. 
Walsgrove  Wonder  :    see  Yorkshire  Beauty. 

WALTHAM  ABBEY.  Her.  Pom.  17.  F., 
Semis  de  1'Abbaye  de  Waltham  ;  G.,  Saemling  der 
Abtei  Waltham.  (Bardfield  Defiance,  Dr.  Harvey, 

129 


Embersons.)  Culinary,  September  to  December,  fairly 
large,  3j  by  2f,  round  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  pale 
yellow,  with  faint  red  flush.  Flesh,  tender,  yellow, 
sweet.  Eye,  closed  or  nearly  so,  in  a  rather  deep, 
irregular  basin,  which  is  much  ribbed.  Stem,  long 
and  slender,  in  a  narrow  and  deep  cavity,  always  rayed 
with  scaly  russet.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility  good 
when  old.  Leaf,  small,  oval,  finely  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  at  Waltham  Abbey,  by  Mr.  J.  Barnard,  about 
1810,  from  seed  of  Holland  Pippin.  This  is  an  excellent 
cooking  fruit  and  can  always  be  distinguished  by  its 
plump,  roundish,  very  light  brown  seeds. 

WANSTALL  PIPPIN.  Dessert,  till  June,  medium, 
2  by  2j,  round,  tapering  a  little  to  eye.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  yellow  partly  covered  with  dark  brown-red 
flush  and  darker  stripes  and  few  patches  and  veinings 
of  russet.  Flesh,  yellow,  firm,  very  richly  flavoured. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  rather  wide  ribbed  basin.  Stem, 
fairly  long  in  a  fairly  deep  and  russet  cavity.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  deep  green,  upfolded  and  undulated, 
sharply  curved  serrate.  Origin,  said  by  Hogg  to  have 
been  raised  by  a  tailor,  named  Wanstall,  in  Sitting- 
bourne,  in  the  early  nineteenth  century.  A  very  useful 
late  dessert  fruit  which  deserves  to  be  better  known. 

WARNER'S  KING.  Her.  Pom.  23.  (D.  T. 
Fish,  King,  Killick's  Apple,  Salopian,  Weavering.) 
Culinary,  till  February,  very  large,  4  by  3,  flat  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  green  to  pale  yellow.  Flesh, 
tender,  white,  acid,  Eye,  closed  in  a  very  broad 
and  deep  basin.  Stem,  fairly  long,  in  a  very  deep, 
slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility, 
moderate.  Leaf,  large,  very  long  oval,  very  dark, 
very  undulating,  nearly  flat,  sharply  serrate.  Origin, 
generally  considered  Kentish,  but  very  uncertain. 
Dating  from  the  early  nineteenth  century.  This 
apple  is  rather  liable  to  canker. 

Warwickshire  Pippin  :    see  Wyken  Pippin. 
130 


WASHINGTON.  Culinary,  October  to  December, 
large,  3  by  2f ,  oval  oblong,  flattened  at  top.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  only  slightly  greasy,  dark  red  flush  and 
bold  broken  stripes.  Flesh,  tender,  fairly  juicy,  sub- 
acid,  no  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  broad,  deep  basin. 
Stem,  rather  short  in  a  narrow,  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
makes  a  wide  spreading  tree.  Leaf,  large,  long,  very 
dark,  much  upfolded,  undulated,  shallow  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  in  Washington  County,  U.S.A.,  on  the 
farm  of  Job  Whipple,  and  first  exhibited  in  1849. 
Introduced  from  America,  in  1812.  This  is  known  in 
America  as  Washington  Strawberry,  there  being  other 
varieties  called  Washington.  It  has  hardly  the  dessert 
quality  attributed  to  it  by  Dr.  Hogg  and  now  figures 
rarely  except  as  an  exhibition  fruit. 

Watson's  New  Nonsuch  :    see  Thorle. 

WEALTHY.  Dessert,  October  to  November,  fairly 
large,  3  by  2  J,  round,  a  little  flattened  each  end.  Colour, 
pale  golden-yellow  almost  covered  with  brilliant 
crimson  flush  and  broad  stripes  which  extend  right 
into  the  cavity.  Flesh,  white,  often  slightly  stained 
with  red,  loose  grained,  juicy,  very  sweet,  with  a 
pleasant  strawberry  flavour.  Eye,  very  small,  closed, 
in  a  deep  and  rather  narrow,  slightly  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  very  slender,  rather  long,  in  a  remarkably  narrow 
and  deep  cavity.  Growth,  rather  slender,  vigorous, 
little  spreading ;  fertility,  excellent.  Leaf,  rather 
dark,  flat  undulating,  shallow  serrate  or  almost  crenate. 
Origin,  raised  in  Minnesota  by  a  Mr.  Peter  Gideon, 
about  1860.  This  apple  is  almost  worth  growing  for 
its  appearance  alone,  and  to  those  who  like  a  tender 
fleshed  variety  it  will  be  acceptable  ;  it  is  rather  too 
soft  for  market  use. 

Weavering  :    see  Warner's  King. 
Wellington  :    see  Dummelous  Seedling. 

WERDER  GOLDEN  REINETTE.  Lauche,  2,  95. 
G.,  Werdersche  Wachs  Reinette.  Dessert,  till  March, 


medium,  2}  by  2j,  round,  very  regular,  flat.  Colour, 
golden-yellow,  striped  with  crimson.  Flesh,  firm, 
yellowish,  sweet  and  well  flavoured.  Eye,  open, 
sepals  reflexed,  in  a  flat,  shallow  basin.  Stem,  very 
short  and  stout,  in  a  wide  fairly  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  moderately  large,  little 
upfolded,  held  up,  crenate.  Origin,  raised  at  Werder, 
near  Potsdam,  Germany.  It  is  probably  not  the  fruit 
figured  in  the  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1882,  73.  A  nice  little 
fruit  resembling  a  small  Blenheim  Orange. 

WHEELER'S  RUSSET.  Her.  Pom.,  33.  F., 
Reinette  Grise  de  Wheeler.  Dessert,  till  April,  medium, 
2 1  by  2 i,  round  conical,  irregular.  Colour,  yellow  with 
reddish-brown  flush,  covered  with  russet.  Flesh,  firm, 
greenish,  sweet.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  plaited 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  in  a  rather  deep  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility,  moderate.  Origin,  uncer- 
tain. Known  in  1717.  English.  Of  no  particular  merit. 

White  Calville  :   see  Calville  Blanche  d'Hiver. 
White  Codlin  :    see  Dutch  Codlin. 

WHITE  JOANETING.  Ronalds,  P.  i.  (Early 
May,  Jenetting,  Primiting.)  Dessert,  mid- July,  small, 
2  by  if,  round  slightly  flattened,  regular.  Colour, 
straw-yellow  with  occasional  faint  red  flush.  Flesh, 
crisp,  white,  flavour  fresh.  Eye,  a  little  open  or  closed, 
in  a  shallow,  even  basin.  Stem,  long  and  slender,  in 
a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  upright ;  fer- 
tility, fair.  Leaf,  small,  irregularly  serrate  or  crenate, 
little  upfolded.  Origin,  English ;  before  1600.  The 
earliest  apple  of  all. 

WHITE  MELROSE.  Culinary,  October  to  Decem- 
ber, fairly  large,  3  by  3,  roundish,  conical,  ribbed. 
Colour,  palest  yellow  with  an  occasional  reddish  flush. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  juicy,  slightly  acid.  Eye,  closed, 
in  a  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  deep  russet 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  upright  ;  very  fertile. 

132 


Origin,  according  to  Hogg,  this  is  an  old  Scotch  apple, 
probably  introduced  by  the  monks  of  Melrose  Abbey. 
This  is  highly  thought  of  in  the  North  and  Midlands, 
but  with  me  is  of  no  special  excellence  compared  with 
the  number  of  good  fruits  ripening  at  the  same  period. 

WHITE  NONPAREIL.  Her.  Pom.  21.  F.,  Non- 
pareille  Blanche ;  G.,  Weisser  Nonpareil.  Dessert, 
till  February,  small,  2j  by  ij,  flat,  regular.  Colour, 
pale  greenish-yellow  with  slight  brown  flush,  covered 
with  russet.  Flesh,  tender,  nearly  white,  aromatic. 
Eye,  closed,  in  a  fairly  deep,  plaited  basin.  Stem, 
slender,  in  a  wide  cavity.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  oval,  pointed,  dark,  upfolded,  tip  down-curved, 
very  boldly  serrate.  Origin,  probably  English.  A 
fruit  of  good  flavour.  The  quite  round  cells  distin- 
guish it  from  the  Old  Nonpareil. 

White  Paradise  :    see  under  Paradise  White. 
White  Pippin  :    see  Norfolk  Stone  Pippin. 
White  Pippin  :    see  Yellow  Ingestrie. 
White  Stone  Pippin  :    see  Norfolk  Stone  Pippin. 

WHITE  TRANSPARENT.  F.,  Transparente  jaune. 
(Grand  Sultan,  Transparent  de  St.  Leger,  Yellow  Trans- 
parent.) Culinary  or  dessert,  early  August,  fairly 
large,  3  by  2j,  round,  conical,  irregular.  Colour, 
palest  milky-yellow.  Flesh,  greenish-white,  crisp, 
acid.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  moderately  deep,  plaited  basin 
with  distinct  knobs.  Stem,  medium,  rather  thin, 
in  a  narrow,  deep  cavity,  occasionally  with  light  russet. 
Growth,  vigorous ;  fertile.  Leaf,  very  large,  greyish- 
green,  lax,  upfolded,  undulated,  finely  serrate  or  crenate. 
Origin,  Russian.  Introduced  early  in  the  nineteenth 
century.  A  delicious  summer  fruit,  brisk  and  digestible. 

Whorle  :    see  Thorle. 

133 


WILLIAM'S  FAVOURITE.  Dessert,  August, 
medium,  2\  by  2j,  round  to  oblong,  conical,  irregular. 
Colour,  pale  greenish-yellow,  nearly  covered  with  very 
dark  crimson  flush  and  broad  stripes.  Flesh,  sott, 
greenish,  aromatic.  Eye,  closed,  segments  reflexed 
at  tips,  in  a  moderate  basin,  at  the  base  of  which  are  a 
few  round  bead-like  knobs.  Stem,  fairly  long,  much 
knobbed  each  end,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  rather  straggling,  spurring  well ;  fertile. 
Leaf,  rather  large,  round,  pale,  down-hanging, 
undulating,  serrate.  Origin,  at  Roxbury,  U.S.A.,  about 
1750.  Probably  introduced  to  England,  about  1828. 
One  of  the  best  early  dessert  apples  and  well  worthy  of 
culture. 

WILLIAM  CRUMP.  Card.  Chron.,  1909,  p.  21. 
Dessert,  December  to  February,  medium,  2j  by  if, 
round  conical,  regular.  Colour,  greenish-yellow,  almost 
covered  with  dark  brown-red  and  light  russet.  Flesh, 
rather  firm,  greenish-yellow,  of  good  flavour.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  round  even  basin.  Stem,  short  in  a  deep 
and  rather  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  upright. 
Leaf,  rather  large,  dark,  horizontal  upfolded,  little 
twisted,  boldly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  W. 
Crump  from  Cox's  Orange  and  Worcester  Pearmain, 
and  introduced  by  Messrs.  Rowe,  of  Worcester.  A  good 
addition  to  the  late  dessert  sorts.  So  far  it  is  not  very 
fertile  with  me  at  Allington,  but  it  crops  well  with  its 
raiser. 

Wilson's  Codlin  :    see  Nelson  Codlin. 
Winter  Beefing  :    see  Norfolk  Beefing. 
Winter  Bellefleur  :   see  Brabant  Bellefleur. 

WINTER  BANANA.  Year  Book  Dept.  Agr.,  U.S. A ., 
1913,  ii2.  Dessert,  till  March,  very  large,  3  by  2j, 
round,  rather  flattened,  tapering  to  eye.  Colour,  pale 
golden-yellow  with  slight  red  flush.  Skin,  very  smooth. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  a  little  coarse  grained,  juicy,  aromatic. 
Eye,  slightly  open,  in  a  broad,  slightly  ribbed  basin. 

134 


Stem,  rather  slender,  fairly  long,  in  a  wide  deep  cavity, 
which  is  sometimes  rather  russet.  Growth,  vigorous. 
Leaf,  narrow,  flat,  pale,  crenate.  Originated  about  1876, 
with  Mr.  David  Florey,  near  Adams  Boro,  Indiana. 
Introduced  in  1890.  The  very  fine  specimens  of  this 
fruit  sent  from  the  States  have  led  us  to  test  this  variety 
but  at  present  the  quality  and  fertility  which  it  will 
attain  in  this  country  are  somewhat  doubtful. 

Winter  Greening  :    see  French  Crab. 
Winter  King :    see  King  of  Tomkins  County. 

WINTER  MAJETIN.  Culinary,  till  April,  medium, 
2f  by  2 f ,  round,  tapering  a  little  to  eye,  uneven.  Colour, 
grass-green,  fading  to  yellow  with  a  strong  brown  flush. 
Flesh,  greenish-white,  crisp,  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed,  in 
a  shallow  much  ribbed  basin,  around  which  five  promi- 
nent ribs  stand  up.  Stem,  rather  slender,  fairly  long, 
in  a  very  deep,  narrow,  slightly  russet  cavity.  Growth, 
upright  spreading,  well  spurred ;  fertility,  excellent. 
Leaf,  large,  flat,  down-curved  at  tip,  bi-serrate.  Origin, 
this  variety  is  supposed  to  have  originated  in  Norfolk, 
and  has  a  reputation  there  of  resisting  American  Blight, 
and  is  used  as  a  stock  in  Australia  with  this  object. 
For  a  free  cropping  late  culinary  variety,  it  deserves 
to  be  better  known  though  it  is  a  little  small  for  modern 
standards. 

WINTER  PEACH.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1883,  153.  F., 
Peche  d'Hiver.  Culinary,  till  March,  medium,  2f  by  2, 
round  flattened,  fairly  regular.  Colour,  palest  creamy- 
yellow  with  faint  scarlet  blush.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellowish, 
juicy,  slight  spicy  flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  a  rather 
deep  basin.  Stem,  very  short  in  a  deep  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf,  pale, 
little  upfolded,  large,  very  coarsely  curved  serrate. 
Origin,  an  American  variety  of  uncertain  origin  ;  known 
in  England  in  1853.  This  apple  keeps  well  but  it  is 
not  of  particularly  good  flavour,  and  being  apt  to  canker 
it  is 'only  second  rate. 

135 


WINTER  QUARRENDEN.  (Stubb's  Seedling.) 
Dessert,  November  to  December,  medium,  2j  by  2j, 
flat,  nearly  even.  Colour,  bright  crimson.  Flesh, 
pale  greenish-yellow,  crisp,  poor  flavour.  Eye,  a  little 
open  in  a  shallow  round  basin,  slightly  wrinkled.  Stem, 
rather  slender  in  a  wide  and  deep  cinnamon  russeted 
cavity.  Growth,  moderate,  upright  spreading ;  not 
very  fertile.  Leaf,  long,  narrow,  upfolded,  undulating, 
shallow  crenate.  Origin,  introduced  by  Messrs.  Pearson, 
of  Nottingham.  It  has  now  been  consigned  to  Limbo. 

Winter  Queen  :    see  Lemon  Pippin. 

WINTER  QUEENING.  Her.  Pom.,  p.  14.  Dessert 
or  culinary,  till  March,  medium,  2\  by  3,  conical. 
Colour,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  dull  red  stripes 
and  flush.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  sub-acid.  Eye,  open, 
in  a  shallow,  much  wrinkled  and  lined  basin.  Stem, 
moderate  length,  in  a  rather  narrow  wrinkled  cavity. 
Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  small,  greyish, 
upfolded,  twisted,  shallow  serrate  or  crenate.  Origin, 
an  old  Sussex  variety,  probably  of  great  antiquity. 
I  fancy  the  Sussex  Duck's  Bill,  usually  quoted  as 
synonymous  with  this  variety  is  really  distinct. 

Winter  Red  Calville  :   see  Calville  Rouge  d'Hiver. 
Wise  Apple  :    see  Court  Pendu  Plat 

WITHINGTON  FILLBASKET.  Culinary,  October 
to  November,  very  large,  3f  by  3,  round,  flattened  on 
sides.  Colour,  pale  yellow  ;  skin  a  little  rough.  Flesh, 
pale  yellow,  firm,  rather  dry.  Eye,  closed,  in  a  deep 
angular  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  very  short,  in  a  very 
wide,  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  spreading  ; 
fertile.  Leaf,  very  large,  upfolded,  very  sharply  serrate. 
A  large  rather  coarse  fruit,  hardly  required  in  these 
days. 


Wood's  Huntingdon  :    see  Court  of  Wick. 

N. 
»    3 
136 


WOODSTOCK   PIPPIN.     Dessert    or   culinary,    till 
April,  large,   fairly  large,    3  by  2j,    round,  flattened, 


fairly  regular.  Colour,  pale  yellowish-green  with  rarely 
a  faint  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellow,  juicy,  rather  acid. 
Eye,  open,  in  a  shallow,  wide  basin,  slightly  plaited. 
Stem,  short  and  thick  in  a  moderately  deep  regular, 
russeted  cavity.  Growth,  strong,  rather  spreading ; 
fertility,  poor.  Leaf,  large,  round,  sharply  pointed, 
curved  serrate,  held  down,  flat.  Origin,  uncertain. 
Generally  considered  by  pomologists  as  identical  with 
Blenheim  Orange,  but  is  distinct  from  that  in  many 
respects. 

Woodstock  Pippin  (error)  :    see  Blenheim  Orange. 
Woollaton  Pippin  :    see  Court  Pendu  Plat. 

WORCESTER  PEARMAIN.  Her.  Pom.,  P.  2. 
Dessert,  September  to  October,  medium,  2j  by  2j, 
round  conical,  regular.  Colour,  bright  crimson  on 
golden-yellow  ground.  Flesh,  crisp,  greenish,  very 
sweet,  with  a  pleasant  strawberry  flavour.  Eye, 
closed,  in  a  shallow  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a 
rather  narrow  russeted  cavity.  Growth,  moderate ; 
very  regularly  fertile.  Leaf,  rather  pale,  oval,  upfolded, 
undulating,  coarsely  serrate.  Originated  at  Swan  Pool, 
near  Worcester,  by  a  Mr.  Hale,  Introduced  by  Messrs. 
Smith,  of  Worcester,  in  1874.  An  esteemed  market 
variety,  seldom  failing  to  crop.  The  flavour  of  this 
fruit  is  greatly  underrated  by  many,  as  it  is  usually 
gathered  and  eaten  far  before  it  is  ripe.  Makes  a  neat, 
round-headed  standard. 

Worling's  Favourite  :    see  Beauty  of  Kent. 

WORMSLEY  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  P.  3.  (Knight's 
Codlin.)  Culinary,  September  to  October,  fairly  large, 
3j  by  2|,  flat  conical,  regular.  Colour,  yellow  with 
orange  flush.  Flesh,  crisp,  yellowish,  sub-acid,  Eye, 
open,  in  a  rather  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short, 
in  a  deep  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility, 
fair.  Leaf,  large,  oval,  bi-serrate.  Origin,  raised  by 
Mr.  T.  A.  Knight,  and  introduced  in  1811.  Seldom 
grown  now. 

137 


WYKEN  PIPPIN.  Ronalds,  P.  41.  F.,  Pepin 
de  Warwickshire.  (Warwickshire  Pippin,  German 
Nonpareil.)  Dessert,  till  February,  small,  3  by  2, 
flattened  -  round,  regular.  Colour,  greenish  -  yellow, 
Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  aromatic.  Eye,  open,  in  a  wide, 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  very  stout  in  a  very  narrow 
cavity,  which  is  often  rather  warted.  Growth,  moder- 
ate, very  upright  when  young  ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf, 
very  small,  grey-green,  upcupped,  undulating,  curved 
serrate.  Origin,  introduced  into  England  from  Holland, 
about  1720.  It  is  not  now  recognised  as  any  Contin- 
ental variety. 

Wyker  Pippin  :    see  Golden  Reinette. 

YELLOW  INGESTRIE.  Her.  Pom.  P.  2.  F., 
Ingestrie  jaune ;  G.,  Gelber  Peppin  von  Ingestrie. 
(Early  Pippin,  Summer  Golden  Pippin  (error),  White 
Pippin.)  Dessert,  end- August  to  September,  small, 
2  by  if,  square-rounded,  regular.  Colour,  golden- 
yellow.  Flesh,  firm,  yellow,  sweet.  Eye,  almost 
closed,  in  a  shallow  wide  basin.  Stem,  slender,  in  a 
shallow,  even  cavity.  Growth,  slender  ;  fertile.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  roundish,  oval,  broadly  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  T.  A.  Knight  (Orange  Pippin  x  Golden 
Pippin),  about  1800.  Summer  Golden  Pippin  is 
distinct  q.v. 

Yellow  Transparent :    see  White  Transparent. 

YORKSHIRE  BEAUTY.  Her.  Pom.,  P.  20. 
(Councillor,  Cumberland  Favourite,  Red  Hawthornden, 
Walsgrove  Wonder,  Greenups  Pippin.)  Culinary, 
September  to  December,  large,  3j  by  3,  round  conical, 
irregular.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  scarlet  flush  and 
russet.  Flesh,  tender,  yellow,  sub-acid.  Eye,  closed  in 
a  deep  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short,  in  a  broad  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate ;  fertile.  Origin,  raised  near  Kes- 
wick,  at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  by  a  shoe- 
maker, named  Greenup.  Introduced  by  Messrs. 
Clarke  &  Atkinson,  of  Keswick. 

138 


Yorkshire  Cockpit :    see  Cockpit. 

Yorkshire  Goose  Sauce :   see  Yorkshire  Greening. 

YORKSHIRE  GREENING.  Ronalds,  P.  n. 
(Coates,  Yorkshire  Goose  Sauce.)  Culinary,  till  March, 
large,  4  by  3,  flattened,  round,  sides  angular.  Colour, 
pea  green  to  yellow  with  strong  dark  red  stripes,  and 
slight  flush.  Flesh,  greenish,  firm,  acid.  Eye,  closed, 
in  a  deepish,  wrinkled  basin.  Stem,  moderate  length, 
in  a  wide  open  cavity,  generally  free  from  russet. 
Growth,  very  dwarf  and  resembling  Lane's  Prince 
Albert ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  pale  green,  shining, 
upcupped,  regularly  crenate.  Origin,  unknown. 
Recorded  by  Forsyth,  in  1803. 

Yorkshire  Queen  :    see  Hambledon  deux  Ans. 
Young's  Long  Keeper :    see  French  Crab. 


139 


PEARS. 


DESCRIPTIONS   OF    PEARS. 


THE  terms  used  for  describing  Apples  will  apply  in  a 
great  measure  to  Pears.  The  only  new  term  is  that 
applied  to  the  stem,  which,  when  it  gradually  swells 
to  the  fruit  at  its  point  of  insertion  is  called  continued. 
An  example  of  this  is  Beurre  Superfin. 

The  autumnal  colour  of  the  leaves  is  noted  in  many 
cases,  as  this  will  be  found  to  be  of  great  value  in  deter- 
mining the  names  of  some  varieties. 

KEY  TO  CLASSIFICATION  OF  PEARS. 


IN  attempting  to  classify  Pears,  great  difficulty  has 
always  been  found  in  that  they  are  not  so  constant 
in  form  and  colour  as  Apples.  I  have  therefore  made 
my  main  divisions  here  those  of  seasons,  Summer — 
July,  August,  September  ;  Autumn — October,  Novem- 
ber ;  and  Winter — December  and  onwards.  It  will 
be  evident  that  there  will  be  some  which  do  not  exactly 
fit  in  this  grouping,  but  they  are  fortunately  few, 
and  it  is  a  little  surprising  how  many  Pears  do  fall 
in  three  such  groups.  In  any  case  where  a  variety  is 
at  the  end  of  any  of  these  periods  it  will  be  well  to 
look  also  at  the  following  group.  The  grouping  other- 
wise follows  that  of  the  Apples,  each  fruit  being  placed 
as  nearly  as  possible  in  the  middle  of  its  season.  There 
are  sub-divisions;  such  as  fruits  having  a  bright  red 
flush,  as  Clapp's  Favourite,  fruits  which  are  a  smooth 
green,  as  Glou  Morceau ;  and  those  which  are 
entirely  covered  with  russet,  such  as  Calebasse  Bosc. 
These  are  denoted  by  certain  signs,  which  will  enable 
them  to  be  picked  out  at  once,  without  going  through 
the  whole  series  of  names.  Thus  a  Summer  Pear 
of  large  size  with  a  red  flush  of  Calebasse  form  will  be 
either  Marguerite  Marillat  or  Souvenir  de  Congres, 
taking,  of  course,  those  described  in  the  following  pages. 

143 


CO 


w    a 

cu    ^ 


=1 


>s 

II 

I! 


•WP 

§|*i 

o  ^-g3 
<s  a'^  w 
«  e^  a 
PQ^PnW 


I   8 

§      ^ 
•?      * 


gii 

s|a 

lei 


CO 

3 

w 

0. 

^ 

2 

I 

< 


^^^ 


-o 

o 


J 

iPIl 

m 

IISII 


Slti  s  I     § 
III  *  §   ,S 


^<S 


H     p 


•§ 


SSSa; 


sS'S-S 

ifcfifil 


II 
I     * 


5  1 
§  § 
fc  O 


K. 

§1    I 

E*  3 
§1  « 

ga  s 
«^  5 


S 

§     1 
ft     2 


!  lift 

^     £°o 

•5SW 


s 


Hilji 

0^<!«<fi 


1 


O 

-a 


8 

<u 
Q 


PEARS. 

ACHAN.  (Black  Achan,  Red  Achan.)  Dessert, 
October  to  November  (till  December  in  Scotland), 
small,  round  conical,  even.  Skin,  fairly  smooth  with 
a  little  russet.  Colour,  pale  yellow-green  with  brown 
red  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  juicy  and  sweet.  Eye, 
open,  nearly  on  surface.  Stem,  f  inch,  moderately 
stout.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility,  regular.  Origin, 
probably  Scotch  ;  there  are  places  of  this  name  in 
Sutherlandshire.  An  old  variety,  seldom  seen  south 
of  the  Tweed,  but  valued  in  its  own  country. 

ADMIRAL  GERVAIS.  Dessert,  till  February, 
medium,  2|  by  2f ,  round  oval,  uneven.  Skin,  a  little 
rough.  Colour,  dark  green  with  russet  dots  and  patches 
fading  to  slight  yellow.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  with  salmon 
tinge,  very  juicy,  melting  and  deliciously  flavoured. 
Stem,  rather  short  and  stout,  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Fertility,  good.  A  very  fine  late  pear. 

Albertine  :    see  Doyenne  Bussoch. 
Alexandre  Helie  :    see  Belle  Julie. 

ALEXANDRE  LAMBRE.  Bivort  I.,  31.  Dessert, 
October  to  November,  medium,  2j  by  3,  short  conical, 
even.  Skin,  smooth  with  russet  patches  around  stem 
and  large  dots.  Colour,  pale  yellow-green  with  cinna- 
mon russet.  Flesh,  white,  melting,  not  gritty.  Eye, 
large,  a  little  open  in  a  shallow  rounded  basin.  Stem, 
generally  long  and  woody.  Growth,  moderate,  makes 
a  good  standard ;  fertility,  excellent.  Leaf,  rather 

145 


small,  held  nearly  flat,  finely  serrate,  turns  dull  brownish- 
red.  Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons,  and  fruited  by  Bivort, 
in  1844.  This  is  a  very  valuable  fruit  and  is  in  appear- 
ance as  a  larger  and  earlier  Josephine  de  Malines. 

ALTHORP  CRASANNE.  Her.  Pom.  L,  4.  Dessert, 
October  to  November,  medium,  round,  tapering  to  stem, 
even.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  greenish,  yellow  covered 
with  fine  russet.  Flesh,  white,  melting,  juicy  and 
pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  rather  large,  open,  in  a 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  moderate,  curved,  rather  slender, 
continued.  Growth,  vigorous ;  fertility,  regular. 
Origin,  raised  by  T.  A.  Knight,  and  first  fruited  in  1830. 
This  was  considered  by  Knight  to  be  one  of  the  hardiest 
of  his  seedlings  and  to  succeed  in  soils  unfavourable 
to  the  majority  of  Pears. 

ANDRE  DESPORTES.  Dessert,  September,  medium, 
2i  by  3j»  conical,  even.  Colour,  pale  yellow  green  with 
dull  brown  red  flush.  Skin,  smooth  with  numerous 
large  white  dots.  Flesh,  white,  juicy,  sweet,  fair 
flavour.  Eye,  small  open  in  a  shallow  very  even  basin. 
Stem,  medium,  |in.  usually  a  little  to  one  side.  Growth, 
moderate,  erect ;  fertility  very  great.  Leaf,  long 
oval,  a  little  twisted,  upfolded,  entire.  Origin,  raised 
by  Andre*  Leroy  at  Angers  in  1854.  A  nice  early  fruit 
coming  in  just  before  Williams  and  of  better  flavour 
than  Dr.  Jules  Guyot. 

ASPASIE  AUCOURT.  Dessert,  end  August,  medium 
2j  by  2j,  round,  conical,  even.  Colour,  straw  yellow 
with  russet  specks  and  dots.  Skin,  slightly  rough. 
Flesh,  melting,  whitish,  very  juicy  and  sweet.  Eye, 
small,  nearly  closed  in  an  even  medium  basin.  Stem, 
stout,  rather  long  at  an  angle.  Growth,  very  weak  ; 
fertility  moderate.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Rollet  at 
Villefranche,  Rhone,  France,  and  introduced  in  1885. 
A  good  pear,  but  so  poor  in  growth  as  to  be  hardly 
worth  retention. 

ASTON  TOWN.  Lind.  Pom.  Brit.  III.,  139. 
Dessert,  October  to  November,  small,  2  by  2,  quite 

146 


round,  even.  Colour,  yellow  green  with  russet  dots 
and  markings.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  melting,  sweet, 
highly  perfumed.  Eye,  small,  a  little  open.  Stem,  long 
and  woody.  Growth,  strong,  makes  long  straggling 
shoots ;  fertility,  very  good.  Leaf,  small  oval,  little 
upfolded,  hold  out,  serrate  at  tip,  entire  at  base.  Origin, 
raised  at  Aston  in  Cheshire  and  known  early  in  the 
i  gth  century.  First  described  by  Lindley  in  his  "  Guide 
to  the  Fruit  and  Kitchen  Garden." 

Aurore  :    see  Beurre  Capiaumont. 

Autumn  Bergamotte  :    see  English  Bergamotte. 

BARONNE  DE  MELLO  (G.  Baronin  von  Mello.  His. 
Phillipe  Goes.)  Dessert,  October,  small  to  medium, 
2i  by  3i>  oval  conical,  even.  Colour,  golden  brown, 
russet  covers  the  whole  fruit.  Flesh,  greenish  white, 
very  melting  and  deliciously  perfumed.  Eye,  open  in 
a  very  shallow  depression.  Stem,  medium,  woody. 
Growth,  upright  spreading  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  long 
oval,  held  out,  little  upfolded,  shallow  serrate,  turning 
yellow  red,  rather  pale.  Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons. 
It  does  well  either  on  the  Quince  or  Pear. 

Bancrief  :    see  Chalk. 

BEACON.  Dessert,  mid  to  end  August,  medium, 
long  conical,  Skin,  fairly  smooth,  occasional  patches 
of  russet.  Colour,  pale  golden  yellow  with  faint  brick 
red  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a 
pleasant  aroma.  Stem,  very  short,  fleshy  and  unusually 
lipped.  Growth,  stout,  compact,  very  upright ;  fertility 
fair.  Leaf,  very  long  and  narrow,  upfolded,  down 
hanging,  regularly  serrate,  almost  crenate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Mr.  Rivers  from  Grosse  Calebasse.  Is  only 
of  ordinary  merit  and  in  its  season  is  much  surpassed 
by  Dr.  Jules  Guyot. 

Bedminster  Gratioli :    see  Jersey  Gratioli. 
Belle  An ge vine  :    see  Uvedales  St.  Germain. 
147 


BELLE  DES  ARBRES.  Culinary,  till  June,  very 
large,  3  J  by  5,  irregular  oval,  flat  sided  and  much  bossed. 
Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  grass  green  with  slight  russet. 
Flesh,  breaking,  firm,  white,  very  juicy.  Eye,  closed  or 
open  in  an  irregular  basin.  Stem,  very  long,  generally 
curved  with  always  a  fleshy  ring  at  base.  Growth, 
vigorous ;  fertility  good.  Origin,  introduced  by  M. 
Houdin  of  Chateandun,  France,  about  1880.  This  fruit 
which  resembles  Uvedales  St.  Germain  is  a  fine  late 
cooking  fruit.  As  it  always  has  the  accent  on  the  "  e  " 
in  French  works  I  presume  "  Arbre*s  "  is  a  place  name 
and  not  as  usually  written  "  arbres  "  (trees). 

Belle  des  Bois  :   see  Flemish  Beauty. 
Belle  de  Flandres  :    see  Flemish  Beauty. 

BELLE  GUERANDAISE.  Dessert,  large,  3}  by  4, 
round  oval,  even.  Colour,  pale  yellow  almost  covered 
with  brown  smooth  russet.  Flesh,  white,  melting, 
perfumed,  of  excellent  quality.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
depression  or  often  on  level.  Stem,  medium,  stout,  in 
a  slight  uneven  cavity.  Growth,  upright  spreading ; 
fertility,  fair.  Leaf,  small,  pointed  oval,  slightly  up 
upfolded,  entire,  turning  very  pale  yellow,  falling  early. 
Origin,  raised  by  M.  Dion  near  Guerande  (Loire),  from 
a  seed  of  Doyenne  du  Cornice  and  introduced  by  M. 
Bruant  of  Poitiers  in  1895.  This  is  a  large  and  fine 
fruit  and  if  sufficiently  fertile  in  this  country  it  should 
be  widely  grown. 

BELLE  JULIE.  Fl.  and  Pom.  1863,128.  (Alexandre 
Helie.)  Dessert,  October  to  November,  medium, 
2i  by  3i,  oval,  even.  Colour,  entirely  covered  with 
golden  brown  russet  with  a  slight  flush.  Flesh,  pale 
yellow  green,  very  melting  and  delicious.  Eye,  wide 
open  and  clove  like  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stem, 
stout,  medium  length,  often  oblique.  Growth,  moderate, 
upright  spreading  ;  fertility  good,  Leaf,  rather  small, 
oval,  regularly  serrate,  turns  dull  brown  red,  hangs  late. 
Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons  and  named  after  his  grand- 
daughter Mile.  Julie  Van  Mons.  It  first  fruited  in  1842. 


A  delicious  fruit  which  deserves  cultivation  as  it  does 
not  go  soft  at  the  core  as  do  so  many  of  its  season.  It 
can  be  distinguished  from  Baronne  de  Mello  by  its 
clove  like  eye. 

Belle  Magnifique  :   see  Beurre  Did. 

BELLISIME  D'HIVER.  Her.  Pom.  I.,  15.  G. 
Schonster  Winterbirn.  Culinary,  till  March,  large,  3  J  by 
4,  oval  to  oval  conical,  even.  Skin,  smooth,  shining. 
Colour,  green  to  palish  yellow  with  red  flush  and  marked 
with  conspicuous  dots.  Flesh,  white,  tender,  free  from 
grit.  Eye,  open,  rather  large  in  an  even  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  medium,  slender,  woody,  in  a  slight  cavity. 
Growth,  vigorous,  upright,  makes  a  well  spurred  tree  ; 
fertility  very  good.  Leaf,  narrow  oval,  slightly  un- 
dulating, shallow  crenate,  turns  pale  yellow  red.  Origin, 
an  old  variety  known  in  France  since  the  lyth  century. 
Undoubtedly  one  of  the  very  best  culinary  pears ; 
it  does  not  turn  dark  in  cooking  like  Catillac  but  is 
superior  in  every  other  respect :  it  does  well  as  a 
standard. 

BERGAMOTTE  D'AUTOMNE.  Verger  III.,  41.  G. 
Roter  Bergamotte.  Dessert,  October  to  December, 
medium,  2f  by  2,  flattened  round,  even.  Skin,  a  little 
rough.  Colour,  yellowish  green  dotted  and  striped  with 
russet  and  a  little  red  flush.  Flesh,  white,  melting, 
juicy,  pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  small,  open  in  a 
broad  basin.  Stem,  slender  in  a  small  cavity.  Growth, 
very  vigorous ;  fertility,  excellent.  Leaf,  long  oval, 
undulating,  entire,  down  hanging.  Origin,  this  is  of 
great  antiquity  going  back  to  the  middle  ages  and  quite 
possibly  to  Roman  times  and  is  probably  the  original 
Bergamotte.  This  is  now  seldom  met  with  in  England 
but  can  be  easily  distinguished  from  the  English 
Bergamotte  by  its  later  season. 

BERGAMOTTE  D'ESPEREN.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  70. 
(Poire  d'Esperen.)  G.  Esperen's  Bergamotte.  Dessert, 
till  March,  medium,  3  by  3,  round  conical  tapering 

149 


evenly  to  eye,  a  little  uneven.  Colour,  dull  green  with 
dusky  russet  in  patches,  changing  to  pale  yellow. 
Flesh,  yellowish,  tender,  melting  and  deliciously  per- 
fumed. Eye,  nearly  closed  in  a  slight,  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  short,  stout,  woody,  almost  on  surface.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upright,  spreading  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf, 
long  oval,  little  upfolded,  down  hanging,  regularly 
shallow  serrate,  turns  pale  yellow.  Origin,  raised  by 
Major  Esperen  at  Malines  about  1830.  A  valuable  late 
variety,  deserving  a  wall.  It  is  ready  for  use  when  it 
turns  yellow  in  March.  It  makes  a  largish  tree. 

BERGAMOTTE  D'HEIMBOURG.  Verger  III.,  159. 
G.  Heimbourg's  Bergamotte.  Dessert,  October,  small, 
to  medium,  2j  by  3,  conical,  even.  Skin,  smooth. 
Colour,  yellowish  green  with  a  little  russet  especially 
round  eye.  Flesh,  white,  melting,  very  juicy,  very 
sweet,  delightfully  perfumed.  Eye  large,  open  but  very 
irregular,  almost  on  level.  Stem,  rather  long  and 
slender  in  a  slight  cavity  generally  on  one  side  of  fruit. 
Growth,  medium  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  oval,  up- 
folded,  deeply  serrate,  down  hanging.  Origin,  raised 
by  Vans  Mons  and  first  fruited  in  1847,  and  was  dedicated 
by  Bivort  to  M.  Heimbourg,  president  of  the  Phil- 
harmonic Society  of  Brussels.  This  fruit  is  quite  of 
first  quality,  but  its  cropping  in  this  country  leaves 
something  to  be  desired. 

Bergamotte  de  Paques  :    see  Easter  Benrre. 
Besi  de  Chaumontel :    see  Chaumontel. 

BEURRE  ALEXANDRE  LUCAS.  Rev.  Hort.  1875, 
150.  Exhibition  and  Dessert,  November  to  January, 
large,  3^  by  4,  round  conical,  even.  Colour,  pale  green 
changing  to  yellow,  marked  with  distinct  russet  dots, 
taking  a  red  flush  in  favourable  seasons.  Flesh,  white, 
melting,  very  highly  perfumed.  Eye,  small,  open  in  a 
slightly  irregular  basin.  Stem,  medium,  stout  in  a 
narrow  russet  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  with  long 
arched  shoots,  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  upfolded,  long 

150 


oval,  down  hanging,  faintly  serrate,  turns  dark  red. 
Origin,  found  in  a  wood  in  the  Department  of  Loire 
et  Cher,  France.  Imported  to  England  in  1892.  It 
grows  well  on  the  pear  or  quince.  A  fine  fruit  when 
well  ripened.  It  becomes  strongly  scented  at  maturity. 

Beurre  D'Arenberg  :    see  Glou  Morceau. 

BEURRE  BACHELIER.  Her.  Pom.  I.  24.  G. 
Bachelier's  Butterbirne.  (Chevalier.)  Dessert,  November 
to  December,  medium,  3  by  3j,  round  conical,  flattened 
at  stem,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  green  to  pale 
yellow  green,  with  small  russet  dots.  Flesh,  yellowish, 
fine,  melting,  juicy  and  pleasantly  flavoured  with  a 
slight  acidity.  Eye,  large,  nearly  closed  in  a  slight 
basin.  Stem,  short,  woody,  often  in  a  deepish  cavity. 
Growth,  medium,  upright  spreading ;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  small,  round,  flat  or  a  little  folded,  finely  serrate. 
Origin,  obtained  by  M.  Bachelier  of  Capelle-Brouck  in 
the  North  of  France,  and  first  fruited  in  1845.  This  is 
a  valuable  fruit  but  suffers  from  being  in  at  the  same 
season  as  Doyenne  du  Cornice.  A  little  subject  to 
scab.  It  should  be  gathered  a  little  before  it  is  ready 
to  part  from  the  tree. 

BEURRE  BALTET  PERE.  Arbor  Beige.  1885, 353. 
G.  Baltet  Senior.  Dessert,  October  to  November,  large, 
3 \  by  4,  pyramidal,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  green 
to  greenish  yellow,  occasionally  with  a  brown  red  flush. 
Flesh,  yellowish  white,  fine  grained,  melting,  with  a 
good  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  woody  in  a  broad  even  and 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  short  and  fleshy,  generally  at 
an  angle.  Growth,  strong,  rather  upright ;  fertility 
fair.  Leaf,  rather  large,  nearly  flat,  down  curved,  very 
faintly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  and  introduced  by 
Messrs.  Baltet  Freres  of  Troyes,  France. 

BEURRE  D'AMANLIS.  Her.  Pom.  I.,  9.  G.  Amanlis 
Butterbirne.  (Hubard,  Wilhelmine,  Delbart.)  Dessert 
early  to  mid  September,  medium,  3^  by  3,  round 
pryiform,  fairly  even.  Colour,  pea  green  changing  to 


yellowish  green  with  occasional  red  brown  flush.  Skin, 
slightly  rough  with  thin  brown  russet.  Flesh,  melting, 
yellowish  white,  very  juicy  and  pleasantly  sweet. 
Eye,  open  in  a  very  slight  basin.  Stem,  slender, 
woody.  Growth,  vigorous  and  very  straggling.  Leaf, 
rather  large,  oval  pointed,  sharply  curved  serrate,  flat, 
down  hanging,  turning  yellow  then  black.  Origin, 
raised  at  Amanlis  near  Rennes,  France,  before  1800, 
and  introduced  to  notice  in  1826.  This  pear  does  well 
as  a  standard  and  in  all  forms.  It  thrives  well  in 
Scotland  and  is  in  all  ways  a  cosmopolitan  fruit. 

BEURRE  D'ANJOU.  F.  Nee  Plus  Meuris.  G. 
Winter  Meuris.  Dessert,  November  to  January,  fairly 
large,  4  by  3,  round  oval,  very  even.  Skin,  smooth  with 
a  few  feathery  russet  patches.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with 
occasional  slight  brown  flush.  Flesh,  white,  melting, 
flavour  most  delicious.  Eye,  open,  laid  back,  almost 
on  level.  Stem,  short  and  stout,  fleshy.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  fertility,  fair.  Leaf,  narrow  oval,  upfolded, 
down  hanging,  undulated,  regularly  serrate,  light  green 
turning  pale  yellow,  occasionally  red.  Origin,  a  seedling 
of  Van  Mons  ;  the  name  Beurr£  d'Anjou,  though  wrong, 
is  now  so  firmly  rooted  in  this  country  that  it  must 
remain. 

BEURRE  D'ARENBERG.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  70. 
G.  Die  Arenberg.  (Orpheline  d'Enghien,  Colmar 
Deschamps.)  Dessert,  November  to  January,  4  by  3  J  or 
larger,  round  conical,  uneven,  a  little  ribbed  round  eye 
and  generally  bossed.  Skin,  fairly  smooth.  Colour, 
yellow  with  small  patches  of  russet  all  over  and  brown 
red  flush.  Flesh,  nearly  white,  juicy  and  sweet  with 
a  characteristic  aroma,  sometimes  a  little  gritty.  Eye, 
open.  Stem,  §  in.,  very  stout,  woody,  obliquely  inserted 
under  a  small  protuberance.  Growth,  very  stout, 
moderate  •  fertility  variable.  Leaf,  large,  upfolded, 
finely  serrate.  Origin,  according  to  Van  Mons  this  was 
obtained  at  Enghien  by  Abbe  Deschamps  in  a  garden 
of  the  Orphanage  of  this  town.  A  good  fruit  doing 
well  on  quince  but  it  does  not  thrive  in  all  soils. 

152 


Beurr£  Bosc  :    see  Calebasse  Bosc. 

BEURRE  BROWN.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  36.  G.  Graue 
Herbst  Butterbirne.  (Beurre  Gris,  etc.,  etc.)  Dessert, 
October,  medium,  3  by  4,  round  oval  tapering  to  stem 
even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  greenish  yellow  with 
golden  russet  and  often  a  red  flush,  variable  in  this 
respect.  Flesh,  greenish  white,  very  buttery,  juicy  and 
well  flavoured,  often  a  little  gritty.  Eye,  open  in  a 
shallow  basin  which  is  faintly  ribbed.  Stem,  rather 
long,  stout,  fleshy,  continued.  Growth,  very  spreading, 
stout  branches ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  upfolded 
down  curved,  markedly  crenate.  Origin,  this  is  one 
of  our  oldest  pears.  It  was  the  first  variety  to  be 
called  Beurre  and  was  mentioned  by  Olivier  de  Serres 
in  1608  as  Isambart  "  now  called  Beurre."  A  fine  fruit 
but  subject  to  scab.  Its  variable  colour  led  several 
to  split  the  variety  into  grey,  red  and  gold  varieties, 
but  all  such  variations  may  often  be  observed  on  one 
tree  as  de  la  Quintinye  first  pointed  out.  It  has  58 
synonyms. 

BEURRE  CAPIAUMONT.  Her  Pom.  II.,  59. 
G.  Die  Capiaumont.  (Aurore,  Calebasse  Vasse.) 
Culinary  or  dessert,  Sepember  to  October,  small  to 
medium,  2j  by  3j,  oval  conical,  even.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  brownish  red  almost  covered  with  fine  russet 
and  a  red  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  melting  with  a 
sweet  and  perfumed  flavour.  Eye,  large,  open  in  a 
very  shallow  basin  or  on  surface.  Stem,  quite  short, 
thick  and  fleshy,  generally  placed  obliquely.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  large,  long  oval,  up- 
folded,  sharply  but  shallow  serrate,  down  hanging, 
Origin,  raised  by  M.  Capiaumont  a  chemist  at  Mons, 
Belgium,  from  a  seed  of  Beurre  Gris,  and  first  fruited 
in  1787.  An  excellent  fruit  in  some  seasons,  and  always 
specially  good  when  cooked.  On  dry  soils  it  often 
attains  a  wonderful  colour  and  justifies  its  synonym 
"  Aurore."  It  must  be  carefully  watched  or  it  will 
decay  internally  if  left  in  the  fruit  room  too  late. 

153  it 


BEURRE  CLAIRGEAU.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  32.  G. 
Clairgeaus  Butterbirne.  Culinary,  November  to  Decem- 
ber, large,  3j  by  4|,  long  oval,  even.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  golden  brown,  often  red  flushed.  Flesh,  firm, 
not  melting,  white,  faint  musky  flavour.  Eye,  large, 
open  in  a  narrow  shallow  basin  which  is  often  a  little 
ribbed.  Stem,  short,  fleshy  and  thick,  continued, 
Growth,  vigorous,  extremely  upright ;  fertility  good, 
Leaf,  round  oval,  flat  or  a  little  folded,  finely  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Pierre  Clairgeau,  a  gardener  at  Nantes, 
France,  in  1848.  A  vigorous  healthy  tree,  the  quality 
of  the  fruit  is  variable  but  it  is  seldom  better  than 
second  class.  It  makes  a  good  erect  standard. 

Beurre'  D'Hiver  :    see  Chaumontel. 

BEURRE  DIEL.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  66.  G.  Diel's 
Butterbirne.  (Belle  Magnifique,  Beurre*  des  Trois  Tours.) 
Dessert,  October  to  December,  large,  round  oval, 
tapering  to  stem,  even,  always,  however,  showing  a 
certain  flattening  at  the  sides.  Skin,  rough,  covered 
with  large  russet  dots  and  slight  russet.  Colour,  dull 
yellow  with  a  slight  red  brown  flush  in  favourable 
seasons.  Flesh,  white,  melting,  a  little  gritty  at  core 
with  a  delicious  flavour  when  well  ripened.  Eye,  open, 
segments  erect,  in  a  small  irregular  basin.  Stem,  very 
stout,  |  in.,  nearly  always  curved,  in  a  very  slight 
depression.  Growth,  very  vigorous ;  fertility,  great. 
Leaf,  large,  round  pointed,  irregularly  serrate,  some- 
times finely,  sometimes  very  coarsely.  Origin,  found 
by  Meuris,  Van  Mons'  gardener,  about  1800,  at  the 
Chateau  of  Perck  near  Vilvorde,  which  once  belonged 
to  the  painter,  David  Teniers.  It  was  named  after 
Diel,  the  great  German  pomologist.  A  pear  which  is 
still  very  largely  grown  despite  many  detractors.  As 
well  finished  in  France  it  is  delicious,  but  in  a  cold 
season  it  is  only  fit  for  stewing. 

Beurre*  Drapiez  :    see  Urbaniste. 

BEURRE    DUBUISSON.     Arbor  Beige.  1872.     271. 
G.   Dubuisson's   Butterbirne.     Dessert,    December   to 

154 


March,  fairly  large,  2.\  by  3|,  long  oval,  even.  Skin, 
fairly  smooth.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  almost  covered 
with  fine  golden  russet  and  occasional  flush.  Flesh 
nearly  white,  very  melting,  not  gritty,  deliciously  sweet 
and  perfumed.  Eye,  closed  in  a  shallow  uneven  basin. 
Stem,  medium,  stout  and  woody,  generally  inserted  at 
an  angle.  Growth,  very  dwarf  on  quince,  moderate  on 
pear ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  upfolded,  down  curved, 
finely  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Isidore  Dubuisson, 
a  nurseryman,  at  Jolain,  near  Tournai,  Belgium,  about 
1829.  First  fruited  in  1834.  It  *s  valuable  for  keeping 
several  months  in  condition,  the  hard  skin  also  keeps 
it  from  damage. 

BEURRE  DUMONT.  Pom.  Belg.  1857.  Dessert, 
November  to  December,  large,  3  by  3,  round  conical 
tapering  to  stem  where  it  is  abruptly  flattened,  even 
or  a  very  little  angular.  Colour,  cinnamon  brown,  the 
russet  being  smooth  and  fine.  Flesh,  white,  very  fine 
grained,  very  melting,  deliciously  sweet  and  perfumed 
flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep  even  basin.  Stem,  very 
short  and  stout  in  a  deepish  cavity.  Growth,  very 
spreading,  rather  dwarfish  on  quince  ;  fertility  moderate 
Leaf,  medium,  narrow  oval,  nearly  flat,  almost  entire, 
turning  faint  red.  Origin,  a  seedling  found  by  M. 
Joseph  Dumont,  gardener  to  the  Baron  de  Joigny,  a 
Esquelines,  near  Pecq.  First  fruited  in  1833.  This 
most  delicious  fruit  keeps  a  few  weeks  longer  than 
Doyenne*  du  Cornice  and  is  thus  of  great  value. 

Beurre  d'Esperen  :    see  Emile  d'Heyst. 

BEURRE  FOUQUERAY.  Rev.  Hort.  1885,  444. 
Dessert,  October  to  November,  very  large,  3|  by  4^, 
oblong  oval,  a  little  uneven.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour, 
green  with  russet  dots  and  occasional  patches  and  often 
slight  flush.  Flesh,  white,  fine  grained,  very  juicy  and 
agreeably  perfumed.  Eye,  large,  a  little  open  in  a 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  very  stout,  rather  short,  generally 
curved  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  very  vigorous 

155 


and  erect ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  large,  oval,  little 
undulating,  nearly  entire.  Origin,  obtained  by  M. 
Fouqueray-Gautron,  a  nurseryman  at  Sangey,  France. 
It  first  fruited  in  1880.  This  is  not  often  met  with  in 
this  country,  but  it  is  very  good  when  well  grown. 

Beurre  Gellert :    see  Beurre  Hardy. 

BEURRE  GIFFARD.  Her.  Pom.  I.,  26.  G.  Giffard's 
Butterbirne.  Dessert,  August,  medium,  pyriform  taper- 
ing much  to  stem,  a  little  even.  Colour,  pale  yellow 
with  brownish  red  flush,  skin  smooth.  Flesh,  white, 
melting,  very  juicy,  fair  sweet  flavour.  Eye,  open  on 
level.  Stem,  rather  long  and  slender  in  a  flat  cavity 
surrounded  with  russet.  Growth,  rather  weak,  very 
straggling  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  small  pointed,  oval, 
upfolded,  down  hanging,  margin  entire  or  only  faintly 
serrate.  Origin,  found  wild  by  M.  Nicolas  Giffard,  near 
Angers,  France,  in  1825.  An  excellent  early  fruit, 
keeping  better  than  most  of  its  season.  It  is  extremely 
hardy  and  is  successfully  cultivated  up  to  1,200  metres 
in  Switzerland.  It  succeeds  as  a  standard. 

Beurre*  Gris  :    see  Beurre  Brown. 

Beurre  d'Hardenpont :    see  Glou  Morceau. 

BEURRE  HARDY.  Her.  Pom.  I.,  13.  G.  Gellert's 
Butterbirne.  (Hardy,  Beurre*  Gellert.)  Dessert,  mid 
to  end  October,  large  round  conical,  uneven.  Skin, 
rough.  Colour,  russet  bronze  with  faint  red  cheek. 
Flesh,  white,  faint  pink  tinge,  very  tender,  transparent 
with  a  rose  water  flavour.  Eye,  open  or  nearly  closed 
in  a  shallow  even  basin.  Stem,  stout,  fairly  long,  in  a 
very  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  very  vigorous  ;  fertility 
excellent.  Leaf,  large,  round,  much  down  curved, 
upfolded,  nearly  entire,  turns  orange  red.  Origin, 
raised  by  M.  Bonnet,  a  friend  of  Van  Mons  at  Boulogne, 
about  1820.  Named  after  M.  Hardy,  the  director  of 
the  Luxembourg  gardens.  Introduced  about  1840. 
Quite  one  of  the  best  and  hardiest  pears,  in  season 

156 


just  before  Marie  Louise.  It  should  be  gathered  a 
little  before  it  parts  readily  from  the  tree  to  have  it  in 
the  best  condition.  Does  well  on  quince  or  pear. 

BEURRE  DE  JONGHE.  Le  Verger,  I.,  43.  G. 
Jonghes  Butterbirne.  Dessert,  December  to  January, 
medium,  2|  by  2j,  oval  tapering  most  to  stem,  a  little 
uneven.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  pale  green  fading 
to  pale  yellow,  covered  with  patches  of  dull  brown  russet. 
Flesh,  yellowish,  melting,  transparent,  with  pleasant 
flavour  rather  like  Marie  Louise.  Eye,  open  in  a 
shallow  slightly  ribbed  basin.  Stem,  short,  woody, 
continued,  often  inserted  under  a  fleshy  lip.  Growth 
upright,  a  little  spreading  and  rather  weak ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  medium,  oval,  nearly  flat,  held  out,  nearly 
entire.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Gambier,  of  Rhode  St. 
Gene'se,  near  Brussels,  before  1865,  and  dedicated  to 
M.  de  Jonghe,  the  Belgian  pomologist.  It  makes  a 
moderate  tree  on  the  quince.  Dr.  Hogg  considered  this 
pear  as  "  equal  if  not  superior  to  Marie  Louise,"  but 
though  good  I  hardly  rate  it  so  high. 

BEURRE  JEAN  VAN  GEERT.  111.  Hort.  1864, 
416.  G.  Van  Geert's  Butterbirn.  Dessert  and  market, 
October  to  November,  medium,  2,\  by  3j,  round  conical 
tapering  slightly  to  stem,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour, 
golden  yellow  with  brilliant  scarlet  flush.  Flesh,  white, 
half  melting,  sweet  with  a  brisk  flavour,  extremely 
juicy.  Eye,  a  little  open  in  a  rather  deep  basin.  Stem, 
rather  short,  woody,  generally  oblique.  Growth,  dwarf, 
and  compact,  fertility  remarkable.  Leaf,  long  oval 
nearly  flat,  regularly  shallow,  crenate,  turns  brilliant 
crimson  and  hangs  late  in  this  state.  Origin,  raised  by 
M.  Jean  Van  Geert,  of  Ghent,  Belgium,  and  introduced 
in  1864.  This  is  considered  to  be  of  the  first  quality 
by  Leroy,  but  it  is  hardly  that  in  my  experience.  A 
most  attractive  fruit  for  selling,  but  connoisseurs  would 
probably  sell. 

Beurre  de  Merode  :    see  Doyenne  Bussoch. 


BEURRE  MORTILLET.  Bull.  d'Arb.  1891,  289. 
Dessert,  end  of  August,  early  September,  large  3|  by  3, 
oval  conical,  Colour,  creamy  yellow  with  brick  red 
flush  and  faint  broad  stripes.  Skin,  smooth.  Flesh, 
firm,  pale  yellow,  juicy  and  sweet  but  not  of  a  remarkable 
flavour.  Eye,  small,  closed,  in  a  shallow  boldly  ribbed 
basin.  Stem,  very  short  and  thick,  obliquely  inserted. 
Growth,  very  upright.  Leaf,  long  oval,  rather  large, 
pea  green,  markedly  upfolded,  regularly  shallow  crenate, 
turning  pale  yellow.  Fertility  remarkably  good.  Origin 
raised  by  M.  Fougere  at  St.  Priest  (Isere)  France  from 
a  seed  of  Bon  Chretien,  and  named  after  the  famous 
French  pomologist  of  Grenoble  before  1875.  This  is 
beginning  to  be  noted  by  market  growers  and  it  is 
certainly  one  of  the  best  cropping  varieties  we  have. 

Beurre*  Perrault :   see  Duchesse  de  Bordeaux. 

BEURRE  RANGE.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  68.  (Hardenpont 
de  Printemps,  Bon  Chretien  de  Ranee,  Beurre  de  Ranee.) 
Culinary  or  dessert,  December  to  March,  large,  3  by 
4,  oval  pyriform,  ending  squarely  at  stem,  uneven. 
Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  dark  green  fading  to 
yellowish  green,  covered  with  many  dots  of  russet  and 
patches.  Flesh,  greenish  white.  Eye,  medium,  a  little 
open  in  a  rather  wide  and  deep  basin.  Stem,  very  long 
and  stout  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Growth,  dwarf,  makes 
a  small  stubby  tree  inclined  to  weep ;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  flat,  held  up,  entire,  turns  black.  Origin,  raised 
by  the  Abbe  Hardenpont  of  Mons,  Belgium,  about  1762. 
In  its  young  vigour  the  fruit  has  a  slightly  rancid  taste, 
but  advancing  years  have  corrected  this  fault.  The 
origin  of  the  name  from  a  village  named  Rans  is  incorrect. 
For  full  details  see  Du  Mortiers  "  Pomone  Tournaisienne." 
With  good  cultivation  and  a  warm  wall  this  variety  is 
quite  first  class.  It  is  rather  apt  to  blow  off  in  an 
exposed  position. 

BEURRE  SIX.  Decaisne  III.  G.  Six  Butterbirne. 
Dessert,  November  to  December,  large,  3  by  3f ,  pyriform 
tapering  markedly  to  stem  and  eye,  surface  ribbed  and 

158 


bossed,  distinctly  five  sided,  resembling  a  pear-shaped 
quince.  Skin,  smooth  with  small  dark  dots.  Colour, 
grass  green  hardly  turning  yellow  at  all.  Flesh,  very 
tender,  melting  pale  yellow,  not  gritty,  sweet  and 
deliciously  flavoured.  Eye,  open,  segments  upright  and 
separate  in  a  very  shallow  ribbed  basin  or  often  on  surface 
of  fruit.  Stem,  long,  continued,  fleshy  at  base.  Growth, 
vigorous ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  small,  round  oval, 
very  faintly  serrate  or  entire.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Six, 
a  nurseryman,  at  Courtrai,  and  first  described  by  Bivort 
in  1845.  A  very  good  fruit  which  deserves  to  be  better 
known.  It  crops  regularly  with  me  and  is  of  very  good 
quality. 

Beurre'  Spence :    see  Flemish  Beauty. 

BEURRE  STERCKMANS.    Her.  Pom.  II.,  62.    G. 

Sterckmans'  Butterbirne.  Dessert,  November  to 
January,  medium,  flattened  conical.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  pale  green  to  yellow  with  a  red  flush.  Flesh, 
yellowish  white,  nearly  transparent  when  ripe,  very 
juicy,  sweet  and  highly  perfumed.  Eye,  closed  or 
nearly  so .  Stem,  rather  long,  woody,  generally  obliquely 
inserted  in  a  small  ribbed  cavity.  Growth,  upright, 
rather  spreading,  fertility  good.  Leaf,  long  oval,  nearly 
flat,  faintly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Sterckmans 
at  Louvain,  and  introduced  to  notice  by  Van  Mons. 

BEURRE  SUPERFIN.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  22.  Dessert, 
October,  medium,  round  conical,  tapering  to  stem,  a 
little  uneven  on  surface.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour, 
yellow  with  many  patches  of  fine  russet.  Flesh,  pale 
yellow,  very  melting,  sweet  and  deliciously  perfumed. 
Eye,  small,  closed,  or  a  little  open,  in  a  deep  round  basin. 
Stem,  short,  very  stout  and  fleshy,  always  with  some 
fleshy  wrinkles  at  base.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility, 
moderate  to  good.  Leaf,  oval,  pale  green,  held  nearly 
flat,  a  little  twisted,  irregularly  crenate.  Origin,  raised 
by  M.  Goubalt  at  Mille  Pieds,  near  Angers,  France. 
First  fruited  in  1844.  One  of  the  best  half-dozen  pears, 
by  some  preferred  to  Doyenne  du  Cornice.  Does  well 

159 


on  quince.  Should  be  gathered  before  it  parts  readily 
and  carefully  watched  in  the  fruit  room.  Requires  to 
be  eaten  when  the  skin  seems  fairly  firm  as  it  begins 
to  ripen  at  the  core. 

Beurre*  des  Trois  Tours  :    see  Beurre  Diel. 

BISHOP'S  THUMB.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  42.  F.  Pousse 
de  1'Eveque.  Dessert,  October  to  November,  variable 
2f  by  5,  long  calebasse  form,  even.  Skin,  a  little  rough. 
Colour,  pale  yellow  with  bright  scarlet  flush.  Flesh, 
palest  yellow,  fine  grained,  a  little  melting,  slightly 
perfumed,  very  juicy.  Eye,  wide  open  almost  on 
level.  Stem,  long  and  woody,  continued,  generally  at 
angle  the  flesh  growing  higher  up  (the  stem  one  side. 
Growth,  vigorous,  makes  a  good  standard ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  elliptical,  nearly  flat,  finely  serrate.  Origin, 
this  has  been  known  in  England  for  many  years  and  is 
generally  considered  to  be  a  native.  First  described 
by  Diel  in  1804.  An  old  variety  often  found  in  orchards 
but  of  no  special  merit.  The  curious  growth  of  flesh  up 
one  side  of  the  stem  is,  I  suppose,  the  origin  of  its  name. 

Black  Achan  :   see  Achan. 
Black  Worcester. 

BLACK  WORCESTER.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  60.  F.  de 
Livre  G.  Konigsgeschenk  von  Neaple.  Culinary,  till 
April,  large,  3j  by  4.  Shape  round  Bergamotte,  uneven. 
Skin,  rough,  entirely  covered  with  dark  coppery  brown 
russet.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  crisp,  flavourless  and  rather 
gritty.  Stem,  i  inch,  very  stout  and  woody.  Growth 
moderate.  Fertility  moderate.  Eye  nearly  closed  in 
a  deepish  uneven  basin.  This  has  been  known  in 
Worcester  since  the  i6th  century,  where  according  to 
legend  Queen  Elizabeth  saw  it  at  Whystone  Farm.  It 
is,  I  think,  almost  certainly  the  Poire  de  Livre  of  Leroy, 
which  has  been  known  in  France  for  several  centuries, 
and  which  may  even  go  back  to  Roman  days.  A 
good  cooking  pear,  but  not  equal  to  Catillac,  Double 
de  Guerre  and  Belli  ssime  d'Hiver. 

160 


BLICKLING.  Dessert,  December  to  January,  smallish 
2j  by  2,  round,  tapering  most  to  stem,  even.  Skin, 
smooth.  Colour,  pale  greenish  yellow  with  russet 
round  eye  and  prominent  dots.  Flesh,  white,  coarse 
grained,  extremely  sweet  and  juicy,  a  little  gritty. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  round  shallow  even  basin.  Stem, 
medium,  woody,  curved  in  a  small  narrow  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility  good.  Origin,  this  is  said 
to  have  been  introduced  from  Belgium  by  a  monastic 
order.  A  delicious  fruit,  rather  like  a  later  Comte  de 
Lamy.  It  deserves  a  wall  and  careful  thinning  when  a 
good  crop  is  set. 

Bonne  de  Malines  :   see  Winter  Nelis. 
Bonne  Rouge  :    see  Gansels  Bergamotte. 

BRITISH  QUEEN.  Fl.  and  Pom.  1863.  80.  F. 
Reine  d'Angleterre.  G.  Britische  Konigin.  Dessert, 
October,  rather  large,  4  by  3,  round  conical,  even.  Skin, 
covered  very  smooth  russet.  Colour,  pale  brownish 
yellow  with  occasional  slight  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow, 
very  fine  texture,  flavour  sweet  and  brisk.  Eye,  very 
small,  closed  in  an  even  rather  deep  basin.  Stem,  i  inch, 
stout,  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertility 
moderate.  Leaf,  medium,  eliptical,  down  hanging. 
Origin,  raised  by  M.  Ingram  of  the  Royal  Gardens, 
Windsor,  and  naturally  considered  by  the  Prince  Consort 
to  be  the  best  of  all  pears.  This  old  variety  is  occasionally 
met  with. 

Brocas  Bergamotte  :  see  Gansel's  Bergamotte. 

BROCKWORTH  PARK.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  66.  F. 
Bonne  d'Ezee.  G.  Gute  von  Ezee.  Dessert,  early 
September,  rather  large,  3^  by  2j,  long  oval,  flattened 
at  stem,  even.  Skin,  rather  thick,  a  little  rough,  covered 
with  russet  dots.  Colour,  greenish  yellow  with  very 
faint  flush  and  stripes.  Flesh,  yellowish  white.  Eye, 
in  a  very  shallow  basin.  Stem,  very  stout,  fleshy,  i  inch, 
obliquely  inserted.  Growth,  upright  spreading,  making 

161 


a  large  tree.  Leaf,  medium,  oval,  regularly  serrate. 
Origin,  discovered  at  Ezee  near  Loches,  France,  in  1838, 
by  M.  Jamain,  of  Paris.  A  pear  of  quite  good  quality 
and  rather  undeservedly  in  the  background.  The 
British  name  is  correctly  a  synonym. 

BROOMPARK.  Her.Pom.II.,$i.  Dessert  January 
medium,  2  J  by  2  J,  Bergamotte  shape,  flattened,  uneven. 
Skin,  rough.  Colour,  orange  yellow,  almost  covered 
with  very  fine  golden  russet.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  slightly 
transparent,  half  melting,  extremely  sweet  with  vinous 
flavour.  Eye,  closed  in  a  moderately  deep  basin.  Stem, 
rather  long,  woody,  in  a  slight  cavity.  Growth,  rather 
staggling,  moderate  ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  large,  oval 
little  upfolded,  entire  or  irregularly  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Thos.  Andrew  Knight,  first  fruited  in  1830, 
and  named  after  Broompark,  near  Canterbury.  This 
is  now  seldom  grown  as  it  is  rather  small  for  modern 
tastes,  but  on  a  good  soil  it  is  excellent. 

Caillot  Rose  :    see  Summer  Rose. 

CALEBASSE  BOSC.  Verger  III.,  138.  Dessert, 
September  to  October,  large,  2f  by  4  J,  very  long  calebasse 
form,  uneven.  Skin,  smooth,  with  fine  russet.  Colour, 
rich  golden  brown  entirely  covered  with  russet.  Flesh, 
yellowish,  very  tender,  juicy,  perfumed.  Eye,  wide 
open  like  a  clove.  Stem,  slender,  rather  long,  woody. 
Growth  poor  and  straggling,  not  spurring  well ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  rather  large,  round  oval,  almost  entire, 
little  upfolded,  turns  dull  crimson  red.  Origin,  a  seed- 
ling found  by  Van  Mons  in  the  garden  of  M.  Swates,  at 
Linkebeeke.  An  excellent  fruit  doing  well  as  a  standard, 
but  has  the  great  fault  of  being  too  liable  to  scab.  This 
pear  is  often  wrongly  called  Beurre*  Bosc. 

Calebasse  Vasse  :  see  Beurre  Capiaumont. 

CATILLAC.  Her.  Pom.  I.,  15.  (Pound  pear.)  G. 
Katzenkopf.  Culinary,  till  April,  3j  by  3j.  Shape, 
Bergamotte,  nearly  even.  Skin  smooth,  colour  dull 

162 


green,  brown  red  flush.  Stem,  stout,  moderately  long 
in  a  slight  cavity.  Eye  open  in  a  slight  ribbed  basin. 
Growth,  stout  and  vigorous  ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf  large 
round,  downy,  regularly  serrate,  turns  clear  yellow, 
no  red.  Generally  supposed  to  have  been  found  near 
Cadillac  in  the  Gironde.  It  was  first  described  under 
this  name  by  Bonnefond  in  the  "  Jardinier  Francois," 
1665.  One  of  the  very  best  of  all  stewing  pears,  cooking 
a  deep  red.  Makes  a  fine  large  spreading  standard. 

CHALK.  (Crawford,  Bancrief.)  Dessert,  early 
August,  small,  2  by  if,  round  conical,  even.  Skin, 
nearly  smooth,  a  little  fine  russet.  Colour,  very  pale 
green  with  the  faintest  red  flush.  Flesh,  nearly  white, 
mealy,  sweet  and  juicy,  flavour  nil.  Eye  open  in  a 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  J  inch,  stout,  fleshy.  Growth, 
stout,  weeping  ;  fertility  remarkable.  Leaf,  broad,  dark 
green,  very  downy  below.  Origin,  probably  Scotch.  It 
is  similar  to  Citron  des  Carmes  but  not  identical.  A 
fruit  much  grown  in  Kent  for  London  markets,  and 
greatly  appreciated  at  Hampstead  Heath  on  August 
Bank  Holiday. 


CHARLES  ERNEST.  Rev.  Hort.  1879, 
Dessert,  October  to  November,  very  large,  oval  pyriform, 
flat  at  eye,  a  little  uneven.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  pale 
golden  yellow  generally  wih  a  scarlet  flush.  Flesh, 
white,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  delicate  aroma.  Eye,  nearly 
closed.  Stem,  long  and  rather  slender.  Growth, 
remarkably  upright,  makes  a  large  tree  ;  fertility, 
excellent.  Leaf,  large,  round,  flat,  shallow  serrate, 
little  down  hanging,  turns  chocolate  brown.  Origin 
raised  by  Mm.  Baltet  Fre"res  of  Troyes,  France,  and 
introduced  in  1879.  ^  does  we^  on  quince  or  pear. 

CHAUMONTEL.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  38.  (Be"si  de 
Chaumontel,  Beurre*  d'Hiver.)  Dessert,  November 
December,  large,  3j  by  4,  oblong  pyriform,  uneven. 
Skin,  very  rough.  Colour,  greenish  yellow  nearly 
covered  with  curious  purplish  russet  and  red  flush. 
Flesh,  white,  fine,  melting,  little  gritty,  very  sweet  and 


vinous  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  deep  broad,  uneven 
basin.  Stem,  stout,  rather  long,  generally  inserted 
straight.  Growth,  long  and  straggling  ;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  rather  large,  held  flat,  undulating,  much  twisted, 
coarsely  serrate,  turns  black.  Origin,  raised  at  Chau- 
montel,  France,  about  1660.  Du  Hamel  saw  the  original 
tree  in  1775,  and  it  is  said  to  have  died  in  the  cold  winter 
of  1789.  It  makes  a  rather  large  straggling  tree,  not 
very  much  dwarfed  by  quince.  This  fruit  is  good  when 
thoroughly  well  ripened  and  grown.  It  is  rather  subject 
to  scab  and  does  best  on  a  wall. 

Chevalier  :    see  Beurre  Bachelier. 

Choix  de  1'Amateur :    see  Nouveau  Poiteau. 

Citron  :   see  Doyenne  Blanc. 

CITRON  DES  CARMES.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  44. 
(Madeleine.)  Dessert,  end  July,  small,  2  by  if,  round 
conical,  even.  Skin,  smooth,  thin.  Colour,  pea  green 
with  occasional  slight  brown  red  flush.  Flesh,  tender, 
greenish  white,  a  little  sweet,  no  flavour.  Eye,  wide 
open  on  level.  Stem,  stout,  i \  inches,  obliquely  inserted 
level.  Growth,  rather  small ;  fertility  good.  Leaf, 
oval  pointed,  flat,  down  held,  coarsely  serrate.  This  is 
often  met  with  in  old  orchards  where  it  makes  a  good 
standard.  Rather  similar  to,  but  quite  distinct  from, 
the  Chalk  or  Crawford  Pear  of  Kent.  It  should  be  eaten 
before  the  green  colour  changes. 

CLAPP'S  FAVOURITE.  Verger  II.,  102.  Dessert, 
early  September,  medium,  3^  by  2  J-,  pyriform,  tapering 
to  eye,  fairly  even.  Skin,  thin,  smooth.  Colour,  pale 
milky  yellow  with  a  bright  scarlet  flush  and  stripes. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  melting,  very  juicy  with  slight  aroma. 
Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  stout,  I  inch  long, 
slightly  lipped.  Growth,  vigorous,  upright ;  fertility, 
excellent.  Leaf,  moderate,  oval,  long,  held  out,  finely 
and  regularly  serrate,  turns  muddy  brown  yellow. 

164 


Origin,  raised  by  Thaddeus  Clapp,  of  Dorchester,  Mass., 
U.S.A.  A  pear  of  fair  quality,  esteemed  for  market 
growth,  but  rather  too  gritty  and  glassy  in  texture. 

Colmar  Deschamps  :    see  Beurre  d'Arenberg. 

COLMAR  D'ETE.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  44.  G.  Sommer 
Colmar.  Dessert,  early  September,  small  to  medium, 
2t  by  2j,  short  conical,  very  even.  Skin,  smooth, 
becoming  a  little  greasy  when  ripe,  covered  with 
conspicuous  dots.  Colour,  pale  greenish  yellow  with 
occasional  brown  red  flush.  Flesh,  yellowish  white,  very 
melting,  juicy  and  with  a  strong  musky  flavour.  Eye, 
open  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  f  inch,  slender  in  a 
shallow  cavity.  Growth,  rather  dwarf ;  fertility 
excellent.  Leaf,  large,  upfolded,  down  hanging  and 
down  curved,  very  faintly  serrate,  turns  a  fine  "  sang 
de  boeuf  "  red.  Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons  at  Lou  vain 
about  1825,  and  brought  to  notice  principally  by  Louis 
Vilmorin  of  Paris.  It  makes  a  good  standard  or 
pyramid.  Dr.  Hogg's  advice  to  eat  it  before  it  becomes 
yellow  is  quite  sound  in  a  warm  year,  but  in  a  cold 
summer  it  turns  yellow  on  the  tree  while  still  unripe. 

Coloma :    see  Urbaniste. 

COMTE  DE  LAMY.     Her.  Pom.  II.,  70.     F.  Beurre 

Curtet,  G.  Curtet's  Butterbirne.  Dessert,  October  to 
November,  small,  short  conical  or  peg  top,  a  little 
uneven,  generally  lop-sided.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour, 
pale  green  changing  to  yellow  and  often  a  little  russet 
with  many  small  russet  dots .  Flesh,  white,  very  melting, 
most  delicious,  quite  first  class.  Eye,  open  in  a  wide 
shallow  basin  often  russet ed.  Stem,  J  inch,  woody, 
usually  inserted  by  a  small  bump  on  the  surface.  Growth, 
moderate,  low  spreading  tree ;  fertility  good.  Leaf, 
flat,  edges  undulated,  irregularly  serrate  or  entire,  turns 
orange  yellow.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Bouvier,  of 
Joidoigne,  in  1828,  and  dedicated  to  Curtet,  professor 
at  Brussels.  The  correct  name  is  Beurre  Curtet.  A 

165 


most  delicious  fruit  which  deserves  wider  culture  and 
which  forms  a  worthy  predecessor  to  Doyenne  du 
Cornice. 

CONFERENCE.  Dessert,  October  to  November, 
medium,  long  calebasse  form,  even.  Skin,  a  little 
rough.  Colour,  dark  green  fading  to  pale  yellow  with 
much  russet  spotting.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  slight  pinkish 
tinge,  melting,  very  juicy,  and  sweet.  Eye,  open, 
segments  upright,  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  long,  woody, 
little  curved.  Growth,  moderate,  not  making  a  large 
tree  when  on  quince  ;  fertility  very  good.  Leaf,  rather 
large,  round  oval,  very  irregularly  serrate,  down  hanging, 
little  twisted,  turns  orange  yellow  and  slight  red,  hanging 
late.  Origin,  raised  by  Messrs.  Rivers,  and  introduced 
in  1894.  This  pear  is  now  grown  in  enormous  quantities 
for  market  purposes,  and  is  one  of  the  most  regular 
cropping  varieties  we  have,  and  though  not  quite  first 
class  is  indispensable. 

Conseilleur  de  la  Cour  :    see  Marechal  de  la  Cour. 
Crawford :    see  Chalk. 

DANAS'  HOVEY.  Her.  Pom.  70.  F.  Hovey  de 
Danas.  Dessert,  October  to  November,  small  to 
medium,  2j  by  2|,  round  conical,  even.  Skin,  a  little 
rough.  Colour,  golden  yellow  almost  covered  with 
fine  cinnamon  russet  which  is  thickest  round  eye. 
Flesh,  white,  very  melting,  extremely  sweet  and  musky. 
Eye,  medium,  a  little  open  almost  on  level.  Stem, 
rather  long,  Woody,  with  fleshy  lip  at  base.  Growth, 
very  upright,  makes  a  moderate  sized  tree  ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  a  little  upfolded,  down  curved,  rather 
boldly  serrate,  rather  large,  held  out,  turning  a  deep 
claret.  Origin,  raised  at  Roxbury,  U.S.A.  by  Mr. 
Francis  Danas,  and  named  after  Mr.  C.  M.  Hovey  a 
well  known  American  pomologist.  Lovers  of  Sparkling 
Muscatelle  will  appreciate  this  fruit. 

Delbart :    see  Beurre  d'Amanlis. 
166 


Des  Eparonnais  :    see  Duchesse  d'Angouleme. 

DIRECTEUR  HARDY.  Dessert,  September  to 
November,  medium,  3  by  4,  oval  pyriform,  uneven. 
Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow  almost  covered 
with  fine  russet  and  slight  red  flush.  Flesh,  yellowish 
white,  melting,  extremely  juicy,  finely  perfumed.  Eye, 
open,  small,  in  a  fairly  deep  basin.  Stem,  rather  long, 
and  stout  in  a  slight  cavity.  Growth,  very  upright, 
moderate  ;  fertility,  good.  Leaf,  long  oval,  undulating, 
upfolded,  shining,  pea  green,  neatly  serrate,  upheld, 
turns  very  pale  yellow  then  black.  Origin,  raised  by 
M.  Tourasse  and  introduced  by  Mm.  Baltet  Fre'res  of 
Troyes,  in  1893.  Makes  a  rather  small  tree  either  on 
quince  or  pear. 

DR.  JULES  GUYOT.  Lauchell.tyi.  Dessert,  early 
September,  rather  large,  3  J  by  4^,  oval  pyriform,  a  little 
uneven.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with 
russet  patches  and  slight  red  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow, 
very  juicy  and  melting,  with  slight  musky  flavour. 
Eye,  open,  almost  level.  Stem,  short,  rather  stout, 
generally  inserted  obliquely .  Growth,  moderate,  upright ; 
fertility,  very  good.  Leaf,  medium,  round  oval,  upfolded 
and  down  curved,  finely  crenate,  turns  dull  yellow 
brown.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Ernest  Baltet  of  Troyes, 
in  1870.  This  much  resembles  Williams,  but  has  less 
of  the  musky  flavour.  It  is  grown  in  large  quantities 
for  market  but  is  only  second  class  in  flavour.  It 
should  be  gathered  in  good  time  and  stored  in  a  cool 
place. 

DOUBLE  DE  GUERRE.  Trans.  R.H.S.,  Series  II., 
Vol.  I.,  328.  Culinary,  December  to  February,  fairly 
large,  3  by  4j,  oval  pyriform,  even.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  yellow  brown,  nearly  covered  with  a  dark 
purplish  red  flush.  Flesh,  yellow,  firm,  slightly  acid. 
Eye,  open  nearly  on  surface.  Stem,  short,  stout, 
generally  obliquely  inserted.  Growth,  very  stout, 
compact ;  fertility,  excellent.  Leaf,  large,  pale  green, 
edges  undulating,  irregularly  serrate,  down  hanging, 

167 


Origin,  introduced  to  England  from  Mr.  Stoeffels,  of 
Mechlin,  about  1835.  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  it 
in  any  foreign  work.  According  to  Thompson,  the 
Dutch  name  is  Doppelte  Krieges.  This  hardy  and 
excellent  variety  can  be  strongly  recommended.  It  is 
quite  one  of  the  best  cooking  pears  we  grow. 

Downham  Seedling  :    see  H aeons  Incomparable. 
Doyenne  :    see  Doyenne  Blanc. 

DOYENNE  D'ALENCON.  Her.  Pom.  II.  40.  G. 
Dechants  Birne  von  Alencon.  Dessert,  December  to 
February,  3  by  3^,  pyriform,  very  even.  Skin,  a  little 
rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow  with  many  russet  dots  and 
patches,  sometimes  a  little  flushed.  Flesh,  white, 
melting,  juicy,  very  good  flavour,  with  a  little  astrin- 
gency.  Eye,  small,  nearly  closed  in  a  wide,  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  I  in.,  in  a  small  cavity,  often  at  an  angle. 
Growth,  very  slow ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  long,  oval, 
down  hanging,  upfolded,  crenate,  turns  pale  yellow- 
brown.  Origin,  generally  considered  to  have  been 
discovered  in  a  hedge  by  M.  Thuillier  of  Alengon,  and 
introduced  about  1839.  There  was,  however,  a  pear  of 
the  same  name  and  season  cited  by  Le  Lectier  in  1628. 
A  very  valuable  fruit,  but  a  poor  grower  on  hot  soils. 
It  makes  a  large  spreading  tree,  branches  well  spurred. 

DOYENNE  BLANC.  Lind.  Pom.  Brit.  II.,  60. 
G.  Weisse  Herbst  Butterbirne.  (Doyenne,  St.  Michel, 
Citron,  White  Doyenne*,  etc.,  etc.)  Dessert,  September 
to  October,  large,  3^  by  3f ,  round,  tapering  a  little  to 
stem,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  pale  green  fading 
to  pale  yellow,  with  a  little  cinammon  russet.  Flesh, 
white,  very  melting,  juicy,  not  gritty,  of  delicious 
flavour.  Eye,  half  open,  tips  of  sepals  reflexed,  in  a 
moderately  deep  basin.  Stem,  short,  very  stout,  in  a 
rather  deep  cavity.  Growth  rather  spreading  ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  narrow  oval,  lanceolate,  upfolded,  down 
curved,  regularly  serrate.  Origin,  an  old  variety  which 

168 


is  possibly  Italian,  but  has  been  recorded  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  by  Merlet.  It  is  now  seldom  grown,  but 
in  good  seasons  it  is  quite  first  class. 

DOYENNE  BUSSOCH.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  42.  G. 
Doppelte  Philipps  Birne.  (Doyenne  de  Merode,  Alber- 
tine,  etc.)  Dessert,  September  to  October,  large, 
3}  by  3,  flattened  round,  even.  Skin,  a  little  rough. 
Colour,  bright  yellow  with  russet  patches  and  often  a 
brilliant  red  cheek.  Flesh,  white,  a  little  coarse,  poor 
flavour.  Eye,  small,  segments  fleshy,  upright  in  a 
round  even  basin.  Stem,  short  and  stout  in  a  rather 
deep  cavity.  Growth,  sturdy,  makes  a  low  spreading 
tree ;  fertility  very  good.  Leaf,  large,  oval,  down 
curved,  held  nearly  flat,  irregularly  serrate.  Origin, 
this  is  an  old  Belgian  variety  originally  known  as 
Double  Philippe.  This  name  was  changed  by  Van  Mons 
to  B.  Merode,  in  honour  of  Count  Merode  of  Waterloo. 
The  origin  of  Bussoch  is  doubtful.  This  pear  is  grown 
for  market  in  some  quantity,  but  is  only  third  rate. 

DOYENNE  DU  COMICE.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  13.  G. 
Vereins  Dechants  Birn.  Dessert,  November,  large, 
3j  by  4,  oval  pyriform,  nearly  even.  Skin,  slightly 
rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  with  very  fine  russet  over 
most  of  fruit  and  occasional  red  flush.  Flesh,  pale 
yellow,  extremely  melting  and  delicate,  most  deliciously 
flavoured.  Eye,  closed  in  a  deep  round  basin.  Stem, 
medium,  stout,  little  fleshy,  on  level.  Growth  moderate, 
upright  spreading ;  fertility  irregular.  Leaf,  medium, 
long  oval,  upfolded,  down  curved,  regularly  shallow 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  at  Angers,  France,  by  the 
Hort.  Soc.  of  Maine  et  Loire.  First  fruited  in  1849. 
Introduced  into  England  by  Sir  Thomas  Dyke  Acland 
in  1858.  This  delicious  fruit  can  hardly  be  too  highly 
praised  and  should  be  grown  in  different  forms  and 
positions  so  that  its  season  may  be  extended.  On  rich 
brick  earth  I  have  seen  it  doing  well  as  a  standard. 

DOYENNE  D'ETE.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  26.  F.  Doyenne 
de  Juillet.  G.  Juli  Dechants  Birn.  (Summer  Doyenne', 

169 


Jolimont  Precoce,  Poire  de  Juillet.)  Dessert, 
mid  July  to  August,  small  i|  by  ij,  round,  conical, 
tapering  to  stem,  even.  Skin,  thin,  smooth.  Colour 
pale  yellow  with  brownish-red  flush.  Flesh,  melting, 
very  juicy,  white,  sweet.  Eye,  closed  almost  on  surface. 
Stem,  i  in.,  thick,  inserted  straight  on  level.  Growth, 
weak,  upright  spreading ;  fertility  excellent.  Leaf, 
pointed  oval,  small,  flat,  down  hanging,  very  coarsely 
serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  the  Capucin  Monks  at  Mons 
about  1700.  Hogg  attributes  this  wrongly.  The  words 
"  par  nous  "  used  by  Van  Mons  are  by  no  means  always 
applied  to  his  own  seedlings.  Beurre  Diel,  for  example 
is  thus  noted,  meaning  that  it  was  named  by  him. 
For  its  earliness  and  fertility  it  should  be  included  in 
every  garden.  It  does  well  as  a  standard,  but  is  apt 
to  die  out  on  the  Quince  on  light  soils,  and  is  not  too 
vigorous  on  the  Pear. 

DOYENNE  GEORGES  BOUCHER.  Rev.  Hort., 
1906,  496.  Dessert,  till  March,  large,  4  by  4|,  round 
pyriform,  a  little  uneven.  Skin,  slightly  rough.  Colour, 
palest  yellow  covered  with  grey  brown  russet.  Flesh, 
nearly  white,  very  juicy,  good  flavour.  Eye,  nearly 
closed  in  a  narrow,  rather  deep  basin.  Stem,  rather 
short,  woody  and  stout  in  a  slight  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upright ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  long  oval, 
much  undulating,  broadly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by 
M.  Pinguet-Guindon,  and  first  fruited  in  1894.  Dedicated 
to  M.  Georges  Boucher,  the  Parisian  horticulturist. 
This  fruit  has  received  the  highest  awards  in  France, 
and  is  considered  to  be  a  late  Cornice.  I  have  not 
grown  it  long  enough  to  confirm  this  opinion.  It  should 
be  noted  that  this  fruit  turns  yellow  some  time  before 
it  is  ripe. 

Doyenne  d'Hiver  :   see  Easter  Beurre. 
Doyenne*  de  Merode  :   see  Doyenne  Bussoch. 

Duchess  :   see  Duchess  d'Angouleme. 
170 


DUCHESS  D'ANGOULEME.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  66. 
G.  Herzogin  d'Angouleme.  (Des  Eparonnais,  Duchess.) 
Dessert,  October  to  December,  large,  often  enormous, 
4  by  4,  round  conical,  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour, 
yellowish  green  marked  with  conspicuous  russet  dots 
and  patches.  Flesh,  nearly  white,  very  melting,  juicy 
fine  aromatic  aroma,  extremely  sweet.  Eye,  open  in 
a  deep,  uneven  basin.  Stem,  very  stout  and  fleshy  in 
a  slight  cavity  or  on  level.  Growth,  moderate,  up- 
right, spreading ;  fertility  great.  Leaf,  small,  oval, 
entire  or  very  shallowly  and  widely  crenate.  Origin, 
a  seedling  found  wild  near  Chateau  Neuf,  France,  about 
1808.  It  was  introduced  by  M.  Audusson,  a  nurseryman 
of  Angers,  as  Poire  des  Eparonnais,  but  renamed  in  1819 
in  honour  of  the  Duchess  d'Angouleme,  daughter  of 
Louis  XVI.  This  fruit  is  rather  uncertain  in  quality, 
but  when  all  conditions  are  favourable  is  often  of  the 
highest  merit.  It  makes  a  small,  compact  and  upright 
tree. 

DUCHESSE  DE  BORDEAUX.  Verger,  L,  65. 
F.  Beure  Perrault,  G.  Herzogin  von  Bordeaux.  (Beurre 
Perrault.)  Dessert,  January  to  March,  medium,  2f  by 
2j,  round,  sometimes  tapering  a  little  to  stem,  even  or 
slightly  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  dull  yellow, 
almost  entirely  covered  with  rough  brown  red  russet. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  melting,  buttery,  extremely  juicy  and 
richly  flavoured.  Eye,  small,  half  open,  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  short  and  stout,  generally  on  level  with 
fruit,  often  curved.  Growth,  slow,  upright,  makes  a 
large  tree  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  long,  narrow  oval, 
down  hanging,  little  twisted,  very  shallow  serrate, 
turns  black.  Origin,  raised  from  some  seedlings  sold 
by  M.  Perrault  of  Montjean,  France,  to  M.  Secher  about 
1850.  This  fruit  was  first  called  Beurre*  Perrault  but 
was  later  changed  to  Duchesse  de  Bordeaux.  A  very 
valuable  late  fruit  worthy  of  a  place  in  every  collection. 

DUCHESSE  D'ORLEANS.  Her.  Pom.  II.,  32. 
F.  Beurre  St.  Nicholas.  G.  Butterbirn  von  St.  Nicholas. 
Dessert,  early  to  mid  September,  medium  to  large, 

171 


3j  by  2j,  long  pyriform,  tapering  to  eye,  uneven. 
Skin,  fairly  smooth.  Colour,  pale  yellow  green  with 
dull  red  flush  and  a  little  russet  streaking.  Flesh,  white, 
melting,  very  sweet  and  juicy.  Eye,  closed,  on  surface. 
Stem,  long  and  thin,  rather  fleshy  and  often  lipped  at 
base.  Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility  moderate.  Origin, 
a  chance  seedling  found  near  Angers,  France,  in  1839. 
Decribed  and  generally  known  in  England  as  Duchesse 
d'Orleans,  but  the  French  name  is  the  correct  one. 

DURONDEAU.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  32.  G.  Birne  von 
Tongre.  (De  Tongre.)  Dessert,  October  to  November, 
fairly  large,  3j  by  4j,  long  pyramidal,  almost  calebash, 
uneven,  much  bossed.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  golden 
yellow,  nearly  covered  with  red  gold  russet  with  red 
cheek.  Flesh,  white,  melting,  sweet,  juicy,  well  flavoured . 
Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin  generally  a  little  ribbed. 
Stem,  short,  fleshy,  continued,  often  obliquely  inserted. 
Growth,  moderate,  compact ;  fertility  excellent.  Leaf, 
medium,  oval,  shallow  crenate,  remarkably  upfolded, 
turns  dark  brown  red.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Durondeau 
of  Tongre,  near  Tournai,  Belgium,  in  1811.  Grows  well 
on  Quince  unless  the  soil  is  very  dry.  It  makes  a  good 
standard.  Largely  grown  for  market,  but  if  well  manured 
and  watered  is  of  good  flavour. 

EASTER  BEURRE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  70.  F. 
Doyenne  d'Hiver,  G.  Winter  Deschants  Birne.  (Berga- 
motte  de  Paques,  Poire  de  Pentecote,  Doyenne  d'Hiver.) 
Dessert,  February  to  April,  medium,  round  oval,  even. 
Skin,  rough.  Colour,  pea  green  fading  to  yellow  green 
with  russet  dots  and  patches.  Flesh,  white,  melting, 
with  a  rich  sweet  musky  flavour.  Eye,  closed,  fleshy 
segments  folded  over  each  other.  Stem,  very  short 
and  stout  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  strong,  making 
a  wide  spreading  tree ;  fertility,  moderate.  Leaf, 
very  small,  oval,  upfolded,  very  faintly  crenate,  held  out, 
turns  yellow  with  faintest  brown.  Origin,  raised  by 
M.  Vilain,  a  solicitor  of  Mons,  about  1804.  One  of  the 
best  of  late  pears,  often  a  little  feeble  on  Quince  and 
rather  subject  to  scab. 

172 


Emile  :   see  Emile  d'Heyst. 

EMILE  D'HEYST.    Her.  Pom.,  II.,  32.    G.  Heysts 

Zuckerbirne.  (Emile,  Beurre  d'Esperen.)  Dessert, 
October  to  November,  medium,  2|  by  4^,  long  oval 
even.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow  marbled 
with  brown  russet,  especially  around  stem.  Flesh, 
yellowish  green,  melting,  sub-acid  and  pleasantly 
perfumed.  Eye,  very  small,  a  little  open  in  a  slightly 
ribbed  shallow  basin.  Stem,  rather  long,  slender, 
woody,  set  on  level.  Growth,  rather  dwarf,  becoming 
weeping  as  a  standard  ;  fertility,  very  good.  Leaf, 
long,  pointed,  very  finely  and  regularly  serrate,  very 
much  upfolded,  turns  a  distinct  claret  red,  then  vermilion. 
Origin,  raised  by  Major  Esperen  and  named  after  M. 
Emile  d'Heyst,  of  Heyst-op-den-Berg.  First  fruited 
in  1847.  I*  does  weU  on  nearly  all  soils,  in  all  forms, 
and  in  Scotland.  A  most  reliable  variety  which  for 
hardiness  and  regular  crop  cannot  be  bettered  at  its 
season. 

English  Bergamotte. 

ENGLISH  CAILLOT  ROSAT.  (King's  Pear.) 
Dessert,  August,  medium,  obtusely  pyriform,  even. 
Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  yellowish  green,  sprinkled 
with  russet  spots  on  shaded  sides,  dark  brownish  red, 
interspersed  with  some  grey  specks  on  sunny  side. 
Flesh,  yellowish  white,  juicy,  rich,  aromatic.  Eye,  open 
in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  long,  woody,  in  a  shallow 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  makes  a  good  standard ; 
fertility  good.  Leaf,  medium,  oval,  finely  and  sharply 
serrate.  I  have  been  unable  to  find  the  origin  of 
this  fruit,  and  many  varieties  bear  this  name.  I  give 
above  Thompson's  description  from  the  Gardener's 
Assistant,  as  I  have  not  been  able  to  secure  good  specimens 
of  this  fruit. 

Epine  d'Ete  :   see  Monchallard. 
Epine  Rose  :    see  Monchallard. 
173 


Epine  Rose  :    see  Summer  Rose. 

EYEWOOD  BERGAMOTTE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  51. 
G.  Augenwald.  Dessert,  October  to  November,  medium, 
2f  by  2j,  flattened  round,  even.  Skin,  rough.  Colour, 
yellowish  green,  largely  covered  with  russet  dots  and 
markings.  Flesh,  white,  extremely  juicy,  sweet  and 
very  aromatic.  Eye,  open,  woody,  and  all  united  in 
one  piece,  in  a  shallow  even  basin.  Stem,  very  long  and 
slender  in  a  shallow,  small  cavity.  Growth,  very 
vigorous,  spreading ;  fertility  good:  Leaf,  round 
tapering  sharply  to  point,  very  irregularly  serrate,  held 
out,  flat,  turns  clear  yellow.  Origin,  raised  by  Thomas 
Andrew  Knight,  and  named  after  Eyewood,  near 
Kington,  Hereford.  It  bears  well  as  a  standard,  and 
makes  a  good  pyramid  on  Quince. 

FERTILITY.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  64.  Market  and 
dessert.  October,  small,  2  by  3,  round  conical.  Skin, 
rough.  Colour,  dull  yellow,  almost  covered  with  brown 
russet.  Flesh,  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  poor  or  no 
flavour.  Eye,  open  on  surface  of  fruit.  Stem,  woody, 
moderately  long,  rather  stout.  Growth,  moderate, 
upright  spreading  ;  fertility  great.  Leaf,  very  variable, 
round  to  long  oval,  very  sharply  and  finely  serrate, 
turns  fine  crimson  red.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Rivers 
about  1875,  from  a  seed  of  Beurre  Goubalt.  A  poor 
fruit,  but  grown  in  large  quantities  for  market.  On 
Quince  it  attains  a  medium  size,  but  with  no  improve- 
ment in  quality.  Dr.  Hogg  finds  the  flavour  like 
Williams  "  much  subdued."  Very  much  !  Makes  a 
spire-like  tree. 

FLEMISH  BEAUTY.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  9.  F.  Belle 
des  Bois.  G.  Holzfarbige  Butterbirne.  (Belle  des 
Bois,  Beurre  Spence,  Belle  de  Flandres,  etc.)  Dessert, 
October  to  November,  large,  3j  by  3j,  oval,  a  little 
flattened  each  end,  a  little  uneven.  Skin,  smooth. 
Colour,  dull  greenish  yellow  with  dull  red  brown  flush, 
russeted  around  eye.  Flesh,  white,  juicy,  a  little  gritty, 
pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  open  or  closed  in  a  deep, 

174 


irregular  basin.  Stem,  medium,  stout,  in  a  slight 
cavity.  Growth,  strong,  vigorous ;  fertility  great. 
Origin,  found  by  M.  Chatillon,  of  Alost,  Belgium,  in  a 
wood,  and  introduced  to  notice  by  Van  Mons  about 
1818.  A  hardy  and  vigorous  variety  making  a  good 
standard.  It  must  be  gathered  before  it  parts  readily 
from  the  tree. 

FONDANTE  D'AUTOMNE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  34. 
F.  Bergamotte  Lucrative.  G.  Esperen's  Herrenbirn. 
Dessert,  September  to  October,  medium,  2|  by  2\. 
Shape,  Bergamotte,  very  even.  Skin,  green  fading  to 
yellow,  partly  covered  with  brownish  russet.  Eye, 
open,  segments  upright,  claw-like.  Stem,  short  and 
stout  on  a  slight  cavity.  Growth,  rather  dwarfish,  a 
little  spreading  ;  fertility  excellent.  Leaf,  narrow  oval, 
undulated  at  edge,  irregularly  shallow  crenate, 
sharply  pointed,  down  curved,  turns  dull  crimson  red. 
Origin,  raised  by  M.  Fievee  at  Maubeuge  before  1825. 
One  of  the  most  reliable  of  Autumn  pears,  doing  well 
in  any  form. 

FONDANTE  DE  CUERNE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  42. 
Dessert,  mid  September,  medium  to  large,  2f  by  3j, 
round  conical,  even.  Skin,  fairly  smooth,  thin.  Colour, 
greenish  yellow,  thin  brown  russet  round  eye,  covered 
with  russet  dots.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  melting,  sweet  and 
pleasantly  flavoured.  Eye,  open  in  a  rather  deep, 
irregular  basin.  Stem,  long  and  stout,  fleshy.  Growth, 
strong,  making  a  large,  spreading  tree ;  fertility 
moderate.  Leaf,  medium,  upfolded,  very  regularly  and 
finely  serrate.  Origin,  found  at  Cuerne,  near  Courtrai, 
by  M.  Rcynaert  Bernard.  First  described  by  Bivort  in 
the  Annales  de  Pomologie.  An  excellent  fruit  in  warm 
seasons.  The  variety  described  by  Hogg  is  evidently 
not  the  true  variety. 

FONDANTE  DE  THIRRIOTT.  Bull,  d' Arbor,  1883, 
5.  G.  Schmelzende  vonThirriott.  Dessert,  September 
to  October,  large,  3j  by  3j,  round  conical.  Skin, 
smooth.  Colour,  light  yellow  with  brown-red  flush  and 

175 


prominent  dots.  Flesh,  white,  fine  grained,  melting, 
sweet  and  of  fair  flavour.  Eye,  closed  or  a  little  open  in 
a  deep  regular  basin.  Stem,  long,  slender,  a  little 
fleshy,  often  curved.  Growth,  vigorous,  upright; 
fertility  remarkable.  Leaf,  medium,  oval,  pale  green, 
little  upfolded,  down  curved,  faintly  serrate,  dies  off 
pale  yellow-red.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Thirriott,  a 
nurseryman  of  Ardennes,  Charleville,  France,  in  1858. 
First  fruited  in  1862.  Remarkable  for  its  fertility  and 
of  quite  good  flavour  in  warm  soils.  The  fruit  is  rather 
apt  to  fall  on  standard  trees. 

FORELLE.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  9.  F.  Truitee.  G. 
Forellenbirne.  (Trout  Pear,  Corail.)  Dessert,  November 
to  January,  medium,  shortened  pyriform,  even.  Skin, 
smooth.  Colour,  lemon  yellow  with  brilliant  scarlet 
cheeks  and  many  conspicuous  large  dots.  Flesh,  white, 
melting,  with  a  delicate  and  sweet  taste.  Eye,  open  in 
a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  long,  slender,  in  a  shallow 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  outward  spreading  ;  fertility 
moderate.  Leaf,  flat,  much  down  curved,  margin 
nearly  entire.  Origin,  known  since  1670,  and  named 
for  its  bold  spots  resembling  those  of  the  trout.  Best 
on  Pear  ;  it  is  too  much  dwarfed  on  Quince. 

GANSELL'S  BERGAMOTTE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  53. 
G.  Rote  Dechantsbirne.  (Brocas  Bergamotte,  Bonne 
Rouge.)  Dessert,  November  to  December,  fairly  large, 
2f  by  2j,  flattened  round.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour, 
pale  yellowish-green  with  red-brown  flush  and  russet 
flecks.  Flesh,  white,  melting,  remarkably  sweet  and 
richly  flavoured  ;  a  little  gritty.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  medium,  fleshy  in  a  moderate  deep 
cavity.  Growth,  weak,  straggling  ;  fertility  moderate. 
Leaf,  round  oval,  entire,  undulating.  Origin,  according 
to  Lindley  this  was  raised  by  Lt.-Gen.  Gansel  at  Don- 
neland  Hill,  Colchester,  from  a  seed  of  Autumn  Berga- 
motte, about  1768.  A  weak  grower,  doing  best  when 
double  grafted.  It  requires  a  wall  to  bring  its  fruits 
to  perfection. 


GANSEL-SECKLE.  Her.Pom.,ll.70.  F.Secklede 
Gansel.  Dessert,  November,  small,  flattened  round, 
even.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  lemon  yellow  with 
a  red  flush  and  dark  brown  russet,  very  much  like 
Seckle.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  little  gritty,  very  sweet. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  fairly  deep  basin.  Stem,  rather  short 
and  stout  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  medium  ; 
fertility,  moderate.  Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Williams,  of 
Pitmaston,  about  1820  (Seckle  x  Gansel's  Bergamotte). 

GENERAL  TODLEBEN.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  24. 
Dessert  (in  a  warm  season),  November  to  January,  very 
large,  long  pyriform,  uneven.  Skin,  slightly  rough. 
Colour  greenish-yellow,  with  russet  patches  and  faint 
flush.  Flesh,  slightly  rose  tinted,  melting,  juicy, 
perfumed.  Eye,  open,  in  a  moderately  deep  basin. 
Stem,  moderate,  stout,  woody.  Growth,  moderate, 
upright,  a  little  spreading  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  rather 
large,  oval,  upfolded,  very  faintly  serrate  or  entire, 
turning  pale  orange-yellow.  Origin,  raised  by  M. 
Fontaine  de  Gheling,  of  Mons,  in  1839,  and  named  after 
the  famous  defender  of  Sebastopol.  It  makes  a  medium 
sized  tree.  The  fruits  hang  late  and  in  a  cool  season 
hardly  mature. 

GIROGILE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  60.  (Gilogil,  Gilles-6- 
Gilles,  Girogile.)  Culinary,  flattened  round,  December 
to  February,  large  3j  by  3j.  Skin  a  little  rough,  golden 
yellow  with  some  rough  russet  and  brown-red  flush. 
Stem,  rather  short  in  a  rather  narrow  cavity.  Eye, 
large,  a  little  open,  in  a  wide,  even  basin.  Flesh, 
white,  a  little  breaking,  cooking  a  rich  red.  Growth, 
sturdy,  making  a  large,  spreading  standard ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf  round,  very  large,  down  curved,  boldly, 
and  irregularly  serrate,  hangs  late,  turning  dull  crimson 
red.  Origin,  of  great  antiquity,  has  been  grown  for 
four  centuries.  The  curious  name  of  this  fruit  has  been 
the  subject  of  much  discussion,  but  I  think  the  most 
reasonable  origin  is  that  suggested  by  M.  Messager.  He 
points  out  that  many  places  where  the  monasteries 
of  the  order  of  St.  Denis  were  established  had  the 

177 


termination  "  ogile."  Thus  altum-ogile  became  in  French 
Altogile,  finally  Auteuil ;  Argent  ogile-Argenteuil.  In 
the  same  way  Girum-ogilium  gave  Girogile,  which  is  the 
oldest  spelling  of  Gilogil,  and  which  I,  therefore,  adopt. 

Girofle* :    see  Rousselet  de  Rheims. 

GLOU  MORCEAU.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  55.  F.  Beurre" 
d'Hardenpont.  G.  Hardenponts  Winter  Butterbirne. 
(Beurre"  d'Hardenpont,  Beurre"  d'Arenberg.)  Dessert, 
December  to  January,  fairly  large,  oval  pyriform,  often 
snout-like  at  eye,  uneven.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  pea 
green  till  it  approaches  ripeness,  when  it  changes  slowly 
to  a  pale  greenish  yellow.  Flesh,  very  smooth,  very 
melting,  nearly  white,  flavour  first  rate.  Eye,  wide 
open  in  a  wide  basin,  which  is  a  little  uneven.  Stem, 
long,  fairly  stout,  woody,  generally  inserted  at  an  angle. 
Growth,  moderate,  rather  spreading;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  flat  and  undulating,  down  curved,  finely  and 
regularly  crenate,  turns  dark  brown.  Origin,  raised 
by  the  Abbe  Hardenpont  in  the  eighteenth  century. 
It  is  known  as  Beurre*  d'Hardenpont,  or  Beurre  d'Aren- 
berg  in  France ;  our  Beurr^  d'Arenberg  being  the 
Orphelin  d'Enghien  of  Belgium.  It  is  regrettable 
that  the  memory  of  the  pioneer  of  Pear  raising,  1'Abbe 
Hardenpont,  is  not  commemorated  in  this  fruit.  One 
of  the  finest  of  winter  pears,  ripening  successively  and 
lasting  in  good  condition  for  some  time.  On  a  South 
or  West  wall  it  crops  regularly  and  ripens  its  fruits 
splendidly.  In  France  it  is  said  to  benefit  by  a  shade 
over  the  tree  to  protect  it  from  spring  frosts. 

Gratioli  of  Jersey  :   see  Jersey  Gratioli. 

GREGOIRE  BOURDILLION.  Dessert,  August, 
medium,  3  by  3j,  round  oval,  tapering  most  to  stem, 
even.  Skin  rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow,  abundantly 
marbled  with  brown  russet  and  occasional  flush.  Flesh, 
pale  yellow,  very  tender  and  juicy,  sweet,  a  little 
gritty  at  the  core,  very  agreeably  flavoured.  Eye,  open 
is  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  extremely  short  and  thick, 


and  spreading ;  fertility  great.  Leaf,  rather  small, 
upfolded,  curved,  regularly  and  finely  serrate.  Origin, 
raised  by  Andre  Leroy  from  a  seed  of  the  Pear  Graslin. 
It  first  fruited  in  1866.  A  very  good  early  pear,  con- 
sidered by  some  authorities  as  equal  to  Williams. 

GROSSE  CALEBASSE.     Verger  III.,  30.    F.  Van 

Marum.  Exhibition  or  dessert.  October,  enormous, 
4i  by  7,  long  calebasse,  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour, 
entirely  covered  with  a  fine  dark  brown  russet  with 
an  occasional  red  flush.  Flesh,  greenish,  white  melting, 
of  good  flavour  in  a  warm  season,  extremely  juicy. 
Eye,  large,  open,  in  a  regular  shallow  basin.  Stem, 
moderately  long,  very  stout  and  fleshy,  continued. 
Growth,  moderate,  rather  upright ;  fertility,  fair. 
Leaf,  elliptical,  little  up-folded,  twisted,  shallow, 
serrate.  Origin,  a  seedling  of  the  Van  Mons  and  first 
fruited  at  Louvain  in  1820.  Named  after  the  chemist, 
Van  Marum.  The  name  Grosse  Calebasse  is  now  so 
firmly  established  in  this  country  that  it  is  probably 
impossible  to  revert  to  its  correct  original  name. 

HACON'S  INCOMPARABLE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  38. 
F.  Poire  d'Hacon.  G.  Hacon's  Onvergleichliche. 
(Downham  Seedling.)  Dessert,  December  to  January, 
medium,  2f  by  2f ,  flattened  round,  tapering  a  little  to 
stem,  even.  Skin,  nearly  smooth.  Colour,  palest 
yellow  with  flecks  and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh,  palest 
yellow,  melting  and  deliciously  flavoured.  Eye,  wide 
open  in  a  shallow  basin  or  on  level.  Stem,  slender, 
rather  long  in  a  marked  cavity.  Growth,  very  spreading, 
moderately  vigorous  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  nearly 
flat,  long  oval,  regularly  shallow  serrate.  Origin, 
uncertain.  One  account  attributes  it  to  Mr.  Hacon,  of 
Downham  Market,  Norfolk,  as  a  seedling  raised  in  1815. 
Another  says  it  was  raised  in  1792  by  a  Mrs.  Raynor 
of  the  same  town. 

Hardenpont  de  Printemps  :    see  Beurre  Ranee. 

Hardy  :   see  Beurre  Hardy. 
179 


HESSLE.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  28.  (Hasel.)  Market 
October,  small,  round,  conical,  even.  Skin,  fairly 
smooth,  covered  with  small  russet  dots.  Colour,  pale 
yellow-brown.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  juicy,  a  little  sweet. 
Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem,  f  in.,  stout, 
obliquely  inserted.  Growth,  good,  upright  spreading  ; 
fertility  excellent.  Leaf,  long,  oval,  nearly  flat,  entire, 
Origin,  found  at  the  village  of  Hessle,  Yorks.  A  hardy 
prolific  variety,  thriving  in  the  North  and  making  a 
good  standard  but  of  very  poor  quality.  Hogg  speaks 
of  another  variety  of  the  same  name,  but  I  have  never 
seen  this. 

His  :    see  Baronne  de  Mello. 
Hubard  :    see  Beurre  d'Amanlis. 

HUYSHE'S  PRINCE  CONSORT.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  68. 
Dessert,  December  to  January,  large,  3  by  4^,  long 
pyriform,  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow- 
green,  very  much  netted  with  thin  russet.  Flesh, 
yellow,  melting,  with  a  delicious  aroma  and  flavour. 
Eye,  small,  open,  in  a  deep  wide  basin.  Stem,  long, 
very  stout,  generally  obliquely  inserted.  Growth, 
moderate ;  fertility  fair.  Origin,  raised  by  the  Rev. 
J.  Huyshe,  of  Clyst  Hydon  (Beurre  d'Arenberg  x  Passe 
Colmar).  First  fruited  in  1864.  Quite  distinct  from 
Prince  Albert,  a  seedling  of  Van  Mons.  This  is  now 
seldom  met  with,  but  is  quite  worthy  of  a  place  in 
collections. 

HUYSHE'S  PRINCESS  OF  WALES.  Fl.  and  Pom., 
1867,  93.  Dessert,  December,  medium,  3!  by  2j, 
oblong  conical  or  round  oval,  flattened  at  stem,  even. 
Colour,  pale  yellow  covered  with  cinnamon  russet. 
Flesh,  yellow,  melting,  juicy,  very  rich  flavour.  Eye 
open  in  a  slight  depression  or  on  level.  Stem,  very 
short  and  stout  in  a  deep  cavity.  Growth,  very  upright, 
compact ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  flat,  down  curved, 
very  faintly  serrate  or  entire.  Origin,  raised  by  the 
Rev.  John  Huyshe,  of  Clyst  Hydon,  Exeter,  in  1830. 
(Gansel's  Bergamotte  x  Marie  Louise.) 

180 


HUYSHE'S  VICTORIA.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1867,  237. 
Dessert,  December  to  January,  medium  or  large, 
pyriform,  ribbed  round  eye.  Skin,  russet  in  veins  and 
patches.  Colour,  deep  yellow  with  cinnamon  russet. 
Flesh,  melting,  little  gritty,  very  rich  and  sweet  flavour, 
Eye,  open  in  a  very  shallow  basin.  Stem,  very  short  and 
stout,  obliquely  inserted.  Growth,  rather  dwarf, 
upright,  spreading ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  much  up- 
folded,  held  upright,  dies  off  scarlet-red.  Origin,  raised 
by  the  Rev.  John  Huyshe,  of  Clyst  Hydon,  Exeter,  in 
1830.  (Gansel's  Bergamotte  x  Marie  Louise.)  A  very 
delicious  pear,  now  seldom  met  with.  It  has  many  good 
points  ;  its  only  bad  one  being  its  grittiness  at  the  core. 

IDAHO.  (Lindsey.)  Dessert,  November  to  Decem- 
ber, large,  3j  by  3,  flattened  round,  quite  apple  like, 
uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  light  yellow,  largely 
marked  and  marbled  with  rough  russet.  Flesh,  fine 
grained,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  curious  flavour  not  very 
attractive.  Eye  closed,  twisted  in  a  deep  basin.  Stem, 
very  stout  in  a  deep  cavity.  Growth,  very  vigorous  ; 
fertility  good.  Origin,  raised  at  Idaho,  and  introduced 
in  1889. 

Jackman's  Melting  :    see  King  Edward. 

JARGONELLE.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  26.  F.  Epargne. 
G.  Sparbirne.  (Synonyms  are  very  numerous ;  it  is 
often  known  as  English  Jargonelle.)  Dessert,  August, 
medium,  very  long  conical,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour, 
greenish  yellow,  with  a  faint  brownish-red  flush.  Flesh, 
pale  yellow,  very  tender  and  juicy,  sweet  with  a  touch 
of  musky  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stem, 
long  and  slender.  Growth,  straggly,  long  spreading 
branches  ;  fertility  excellent.  Leaf,  large,  pale  green, 
little  upfolded,  coarsely  serrate,  down  hanging,  turns 
lemon  yellow  with  very  faint  red.  Origin,  known  in 
France  before  1600.  The  French  Jargonelle  is  quite 
distinct  and  must  not  be  confused  with  this.  A  very 
valuable  early  variety,  doing  well  as  a  standard,  but 
rather  too  straggling  to  form  a  nice  pyramid.  Does  well 
on  a  North  wall,  and  succeeds  in  Scotland. 

181 


JERSEY  GRATIOLI.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  55.  (Gratioli 
of  Jersey,  Bedrninster  Gratioli.)  Dessert,  September  to 
October,  medium,  2|  by  2\,  round  conical  to  short 
pyriform,  even.  Skin,  very  rough.  Colour,  pale 
yellow  covered  with  greyish  dots  and  russet  patches. 
Flesh,  very  fine,  rr citing,  very  sweet  and  perfumed, 
nearly  first  class.  Eye,  large,  open  in  a  rather  deep  even 
basin.  Stem,  very  short  and  stout,  continued.  Growth, 
vigorous  and  compact ;  fertility  extra  good.  Leaf, 
medium,  oval,  much  upfolded,  boldly  serrate.  Origin, 
this  has  been  known  in  England  for  some  hundred  years 
and  was  originally  from  Jersey,  where  it  was  probably 
raised.  A  hardy  and  very  fertile  variety,  making  a 
good  standard.  It  must  be  gathered  rather  early  or 
it  will  rot  at  the  centre. 

JOSEPHINE  DE  MALINES.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  70. 
Dessert,  December  to  January,  rather  small,  short 
conical.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  pale  green,  fading  to 
pale  yellow,  with  a  russet  patch  round  stem.  Flesh, 
slightly  pinkish,  very  melting,  sweet  and  deliciously 
perfumed.  Eye,  open  in  a  slight  basin,  upright  seg- 
ments. Stem,  rather  short  and  woody.  Growth, 
moderate,  rather  weeping ;  fertility  good.  Leaf, 
small,  very  long  petiole,  very  finely  crenate,  narrow 
oval,  sharply  pointed,  held  flat,  down  hanging,  turns 
pale  yellow.  Origin,  raised  by  Major  Esperen  in  1830, 
and  named  after  his  wife.  Quite  the  most  reliable 
fruit  of  its  season,  ripening  successively  in  the  fruit  room. 
If  one  winter  pear  only  can  be  grown  this  should  be 
selected. 

Jolimont  Pr£coce  :  see  Doyenne  d'Ete. 
King  Pear  :   see  English  Caillot  Rosa. 

KING  EDWARD.  F.  du  Roi  Edouard.  G.  Konig 
Eduard.  (Jackman's  Melting.)  Culinary,  September  to 
October,  enormous,  long  pyriform,  uneven.  Skin,  a 
little  russset  in  dots  and  at  base  of  fruit .  Colour,  greenish 
yellow,  with  orange  flush.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  a  little 

182 


melting,  sweet,  juicy.  Eye,  a  little  open  in  a  very 
shallow  basin.  Stem,  very  short,  stout,  fleshy,  con- 
tinued. Growth,  strong  upright,  spreading,  well  spurred, 
fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  roundish,  held  up  flat,  very 
shallow  serrate.  Origin,  first  mentioned  by  Thompson 
in  Catg.  Hort.  Soc.,  1842.  Origin  undiscovered.  An 
immense  fruit  resembling  Uvedales  St.  Germain,  but 
unlike  that  sort  stewing  very  well. 

LA  FRANCE.  Dessert,  October  to  November,  small, 
2f  by  2|,  roundish,  very  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour, 
greenish-yellow,  much  covered  with  grey  russet  and 
often  a  little  bronzed  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh,  white, 
melting,  juicy  ano  very  perfumed  in  flavour.  Eye,  open 
in  an  uneven  basin.  Stem,  short  and  thick  in  a  deep 
irregular  cavity.  Growth,  weak  and  dwarfish ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  small,  oval,  petiole  long,  little  upcupped, 
held  out,  entire.  Origin,  raised  about  1864,  by  M. 
Claude  Blanchet,  a  nurseryman  at  Vienne,  France. 
A  delicious  fruit,  rather  too  weak  on  Quince,  best 
double  grafted. 

LAMMAS.  Dessert.  August,  small  to  medium, 
2j  by  2,  conical,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  pea 
green  to  creamy  yellow.  Flesh,  soft,  rather  mealy, 
whitish-yellow,  strong  pear  flavour.  Eye,  open,  seg- 
ments erect,  in  a  deep  basin.  Stem,  short,  stout, 
generally  lipped.  Growth,  vigorous  and  hardy ;  fer- 
tility good.  Origin,  undiscovered.  This  is  much 
grown  around  London  for  market  and  makes  a  very 
large  tree. 

LE  BRUN.  Dessert,  October,  large  3  by  4$,  long 
calebasse,  uneven.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  greenish, 
yellow,  a  faint  russet  patch  here  and  there.  Flesh, 
yellowish-white,  fine  grained,  half  melting,  a  little  sweet 
and  perfumed.  Eye,  half  open  in  a  regular  and  even 
basin.  Stem,  short  and  stout,  generally  at  an  angle. 
Growth,  vigorous  and  upright ;  fertility  great.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  pointed  oval,  regularly  and  finely  serrate, 
turns  dull  yellow  with  slight  red.  Origin,  raised  at 


Troyes  in  1856,  by  M.  Gueniot,  a  nurseryman  of  that 
town.  This  has  never  been  other  than  second  rate 
with  me. 

LE  LECTIER.  Dessert,  December  to  January, 
rather  large,  3j  by  4j,  pyriform,  fairly  even.  Skin, 
smooth.  Colour,  green  to  pale  yellow,  a  little  russet 
round  stem  and  occasionally  on  sides.  Flesh,  white, 
melting,  deliciously  perfumed.  Eye,  a  little  open. 
Stem,  rather  long,  often  continued,  fleshy.  Growth, 
very  upright,  strong ;  fertility  moderate.  Origin, 
raised  by  M.  Auguste  Leseur,  of  Orleans,  about  1882, 
from  William's  Bon  Chretien  x  Bergamotte  Fortune"e, 
introduced  by  Messrs.  Transons  in  1888.  It  is  named 
after  the  famous  Le  Lectier,  who  collected  no  less  than 
260  varieties  of  pears  in  1628.  A  valuable  fruit,  doing 
well  on  all  walls  except  the  North,  and  also  on  most 
soils. 

Leon  le  Clerc  :  see  Leon  le  Clerc  de  Laval. 

LEON  LE  CLERC  DE  LAVAL.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  60- 
(Leon  le  Clerc.)  Culinary,  January  to  June,  very  large, 
3j  by  4,  long  pyriform,  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour, 
greenish  yellow  with  bold  russet  dots  and  patches, 
especially  round  the  stem,  and  occasionally  flushed  red. 
Flesh,  white,  firm,  juicy,  breaking,  does  not  turn  red 
in  cooking.  Eye,  large,  a  little  open,  in  a  wide,  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  unusually  long,  woody,  curved.  Growth, 
stout  and  compact ;  fertility  good  and  regular.  Leaf, 
upfolded,  down  hanging.  Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons 
at  Louvain  in  1825,  an(^  dedicated  to  his  friend  and 
fellow  pear  raiser  Le  Clerc,  of  Laval. 

Liart :    see  Napoleon. 
Lindsey :    see  Idaho. 

LOUISE  BONNE  OF  JERSEY.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  9. 
F.  Louise  Bonne  d'Avranches.  G.  Gute  Louise  van 
Avrauches.  Dessert,  October,  medium,  2|  by  4j,  long 

184 


conical,  oval,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  yellowish- 
green,  with  red  flush  and  prominent  red  spots.  Flesh, 
white,  very  melting,  sweet  and  delicious.  Eye,  medium, 
open,  in  an  even,  regular  russeted  basin.  Stem, 
fairly  long,  woody,  in  a  slight  cavity,  or  on  level  with 
surface.  Growth,  upright,  spreading ;  fertility  great. 
Leaf,  narrow,  little  upfolded,  very  boldly  crenate,  turns 
very  dark  yellow-brown.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Longueval, 
of  Avranches,  France,  about  1780.  There  is  another 
Louise  Bonne  of  older  date  than  this.  This  is  known 
in  France  as  Louise  Bonne  d' Avranches.  It  makes  a 
rather  large,  well-shaped  tree,  very  highly  to  be  recom- 
mended for  its  quality  and  regular  cropping  habits. 

MADAME  LYE  BALTET.  Dessert,  December  to 
January,  medium,  3  by  3,  round,  uneven.  Skin,  a  little 
rough.  Colour,  green  or  slightly  yellow,  marbled  with 
greyish  russet.  Flesh,  white,  sweet,  juicy,  delicately 
perfumed.  Eye,  open  in  a  wide  slightly  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  long,  curved,  woody  in  an  irregular  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  medium, 
undulated,  markedly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  M. 
Ernest  Baltet,  of  Troyes,  France,  and  introduced  in 
1877.  A  very  delicious  fruit,  but  a  little  difficult  to 
grow.  A  warm  corner  and  a  rich  soil  are  necessary  to 
perfect  it. 

MADAME  TREYVE.  Verger,  II.,  6.  F.  Souvenir 
de  Madame  Treyve.  Dessert,  August  to  September, 
large,  3  by  3^,  oval  pyriform,  even.  Skin,  smooth. 
Colour,  pea  green  to  pale  yellow  with  red  flush  and 
russet  patches.  Flesh,  greenish  white,  very  melting, 
sweet  and  refreshing.  Eye,  small,  nearly  closed  in  a 
wide  uneven  basin.  Stem,  rather  long,  woody,  not 
sunk.  Growth,  vigorous  at  first,  then  spurring  closely, 
rather  upright  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  roundish,  upfolded 
finely  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Treyve,  a  nursery- 
man of  Trevoux,  France.  It  first  fruited  in  1858.  A 
very  delicious  fruit,  well  worthy  of  cultivation.  Its 
flower  buds  are  remarkable  pink. 

Madeleine  :    see  Citron  des  Cannes. 

185 


MAGNATE.  Dessert,  October  to  November,  large, 
pyriform,  even.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  russet  brown 
on  yellow  ground,  with  russet  dots.  Flesh,  yellow, 
soft,  somewhat  gritty  on  some  soils.  Eye,  half  open 
nearly  on  level.  Stem,  rather  long  and  stout.  Growth, 
moderate,  upright  spreading,  making  a  well  spurred 
tree  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  remarkably  long,  oval, 
slightly  upfolded,  very  finely  crenate,  turns  slight 
brownish  red.  Origin,  raised  by  Messrs.  Rivers,  and 
introduced  about  1888. 


MARECHAL  DE  LA  COUR.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  42. 
G.  Hofratsbirne.  (Conseilleur  de  la  Cour.)  Dessert, 
October  to  November,  large,  3  by  4^,  long  pyriform, 
distinctly  waisted,  even.  Skin,  slightly  rough.  Colour, 
palest  yellow,  almost  covered  with  a  light  brown  russet. 
Flesh,  white,  melting,  a  little  gritty,  exceedingly  juicy, 
vinous  flavour.  Eye,  large,  open,  almost  on  level. 
Stem,  long  and  slender,  generally  curved.  Growth, 
very  vigorous  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  large,  even,  oval, 
little  upcupped,  serrate,  turns  faint  orange  brown. 
Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons  in  1841.  It  makes  a  rather 
upright  tree.  The  quality  varies  according  to  soil,  a 
warm  one  being  best.  It  makes  a  good  standard. 

MARGUERITE  MARRILAT.  Rev.  Hort.,  1883,  348. 
Dessert,  September,  enormous,  3 J  by  5  or  larger,  long 
calebasse  form,  uneven.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour, 
golden  yellow  with  brilliant  vermilion  flush  and  slight 
russet.  Flesh,  pale  yellow,  extremely  juicy.  Eye, 
small,  open  in  a  shallow  uneven  basin.  Stem,  medium 
to  short,  very  stout,  inserted  at  an  angle.  Growth, 
remarkably  upright,  stout  shoots ;  fertility  great. 
Leaf,  large,  round  oval,  shallow  serrate,  turns  vermilion, 
falls  rather  early.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Marrillat,  a 
nurseryman  of  Craponne,  near  Lyons.  First  exhibited 
in  1872.  A  very  fine  fruit  of  second  quality  in  flavour, 
but  a  favourite  for  market  use  and  a  prodigious  cropper. 
It  does  not  rot  at  the  core  as  do  so  many  autumnal 
pears. 

186 


MARIE  BENOIST.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  68.  Dessert, 
February,  large,  3j  by  4,  round  conical,  uneven,  usually 
lop  sided.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  greenish 
yellow  marked  with  thick  patches  of  dark  russet.  Flesh, 
white,  melting,  a  little  gritty,  very  juicy,  and  of  fair 
flavour.  Eye,  small,  open  in  a  wide  and  deep  basin. 
Stem,  stout  and  woody,  usually  inserted  at  an  angle. 
Growth,  strong ;  fertility  fair.  Leaf,  down  held, 
nearly  flat,  entire  or  shallowly  irregularly  serrate,  turns 
medium  red,  hangs  mid.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Auguste 
Benoist,  of  Brissac,  France,  and  dedicated  to  his  daughter 
Marie.  It  first  fruited  in  1863.  As  usually  grown  this 
is  rather  a  coarse  fruit,  but  in  France  it  is  of  good 
quality.  It  probably  requires  a  wall  to  bring  out  its 
best  qualities. 

MARIE  LOUISE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  55.  (Marie 
Louise  Delcourt,  Princess  de  Parme.)  Dessert,  October 
to  November,  medium,  3  by  4,  long  oval,  a  little  uneven. 
Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  pale  green  to  yellow,  with  thin 
patches  of  fine  russet,  especially  around  the  eye.  Flesh, 
very  pale,  juicy,  a  little  gritty,  of  a  distinct  and  refined 
flavour.  Eye,  large,  open,  nearly  on  the  surface  of  the 
fruit.  Stem,  rather  long,  woody,  generally  a  little 
curved,  often  in  a  slight  cavity.  Growth,  makes  a 
spreading,  straggling  tree  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  narrow 
oval,  held  open,  nearly  entire,  turns  black.  Origin, 
raised  by  the  Abbe  Duquesne  of  Mons  in  1809,  and  named 
after  Napoleon's  second  wife,  the  Archduchess  of 
Austria.  This  is  now  one  of  the  best  known  of  the 
pears.  It  does  well  as  a  standard  on  suitable  soils. 
On  dry  soils  it  comes  rather  more  russeted  and  keeps 
rather  longer. 

Marie  Louise  Delcourt :    see  Marie  Louise. 

MARIE  LOUISE  D'UCCLE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  55. 
G.  Uccle's  Marie  Louise.  Dessert,  October,  fairly  large, 
3j  by  4,  oval,  pyriform.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour, 
golden  yellow,  almost  covered  with  fawn  russet  dots 
and  patches.  Flesh,  palest  yellow,  very  juicy,  deliciously 


flavoured.  Eye,  medium,  closed  in  a  deep  and 
narrow  basin.  Stem,  stout,  woody,  rather  long,  generally 
at  an  angle.  Growth,  rather  slender ;  fertility  very 
good.  Leaf,  rather  large,  down  curved,  upfolded, 
boldly  serrate,  turns  dull  yellow  red  to  black.  Origin, 
raised  by  M.  Gambier,  of  Rhode,  near  St.  Genese,  near 
Brussels,  from  a  seed  of  Marie  Louise.  A  fine  pear,  not 
quite  justly  appreciated.  It  is  unfortunately  very 
subject  to  scab.  It  makes  a  compact  tree,  but  with  a 
lot  of  whippy  shoots. 

Medaille  :    see  Napoleon. 

MICHAELMAS.  (Michaelmas  Nelis.)  Dessert,  mid 
to  end  September,  medium,  2\  by  2j,  round,  slightly 
conical.  Skin,  slightly  rough.  Colour,  yellowish  green, 
almost  covered  with  cinnamon  dots  and  nettings.  Flesh, 
melting,  yellow,  of  excellent  flavour,  remarkably  juicy 
and  sweet.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow,  even  basin.  Stem, 
stout,  |  in.,  in  a  deep  cavity.  Growth,  upright  spreading, 
making  a  well  spurred  tree.  Leaf,  very  down  curved, 
held  nearly  flat,  serrate,  turning  a  beautiful  scarlet. 
Origin,  raised  in  a  cottage  garden  near  Gravesend  from 
a  seed  of  Winter  Nelis,  and  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Bunyard  &  Co.  in  1900.  A  most  excellent  fruit  in  best 
condition  before  it  turns  yellow.  This  was  originally 
called  Michaelmas  Nelis. 

Michaelmas  Nelis  :    see  Michaelmas. 

MONARCH.  Her.  Pom.,  L,  4.  F.  Monarque  de 
Knight.  Dessert,  January  to  February,  small  to  medium, 
round  conical,  even.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  yellow- 
green,  covered  with  brown  russet.  Flesh,  yellow, 
melting  and  delicious  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  rather  short,  stout.  Growth,  rather 
spreading,  making  a  round  headed  tree  ;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  small,  roundish,  dark,  a  little  upfolded,  shallow 
crenate,  turns  orange  red.  Origin,  raised  by  T.  A. 
Knight,  probably  from  a  seed  of  the  Autumn  Berga- 

188 


motte  in  1830,  and  named  in  honour  of  William  IV. 
It  can  be  easily  recognised  in  winter  by  its  very  large 
oval  buds,  which  stand  out  like  those  of  a  red  currant. 

MONCHALLARD.  Decaisne,  V.,  17.  (Epine  d'Ete*, 
Epine  Rose.)  Dessert,  August  to  September,  fairly 
large,  2\  by  3^,  pyriform,  even.  Skin,  smooth. 
Colour,  bright  yellow  with  slight  flush  and  strewn  with 
numerous  greenish  dots.  Flesh,  very  white,  juicy, 
melting,  flavour  very  delicious.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  long,  moderately  stout,  in  a  shallow 
cavity.  Growth,  vigorous,  upright ;  fertility  very 
good.  Leaf,  long  oval,  upfolded,  down  hanging,  shallow 
serrate.  Origin,  found  in  a  wood  at  Valeuil  (Dordogne), 
about  1810,  by  M.  Monchallard.  According  to  a 
writer  in  the  Revue  Horticole  (1863,  179),  the  fruit  was 
first  named  Monsallard.  A  very  delicious  early  fruit, 
now  rather  overlooked. 

NAPOLEON.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  38.  (Medaille,  Liart, 
etc.)  Dessert,  October  to  November,  large  3  by  3j, 
pyriform.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  yellowish-green  with 
numerous  russet  dots  and  russet  patches  around  eye 
and  stem.  Flesh,  white,  fine  grained,  a  little  gritty, 
extraordinarily  juicy,  sweet,  and  briskly  flavoured. 
Eye,  closed  in  a  very  deep  narrow  basin.  Stem,  short 
and  stout  in  a  rather  deep  and  irregular  cavity. 
Growth,  moderate  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  rather  large, 
little  upfolded,  down  curved,  turns  orange  red, 
falls  early.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Liart,  a  gardener  at 
Mons,  in  1808.  The  tree  was  purchased  by  1'Abbe 
Duquesne  for  33  francs,  and  by  him  named  Napoleon. 
There  is  a  pear  also  named  Napoleon  III.,  equally 
distinct  as  were  the  two  Emperors.  Its  numerous 
synonyms,  such  as  Roi  de  Rome,  Gloire  de  1'Empereur  and 
Captif  de  St.  Helene,  tell  their  story  of  Imperial  ambitions 
and  their  result.  A  valuable  fruit,  hardly  strong 
enough  on  Quince  for  most  soils. 

NEC  PLUS  MEURIS.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  68.  Dessert 
February  to  March,  small,  2  by  2,  round  oval,  very 


uneven.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  greenish  yellow 
nearly  covered  with  rough  brown  russet  and 
occasionally  with  a  slight  brown-red  flush.  Flesh,  pale 
yellow,  melting  and  deliciously  perfumed.  Eye,  large 
open  in  a  small  basin.  Stem,  very  short  and  stout, 
continued.  Growth,  upright ;  fertility  excellent. 
Origin,  this  pear  is  not  the  Nee  Plus  Meuris  of  France, 
or  Van  Mons,  which  is  our  Beurre  d'Anjou.  The  figure 
in  the  Herefordshire  Pomona  is  correct  but  the  origin 
given  is  wrong.  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  the  correct 
name  of  this  variety,  and  it  is  very  probably  French  or 
Belgian. 

NOUVEAU  POITEAU.  Her.Pom.,II.,s$.  G.Neue 
Poiteau.  (Retour  de  Rome,  Choix  de  rAmateur.) 
Dessert,  November,  rather  large,  3f  by  4,  oval  pyriform, 
uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  pale  greenish  yellow, 
nearly  covered  with  reddish  russet  and  slight  flush. 
Flesh,  white,  slightly  green  under  the  skin,  very 
melting,  sweet  and  quite  first  class.  Eye,  closed  or 
slightly  open,  rather  small,  in  a  large  uneven  basin. 
Stem,  stout,  rather  long,  generally  at  an  angle.  Growth, 
upright  spreading,  making  an  angle  of  45  ° ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  rather  large,  slightly  upfolded,  regularly 
and  finely  crenate.  Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons  and 
first  fruited  in  1843.  It  was  dedicated  to  the  great 
pomologist  Poiteau,  but  as  there  already  existed  a 
variety  bearing  this  name  the  adjective  was  added. 

NOUVELLE  FULVIE.  Fl.  and  Pom.,  1863,  64. 
G.  Neue  Fulvie.  (Fulvie  Gregoire,  Belle  de  Jarnac.) 
Dessert,  November  to  December,  2\  by  3j,  pyriform,  a 
little  uneven.  Skin  smooth,  covered  with  fine 
cinnamon  russet.  Colour,  golden  brown,  Flesh,  pale 
yellow,  very  juicy,  a  little  firm,  moderately  good  flavour. 
Eye,  open  in  a  wide,  shallow,  slightly  ribbed  basin. 
Stem,  rather  long,  generally  at  an  angle,  continued. 
Growth,  rather  spreading,  branches  arching ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  small,  narrow,  upfolded,  very  finely 
crenate,  light  green,  turning  bright  orange,  falling 
rather  early.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Gregoire  Nelis,  of 

190 


Joidoigne,  Belgium,  in  1854.  A  useful  fruit,  keeping 
sometimes  till  January.  It  makes  a  good  cordon,  but 
requires  a  wall  in  the  North. 

OIGNON.  Culinary,  October,  medium,  3  by  3, 
flattened  round,  inclining  to  Bergamotte  shape.  Skin, 
rough.  Colour,  dull  yellow,  almost  covered  with  patches 
of  rough  russet .  Flesh,  coarse  grained,  breaking,  suitable 
only  for  cooking.  Eye,  large,  open  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  long  and  woody  in  a  deep  cavity.  Growth, 
extremely  vigorous ;  fertility  extraordinary.  Leaf, 
large,  round,  held  flat,  irregularly  serrate.  Origin, 
uncertain.  It  is  described  by  Andre  Leroy  only  so 
far  as  I  have  discovered.  It  may  be,  as  he  suggests,  the 
Oignon  d'Ete  de  Bretagne,  mentioned  by  Le  Lectier 
in  1628.  This  is  grown  for  market  purposes  around 
Maidstone,  and  is  perhaps  the  most  fertile  pear  grown, 
branches  breaking  down  through  the  weight  of  the 
fruit.  In  growth  and  leaf  it  is  very  distinct. 

OLIVIER  DE  SERRES.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  40. 
Dessert,  February  to  April,  medium,  2f  by  2j,  round 
much  flattened,  apple-like,  uneven.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  olive  green,  covered  with  rough  russet.  Flesh, 
white,  half  melting,  with  a  brisk  musky  flavour.  Eye, 
a  little  open  in  a  deep  basin.  Stem,  medium,  stout, 
woody,  in  a  deep  cavity.  Growth,  rather  weak  and 
dwarf ;  fertility  irregular.  Leaf,  long,  narrow,  much 
upfolded,  neatly  and  markedly  serrate,  turns  yellow- 
brown,  occasionally  a  little  red.  Origin,  raised  by 
M.  Boisbunel  of  Rouen  from  a  seed  of  Forunee  d'Angers, 
first  fruited  in  1861.  It  was  named  after  Olivier  de 
Serres  the  great  French  Agronome  whose  "  Theatre 
d' Agriculture  "  was  first  published  in  1600  and  to  whose 
birthplace  Arthur  Young  made  a  pious  pilgrimage. 
One  of  the  best  of  late  varieties  deserving  a  wall  to  bring 
it  to  perfection.  The  illustration  in  the  Herefordshire 
Pomona  shows  the  fruit  too  yellow  in  colour.  It  is 
more  greenish  brown  in  reality. 

Orpheline  d'Enghien  :    see  Beurre  d'Arenberg. 
191 


PASSE  COLMAR.  Verger  I.,  59.  G.,  Regentin. 
Dessert,  medium,  2j  by  3  J,  pyriform,  nearly  even.  Pale 
green,  smooth,  changing  to  pale  yellow,  often  with  thin 
russet  patches  and  dots.  Flesh,  yellowish-white, 
melting,  sweet  and  perfumed,  extremely  juicy.  Eye, 
open  in  a  fairly  deep  basin.  Stem,  medium,  stiff  and 
woody,  inserted  on  level  or  in  a  slight  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  a  little  spreading,  leaves  small,  oval,  held  out 
on  a  long  pedicel,  regularly  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by 
the  Abbe  Hardenpont  at  Mons  about  1760.  There 
are  several  Pears  named  Passe  Colmar,  with  and  with- 
out a  distinguishing  adjective,  Santa  Claus  being  one 
(q.v.).  This,  however,  is  the  variety  described  by 
Leroy  and  long  known  under  this  name  in  England. 

PASSE  CRASANNE.  Verger,  I.,  38.  G.  Edel 
Crasanne.  Dessert,  March  to  April,  large  3  by  3j,  round 
oval,  uneven  and  bossed  on  surface .  Skin,  rough .  Colour, 
dull  yellow  brown,  almost  covered  with  rough  russet 
Flesh,  pale  yellow-white,  fine  grained,  very  sweet  and 
juicy,  nearly  first  class.  Eye,  large  closed,  in  a  wide 
uneven  basin.  Stem,  medium,  stout  and  woody,  in 
a  narrow  cavity.  Growth,  compact  and  bushy ; 
fertility  fair.  Leaf,  large,  elliptical,  tapering  equally 
to  each  end,  upfolded,  undulating,  hanging  very 
late,  almost  entire,  turning  pale  yellow.  Origin, 
raised  by  M.  Boisbunel,  of  Rouen,  and  first  fruited  in 
1855-  Makes  a  dense  bushy  tree,  well  spurred.  A  very 
fine  fruit  when  well  grown  and  ripened.  A  good  wall 
with  plenty  of  water  during  the  growing  season  are 
desirable. 

PETITE    MARGUERITE.     Lauche,     IT.,    87.     G. 

Kleine  Margarethe.  Dessert,  end  August,  2j  by  2, 
flat  conical,  uneven.  Skin,  fairly  smooth.  Colour, 
greenish  yellow  brown,  red  flush  and  broad  stripes. 
Flesh,  soft,  a  little  mealy,  pale,  flavour  very  good, 
extremely  juicy.  Eye,  nearly  closed  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  short  and  stout  in  a  slight  cavity.  Growth, 
moderate,  rather  upright ;  fertility  remarkable.  Leaf, 
rather  large,  long  oval,  finely  but  irregularly  serrate, 

192 


turning  orange  red.  Origin,  raised  by  Andre*  Leroy  at 
Angers  about  1862.  A  very  valuable  early  fruit,  making 
an  excellent  standard  and  ripening  just  before  Williams. 

Phillipe  Goes  :  see  Baronne  de  Mello. 
Piquery :   see  Urbaniste. 

PITMASTON  DUCHESS.  Her.  Pom..  I.,  13.  F. 
Williams'  Duchess.  G.  Pitmaston's  Herzogin.  Exhi- 
bition or  dessert,  October  to  November,  very  large, 
3j  by  4j,  long  pyriform.  Skin,  slightly  rough.  Colour, 
pale  yellow,  marbled  with  brown  russet,  especially 
around  the  stem.  Flesh,  pale  yellow  melting,  very 
juicy  and  pleasantly  flavoured  in  a  good  season.  Eye, 
open  in  a  rather  deep  basin.  Stem,  long  and  woody, 
generally  at  an  angle.  Growth,  upright  spreading, 
very  strong,  making  a  good  open  tree  ;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  very  large,  round  oval,  dark,  held  nearly  flat, 
irregularly  serrate,  turns  dark  red.  Origin,  raised  by 
Mr.  Williams,  of  Pitmaston  about  1865,  from  Duchess 
d'Angouleme  x  Glou  Morceau.  A  very  popular  fruit 
though  decried  by  some,  but  of  good  quality  when 
well  finished.  The  figure  referred  to  is  rather  smaller 
than  the  average. 

Poire  d'Esperen  :    see  BergamoUe  d'Esperen. 
Poire  de  Juillet :    see  Doyenne  d'Ete. 
Poire  de  Pentecote  :    see  Easter  Beurre. 

PRESIDENT  BARABE.  Dessert,  till  March,  rather 
small,  2|  by  3,  round  conical,  uneven.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  dull  greenish  yellow  russet.  Flesh,  white,  half 
melting,  little  acid  with  a  delicious  flavour.  Eye,  open 
almost  on  level.  Stem,  rather  stout,  fleshy,  in  a 
slight  cavity.  Growth,  upright,  but  weak  and  apt 
to  weep  when  older  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  rather 
small,  narrow  oval,  sharply  pointed,  undulating,  finely 
serrate  or  entire,  turns  duU  brown,  falls  early.  Origin, 

193 


raised  by  M.  Sannier,  of  Rouen,  from  a  seed  of  Berga- 
motte  Esperen ;  first  fruited  in  1870.  Introduced  in 
1877.  This  is  a  useful  late  variety,  the  flavour  being 
more  refreshing  than  most  pears  of  its  season. 

PRESIDENT  D'OSMONVILLE.  Dessert,  October, 
medium,  oval  tapering  to  stem,  much  bossed.  Skin, 
rough.  Colour,  yellow,  with  russet  veins  expecially 
round  stem.  Flesh,  white,  melting,  a  little  gritty, 
flavour  very  good,  slightly  musky.  Eye,  closed  in  a 
shallow  wrinkled  basin.  Stem,  rather  long  and  thin. 
Growth,  very  strong,  rather  straggling ;  fertility 
moderate.  Leaf,  very  large,  round,  little  undulating, 
very  boldly  curved  serrate,  turns  yellow  brown,  falls 
early.  Origin,  obtained  in  1834  by  Leon  Leclerc,  at 
Laval,  and  named  after  the  President  of  the 
Horticultural  Society  of  Mayenne. 

PRESIDENT  DROUARD.  Bull  d'Arb,  1886,  11. 
Dessert,  till  March,  medium,  3j  by  4j,  oblong  pyriform, 
uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  palest  yellow  green, 
thickly  covered  with  russet  dots.  Flesh,  fine 
grained,  white,  very  melting,  sweet,  richly  perfumed. 
Eye,  open  in  a  rather  deep  even  basin.  Stem,  rather 
short,  stout,  and  woody  in  a  slight  irregular  cavity. 
Growth,  vigorous,  upright ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  oval, 
upfolded,  sharply  serrate.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Olivier- 
Perroquet,  from  a  seed  of  B.  Napoleon  in"  1885.  This 
pear  is  grown  for  market  in  France.  Its  chief  fault  is 
a  slight  tendency  to  scab. 

PRINCESS.  Dessert,  November  to  December, 
medium,  2j  by  4,  long  conical,  even.  Skin, 
smooth,  pale  yellow  with  red  brown  flush,  much  like 
Louise  Bonne,  Flesh,  melting  and  juicy  sweet  and 
refreshing.  Leaf,  almost  exactly  like  Louise  Bonne. 
Growth,  upright,  pyramidal.  Raised  by  Messrs.  Rivers 
from  a  seed  of  Louise  Bonne.  A  good  and  free  cropping 
pear. 

Princess  de  Parme  :    see  Marie  Louise. 
194 


RAMILIES.  Culinary,  December  to  February,  large, 
3  by  3i»  oval  pyriform,  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour, 
yellow  green  with  conspicuous  russet  dots  and  patches. 
Flesh,  white,  very  firm,  dry  in  texture.  Eye,  open  in 
a  small  uneven  basin.  Stem,  stout  and  fleshy  at  the 
end  of  the  fruit.  Growth,  vigorous,  straggling ;  fer- 
tility good.  Leaf,  rather  large,  held  flat,  little  undulating, 
finely  serrate.  Origin,  I  have  been  unable  to  find  the 
origin  of  this  pear.  It  has  a  most  unpleasant  flavour 
when  cooked  and  quite  unworthy  of  cultivation. 

Red  Achan  :   see  Achan. 

Retour  de  Rome  :  see  Nouveau  Poiteau. 

ROOSEVELT.  Exhibition  and  dessert,  October  to 
November,  very  large,  3f  by  4,  oval,  even.  Skin,  very 
smooth.  Colour,  pale  creamy  yellow,  with  brilliant 
red  flush  and  conspicuous  dots.  Flesh,  white,  little 
breaking,  juicy,  flavour  moderately  good  to  good 
according  to  season.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow,  slightly 
uneven  basin.  Stem,  stout,  rather  long,  fleshy  in  a 
slightly  uneven  cavity.  Growth,  stout  and  compact, 
upright ;  fertility  very  good.  Leaf,  medium,  long, 
oval,  sharply  serrate.  Origin,  introduced  by  Messrs. 
Baltet,  of  Troyes,  France,  about  1906.  This  is  one  of 
the  largest  pears  grown,  and  though  I  have  not  found 
the  fruit  of  more  than  fair  quality,  I  am  told  that  in 
some  districts  it  is  considered  better  than  this. 

ROUSE  LENCH.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  51.  (Rousse 
Lench.)  Dessert,  January  to  February,  rather  large, 
2I  by  3i>  l°ng  oval,  uneven.  Skin,  a  little  rough. 
Colour,  pale  yellow  green  with  thin  russet  nearly  covering 
fruit,  but  ground  colour  shows  through  in  patches. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  a  little  firm,  juicy,  of  fair  flavour. 
Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin,  around  which  are  several 
bosses.  Stem,  very  long,  woody,  generally  curved  and 
inserted  without  depression.  Growth,  moderate, 
rather  drooping  when  aged  ;  fertility  extreme.  Leaf, 
medium,  oval,  upfolded,  down  hanging,  deeply  serrate. 

195 


Origin,  raised  by  T.  A.  Knight,  and  named  after  the 
estate  of  Rouse  Lench,  near  Evesham,  then  occupied 
by  Sir  W.  Rouse  Broughton,  his  son-in-law.  It  first 
fruited  in  1820.  A  fruit  of  moderate  merit,  not  coming 
up  to  Hogg's  description  in  my  experience. 

Rousse  Lench  :  see  Rouse  Lench. 

ROUSSELET  DE  RHEIMS.  Verger,  II.,  64. 
G.  Rousselet  von  Rheims.  (Girofle'.)  Culinary  or 
dessert,  September,  small,  2  by  2j,  oval  conical,  even. 
Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  greenish  yellow  with  brown  red 
flush  and  conspicuous  dots.  Flesh,  yellowish  white, 
half  melting,  juicy  with  distinct  flavour,  common 
to  the  Rousselets.  Eye,  large,  open  on  level.  Stem, 
long  and  slender,  woody,  inserted  at  apex  of  fruit. 
Growth,  good,  making  a  good  standard :  fertility 
excellent.  Origin,  a  very  old  variety  which  was  mentioned 
by  Le  Lectier  in  1628.  It  is  occasionally  found  in  old 
orchards  in  this  country.  The  Gros  Rousselet  is  often 
grown  also  under  the  name  "  de  Rheims,"  but  is  quite 
a  distinct  variety.  An  excellent  cooking  pear  and 
quite  acceptable  for  dessert  uses. 

ST.  GERMAIN.  Decaisne,  IV.,  4.  Culinary,  Decem- 
ber to  January,  medium,  4  by  3,  long  conical  or  calebasse, 
uneven,  one  side  rather  swollen.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour, 
grass  green  changing  to  pale  greenish  yellow,  covered 
with  minute  russet  dots  and  a  little  russet  round  stem 
Flesh,  whitish,  fairly  fine  grained,  extra  juicy,  very 
richly  perfumed.  Eye,  open  in  a  very  shallow  basin. 
Stem, ; i  in.,  woody,  generally  at  an  angle,  on  surface. 
Growth,  vigorous,  hardy ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf, 
long  oval,  a  little  upfolded,  finely  serrate,  held  up. 
Origin,  this  was  found  growing  wild  in  the  banks  ot  the 
river  Fare  at  St.  Germain-d'Arca,  and  was  known,  to 
writers  in  the  seventeenth  century.  This  pear  has  been 
somewhat  abused,  but  when  grown  on  light  soil  it  is  of 
good  quality  and  still  worth  trying. 

St.  Michel :   see  Doyenne  Blanc. 


ST.  SWITHIN.  Dessert,  July  to  August,  medium, 
pyriform.  Skin,  smooth,  pale  green,  almost  covered 
with  fine  russet  and  fairly  red  on  one  side.  Flesh, 
greenish  white,  melting,  sweet  and  refreshing.  Eye, 
closed  in  a  very  shallow  basin.  Stem,  stout,  one  inch 
long.  A  nice  fruit,  valued  for  its  earliness,  but  there  are 
better  at  this  season.  Raised  by  Messrs.  Rivers  from 
a  seed  of  Calebasse  Tougard,  and  introduced  before  1884. 

SANGUINOLE.  Her.  Pom..  II.,  34.  (De  Sauge, 
Grenarde.)  Culinary,  August  to  September,  small, 
2  by  if,  round  conical,  even.  Skin,  rough.  Colour, 
bronzed  russet  with  slight  red  cheek.  Flesh,  firm,  wine 
red,  gritty,  slightly  sweet.  Eye,  wide  open  on  a  level. 
Stem,  very  long,  slender,  in  a  slight  cavity.  Growth, 
vigorous,  little  spreading ;  fertility  great.  Leaf,  long 
oval,  finely  serrate,  held  nearly  flat,  undulating.  Origin, 
this  has  been  known  for  several  centuries  and  is  still 
occasionally  met  with  in  orchards  of  cider  fruit.  There 
are  several  varieties  of  pears  with  this  curious  beetroot 
coloured  flesh,  of  which  drawings  may  be  seen  in 
Decaisne's  "  Jar  din  Fruitier"  vol.  VI.,  plates  13  and  14. 

SANTA  CLAUS.  Dessert,  December,  medium, 
conical,  slightly  pyriform,  fairly  even.  Skin,  slightly 
rough.  Colour,  dull  brown  red,  practically  covered 
with  russet.  Flesh,  pale  yellowish,  melting,  and 
deliciously  flavoured.  Eye,  a  little  open  in  an  even 
basin.  Stem,  long  and  slender,  i  in.  to  I  j  in.  Growth, 
vigorous,  upright ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  large, 
broad  oval,  upfolded,  down  hanging,  irregularly  shallow 
serrate,  turning  rich  claret  red.  Origin,  this  was  intro- 
duced from  France  by  Col.  Brymer,  of  Dorchester,  and 
is  probably  the  French  Passe  Colmar,  but  not  the 
Passe  Colmar  of  Hardenpont.  A  very  delicious  fruit, 
which  deserves  the  attention  of  all  pear  lovers. 

SECKLE.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  28.  G.  Seckle's  Birne. 
Dessert,  October  to  November,  small,  round  oval,  even. 
Skin,  rough,  Colour,  dark  brown  red  with  conspicuous 
white  dots.  Flesh,  yellow,  tender,  remarkably  sweet  and 

197 


rich.  Eye,  open  on  a  level.  Stem,  short  and  stout. 
Growth,  rather  upright,  rather  weak ;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  medium,  round,  oval,  sharply  pointed,  boldly 
curved  serrate,  turns  crimson  brown.  Origin,  found  in 
a  wood  near  Philadelphia  by  a  trapper  called  Dutch 
Jacob,  and  named  after  Mr.  Seckle,  a  later  cultivator 
of  the  land  on  which  it  stood.  Introduced  to  England 
in  1819.  A  most  delicious  fruit  of  the  sweetmeat 
order  and  the  favourite  pear  of  Walt  Whitman.  It  does 
best  on  Pear  stock  as  it  is  a  little  too  dwarfed  on 
Quince. 

SOLDAT  LABOUREUR.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  24.  G. 
Blumenbach's  Butterbirne.  Dessert,  November  to  Dec- 
ember, medium,  3  by  3^,  round  pyriform,  uneven. 
Colour,  pale  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  cinnamon 
russet  in  patches  and  dots.  Flesh,  pale  yellow  slightly 
melting,  very  juicy  and  vinous,  a  little  gritty.  Eye, 
open  on  a  level.  Stem,  short  and  stout  in  a  very  slight 
uneven  cavity.  Growth,  strong,  inclined  to  be  upright  ; 
fertility  excellent.  Leaf,  long  oval,  upfolded,  widely 
serrate.  Origin,  the  first  seedling  raised  by  Major 
Esperen  (about  1820)  and  named  by  him  in  reference  to 
his  career.  An  excellent  fruit  much  cultivated  on  the 
Continent,  deserving  more  attention  in  this  country. 

SOUVENIR  DE  CONGRES.  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  28. 
Dessert,  September,  large,  calebasse  form  much  flattened 
at  eye,  rather  uneven.  Colour,  bright  yellow,  with 
scarlet  cheek  and  cinnamon  striped  russet.  Flesh, 
yellowish,  tender,  very  sweet,  musky  flavour.  Eye, 
open  in  a  rather  deep  uneven  basin.  Stem,  rather  long, 
stout.  Growth,  upright  spreading,  spurring  well,  rather 
compact ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  large,  roundish  oval, 
dark  green,  upfolded,  neatly  and  regularly  crenate, 
turns  fine  crimson  red.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Morel, 
a  nurseryman  of  Lyon-Vaise,  France,  and  first  fruited 
in  1863.  A  very  valuable  fruit  for  autumnal  use.  The 
figure  in  the  Herefordshire  Pomona  is  rather  too  small. 

SUCREE  DE  MONTLUCON.  Decaisne,  VI.,  27. 
G.  Susse  von  Montlugon.  (Sucree  Vert.)  Dessert, 

198 


October,  medium,  3  by  3f ,  oval  conical,  uneven.  Skin, 
smooth.  Colour,  lemon  yellow,  very  rarely  russet ed 
in  patches.  Flesh,  palest  yellow,  transparent,  extremly 
juicy  and  well  flavoured.  Eye,  large  and  closed  in  a 
narrow  shallow  basin.  Stem,  medium,  rather  stout  and 
woody.  Growth,  vigorous  and  hardy ;  fertility 
good.  Leaf,  rather  large,  upfolded,  very  neatly 
serrate.  Origin,  found  in  a  hedge  at  Montlucon,  France 
about  1812,  by  M.  Rochet.  A  very  delicious  fruit, 
worthy  of  cultivation. 

Sucre*e  Vert :   see  Sucree  de  Montlucon. 

SUMMER  BEURRE  D'ARENBERG.  Her.  Pom., 
I.,  26.  F.  Beurre  d'Arenberg  d'Ete".  Dessert,  Septem- 
ber, rather  small,  2  by  2j,  short  conical,  even.  Skin, 
rough.  Colour,  pale  green  with  thin  russet.  Flesh, 
yellow,  very  melting  and  juicy,  richly  flavoured.  Eye, 
open  in  a  rather  deep  basin.  Stem,  long,  rather  slender, 
inserted  obliquely,  curved.  Growth,  upright  spread- 
ing ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  flat,  roundish,  finely  serrate. 
Origin,  raised  by  Mr.  Rivers  and  first  fruited  in  1863. 
It  makes  a  weak  tree  on  Quince,  and  should  be  on  pear 
or  double  grafted. 

Summer  Doyenne  :   see  Doyenne  d'Ete. 

SUMMER  ROSE.  Lind.  Pom.  Brit.,  III.,  102. 
F.  Caillot  Rosa.  G.  Duhamel's  Rosenbirne.  (Caillot 
Rosat,  Epine  Rose.y  Dessert,  August,  small  to 
medium,  z\  by  2,  flattened  round  quite  apple-like, 
even.  Skin,  a  little  rough.  Colour,  pale  yellow, 
nearly  covered  with  a  strong  red  flush  and  large  con- 
spicuous dots.  Flesh,  white,  crisp,  juicy  and  sweet, 
always  rather  gritty.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  long  and  woody  in  a  deep  and  uneven  cavity. 
Growth,  very  strong ;  fertility  great.  Leaf,  oval, 
nearly  flat,  coarsely  shallow  serrate.  Origin,  a  very 
old  fruit,  quite  possibly  the  "  Cailleau  "  mentioned  in 
the  "Roman  de  la  Rose"  of  Jehan  de  Meung  (1310). 

199 


The  name  Cailleau  is  said  to  be  derived  from  (a)  the 
stony  concretions  of  the  fruit,  (b)  the  quail-like 
spottings  of  the  fruit.  This  is  the  Caillot  Rosat  of 
France,  but  our  English  variety  is  quite  distinct. 

SWAN'S  EGG.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  34.  F.  Oeuf  de 
Cygne.  G.  Schwaner  Eierbirne.  Dessert,  October, 
small,  2j  by  2\,  round,  a  little  conical.  Skin,  rough. 
Colour,  greenish  yellow  almost  covered  with  thick  brown 
russet,  occasionally  with  dull  brown  flush.  Flesh,  white, 
rather  firm,  fairly  juicy  and  a  little  musky.  Eye,  open 
almost  on  surface.  Stem,  very  long  ana  slender, 
woody.  Growth,  slender,  very  upright ;  fertility  great. 
Leaf,  fairly  large,  oval,  almost  entire.  Origin,  this  has 
been  known  for  some  years,  and  was  first  described  by 
Batty  Langley  in  1729. 

THOMPSON'S.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  34.  G.  Die  Thomp- 
sons. (Van  Mons,  Vlesembeek.)  Dessert,  October  to 
November,  fairly  large,  3^  by  4,  oval  pyriform,  very 
uneven  and  bossed.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  pale  golden 
yellow  with  much  russet  marbling.  Flesh,  white,  very 
melting  and  buttery,  very  delicious.  Eye,  open  in  a 
fairly  deep  basin.  vStem,  short,  and  stout,  generally 
with  a  fleshy  fold  at  insertion.  Growth,  upright  spread- 
ing ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf,  narrow  oval,  little 
undulating,  sharply  serrate,  turns  pale  claret  red. 
Origin,  raised  by  Van  Mons  and  sent  to  England  about 
1820  without  a  name.  Sabine,  then  secretary  of  the 
Royal  Horticultural  Society,  named  it  after  Robert 
Thompson,  then  fruit  foreman  at  Chiswick .  This  delicious 
fruit  should  be  in  all  collections  and  worthily  com- 
memorates the  name  of  our  greatest  pomologist.  It 
does  best  on  the  pear  stock. 

De  Tongre  :  see  Durondeau. 

TRIOMPHE  DE  JODOIGNEi  Her.  Pom.,  I.,  22. 
Dessert,  December  to  January,  large,  3|  by  4,  oval 
pyriform,  tapering  markedly  to  stem,  uneven.  Skin, 

200 


smooth.  Colour,  clear  green  changing  to  lemon  yellow, 
marbled  with  russet.  Flesh,  white,  half  melting,  very 
juicy  and  sweet,  sometimes  a  little  astringent.  Eye, 
small,  open,  in  a  shallow  bossed  basin.  Stem,  long, 
stout  and  woody,  on  level.  Growth,  vigorous,  straggling ; 
fertility  good.  Leaf,  large,  oval,  nearly  flat,  undulating, 
almost  entire.  Origin,  raised  by  Simon  Bouvier,  of 
Joidoigne,  in  1830,  first  fruited  in  1843.  Rather  a 
variable  fruit ;  in  some  soils  it  is  quite  good. 

TRIOMPHE  DE  VIENNE.  Dessert,  September, 
medium,  3|  by  2j,  pyriform  oval,  uneven.  Skin, 
smooth.  Flesh,  nearly  white,  melting,  very  juicy  and 
of  delicate  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  ij  in.,  surrounded  by  stronger  russet.  Growth, 
moderate  on  Quince  ;  fertility  very  good.  Leaf,  medium 
rounded  oval,  entire  or  faintly  crenate,  turns  brilliant 
crirrson  red.  Origin,  raised  by  M.  Collaud,  gardener 
at  Montagnon,  in  1864,  and  put  into  commerce  by  M. 
Claude  Blanchet,  of  Vienne,  France.  A  valuable  fruit 
which  will  be  appreciated  by  those  who  find  Williams 
too  strongly  scented.  A  little  gritty  ;  it  is  rather  weak 
on  Quince,  and  does  best  on  pear  for  most  soils. 

URBANISTE.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  48.  F.  des  Urbanistes. 
G.  Colomas  Herbst  Butterbirne.  (Rquery,  Beurre* 
Drapiez,  Coloma,  etc.)  Dessert,  October,  medium,  2|  by 
3j,  roundish  oval,  variable,  even.  Skin,  smooth,  almost 
greasy.  Colour,  bright,  yellow,  dotted  and  marbled 
with  greyish  russet.  Flesh,  white,  fine  grained,  very 
melting  and  buttery,  very  juicy  and  of  an  agreeable 
sub-acid  perfumed  flavour.  Eye,  open  in  a  shallow 
basin.  Stem,  short  and  stout,  often  fleshy.  Growth, 
moderate  at  first,  later  becoming  quite  vigorous ; 
fertility  good.  Leaf,  oval,  upfolded,  nearly  entire. 
Origin,  unknown.  An  excellent  fruit  not  much  grown 
now.  It  has  submitted  as  Leroy  says,  to  many  "  sur- 
prenant  bapt ernes,"  and  has  a  long  list  of  syonyms. 
It  does  well  on  Quince,  Urbaniste  Seedling  is  a  distinct 
variety. 

201 


UVEDALES  ST.  GERMAIN.  Her.  Pom.,  L,  15. 
F.  Belle  Angevine.  (Belle  Angevine.)  Culinary,  till 
March,  enormous,  3  J  by  5  J,  very  long,  pyriform  or  cale- 
basse,  uneven.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour,  grass  green 
changing  to  pale  yellow,  covered  with  sharp  black 
dots  and  a  ring  of  russet  around  eye.  Flesh,  white 
firm,  gritty.  Eye,  closed,  much  twisted,  surrounded  by 
uneven  bosses.  Stem,  very  long  and  stout,  fleshy, 
inserted  at  end  of  fruit  with  a  few  uneven  bosses  around 
it.  Growth,  extra  vigorous  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf, 
large,  pointed  oval,  upfolded,  pale,  regularly  and  finely 
serrate,  turns  deep  crimson.  Origin,  uncertain.  It  was 
named  Belle  Angevine  by  M.  Audusson,  a  nurseryman 
at  Angers,  about  1820,  but  it  is  probably  much  older. 
It  was  named  after  Dr.Uvedale,  who  lived  at  Enfield  about 
1690.  Belle  Angevine  is  therefore  a  later  name.  Too 
gritty  for  stewing  and  quite  valueless  for  any  purpose 
except  to  "  epater  les  bourgeois."  As  Leroy  says, 
"  elle  paie  de  mine,  voila  tout  !  " 

Van  Mons  :   see  Thompson's. 

VAN  MONS  LEON  LE  CLERC.  Fl.  and  Pom., 
1866,  89.  G.  Van  Mons  Butterbirne.  Dessert,  end 
October  to  November,  large,  3j  by  4j,  oval,  slightly 
pyriform,  even.  Skin,  smooth,  becoming  almost  greasy 
when  ripe.  Colour,  straw  yellow,  with  many  touches 
of  grey  russet  specially  marked  around  stem.  Flesh, 
greenish  white,  fine  melting,  very  juicy,  with  delicious 
Bergamot  flavour.  Eye,  small  open  almost  on  level. 
Stem,  medium,  fairly  stout,  level  with  surface.  Growth, 
upright,  slightly  spreading  ;  fertility  moderate.  Leaf, 
long  oval,  pale,  nearly  flat,  turns  pinkish  orange.  Origin, 
raised  at  Laval  before  1828,  by  M.  Leon  le  Clerc,  and 
dedicated  to  Van  Mons.  It  is  rather  delicate  on  Quince, 
and  is  best  double  grafted.  It  often  keeps  till  nearly 
Christmas  in  colder  situations,  but  should  be  gathered 
fairly  early  and  very  carefully  handled. 

VERULAM.  (Black  Beum*.)  Culinary,  till  March, 
fairly  large,  3  by  3j,  round  conical,  uneven,  Skin, 

202 


rough,  entirely  covered  with  yellowish  brown  russet. 
Flesh,  greenish  white,  coarse,  and  slightly  sweet,  turning 
a  fine  red  when  cooked.  Stem,  stout  and  woody,  I  in. 
long.  Eye,  open,  almost  on  level  with  surface. 
Fertility  good.  Leaf  fairly  large,  oval  and  faintly 
serrate.  Origin,  there  are  so  many  conflicting  accounts, 
of  the  origin  of  this  fruit  that  I  cannot  feel  sure  of  the 
exact  history.  A  rather  inferior  fruit,  seldom  better 
than  cooking  quality. 

VICAR  OF  WINKFIELD.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  66.  F. 
Cure.  G.  Pastorenbirn.  Culinary,  December  to  Janu- 
ary, very  large,  3  j  by  4j,  long  calebasse,  uneven.  Skin, 
smooth.  Colour,  grass  green  fading  to  pale  yellow. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  rather  firm,  dry  and  woolly.  Eye, 
large  and  clove  like,  wide  open  in  a  shallow  narrow 
basin.  Stem,  long  and  woody,  generally  inserted  at 
an  angle.  Growth,  very  vigorous ;  fertility  good. 
Leaf,  round,  sharply  pointed,  a  little  uncupped,  held 
out,  regularly  and  finely  serrate.  Origin,  discovered 
in  a  wood  near  Villiers-en-Brenne,  France,  about  1760, 
by  M.  Leroy,  cure  of  the  parish.  It  was  introduced  to 
England  by  the  Rev.  W.  L.  Rham,  of  Winkfield,  Berk- 
shire, to  which  circumstance  it  owes  its  English  name. 
This  variety  grows  very  vigorously  and  makes  a  good 
standard  or  pyramid.  Some  authors  have  stated  that 
in  a  warm  year  it  attains  dessert  quality  but  I  have 
not  found  this  so. 

Vlesembeek  :  see  Thompson's. 
White  Doyenne* :  see  Doyenne  Blanc. 
Wiehelmine  :  see  Beurre  d'Amanlis. 

WILLIAMS  BON  CHRETIEN.  Her.  Pom.,  L,  9. 
G.  Williams  Christ birn.  (Bartlett.)  Dessert,  September, 
fairly  large,  3^  by  4},  oval  pyriform,  uneven.  Skin, 
nearly  smooth.  Colour,  golden  yellow  with  russet  dots 
and  marbling  and  faint  red  stripes.  Flesh,  white, 
transparent,  very  juicy  and  sweet,  with  a  strong  musky 

203 


flavour.  Eye,  open,  in  shallow  irregular  basin.  Stem, 
short,  rather  stout,  generally  at  an  angle.  Growth, 
moderate  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  medium,  round,  finely 
and  regularly  serrate,  hangs  late,  turns  rich  crimson 
red.  Origin,  raised  by  a  schoolmaster  named  Stair,  of 
Aldermaston,  about  1770.  In  that  county  it  is  still 
called  "  Stair's  Pear."  It  took  its  name  "  Williams  " 
from  its  distributor,  a  nurseryman  of  Turnham  Green  ; 
on  its  introduction  to  America  it  was  again  named  after 
its  importer,  Mr.  Bartlett.  This  is  quite  the  best  of 
early  Pears,  and  should  be  gathered  when  still  green 
and  ripened  in  the  fruit-room.  The  musky  flavour  is 
less  pronounced  when  grown  on  a  North  wall.  It  makes 
a  good  standard. 

WINDSOR.  F.Madame.  G.  Windsor  Birn.  (Halle- 
mine.)  Dessert,  August,  meoium,  2\  by  3j,  oval  pyri- 
form.  Skin,  very  smooth,  Colour,  palest  lemon 
yellow.  Flesh,  crisp,  white,  slightly  acid,  no  particular 
flavour.  Eye,  open  on  level  with  prominent  ribs  around. 
Stem,  long,  fairly  stout,  inserted  without  depression. 
Growth,  vigorous  ;  fertility  good.  Leaf,  large,  round, 
held  flat,  sharply  serrate.  Origin,  according  to  Leroy 
this  was  raised  by  an  amateur  in  Holland  from  a  seed 
of  the  Bonne  Chretien  d'Ete,  not  far  from  the  village 
of  Hallemine.  First  described  by  Knoop  in  1771,  under 
the  name  Hallum  Bonne.  This  is  often  called  Cuisse 
Madame  in  England,  but  in  error.  It  makes  a  large, 
upright  standard,  but  keeps  for  so  short  a  period  that 
it  is  not  worth  growing. 

Winter  Achan  :  see  Achan. 

WINTER  NELIS.  Her.  Pom.,  II.,  38.  F.  Nelis 
d'Hiver.  G.  Coloma  d'Hiver.  (Bonne  de  Malines.) 
Dessert,  November  to  January,  medium,  2\  by  2  J,  round 
conical,  a  little  uneven.  Skin,  rough.  Colour,  greenish 
yellow  nearly  covered  with  thin  dark  brown  russet, 
increasing  round  eye.  Flesh,  greenish  white,  trans- 
parent, very  juicy  and  sweet,  delicately  perfumed. 
Eye,  open  in  a  shallow  even  basin.  Stem,  rather  long, 

204 


woody  in  a  narrow  uneven  cavity.  Growth,  weak  ; 
fertility  good.  Leaf,  rather  small,  narrow  oval,  held 
flat,  shallow  serrate  or  entire.  Origin,  raised  at  Malines 
by  Jean  Charles  Nelis,  and  imported  into  this  country 
in  1818.  This  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  winter  pears. 
It  ripens  slowly  and  successively,  but  is  ready  to  be 
eaten  before  the  green  has  changed  much.  It  is  best 
grafted  on  pear,  and  makes  a  nice  standard. 

WINTER  WINDSOR.  Culinary,  November,  medium 
2  J  by  3,  conical  pyriform,  even.  Skin,  smooth.  Colour, 
greenish  yellow  with  light  red  brown  flush .  Flesh,  white, 
firm,  tasteless.  Eye,  open  in  a  very  wide  shallow  basin. 
Stem,  i  in.,  fleshy  at  insertion,  continued.  Growth, 
vigorous ;  fertility  very  good.  Leaf,  long  oval,  held 
down,  nearly  flat,  shallow  serrate.  Origin,  an  old  English 
variety  mentioned  by  Parkinson.  Hogg  gives  Petworth 
as  a  synonym,  but  Parkinson  enumerates  this  separately. 
Quite  worthless,  as  it  rapioly  rots  at  the  core  in  November. 

ZEPHIRIN  GREGOIRE.  Her.  Pom..  II.,  38. 
G.  Zephirin  Butterbirn.  Dessert,  November  to  January, 
small,  2|  by  2|,  round  conical.  Skin  smooth.  Colour, 
green  fading  to  pale  yellow  green  with  irregular  patches 
of  fine  cinnamon  russet  and  numerous  small  dots. 
Flesh,  pale  yellow,  very  tender,  flavour  very  sweet  and 
highly  perfumed.  Eye,  rather  small,  open  in  a  shallow 
even  basin.  Stem,  rather  short,  very  stout  and  \\oody, 
on  level.  Growth,  very  dwarf ;  fertility  good.  Leaf, 
rather  small,  round  oval,  upfolded,  undulated,  generally 
entire,  turns  dark  claret  red.  Origin,  raised  by  M. 
Gregoire  at  Joidoigne,  supposedly  from  seeds  of  Passe 
Colmar.  First  fruited  in  1843.  This  valuable  fruit 
shares  with  Josephine  de  Malines  the  quality  of  keeping 
over  a  long  season  in  the  fruit  room  and  is  one  of  the 
most  reliable  of  its  season.  It  should  be  worked  on 
pear. 


Vh'ish  &  Baker,  Printer!,  Maidstone. 


RETURN  TO  the  circulation  desk  of  any  - f 

University  of  California  Library 
or  to  the 

NORTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 
Bldg.  400,  Richmond  Field  Station 
University  of  California 
Richmond,  CA  94804-4698 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 
2-month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling 

(415)  642-6753 
1-year  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing  books       - 

to  NRLF 
Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made  4  days 

prior  to  due  date 


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 


AN  ? 


- 


:Y 


YB  47365 


^ 


44192 


SB  -551* 

-Be 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


