life  p.  ^.  pi!  pkarg 


Jfartlj  Carolina  jiiate  College 

5b555 
UT4-5 


NORTH  CAROLINA  STATE  UNIVERSITY  LIBRAR1E  S 


THE 


FRUITS   AND  FRUIT-TREES 


AMERICA; 


THE    CULTURE,    PROPAGATION,    AND    MANAGEMENT,    IN   THE 
GARDEN  AND  ORCHARD,  OF  FRUIT-TREES  GENERALLY ; 


DESCRIPTIONS  OF  ALL    THE  FINEST  VARIETIES  OF  FRUIT,  NATIVE 
AND  FOREIGN,  CULTIVATED  EST  THIS  COUNTRY. 


By   A.   J.    DOWNING. 

0OBBB8F0NDIN8     MEMBER    OF    TUB    EOTAL   BOTANIC    SOCIETY    OF     LONDON;      AMD    OF     THE    HORTICITV 

TCBAL     SOCIETIES     OF      BERLIN,     THE     LOW     COUNTRIES,     MASSACHUSETTS, 

PENNSYLVANIA,     INDIANA.     CINCINNATI,     ETC. 


Second  Revision  and  Correction,  with  large  Additions,  including  the  Appendices*)] 
1872  to  1881,  and  containing  many  New  Varieties. 

By     CHARLES     DO  W  X  1  X  Q  . 


With  nearly  400  Outlink  Ii.ns'i -rations  ok  Frit  it. 

NINTH    THOUSAND^ 

NEW  YORK 

JOHN  WILEY  &  SONS 

LONDON 

CHAPMAN  &  HALL,  Ltd. 
1900 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress  in  the  year  1872,  by 

JOHN'    WILEY  &    SON. 
In  the  Office  ofthe  Librarian  of  Congress,  ;u  Washington. 


Copyright  renewed  by  JOHN   WILEY  <S:   SONS,  1900. 


Braunworth,  Munn  &  Barber 
Printers  and  Binders 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y 


TO 

MARSHALL  P.  WILDER,  Es^ 

PSXSIDXNT  Or    Till 

MASSACHUSETTS    HORTICULTURAL   SOCIETY, 
THIfl  VOLUME  IS  DEDICATED, 

BT  HIS  FRIEND, 

THE  AUTHOR. 


- 


JL    NOTE 


FRUITS    OF    CALIFORNIA 


Since  the  publication  of  the  recent  edition  of  this  book, 
the  author  has  visited  California,  and  his  observations  in  that 
newly  developed  region  have  elicited  the  facts  that  fruit  trees 
grow  much  faster  there,  and  come  into  bearing  much  earlier 
than  with  us,  and  it  may  be  fairly  inferred,  therefore,  that 
they  will  not  be  as  long-lived. 

The  same  varieties  of  Apples,  Pears,  Peaches,  Plums,  Apri- 
cots, Cherries,  &c,  are  grown  as  with  us:  but  all  kinds  of  fruit, 
especially  some  kinds  of  Apples,  do  not  succeed  equally  well 
as  in  the  Eastern  States.  The  following  sorts  were  considered 
most  profitable :  Williams'  Favorite,  Early  Strawberry,  Red 
Astrachan,  Early  Harvest,  Winesap,  Rawles'  Janet,  Newtown 
Pippin,  White  Winter  Pearmain,  Smith's  Cider,  Yellow  Belflower. 
Newtown  Pippin  best  and  most  profitable.  The  Northern  Spy 
and  Baldwin  had  failed. 

The  fruit  is  rather  larger,  fairer,  and  handsomer,  and  the 
quality  equally  good,  except  Strawberries  and  Blackberries, 
which  were  not  quite  as  high  flavored.  Grapes  are  grown  exten- 
sively in  many  localities,  and  succeed  admirably.  They  are 
chiefly  of  the  foreign  varieties,  and  are  grown  in  the  <  >pen  :dr, 
without  protection,  requiring  but  little  labor,  compared  with  oui 
system  of  cultivation. 


They  are  grown  in  the  tree  form  on  stems  or  stumps  from 
two  to  three  feet  hi'srh,  and  those  from  ten  to  fifteen  years  old 
are  from  five  to  six  inches  in  diameter.  The  vines  are  planted 
from  seven  to  eight  feet  apart,  each  way.  They  are  pruned, 
annually,  hack  to  the  stems,  and  when  the  new  shoots  have 
gnnvn  five  or  six  inches,  all  are  thinned  "lit.  except  ten  or 
twelve  of  the  strongest,  and  in  most  vineyards  they  have  no 
further  care  till  gathering  time,  except  to  keep  the  ground 
clean. 

In  some  orchards  that  had  been  neglected,  the  trees  were 
failing,  and  I  was  told  that  if  the  ground  was  not  cultivated 
and  the  trees  cared  for,  they  soon   died. 

We  found  Figs  abundant  and  of  Hue  quality  in  nearly 
every  locality  we  visited.  English  Walnuts,  or  Madeira  JSnts, 
Almonds,  and  Olives  are  grown  .-.uccessfully  in   most  places. 

The  climate  and  soil  are  favorable  for  fruit-growing.  In 
the  latter,  clay  predominates.  The  characteristics  of  trait  an: 
about  the  same  as  with  us. 


CONTENTS. 


m 

Preface. .<  .< ix 

Preface  to  the  Second  Revision ..< xm 

ABBREVIATIONS  AND  BOOKS  QUOTED XVH 

CHAPTER  I. 

The  Production  op  New  Varieties  of  Fruit. 1 

The  Van  Moils  Theory 5 

Cross-Breeding. 7 

CHAPTER  II. 
Remarks  on  the  Duration  of  the  Varieties  of  Fbutt-Trebs 10 

CHAPTER  m. 

Propagation  of  Varieties,  Grafting,  Budding,  Cuttings,  Latere, 

and  suckers. 16 

CHAPTER  IV. 
Pruning •»•••••••*       88 

CHAPTER  V. 
Training 88 

CHAPTER  VX 
Transplanting •• 45 

CHAPTER  VIL 
The  Position  of  Fruit-Trees — Soil  and  Aspect •••••       II 


CHAPTER  VHI 
General  Remarks  on  Insects. ... 


t 


nil  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  IX 

FASI 

fHK  Apple . .  58 

Uses 59 

Propagation 60 

Soil  and  Situation 61 

Preparing,  Planting,  and  Cultivation  of  Orchards 62 

Pruning 63 

Insects 63 

Gathering  and  Keeping  the  Fruit 67 

Cider 69 

Varieties,  Classification,  and  Terms  used  in  Describing  Apples 70 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 72 

Siberian  Crabs  and  Improved  Siberian  Apples,  with  Descriptive  List  421 

Select  List  of  Varieties  for  Table  Use,  Cooking,  and  Keeping,  &c. . . .  427 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  Lists 437 

CHAPTER  X. 

The  Almond 430 

Uses  and  Cultivation    430 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 431 

Ornamental  Varieties 432 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 437 

CHAPTER  XI. 

The  Apricot 432 

Uses,  Cultivation,  Diseases 433 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties. '. 433 

Curious  or  Ornamental  Varieties 442 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1013 

CHAPTER  XII. 

The  Berberry 442 

Culture 443 

The  Blackberry 443 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 443 

Ornamental  Varieties 446 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1015 

CHAPTER  XIIL 

The  Cherry 447 

Uses 447 

Soil  and  Situation 448 

Propagation  and  Cultivation 449 

Training  and  Gathering  the  Fruit 450 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties  : 

Class  I. — Bigarreau  and  Heart  Cherries 450 

Class  II. — Duke  and  Morello  Cherries 476 

Ornamental  Varieties 486 

Selections  of  Choice  Cherries  for  Family  Uso 487 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1015 


CONTENTS.  ** 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

PASS 

The  Currant £87 

Uses,  Propagation  and  Culture,  Insects  and  Diseases 488 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties : 

Class  I. — Red  and  White  Currants 480 

Class  II—  Black  Currants 499 

Ornamental  Varieties „ 493 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List J  020 

CHAPTER  XV. 

The  Cranberry 493 

Alphabetical  Index 1019 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

The  Fig 494 

Propagation,  Soil,  and  Culture 495 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties : 

Class  I. — Red,  Brown,  or  Purple 496 

Class  II— White,  Green,  or  Yellow. 498 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1020 

CHAPTER  XVIL 

The  Gooseberry 499 

Uses,  Propagation,  and  Cultivation 500 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 501 

American  Varieties 503 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1021 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

The  Grape 504 

Uses,  Soil 505 

Propagation 506 

1.  Culture  of  the  Foreign  Grape 506 

Renewal  Training 507 

Culture  under  Glass  without  Artificial  Heat 508 

Culture  under  Glass  with  Fire  Heat 510 

Construction  of  the  Vinery 511 

Insects  and  Diseases 513 

Descriptive  List  of  Foreign  Grapes 513 

2.  American  Grapes 525 

Vineyard  Culture 526 

Diseases  and  Insects,  Grafting,  Keeping 527 

Descriptive  List  of  American  Grapes 528 

Selection  of  Varieties 558 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  Lists  of  Foreign  and  American 

Grapes 1022 


X  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

PAOB 

The  Melon , .  559 

Culture ...    559 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 560 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1026 


CHAPTER  XX 

The  Water-Melon 561 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 562 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1027 


CHAPTER  XXL 

The  Mulberry 564 

Description  of  Varieties 564 

Alphabetical  Index 102? 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

The  Nectarine 565 

Culture 565 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 566 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1027 

CHAPTER  XXIIL 

Nuts 572 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 578 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1028 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

The  Olive 575 

Uses  and  Value 575 

Propagation  and  Culture , 575 

Varieties 576 

Index  to  Varieties 1029 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

The  Orange  Family 576 

Soil  and  Culture -. 577 

Varieties  . .   578 

Lemons 579 

The  Lime 579 

The  Citron 579 

The  Shaddock 579 

Index  to  Varieties 1029 


CONTENTS.  X) 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

Toe  Peach 580 

Uses 581 

Propagation,  Soil,  and  Situation. 583 

Pruning 583 

Insects  and  Diseases 586 

The  Yellows 587 

Remedy  for  the  Yellows 591 

Raising  Peaches  in  Pots 594 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 596 

Curious  or  Ornamental  Varieties 638 

Selection  of  Varieties 639 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1029 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Phe  Peak 639 

General  Description 639 

Gathering  and  Keeping  the  Fruit 641 

Propagation 642 

Soil,  Situation,  and  Culture 643 

Diseases  and  Insects 644 

The  Insect  Blight 645 

The  Frozen-sap  Blight 646 

Varieties 650 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 651 

Select  List  for  Table  Use,  Marketing,  and  Cooking 887 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1033 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

The  Plum 889 

Uses 889 

Propagation  and  Culture 890 

Soil ;  Insects  and  Diseases 891 

Varieties 895 

Descriptive  List  of  Varieties 895 

Ornamental  Varieties 955 

Selection  of  Varieties  for  Table,  Marketing,  and  Cooking 955 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Descriptive  List 1056 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

The  Pomegranate 956 

Propagation  and  Culture 957 

Varieties 957 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Varieties 06' 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

The  Quince ,      957 

Uses,  Propagation,  Soil,  and  Culture 95S 

Varieties    95S 

Ornamental  Varieties 960 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Varieties 106? 


XU  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  XXXL 

The  Raspberry 960 

Uses,  Propagation,  Soil,  and  Culture 962 

Varieties 962 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Varieties 1063 

CHAPTER  XXXIL 

The  Strawberry 974 

Propagation,  Soil,  and  Culture 975 

Varieties 977 

Alpine  and  Wood  Strawberries 1005 

Hautbois  Strawberries ,   1007 

Chili  Strawberries 1007 

Green  Strawberries 1008 

Selection  of  Varieties 1008, 

Alphabetical  Index  to  Varieties. 1064 

Index  to  the  Different  FRurra 1013 

General  Index 1069 


APPENDIXES. 


PREFACE. 


A  man  born  on  the  banks  of  one  of  the  noblest  and  most  fruitful 
rivers  in  America,  and  whose  best  days  have  been  spent  in  gardens  and 
orchards,  may  perhaps  be  pardoned  for  talking  about  fruit-trees. 

Indeed  the  subject  deserves  not  a  few,  but  many  words.  "  Fine 
fruit  is  the  flower  of  commodities."  It  is  the  most  perfect  union  of  the 
useful  and  the  beautiful  that  the  earth  knows.  Trees  full  of  soft 
foliage;  blossoms  fresh  with  spring  beauty;  and,  finally, — fruit,  rich, 
bloom-dusted,  melting,  and  luscious, —  such  are  the  treasures  of  the 
orchard  and  the  garden,  temptingly  offered  to  every  landholder  in  this 
bright  and  sunny,  though  temperate  climate. 

"  If  a  man,"  says  an  acute  essayist,  "  should  send  for  me  to  come  a 
hundred  miles  to  visit  him,  and  should  set  before  me  a  basket  of  fine 
summer  fruit,  I  should  think  there  was  some  proportion  between  the 
labor  and  the  reward." 

I  must  add  a  counterpart  to  this.  He  who  owns  a  rood  of  proper 
land  in  this  country,  and,  in  the  face  of  all  the  pomonal  riches  of  the 
day,  only  raises  crabs  and  choke-pears,  deserves  to  lose  the  respect  of  all 
.sensible  men.  The  classical  antiquarian  must  pardon  one  for  doubting 
if,  amid  all  the  wonderful  beauty  of  the  golden  age,  there  was  anything 
to  equal  our  delicious  modern  fruits — our  honeyed  Seckels,  and  Beurres, 
our  melting  Rareripes.  At  any  rate,  the  science  of  modern  horticulture 
has  restored  almost  everything  that  can  be  desired  to  give  a  paradisi 
acal  richness  to  our  fruit-gardens.  Yet  there  are  many  in  utter  igno- 
rance of  most  of  these  fruits,  who  seem  to  live  under  some  ban  of  expul- 
sion from  all  the  fair  and  goodly  productions  of  the  garden. 

Happily,  the  number  is  every  day  lessening.  America  is  a  young 
orchard,  but  when  the  planting  of  fruit-trees  in  one  of  the  newest  States 
numbers  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  million  in  a  single  year ;  when  there  are 
more  peaches  exposed  in  the  markets  of  New  York,  annually,  than  are 
raised  in  all  France;  when  American  apples,  in  large  quantities,  com- 
mand double  prices  in  European  markets  ;  there  is  little  need  for  enter- 
ing into  any  praises  of  this  soil  and  climate  generally,  regarding  the  cul- 
ture of  fruit.  In  one  part  or  another  of  the  Union  every  man  may, 
literally,  sit  under  hi*-  own  vine  and  fig-tree. 


XIV  PREFACE. 

It  is  fortunate  for  an  author,  in  tnis  practical  age,  when  his  subjec 
requires  no  explanation  to  show  its  downright  and  direct  usefulness 
When  I  say  I  heartily  desire  that  eveiy  man  should  cultivate  an  or 
chard,  or  at  least  a  tree,  of  good  fruit,  it  is  not  necessary  that  I  should 
point  out  how  much  both  himself  and  the  public  will  be.  in  every  sense, 
the  gainers.  Otherwise  I  might  be  obliged  to  repeat  the  advice  of  Dr. 
Johnson  to  one  of  his  friends.  "  If  possible,"  said  he,  "  have  a  good 
orchard.  I  know  a  clergyman  of  small  income  who  brought  up  a  family 
very  reputably,  which  he  chiefly  fed  on  apple  dumplings."(!) 

.  The  first  object,  then,  of  this  work  is  to  increase  the  taste  for  the 
planting  and  cultivation  of  fruit-trees.  The  second  one  is  to  furnish  a 
manual  for  those  who,  already  more  or  less  informed  upon  the  subject, 
desire  some  work  of  reference  to  guide  them  in  the  operations  of  cul 
ture,  and  in  the  selection  of  varieties. 

If  it  were  only  necessary  for  me  to  present  for  the  acceptance  of  my 
readers  a  choice  garland  of  fruit,  comprising  the  few  sorts  that  I  esteem 
of  the  most  priceless  value,  the  space  and  time  to  be  occupied  would  be 
very  brief. 

But  this  would  only  imperfectly  answer  the  demand  that  is  at  pres- 
ent made  by  our  cultivators.  The  country  abounds  with  collections  of 
all  the  finest  foreign  varieties ;  our  own  soil  has  produced  many  native 
sorts  of  the  highest  merit ;  and  from  all  these,  kinds  may  be  selected 
which  are  highly  valuable  for  every  part  of  the  country.  But  opinions 
differ  much  as  to  the  merits  of  some  sorts.  Those  which  succeed  per- 
fectly in  one  section,  are  sometimes  ill-adapted  to  another.  And, 
finally,  one  needs  some  accurate  description  to  know,  when  a  variety 
■  comes  into  bearing,  if  its  fruit  is  genuine,  or  even  to  identify  an  indiffer- 
Kit  kind,  in  order  to  avoid  procuring  it  again.  Hence  the  number  of 
varieties  of  fruit  that  are  admitted  here.  Little  by  little  I  have  sum- 
moned them  into  my  pleasant  and  quiet  court,  tested  them  as  far  as 
possible,  and  endeavored  to  pass  the  most  impartial  judgment  upon 
them.     The  verdicts  will  be  found  in  the  following  pages. 

From  this  great  accumulation  of  names,  Pomology  has  become  an 
embarrassing  study,  and  those  of  our  readers  who  are  large  collectors 
will  best  understand  the  difficulty — nay,  the  impossibility  of  making  a 
work  like  this  perfect. 

Towards  settling  this  chaos  in  nomenclature,  the  exertions  of  the 
Horticultural  Society  of  London  have  been  steadily  directed  for  the  last 
twenty  years.  That  greatest  of  experimental  gardens  contains,  or  has 
contained,  nearly- all  the  varieties  of  fruit,  from  all  parts  of  the  world, 
possessing  the  least  celebrity.  The  vast  confusion  of  names,  dozens 
sometimes  meaning  the  same  variety,  has  been  by  careful  comparison 
reduced  to  something  like  real  order.  The  relative  merit  of  the  kinds 
has  been  proved  a&d  published.     In  short,  the  horticultural  world  owes 


PREFACE.  JT» 

this  Society  a  heavy  deht  of  gratitude  for  these  labors,  and  to  the 
science  and  accuracy  of  Mr.  Robert  Thompson,  the  head  of  its  fruit 
department,  horticulturists  here  will  gladly  join  me  in  bearing  the  fullest 
testimony. 

To  give  additional  value  to  these  results,  I  have  adopted  in  nearly 
all  cases,  for  fruits  known  abroad,  the  nomenclature  of  the  London 
Horticultural  Society.  By  this  means  I  hope  to  render  univei'sal  on 
this  side  of  the  Atlantic  the  same  standard  names,  so  that  the  difficulty 
and  confusion  which  have  always  more  or  less  surrounded  this  part  of 
the  subject  may  be  hereafter  avoided. 

These  foreign  fruits  have  now  been  nearly  all  proved  in  this  country, 
and  remarks  on  their  value  in  this  climate,  deduced  from  actual  experi- 
ence, are  here  given  to  the  public.  To  our  native  and  local  fruits  espe- 
cial care  has  also  been  devoted.  Not  only  have  most  of  the  noted  sorts 
been  proved  in  the  gardens  here,  but  I  have  had  specimens  before  me 
for  comparison,  the  growth  of  no  less  than  fourteen  of  the  different 
States.  There  are  still  many  sorts,  nominally  fine,  which  remain  to  be 
collected,  compared,  and  proved ;  some  of  which  will  undoubtedly 
deserve  a  place  in  future  editions.  To  the  kindness  of  pomologists  in 
various  sections  of  the  country  I  must  trust  for  the  detection  of  errors  in 
the  present  volume,  and  for  information  of  really  valuable  new  varieties.* 

Of  the  descriptions  of  fruit,  some  explanation  may  be  necessary. 
First,  is  given  the  standard  name  in  capitals.  Below  this  are  placed,  iu 
smaller  type,  the  various  syaonymes,  or  local  names,  by  which  the  same 
fruit  is  known  in  various  countries  or  parts  of  the  country.  Thus,  on 
page  761,   is  the  following  : 

Flemish   Beauty. 

Belle  de  Flandres.  I      Poire  Davy. 
Bosch  Nouvelle.  Imperatrice  de  Franco. 

Bosch.  Fondant  du  Bois. 

Bosc  Sire.  Boschpeer. 

Beurre  Spence  {erroneously). 

By  this  is  signified,  first,  that  Flemish  Beauty  is  the  standard  namo 
of  the  pear ;  secondly,  that  the  others — synonymes — -are  various  local 
names  by  which  the  Flemish  Beauty  is  also  known  in  various  places ; 
and,  lastly,  that  by  the  latter  name — Beurre  Spence — it  is  incorrectly 
known  in  some  collections,  this  name  belonging  to  another  distinct  pear. 

It  is  at  once  apparent  that  one  of  the  chief  points  of  value  of  a 
book  like  this,  lies  in  the  accuracy  with  which  these  synonymous  names 

*  It  is  well  to  remark  that  many  of  the  so-called  new  varieties,  especially  from 
the  West,  prove  to  be  old  and  well-known  kinds,  slightly  altered  in  appearance  by 
new  soil  and  different  climate.  A  new  variety  must  possess  very  superior  qualities 
to  entitle  it  to  regard,  now  that  we  hav '  so  many  fine  fruits  in  our  collections. 


*Vi  PREFACE. 

are  given — since  a  person  might,  in  looking  over  different  catalogue! 
issued  here  and  abroad,  suppose  that  all  ten  of  the  above  are  different 
varieties — when  they  are  really  all  different  names  for  a  single  pear.  In 
this  record  of  synonymes,  I  have  therefore  availed  myself  of  the  valu- 
able experience  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  and  added  all  the 
additional  information  in  my  own  possession. 

Many  of  the  more  important  varieties  of  fruit  are  shown  in  outline. 
I  have  chosen  this  method  as  likely  to  give  the  most  correct  idea  of  the 
form  of  a  fruit,  and  because  I  believe  that  the  mere  outline  of  a  fruit, 
like  a  profile  of  the  human  face,  will  often  be  found  more  characteristic 
than  a  highly  finished  portrait  in  color.  The  outlines  have  been  nearly 
all  traced  directly  from  fruits  grown  here.  They  are  from  specimens 
mostly  below  the  average  size.  It  has  been  the  custom  to  choose  the 
largest  and  finest  fruits  for  illustration — a  practice  very  likely  to  mis- 
lead. I  believe  the  general  character  is  better  expressed  by  specimens 
of  medium  size,  or  rather  below  it. 

It  only  remains  for  me  to  present  my  acknowledgments  to  the  nu- 
merous gentlemen,  in  various  parts  of  the  country,  who  have  kindly  fur- 
nished information  necessary  to  the  completion  of  the  work.  The  names 
of  many  are  given  in  the  body  of  the  volume.  But  to  the  following  I 
must  especially  tender  my  thanks,  for  notes  of  their  experience,  or  for 
specimens  of  fruits  to  solve  existing  doubts. 

In  Massachusetts,  to  Messrs.  M.  P.  Wilder,  S.  G.  Perkins,  J.  P. 
Cushing,  B.  V.  French,  S.  Downer,  and  C.  M.  Hovey,  of  Boston ;  Tohn 
C.  Lee,  J.  M.  Ives,  the  late  Robert  Manning,  and  his  son,  P.  Manning, 
of  Salem ;  and  Otis  Johnson,  of  Lynn. 

In  Connecticut,  to  Dr.  E.  W.  Bull,  of  Hartford ;  Mr.  S.  Lyman,  of 
Manchester ;  and  the  Rev.  H.  S.  Ramsdell,  of  Thompson. 

In  New  York,  to  Messrs.  David  Thomas,  of  Aurora ;  J.  J.  Thomas, 
of  Macedon ;  Luther  Tucker  and  Isaac  Denniston,  of  Albany  ;  Alexan- 
der Walsh,  of  Lansingburgh ;  T.  H.  Hyatt,  of  Rochester ;  R.  L.  Pell, 
of  Pelham ;  C.  Downing,  of  Newburgh ;  and  Wm.  H.  Aspinwall,  of 
Staten  Island. 

In  Ohio,  to  Professor  Kirtland,  of  Cleveland ;  Dr.  Hildreth,  of 
Marietta ;  and  Messrs.  N.  Longworth,  C.  W.  Elliott,  and  A.  H.  Ernst, 
of  Cincinnati. 

In  Indiana,  to  the  Rev.  H.  W.  Beecher,  of  Indianapolis.  In  New 
Jersey,  to  Messrs.  Thomas  Hancock,  of  Burlington,  and  J.  W.  Hayes, 
of  Newark.  In  Pennsylvania,  to  Mr.  Frederick  Brown  and  Col.  Carr, 
of  Philadelphia.  In  Maryland,  to  Lloyd  N.  Rogers,  Esq.,  of  Baltimore, 
In  Georgia,  to  James  Camak,  Esq.,  of  Athens. 

A.J.D. 
Highland  Gardens, 
Newburgh,  N.  Y.,  May,  1845. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  REVISION. 


The  second  revision  of  the  Fruits  and  Fruit-Trees  of  America, 
originally  written  by  my  lamented  brother,  in  1845,  has  been  under- 
taken with  very  great  hesitancy ;  but  the  extended  increased  interest  in 
fruit-culture,  and  demand  for  this  work,  have  seemed  to  require  of  me 
such  aid  in  its  construction,  commensurate  with  the  progress  of  the  age, 
as  I  could  command. 

I  have  therefore,  by  the  assistance  of  numerous  friends  in  all  parts  of 
the  States  and  the  Canadas,  gathered  together  material,  and  embodied, 
enlarged,  and  revised  the  work,  trusting  that  the  desire  to  assist,  aid,  and 
continue  the  advancement  of  fruit-culture  may  be  taken  as  the  incentive 
which  has  guided  my  labors ;  and  that  imperfections  will  not  be  too 
Veely  commented  upon,  without  careful  thought  of  the  time  and  obser- 
vation, etc.,  requisite  in  deciding  many  points  in  Pomology.  The  cor- 
recting or  deciding  relative  to  the  various  names  under  which  one  fruit 
is  known  in  different  sections,  was  originally  a  feature  of  great  diffi- 
culty, even  when  they  were  brought  together  and  grown  in  one  garden, 
as  by  the  London  Horticultural  Society ;  but  when  this  has  to  be  done 
with  the  varieties  spread  over  such  a  wide  territory,  and  with  so  many 
varied  climates  and  soils  as  ours,  the  task  is  one  of  no  light  character. 
At  the  first  writing  of  this  book  the  accumulation  of  names  was  such 
as  to  then  cause  the  study  of  Pomology  to  be  counted  as  an  embarrass- 
ing one.  What  then  shall  we  say  of  it  now,  when  the  list  of  names  has 
been  more  than  trebled  ?  New  varieties  have  sprung  into  existence 
with  the  magic  rapidity  belonging  to  everything  of  our  country ;  but, 
unfortunately,  regard  has  not  always  been  had  to  the  qualifications 
which  should  have  been  by  them  possessed  ere  their  introduction  to 
our  lists ;  and  at  this  day  I  may  safely  say  that  not  perhaps  one  in 
thirty  of  the  recent  introductions,  for  the  past  twenty  years,  will  bear 
the  criticism  of  a  first-class  fruit. 

In  my  revision  I  have  endeavored  to  keep  as  near  as  possible  the 
simple  arrangement  of  the  original,  omitting  tho  arrangement  of  classes 
and  periods  of  ripening,  and  placing  the  whole  alphabetically  in  order, 
trusting  to  the  text  description  to  give  the  information  sought  by  the 
reader.  The  nomenclature  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society  in  the 
original  edition  has  been  retained,  and,  so  far  as  known,  I  have  con- 
tinued the  original  name  by  which  each  fruit  was  first  described,  as  its 
true  name,  appending  all  others  as  synonyms. 

Txi    the  first  edition   of   this  work  the  names  of  authors  who  had 


jxviii  PKEFACE   TO    THE    SECOND    KEVISION. 

before  given  descriptions  of  the  fruits  were  appended  to  each  de  scrip 
tion,  but  owing  to  the  great  number  of  names  such  a  record  would 
now  make,  and  ^o  its  little  practical  benefit,  I  have  omitted  it. 

In  the  labor  of  ascertaining  synonyms  and  identifying  disputed  varie- 
ties, much  credit  is  due  to  the  American  Pomological,  Massachu 
setts,  Western  New  York,  Ohio,  Illinois,  Indiana,  Missouri,  and  othei 
kindred  Societies,  by  their  gathering  and  comparing  great  nunoers  of 
specimens  from  various  sources,  and  in  the  accumulation  of  knowledge 
and  opinions  here  reported  as  the  result  of  long-continued  examinations 
of  private  individuals.  But  the  confusion  of  names  yet  exists  to  a  large 
extent,  and  while  much  has  been  done  toward  correction,  order  and  accu- 
racy can  only  be  arrived  at  when  the  different  varieties  are  well  grown 
in  the  same  soil  and  locality,  a  result  only  to  be  realized  in  an  experi- 
mental garden  on  a  large  scale. 

The  place  of  origin  of  each  variety  has  been  attached  whenever  it 
could  be  truly  traced  or  known;  but  many  are  noted  only  as  having 
been  received  from  certain  States  or  sections,  their  origin  being  possibly 
in  another  State.  The  period  of  maturity  has  been  given  as  its  period 
when  fruited  here ;  but  it  is  well  known  locations  South  or  North  cause 
great  changes  in  this  respect,  as  well  as  in  quality,  and  many  good  long- 
keeping  winter  apples  of  this  section,  when  grown  in  our  Southern 
States,  become  early  autumn  and  inferior  sorts.  Again,  nearly  all  varie- 
ties of  our  early  summer  fruits,'  although  ripened  at  an  earlier  period, 
are  equal,  if  not  improved,  in  size  and  quality  when  grown  at  the  South. 

In  the  revision  of  a  former  edition,  as  well  as  in  aid  of  revision  of 
the  present,  I  have  received  valuable  notes,  specimens  of  fruits,  &c, 
from  a  large  number  of  gentlemen,  and  in  here  making  my  grateful  ac- 
knowledgments, I  desire  to  record  all  names  as  a  simple  tribute,  al- 
though some  have  passed  from  this  land  of  chaotic  terrestrial  fruit 
to  that  where  order  and  system  ever  reigns. 

In  Massachusetts — to  John  Milton  Earl,  Samuel  Colton,  George  A. 
Chamberlain,  and  George  Jacques,  Worcester ;  J.  0.  Stone,  Shrewsbury ; 
tf\  Burr,  Hingham;  Asa  Clement,  Lowell;  Willis  P.  Sargent.  West 
Aniesbury;  O.  V.  Hills,  Leominster;  Dr.  L.  W.  Puffer,  North  Bridge- 
water  ;  Joseph  Merrill,  James  D.  Black,  and  N.  Page,  Danversport ;  Asa- 
hel  Foote,  Williamstown;  Col.  E.  Stone,  Dedham ;  Simon  Brown,  Con- 
cord; J.  W.  Manning,  Reading;  Marshall  P.  Wilder,  Dorchester;  C. 
M.  Hovey,  Boston ;  J.  F.  C.  Hyde,  Newton  Centre ;  N.  P.  Morrison, 
North  Cambridge ;  M.  Ordway,  West  Newbury ;  J.  W.  Clark,  Frani 
ingham;  J.  W.  Foster,  Dorchester;  Sumner  G^ss,  Millbury;  Jona- 
than Ames,  West  Bridge  water ;  Robert  Manning,  Salem ;  Joel  Knapp, 
Wilkinsonville ;  S.  W.  Cole,  Chelsea. 

In  Connecticut — to  S.  D.  Pardee  and  Prcf.  Eli  Ives,  New  Haven ; 
Sheldon  Moore,  Kensington  ;  George  Seymour,  Nor  walk  ;  G.  W.  Gager, 
Sharon ;  P.  S.  Beers,  South ville ;  D.  S.  Dewey  and  Dr.  G.  W.  Russell, 


PREFACE   TO    THE    SECOND    REVISION.  Xl> 

Hartford;    S.  Lyman,   Manchester;  Major  J.  McLollar.,  Woodstock; 
Dr.  D.  W.  Coit,  Norwich ;  E.  Newbury,  Brooklyn. 

In  Canada  West— to  Charles  Arnold,  Paris ;  D.  W.  Beadle,  St.  Ca 
tharine's ;  Wm.  H.  Reed,  Port  Dalhousie. 

In  Vermont — to  Chauncey  Goodrich  and  Rev.  John  Wheeler,  Burling 
ton;  J.  M.  Ketchum,  Brandon;  G.  W.  Harman,  Bennington  ;  Buel  Lan- 
don,  Grand  Isle  ;  Albeit  Bresee,  Hubbardton ;  Solon  Burroughs,  Waltham. 

In  New  York— to  Wm.  S.  Ferris,  Williamsbridge  ;  T.  M.  Younglove 
and  S.  B.  Fairckild,  Hammondsport ;  Jacob  G.  Sickles,  Stuyvesant ;  Chas 
G.  Benedict,  Perry ;  Wm.  Brocksbank,  Hudson;  E.  Moody  and  L. 
C.  Hoag,  Lockport;  Wm.  S.  Carpenter,  Rye;  Dr.  James  Fountain, 
Jefferson  Valley ;  S.  P.  Carpenter,  New  Rochelle ;  William  R.  Prince, 
Flushing ;  Dr.  C.  W.  Grant,  Dr.  T.  B.  Shelton,  James  H.  Ricketts,  and 
A.  Saul,  Newburgh  ;  Elisha  Dorr  and  Prof.  James  Hall,  Albany ;  J.  W. 
Bailey,  Pittsburgh ;  J.  Battey,  Keeseville ;  J.  C.  Hastings,  Clinton; 
Matthew  Mackie,  Clyde;  Isaac  Hildreth,  Watkins;  T.  C.  Maxwell 
Brothers,  and  W.  T.  &  E.  Smith,  Geneva;  Ellwanger  and  Berry, 
H.  E.  Hooker,  A.  Frost  &  Co.,  and  James  H.  Watts,  Rochester;  J.  B. 
Eaton,  Buffalo;  Stephen  Underbill,  Croton  Point;  Wm.  Collins, 
Smyrna;  M.  J.  Parrish,  Hillsdale;  N.  T.  Arms,  Albany;  Geo.  S.  Con- 
over,  West  Fayette  ;  H.  N.  Longworthy,  Rochester ;  Reagles  &  Son, 
Schenectady;  James  Vick,  Rochester;  John  R.  Comstock,  Hart's  Vil- 
lage ;  James  M.  Matteson,  Jacksonville  ;  Dr.  E.  W.  Sylvester,  Lyons ; 
E.  G.  Studley,  Claverick  ;  Dr.  Henry  Reeder,  Varick ;  Isaac  Hicks, 
Old  Westbury ;  W.  Brown  Smith,  Syracuse  ;  J.  H.  Case,  New  Hart- 
ford ;  Harvey  Green,  Jefferson  Valley. 

In  New  Jersey — to  Louis  E.  Berckmanns,  Plainfield  ;  William  Reid, 
Elizabethtown ;  James  McLean,  Roadstown;  William  Parry,  Cinna- 
niinson;  A.  G.  Baldwin,  Newark;  Chas.  Davis,  jr.,  Philipsburgh ; 
David  Pettit,  Salem ;  John  Needles,  Mt.  Laurel ;  E.  Williams,  Mont- 
clair ;  A.  S.  Fuller,  Ridgewood ;  Peter  B.  Mead,  Tenafly. 

In  Pennsylvania— to  Dr.  W.  D.  Brinckle,  Chas.  Harmer,  and  Dr.  J. 
S.  Houghton,  Philadelphia;  Chas.  Kessler  and  Daniel  B.  Lorah,  Read- 
ing ;  Dr.  J.  K.  Eshleman  and  Jonathan  Baldwin,  Downington  ;  Thomas 
Harvey,  West  Grove;  David  Miller,  jr.,  Carlisle;  D.  H.  Wakefield, 
Rostra  ver ;  Josiah  Hoopes,  Westchester;  S.  W.  Noble,  Jenkintown; 
J.  A.  Nelson  &  Sons,  Indian  Run ;  Edward  J.  Evans,  York ;  O.  T. 
Hobbs,  Randolph  ;  B.  L.  Ryder,  Loudon  ;  Mahlon  Moon,  Morrisville  ; 
Daniel  Engle  and  Engle  Brothers,  Marietta ;  Caspar  Hiller.  Cones- 
toga  .Centre;  Luckens  Peirce,  Coatesville  ;  Wm.  G.  Waring,  Tyrone  ; 
Samuel  Miller,  Lebanon  ;  John  Hamilton,  Jersey  Shore  ;  Wilson  Den 
nis,  Applebackville ;  W.  L.  Nesbit,  Lewisburg;  E.  H.  Cocklin, 
Bhepherdstown  ;  Josiah  G.  Youngken,  Richland  Town. 

In  Ohio — to  Robert  Buchanan  and  A.  H.  Ernst,  Cincinnati ;  D.  O. 
Richmond,    Sandusky  ;    A.    Thompson,    Delaware ;    M.    B.    Batchana. 


JLX  PREFACE    TO    THE    SECOND    REVISION, 

Painesville ;  N.  L.  Wood,  Smithfield ;  Isaac  Dillen,  Zanes  ilk- ;  Samuel 
Myers,  Salem ;  H.  N.  Gillett,  Quaker  Bottom ;  J.  N.  Shepherd, 
Marion ;  Rev.  J.  H.  Creighton,  Chillicothe ;  Geo.  W.  Campbell,  Dela- 
ware ;  A.  &,  R.  G.  Hanford,  Columbus ;  Chas.  Carpenter,  Kelley  Island ; 
S.  S.  Jackson,  Cincinnati ;  L.  S.  Mote,  West  Milton ;  Prof.  J.  P.  Kirt- 
land,  F.  R.  Elliott,  Dr.  E.  Taylor,  and  S.  B.  Marshall,  Cleveland ;  R.  J. 
Black,  Bremen ;  Geo.  Hapgood,  Warren ;  W.  C.  Hampton,  Mt.  Vic- 
tory ;  A.  L.  Benedict,  Ashley ;  H.  P.  McMaster,  Leonardsburgh. 

In  Illinois — to  Dr.  J.  A.  Kennicott,  West  Northfield ;  F.  K.  Phoenix 
and  C.  R.  Overman,  Bloomington ;  Arthur  Bryant,  Princeton ;  Tyler 
McWhorter,  Pomeroy ;  A.  M.  Lawver,  South  Pass ;  J.  W.  Stewart, 
Quincy ;  E.  H.  Skinner,  Marengo  ;  Dr.  L.  S.  Pennington,  Sterling  ;  J.  S. 
Shearman,  Rockford  ;  J.  A.  Crain,  Undulation. 

In  Kentucky — to  H.  P.  Byram,  Louisville  ;  F.  Pound,  Shortsville ; 
J.  S.  Downer,  Fairview ;  D.  L.  Adair,  Hawesville ;  Dr.  S.  J.  Leavell, 
Trenton ;  Geo.  C.  Curtiss,  Maysville ;  Thos.  Kennedy,  Louisville ;  A.. 
L.  Woodson,  Woodsonville. 

In  Iowa — to  James  C.  Smith,  Des  Moines ;  Finley  &  Dwyre,  Daven- 
port ;  Henry  Avery,  Burlington. 

In  Indiana — to  Reuben  Regan,  Nicholsonville ;  John  C.  Teas,  Rays- 
ville ;  Wm.  H.  Loomis  and  E.  Y.  Teas,  Richmond ;  J.  D.  G.  Nelson 
Fort  Wayne. 

In  Maine — to  S.  L.  Goodall,  Saco. 

In  New  Hampshire — to  Robert  Wilson,  Keane ;  Nathan  Norton, 
Greenland,  and  Charles  H.  Sanborn,  Hampton  Valley. 

In  Michigan — to  T.  T.  Lyon,  Plymouth ;  Dr.  D.  K.  Underwood, 
Adrian. 

In  Delaware — to  Edward  Tatnail,  Wilmington. 

In  Virginia — to  H.  R.  Roby,  Fredericksburgh. 

In  Missouri — to  George  Husmann,  Hermann. 

In  Washington — to  John  Saul. 

In  Georgia — tc  William  N  White  and  Dr.  M.  A.  Ward,  Athens , 
Richard  C.  Peters  and  Wm.  H.  Thurmond,  Atlanta ;  J.  Van  Beuren, 
Clarksville,  and  P.  J.  Berckmans,  Augusta. 

In  North  Carolina — to  G.  W.  Johnson,  Milton  ;  Westbrooke  &  Co., 
Greensboro ;  R.  L.  Steele,  Rockingham. 

In  South  Carolina — to  Wm.  H.  Sumner,  Pomona;  A.  P.  Wylie, 
Chester. 

In  Alabama — to  R.  R.  Hunley,  Harpersville ;  IV.  S.  Owen,  Ttu» 
caloosa. 

In  Tennessee— to  J,  W.  Dodge,  Pomona. 

In  Nova  Scotia — to  C.  C.  Hamilton,  Cornwallis. 

CHARLES  DOWNING. 


ABBREVIATIONS  AND  BOOKS  QUOTED. 


A+boretum  Britannmim;  or,  The  Trees  and  Shrubs  of  Britain,  pictorially  and 
botanically  delineated,  and  scientifically  and  popularly  described.  By  J. 
C.  Loudon.     London,  1845,  8  vols.  8vo. 

Annales  de  la  Socute  cP Horticulture  de  Pans.— Pans.     In  monthly  Nos.     8m 

Annales  de  VLMitut  de  Fromont.     Par  le  Chevalier  Soulange  Bodin.     Paris,  8va 

1829  to  1834.  tf  vols.  .  u,    ,     .        , 

Adlum     A  Memoir  on  the  Cultivation  of  the  Vme  m  America,  and  the  best  mode 

of  making  Wine.     By  John  Adlum.     12mo.     Washington,  1828. 
Bon  Jard       LeBon  Jardinier,  pour  l'Annee  1844.      Contenant  des  pnncipes  ge- 

neraux  de  culture,  etc.     Par  A.  Poiteau  and  M.  Vilmorin,  Paris.     12mo- 

yearlv  volume.  .  _     , 

Busby.    A  Visit  to  the  principal  Vineyards  of  France  and  Spam.   By  Jas.  Busby. 

New  York,  12mo,  1835. 
Bndgeman      The  Young  Gardener's  Assistant.     By  Thomas  Bndgeman.      lent* 

ed.     New  York,  1844,  8vo. 
Baumanrts  Cat.     Catalogue  des  Vegetaux  en  tout  genre  disponible  dans  lLtab- 

lissement  des  Freres  Baumann,  a  Bolwiller,  1842 
tfaz«      A  View  of  the  Cultivation  of  Fruit  Trees  in  the  United  States,  and  oi 
'    the  Management  of  Orchards  and  Cider.    By  William  Coxe.    Philadelphia, 

Ohaptal°'  Chemistry  applied  to  Agriculture.  By  John  Anthony  Chaptal.  Amer- 
ican ed.,  12mo,  Boston,  1835. 

Cbft&ett      The  American  Gardener.     By  Wm.  Cobbett.     London,  1821.     \Zmo. 

Coleman.  Reports  on  the  Agriculture  of  Massachusetts.  By  Henry  Coleman 
Boston.  8vo,  1840-41. 

JOww.  <?«>  tf.     The  Domestic  Gardener's  Manual.       By  John  Towers.     London, 

DvJiamei.     Traite  des  Arbres  Fruitiers,   par  M.  Duhamel  Dumonceau.     Paris, 

Cultivator  '  The  Cultivator,  a  monthly  Journal  of  Agriculture,  &c.     Edited  by 

Luther  Tucker.     Albany,  continued  to  the  present  time,  8vo. 
Did      Versuch  einer  Systematischen  Beschreibung  in  Deutschland  vorhandenei 

Kernobstsorten.     Von  Dr.  Aug.  Freidr.  Ad.  Diel.     12mo.  24  vols.,  1799— 

1 825 
De  CandoUe.     Physiologie  Vegetale,  ou  Exposition  des  Forces  et  des  Fonctiona 

vitales  des  Vegetaux.     Par  A.  P.  De  Candolle.     Paris,  1832,  3  vols.  Svo. 
Prodromus  Systematis  Naturalis  Vegetabilis.     Pans,  l«lS-lSdU, 

4  vols.  8vo.  .  .         _,     ., .  t, 

DAlbret.  Cours  Theorique  et  Pratique  de  la  Taille  des  Arbres  Fruitiers.  Pai 
D'Albret.     Paris,  1840,  8vo. 

Forsyth.  A  Treatise  on  the  Culture  and  Management  of  Fruit  Trees.  By  Wil- 
liam Forsyth.     7th  ed.,  London.  1824,  8vo. 

Floy  Lindley's  Guide  to  the  Orchard.  American  ed.,  with  additions  by 
Michael  Floy.     New  York,  1833,  12mo. 

Fmenden.  New  American  Gardener,  containing  practical  Directions  for  the  Cul- 
ture of  Fruits  and  Vegetables.     By  Thos.  E.  Fessenden     Boston,  1B-8, 

Bard  Mag. '  The  Gardener's  Magazine,  conducted  by  J.  C  London  In  monthly 
Nos.  8vo   19  vols,  to  1844,  London 


XXU  ABBREVIATIONS  AND  BOOKS  QUOTED. 

Gard.  Chron.  The  Gardener's  Chronicle  and  Agricultural  Gazette,  edited  bj 
Professor  Lindley.   A  weekly  journal,  4to,  5  vols..  1844  to  the  present  time 

Hoare.  A  Practical  Treatise  on  the  Cultivation  of  the  Grape  Vine  on  open  walls 
By  Clement  Hoare.     London.  1840,  12mo. 

Bort.  Soc.  Cat.     See  Thompson. 

Hort.  Trans.  Transactions  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London,  ^ondon 
4to,  1815,  and  at  intervals  to  the  present  time. 

Hooker.     Pomona  Londonensis.     By  William  Hooker.     London,  1813,  4to. 

Hayward.  The  Science  of  Horticulture.  By  Joseph  Hayward.  London, 
1824,  8vo. 

Harris .  A  Report  on  the  Insects  of  Massachusetts  injurious  to  Vegetation.  Bj 
Dr.  T.  W.  Harris.     Cambridge,  1841,  8vo. 

Hov.  Mag.  or  II  M.  The  Magazine  of  Horticulture,  Botany,  and  Rural  Affair* 
Conducted  by  C.  M.  Hovey.  Boston,  8vo,  monthly  Nos.  1834  to  the  pre- 
sent time. 

Johnston.  Lectures  on  Agricultural  Chemistry  and  Geology.  By  Jas.  W.  F. 
Johnston.     American  ed..  New  York.  12mo,  2  vols.,  1842. 

Jard.  Fruit.  Le  Jardin  Fruitier.  Par  Louis  Noisette.  2  ed.  Paris,  1839, 
2  vols.  8vo. 

Knight.  Various  Articles  in  the  London  Horticultural  Transactions.  By  Thomae 
Andrew  Knight,  its  late  President. 

Knoop.  Pomologie  ;  ou,  Description  des  Arbres  Fruitiers.  Par  Joh.  Herm. 
Knoop.     Amsterdam,  1771,  Fol. 

Ken.     The  New  American  Orchardist.     By  William  Kenrick.    Boston,  1844. 

Kollar.  A  Treatise  on  Insects  injurious  to  Gardeners,  Foresters,  and  Farmers. 
By  Vincent  Kollar,  Notes  by  Westwood.     London.  1840,  12mo. 

Langley.  Pomona  ;  or,  The  Fruit  Garden  Illustrated.  By  Batty  Langley.  Lon- 
don, 1729,  Folio. 

Loudon.  An  Encyclopedia  of  Gardening.  By  J.  C.  Loudon.  London,  1835, 
1  thick  vol.  8vo. 

An   Encyclopedia   of    Plants.     By   the   same.     London,    1836,    1    thick 

vol.   8vo. 

An   Encyclopedia  of  Agriculture.     By  the  same.     London,  1831,  1  thick 

vol.  8vo. 

Hortus  Britannicus.     A  Catalogue  of  all  the  Plants  in  Britain.     By  the 

same.     London,  8vo. 

The  Suburban  Horticulturist.    By  the  same.     London,  1842,  8vo. 

The  Suburban  Gardener  and  Villa  Companion.     By  the  same.     London, 

1838,  1842,  8vo. 

Arboretum  et  Fruticetum Britannicum.     By  the  same.     8  vols.,  London, 

1838,  8vo. 
Liebig.     Organic  Chemistry  in  its  Applications  to  Agriculture  and  Physiology. 

By  Justus  Liebig.     American  ed. ,  Cambridge,  1844,  12mo. 
Lind.     A  Guide  to  the  Orchard  and  Kitchen  Garden;  or,  an  Account  of  the  Fruits 

and  Vegetables  cultivated  in  Great  Britain.     By  George  Lindley.     Lon 

don,  1831,  Svo. 
Lindley.       An  Introduction    to  Botany.      By  John   Lindley.     London.    1832, 

8vo. 
.     An  Introduction  to  the  Natural  System  of  Botany.     By  John  Lindley. 

London, 1835,  2d  ed.,  Svo. 

.     British  Fruits.     See  Pomological  Magazine — it  is  the  same  work. 

.     The  Theory  of  Horticulture  ;  or.  An  Attempt  to  explain  the  Operation 

of  Gardening  upon  Physiological  Principles.     By  John  Lindley.     London, 

8vo,  1840. 
.      The  same  work,  with  Notes  by  A.  Gray  and  A.  J.  Downing.    New  York, 

1841,  12mo. 
L.  or  Linnceus.     Species  Plantarum,  5th  ed.     Berlin,  1810,  5  vols.  Svo. 
Ldieur.     La  Pomone  Fran<;aise  ;  ou,  Traite  de  la  Culture  Francaise,  et  de  la 

Taille  des  Arbres  Fruitiers.     Par  le  Comte  Lelieur.     Paris,  1811,  8vo. 
Ifan       The  New  England  Fruit  Book.     By  R.   Manning.      2d  ed.,  enlarged  by 

John  M.  Ives,  Salem,  1844,  12mo. 
Man.  in  II  M.     Manning's  Articles  in  Hovey's  Magazine. 
Mill.     The  Gardener's  and  Botanist's  Dictionary.     By  Philip  Miller.     Revised  by 

Professor  Martyn.     London,  1819,  2  vols.  8vo. 


ABBREVIATIONS    AND    BOOKS   QUOTED.  Xxiii 

ifichaux.     The  North  American  Sylva;   or,   Description  of    the  Forest  Tree* 

of   the  United  States,  Canada,  &c.     By  A.   F.  Michaux.     Paris,   1819. 

3  vols.  Svo. 
APTntosh.     The  Orchard  and  Fruit  Garden.      By  Charles  Mcintosh.     London, 

1819,  12mo. 
2V  Du7i.     (The  New  Duhaniel)  Traite  des  Arbres  Fruitiers  de  DuhameL     Nou- 

velle  edition  auginentee,  etc.     Par  MM.  Poiteau  et  Turpin,  Paris.     5  vola 

folio,  1808,  et  seq. 
Nois.     See  Jardin  Fruitier. 
New  England  Farmer.     A  weekly  periodical,  devoted  to  Agriculture,  Horticul 

ture,  &c.     Boston,  4to,  continued  to  the  present  time. 
0.  Duh.     See  Duhamel. 
Pom.  Mag.  or  P.  M.  The  Poniological  Magazine  ;  or.  Figures  and  Descriptions  of 

the  most  important  varieties  of  Fruit  cultivated  in  Great  Britain.     Lon- 
don, 1828,  3  vols.  8vo. 
Pom.   Man.     The  Pomological  Marlual.     By  William  R.   Prince.     New  York 

1831,  2  vols.  Svo. 
Prince.     A  Treatise  on  the  Vine.     By  William  R.   Prince.     New  York,  1830, 

8vo. 
Prince.     A  Short  Treatise  on  Horticulture.     By  William  Prince.     New  York, 

1828.  12mo. 
PhiUips .     Pomarium    Britannicum ;  an  Historical  and   Botanical   Account   of 

the  Fruits  known  in  Great  Britain.      By  Henry  Phillips.     London.  1820, 

8vo. 
Poit.  or  Poiteau.     Pomologie  Francaise.     Recueil  des.  plus  beaux  Fruits   cul- 

tivJ'S  en  France.     Par  Poiteau.     Paris,  1838,  and  continued  in  4to  num- 
bers. 
Rivers.    A  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Pears,  cultivated  by  T.  Rivers.     Sawbridge- 

worth,  1843-68.  pamphlet,  8vo. 
Bon.  or  Ronalds.      Pyrus  Malus  Brentfordienses  ;  or,  A  Concise  Description  of 

Selected  Apples,  with  a  figure  of  each  sort.     By  Hugh  Ronalds.     London, 

1831.  4to. 
Ray.     Historia  Plantarum,  a  John  Ray,  M.D.      London,  3  vols. ,  folio,  1636 — 

1704. 
Rev  u  f  Horticole.     Journal  'des  Jardiniers  et  Amateurs.     Audot,  Editeur.     Paris. 

1844.  et  chaque  mois,  12mo. 
Sivitzer.     The  Practical  Fruit  Gardener.     By  Stephen  Switzer,  1724,  8vo. 
Torrey  &  Gray.  A  Flora  of  North  America,  containing  abridged  Descriptions  of 

all  the  known  Plants  growing  north  of  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.     By  John 

Torrey,  M.D. ,  and  Aiaa  Gray,  M.D.     New  York,  vol.  1st,  8vo.     New  York, 

1840,  and  still  in  progress. 
Tlwmp.     A  Catalogue  of  the  Fruits  Cultivated  in  the  Garden  of  the  Horticul- 
tural Society  of  London.    3d  ed. ,  London,  1842.       [Prepared  with  great 

care  by  Robert  Thompson,  the  Head  of  the  Fruit  Department  J 
TJiacher.     The  American  Orchardist.     By  James  Thacher,  M.  D.     Boston,  1822. 

8vo. 
Van  Mons.     Arbres  Fruitiers  ;  ou,  PomO.ogie  Beige  Exprrimentale  et  Raisonme 

Par  J.  R  Van  Mons.     Louvain,  1835—1636,  2  vols.  12mo. 
.     Catalogue  des  Arbres  Fruitiers,  Descriptif,  AbrJge.     Par  J.  B.  Van 

Mons       Louvain,  1823. 
Wilder  MSS.     Manuscript  Notes  on  Fruits.    By  M.  P.  Wilder,  Esq.,  President  of 

the  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society. 
Al.  Poiu.     Album  de  Pomologie  ;  in  which  the  fruits  of  Belgium  are  figured  and 

described. 
An.  Pom.     Annals  of  Pomology  ;  a  periodical  published  by  royal  commission,  in 

which  choice  fruits  are  figured  and  described. 
C.  H.  A.     Cornice  of  Horticulture  oi  Angers. 

H'/rt.     The  Horticulturist  of  Rural  Art  and  Rural  Taste.     22  vols. 
CoIa.     American  Fruit  Book.     By  S.  W.  Cole,  Boston,  Mass. 
Thomas.     American  Fruit  Culturist.      By  John  J.  Thomas,  Union  Springs,  Hen 

York. 
Barry.     The  Fruit  Garden.     By  P.  Barry,  Rochester,  Now  York. 
Waring.      The  Fruit-Grower' u  Hand  Book      By  Wm.  G.  Waring,  Boalsburg,  P» 
Elliott.     American  Fruit-Grower's  Guide.     By  F.  R.  Elliott,  Cleveland.  O 


iXiV  ABBREVIATIONS  ANT)  BOOKS  QUOTED. 

Whites  Gard.     Gardening  for  the  South.     By  Wm.  N.  White,  Athens,  Ga 
Hov.  Mag.     The  Magazine  of  Horticulture.      By  C.  M.  Hovey,   Boston,  Maw 

33  vols. 
N~.   Y  Hort.  Rev.     New  York  Horticultural  Review.     By  C.  Reagles,  New  York 
Ad.  Int.  Rep.     Ad  Interim  Reports  of  the  Pennsylvania  Horticultural  Society. 
Ga.  Pom.  8.  Rep.     Ad  Interim  Reports  of  the  Georgia  Pomological  Society. 
Me.  Pom.  S.  Rep.     Annual  Report  of  the  Maine  Pomological  Society. 
A.  Pom.  S.     Transactions  of  the  American  Pomological  Society. 
L.  E.  Berckmarts  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  Louis  E.  Berckman,  Augusta,  Ga. 
■W.  D.  Brinckle's  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  W.  D.  Brinckle,  Philadelphia. 
R.  Manning's  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  Robert  Manning,  Salem,  Mass. 
A.  H.  Ernst  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  A.  H.  Ernst.  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 
R.  Buchanan  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  Robert  Buchanan,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 
Wm.  N.   White  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  Wm.  N.  White,  Athens,  Ga. 
/.   Van  Beuren's  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by -J.  Van  Beuren,  Clarksville,  Ga. 
H.  R.  Robey  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  H.  R.  Robey,  Fredeiicksburg,  Va. 
Samuel  Miller,  Jr. ,  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  Samuel  Miller,  Jr. ,  Cumberland, 

Pa. 
T.  8.  Downer  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  J.  S.  Downer,  Elkton,  Ky. 
Warder.     American  Pomology.     By  J.  A.  Warder. 

0.  P.  S.     Ohio  Pomological  Society  Reports. 

M.  S.  H.  S.     Missouri  State  Horticultural  Society  Reports. 

Verg.     The  Verger.     By  M.  Mas,  Paris,  France. 

Hogg  British  Pomology,  and  Hogg's  Fruit  Manual.  By  Robert  Hogg,  London, 
England. 

Pa.  Rep.     Report  of  the  Pennsylvania  Horticultural  Society. 

Mead.  American  Grape  Culture  and  Wine-making.  By  Peter  B.  Mead,  Tenafly, 
N.  J. 

Gar.  Mon.  Gardener's  Monthly.  Edited  by  Thomas  Meahan,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
10  vols. 

K.  Hort.  Soc.     Transactions  of  the  Kentucky  Horticultural  Society. 

/  of  H.     Journal  of  Horticulture,  Boston,  Mass. 

Husmann.  The  Cultivation  of  the  American  Grape,  and  Manufacture  of  Ameri- 
can Wines,  by  George  Husmann,  Hermann,  Mo. 

S.   Y.  M.     Reports  of  the  Society  Van  Mons,  Brussels. 

Strong.     Cultivation  of  the  Grape.     By  W.  C.  Strong,  Brighton,  Mass. 

Trans.  St.  L.  H  Soc.     Transactions  of  the  St.  Louis  Horticultural  Society. 

Am,.  Hort.  An.     American  Horticultural  Annual.     Orange  Judd  &  Co. ,  N.  Y. 

Count.  Gent.   Country  Gentleman.    Luther  Tucker  &  Son,  Albany,  N.  Y.    32  vols 

Jar.   V.  M.     Fruits  of  the  Jardin  Van  Mons.     By  A.  Bivort.  Bruxelles. 

Mm.     Museum  of  the  Jardin  of  Fruits.     By  J.  Decaisne. 

Liegel.     Survey  of  Plums,     by  G.  Liegel,  Braunau,  Austria. 

F.  &.  P.     Florist  and  Pomologist.  London,  England. 

Leroy.     Dictionary  of  Pomology.     By  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France. 

Fuller.     Small  Fruit  Culturist.     By  A.  S.  Fuller 

Fidler.     The  Grape  Culturist.     By  A.  S.  Fuller,  Ridgewood,  N.  J. 

P.  J.  B.  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  of  P.  J.  Berckman,  Augusta,  Ga. 

/.  II.   Creighton.     Manuscript  Notes  by  J.  H.  Creighton,  Chillicothe,  O. 

Tat.  MS.     Manuscript  Notes  by  Edward  Tatnall,  Wilmington,  Del. 

1.  W.  Bailey.     Manuscript  Notes  by  J.  W.  Bailey.  Plattsburg,  N.  Y. 
Arnold.     'Manuscript  Notes  by  Charles  Arnold,  Paris,  C.  W. 

R  R  Htiniey,  MS.    Manuscript  Notes  by  K.  R.  Hunley,  Harpersville,  A_i* 


FRUITS   AID  FRUIT-TREES. 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE    PRODUCTION    OF    NEW    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT. 

In  our  survey  of  the  culture  of  fruits  let  us  begin  at  the  beginning, 
Gradual  amelioration,  and  the  skilful  practice  of  the  cultivator,  have  so 
filled  our  orchards  and  gardens  with  good  fruits,  that  it  is  necessary  now 
to  cast  a  look  back  at  the  types  from  wliich  these  delicious  products  have 
sprung. 

In  the  tropical  zone,  amid  the  surprising  luxuriance  of  vegetation  of 
that  great  natural  hot-house,  nature  offers  to  man,  almost  without  care,  the 
most  refreshing,  the  most  delicious,  and  the  most  nutritive  fruits.  The 
Plantain  and  Banana,  excellent  either  raw  or  cooked,  bearing  all  the 
year,  and  producing  upon  a  rood  of  ground  the  sustenance  of  a  family  ; 
the  refreshing  Guava  and  Sapodilla  ;  the  nutritious  Bread-fruit ;  such 
are  the  natural  fruit-trees  of  those  glowing  climates.  Indolently  seated 
under  their  shade,  and  rinding  arefreshing  coolness  both  from  their  ever- 
verdant  canopy  of  leaves,  and  their  juicy  fruits,  it  is  not  here  that  we 
must  look  for  the  patient  and  skilful  cultivator. 

But,  in  the  temperate  climates,  nature  wears  a  harsher  and  sterner 
aspect.  Plains  bounded  by  rocky  liilis,  visited  not  only  by  genial  warmth 
and  sunshine,  but  by  cold  winds  and  seasons  of  ice  and  snow  ;  these  are 
accompanied  by  sturdy  forests,  whose  outskirts  are  sprinkled  with  crabs 
and  wild  cherries,  and  festooned  with  the  clambering  branches  of  the 
wild  grape.  These  native  fruits,  which  at  first  otter  so  little  to  the  eye 
">r  the  palate,  are  nevertheless  the  types  of  our  garden  varieties.  Des- 
tined in  these  climates  to  a  perpetual  struggle  with  nature,  it  is  here 
that  we  find  man  ameliorating  ami  transforming  her. 

Transplanted  into  a  warmer  aspect,  Stimulated  by  a  richer  .soil,  reared 
from  selected  seeds,  carefully  pruned,  sheltered,  and  watched,  by  slow 
degrees  the  sour  and  bitter  crab  expands  into  a  Golden  Pippin,  the  wild 
pear  loses  its  thorns  and  becomes  a  Bergamotte  or  a  Beurre,  the  Almond 
is  deprived  of  its  bitterness,  and  the  dry  and  Savorless  Peach  is  at  Length 
a  tempting  and  delicious  fruit.  It  is  thus  only,  in  the  face  of  obstach  s, 
in  a  climate  where  nature  is  not  prodigal  of  perfections,  ami  in  the  midst 
of  thorns  and  sloes,  that  .man,  the  GARDENER,  arises  and  forces  nature  to 
yield  to  his  art. 

These  improved  sorts  of  fruit,  which  man  everywhere  causes  to  share 
hi?  civilisation,  bear,  almost  equally  with  himself,  the  impress  of  an  exist- 

1 


HBKHU  LIBRARY 


2  THE    PRODUCTION    OF    KEM     VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT. 

ence  removed  from  the  natural  state.  When  reared  from  seeds  thej 
always  show  a  tendency  to  i-eturn  to  a  wilder  form,  and  it  seems  only 
cliance  when  a  new  seedling  is  equal  to,  or  surpasses  its  parent.  Removed 
from  their  natural  form,  these  artificially  created  sorts  are  also  much 
moi-p  liable  to  diseases  and  to  decay.  From  these  facts  aiises  the  fruit- 
garden,  with  its  various  processes  of  grafting,  budding,  and  other  means 
of  continuing  the  sort ;  with  also  its  sheltered  aspects,  warm  borders, 
deeper  soils,  and  all  its  various  refinements  of  art  and  culture. 

In  the  whole  range  of  cares  and  pleasures  belonging  to  tht  garden, 
there  is  nothing  more  truly  interesting  than  the  production  of  new  varie- 
ties of  fruit.  It  is  not,  indeed,  by  sowing  the  seeds  that  the  lover  of 
good  fruit  usually  undertakes  to  stock  his  garden  and  orchard  with  fine 
fruit-trees.  Raising  new  varieties  is  always  a  slow,  and,  as  generally 
understood,  a  most  uncertain  mode  of  bringing  about  tliis  result.  The 
novice  plants  and  carefully  watches  his  hundred  seedling  pippins,  to  find 
at  last,  perhaps,  ninety-nine  worthless  or  indifferent  apples.  It  appears 
to  him  a  lottery,  in  which  there  are  too  many  blanks  to  the  prizes.  He 
therefore  wisely  resorts  to  the  more  certain  mode  of  grafting  from  well- 
known  and  esteemed  sorts. 

Notwithstanding  this,  every  year,  under  the  influences  of  garden  cul- 
ture, and  often  without  our  design,  we  find  our  fruit-trees  reproducing 
themselves  ;  and  occasionally  there  springs  up  a  new  and  delicious  sort, 
whose  merits  tempt  us  to  fresh  trials  after  perfection. 

To  a  man  who  is  curious  in  fruit, — the  pomologist, — who  views  with  a 
more  than  common  eye  the  crimson  cheek  of  a  peach,  the  delicate  bloom 
of  a  plum,  or  understands  the  epithets,  rich,  melting,  buttery,  as  applied 
to  a  pear,  nothing  in  the  circle  of  culture  can  give  more  lively  and  un- 
mixed pleasure  than  thus  to  produce  and  to  create — for  it  is  a  sort  of 
creation — an  entirely  new  sort,  which  he  believes  will  prove  handsomer 
and  better  than  anything  that  has  gone  before.  And  still  more :  as 
varieties  which  originate  in  a  certain  soil  and  climate  are  found  best 
adapted  to  that  locality,  the  production  of  new  sorts  of  fruit  of  high 
merit  may  be  looked  on  as  a  most  valuable  as  well  as  interesting  result. 

Besides  this,  all  the  fine  new  fruits  which  of  late  figure  so  conspicu- 
ously in  the  catalogues  of  the  nurseries  and  fruit-gardens,  have  not 
been  originated  at  random  and  by  chance  efforts.  Some  of  the  most  dis- 
tinguished pomologists  have  devoted  years  to  the  subject  of  the  improve- 
ment of  fruit-trees  by  seeds,  and  have  attained,  if  not  certain  results,  at 
least  some  general  laws,  which  greatly  assist  us  in  this  process  of  amelio- 
ration.    Let  us  therefore  examine  the  subject  a  little  more  in  detail. 

In  the  wild  state,  every  genus  of  trees  consists  of  one  or  more  specie* 
or  strongly  .marked  individual  sorts ;  as,  for  example,  the  white  bird- 
and  the  black  birch ;  or,  to  confine  ourselves  moi-e  strictly  to  the  mat- 
ter in  hand,  the  different  species  of  cherry, — the  wild  or  bird  cherry,  the 
soui  cherry,  the  mazard  cherry,  &c.  These  species,  in  their  natural 
state,  exactly  reproduce  themselves;  to  vise  a  common  phrase,  they 
"  come  the  same  "  from  seed.  This  they  have  done  for  centuries,  and 
loubtleso  will  do  forever,  so  long  as  they  exist  under  natural  cirenm- 
-jtances  only. 

On  the  other  hand,  suppose  we  select  one  of  these  species  of  fruit- ^rees 
and  adopt  it  into  our  gardens.  So  long  as  we  cultivate  that  indi- 
vidual tree,  or  any  part  of  it,  in  the  shape  of  sucker,  graft,  or  bud,  its 
nature  will  not  be  materially  altered.     It  may,  indeed,  through  cu.tiva- 


THE    PRODUCTION    OF    NEW    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT.  3 

tion,  be  stimulated  into  a  more  luxuriant  growth;  it  will  probably  pro 
duce  larger  leaves  and  fruit;  but  we  shall  neither  alter  its  fruit  in  tex- 
ture, c  »lor,  or  baste.      It  will  always  be  Identically  the  same. 

Tin-  prn  \ess  of  amelioration  begins  loith  a  new  generation,  and  by 
towing  the.  seeds.  Some  species  of  tree,  indeed,  seem  to  refuse  to  yield 
their  wild  nature,  never  producing  any  variation  by  seed;  but  all  fruit- 
trees,  and  many  others,  are  easily  domesticated,  and  more  readily  take 
ihe  impress  of  culture. 

If  we  sow  a  quantity  of  seed  in  garden  soil  of  the  common  black 
mazard  cheiTy  (  Oeras-us  avium),  we  shall  find  that,  in  the  leaves  and 
habit  of  growth,  many  of  the  seedlings  do  not  entirely  resemble  the 
original  species.  When  they  come  into  bearing,  it  is  probable  we  shall 
also  find  as  great  a  diversity  in  the  size,  color,  and  flavor  of  the  fruit. 
Each  of  these  individual  plants  differing  from  the  original  type  (the 
mazard)  constitutes  a  new  variety,  though  only  a  few,  perhaps  only 
one,  may  be  superior  to  the  original  species. 

It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  exactly  in  proportion  as  this  reproduc- 
tion is  frequently  repeated,  is  the  change  to  a  great  variety  of  forms  or 
new  sorts  increased.  It  is  likely,  indeed,  that  to  gather  the  seeds  from 
a  wild  mazard  in  the  woods,  the  instances  of  departure  from  the  form 
of  the  original  species  would  be  very  few ;  while  if  gathered  from  a  gar- 
den tree,  itself  s  ime  time  cultivated,  or  several  removes  from  a  wild  state, 
though  still  a  mazard,  the  seedlings  will  show  great  variety  of  character.    . 

Once  in  the  possession  of  a  variety  which  has  moved  out  of  the  nat- 
ural into  a  more  domesticated  form,  we  have  in  our  hands  the  best  ma- 
terial for  the  improving  process.  The  fixed  original  habit  of  the  species 
is  broken  in  upon,  and  this  variety  which  we  have  created  has  always 
afterwards  some  tendency  to  make  further  departures  from  the  original 
form.  It  is  true  that  all  or  most  of  its  seedlings  will  still  retain  a  like- 
ness to  the  parent,  but  a  few  will  differ  in  some  respects,  and  it  is  by 
seizing  upon  those  which  show  symptoms  of  variation  that  the  impro- 
ver of  vegetable  races  founds  his  hopes. 

We  have  said  that  it  is  a  part  of  the  character  of  a  species  to  produce 
the  same  from  seed.  This  characteristic  is  retained  even  where  the 
sport  (as  gardeners  term  it)  into  numberless  varieties  is  greatest.  Thus, 
to  return  to  cherries :  the  Kentish  or  common  pie-cherry  is  one  species, 
and  the  small  black  mazard  another,  and  although  a  great  number  of 
varieties  of  each  of  these  species  have  been  produced,  yet  there  is  always 
the  likeness  of  the  species  retained.  From  the  first  we  may  have  the 
large  and  rich  Mayduke,  and  from  the  last  the  sweet  and  luscious  Black- 
Heaits  ;  hut  a  glance  will  show  us  that  the  duke  cherries  retain  the  dis- 
tinct daik  foliajje,  and,  in  the  fruit,  something  of  the  same  flavor,  shape, 
and  color  of  tin-  original  species  ;  and  the  heart  cherries  the  broad  leaves 
and  lofty  growth  of  the  mazard.  So  too  the  currant  and  gooseberry  are 
different  species  of  the  same  genus  ;  but  though  the  English  gooseberry- 
growers  have  raised  thousands  of  new  varieties  of  this  fruit,  and  shown 
them  as  large  as  hens'  eggs,  and  of  every  variety  of  form  and  color,  yet 
trunr  efforts  with  the  gooseberry  have  not  produced  anything  resembling 
the  common  currant. 

Why  do  not  varieties  produce  the  same  from  seed?  Why,  if  we  plant 
ohe  stone  of  a  Green  Gage  plum,  will  it  not  always  produce  a  Green 
Gage  ?  This  is  often  a  puzzling  question  to  the  practical  gardener,  whilfl 
bis  every-day  experience  forces  him  to  assent  to  the  fact. 


4  ",»       'RODUCTION    OK    XKW    VAKIETIES    OJ   FRUIT. 

We  are  not  sure  that  the  vegetable  physiologists  will  undertake  to 
answer  this  query  fully.  But  in  the  mean  time  we  can  throw  some  light 
on  the  subject. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  our  garden  varieties  of  fruits  are  no", 
natural  forms.  They' are  the  artificial  productions  of  our  culture.  They 
have  always  a  tendency  to  improve,  but  they  have  also  another  and  a 
si  rougei  tendency  to  return  to  a  natural  or  wild  state.  "  There  can  bo 
no  doubt,"  says  Dr.  Lindley,  "  that  if  the  arts  of  cultivation  were 
abandoned  for  only  a  few  years,  all  the  annual  varieties  of  plants  in  our 
gardens  would  disappear  and  be  replaced  by  a  few  original  wild  forms." 
Between  these  two  tendencies,  therefore,  the  one  derived  from  nature, 
and  the  other  impressed  by  culture,  it  is  easily  seen  how  little  likely  ia 
the  progeny  of  varieties  always  to  reappear  in  the  same  form. 

Again,  our  American  farmers,  who  raise  a  number  of  kinds  of  Indian 
corn,  very  well  know  that,  if  they  wish  to  keep  the  sorts  distinct,  they 
must  grow  them  in  different  fields.  Without  this  precaution  they  findf 
on  planting  the  seeds  produced  on  the  yellow-corn  plants,  thai  they  have 
the  next  season  a  progeny  not  of  yellow  corn  alone,  but  composed  of 
every  color  and  size,  yellow,  white,  and  black,  large  and  small,  upon  the 
farm.  Now  many  of  the  varieties  of  fruit-trees  have  a  similar  power  of 
intermixing  with  each  other  while  in  blossom  by  the  dust  or  pollen  of 
their  flowers,  carried  through  the  air  by  the  action  of  bees  and  other 
causes.  It  will  readily  occur  to  the  reader,  in  considering  this  fact,  what 
an  influence  our  custom  of  planting  the  different  varieties  of  plum  or  of 
cherry  together  in  a  gar-den  or  orchard  must  have  upon  the  constancy  of 
habit  in  the  seedlings  or  such  fruits. 

But  there  is  still  another  reason  for  this  habit,  so  perplexing  to  the 
novice,  who,  having  tasted  a  luscious  fruit,  plants,  watches,  and  rears  its 
seething,  to  find  it,  perhaps,  wholly  different  in  most  respects.  This  is 
the  influence  of  grafting.  Among  the  great  number  of  seedling  fruits 
produced  in  the  United  States,  there  is  found  occasionally  a  variety,  per- 
haps a  plum  or  a  peach,  which  will  nearly  always  reproduce  itself  from 
seed.  From  some  fortunate  circumstances  in  its  origin,  unknown  to  us, 
this  sort,  in  becoming  improved,  still  retains  strongly  this  habit  of  the 
natural  or  wild  form,  and  its  seeds  produce  the  same.  We  can  call  to 
mind  several  examples  of  tins;  fine  fruit-ti'ees  whose  seeds  have  estab- 
lished the  reputation  in  the  neighborhood  of  fidelity  to  the  sort.  But 
when  a  graft  is  taken  from  one  of  these  trees,  and  placed  upon  another 
stock,  this  grafted  tree  is  found  to  lose  its  singular  power  of  producing 
the  same  by  seed,  and  becomes  like  all  other  worked  trees.  The  stock 
exercises  some,  as  yet,  unexplained  power  in  dissolving  the  strong  natu- 
ral habit  of  the  variety,  and  becomes,  like  its  fellows,  subject  to  the  laws 
artificial  life.* 

When  we  desire  to  raise  new  vaiieties  of  fruit,  the  common  practice 

;  The  doctrine  here  advanced  has  perhaps  no  foundation  in  fact,  nor  has  '.here 
been  any  test  made  that,  to  our  knowledge,  would  controvert  it.  Observation 
of  many  pears,  however,  leads  to  the  belief  that  the  mere  engrafting  a  variety 
upon  another  stock  in  no  way  affects  its  habit  or  capacity  for  reproducing-  itself 
just  the  same  as  it  would  if  retained  upon  its  parent  met.  The  grfeat  vitality 
3sed  by  some  varieties,  their  strong  character,  ifcn. .  prevent  them,  as  it 
were,  from  receiving  impregnation  while  in  flower  from  any  less  vigorous  sort, 
and  hence,  as  a  strong  variety  is  oftener  than  otherwise  surrounded  by  those  of 
less  vitality,  it  mainly  fertilizes  itself  from  its  own  blossoms  and  thus  reproiucea 
its  leading  qualities. 


THE   PRODUCTION    OF    NEW    VARIETIES    OP   FRUIT.  5 

is  to  collect  the  seeds  of  the  finest  table  fmits — those  sorts  whote  meiita 
are  everywhere  acknowledged  to  be  the  highest.  In  proceeding  th  :is, 
we  are  all  pretty  well  aware  that  the  chances  are  generally  a  hundred  to 
one  against  our  obtaining  any  new  variety  of  great  excellence.  Before 
we  offer  any  advice  on  rearing  seedlings,  let  us  examine  briefly  the  prac- 
tice and  views  of  two  distinguished  horticulturists  abroad,  who  have 
paid  more  attention  to  this  subject  than  any  other  persons  whatever; 
Dr.  Van  Mons,  of  Belgium,  and  Thos.  Andrew  Knight,  Esq.,  the  hit" 
President  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London. 

The  Van  Mons  Theory. 

Dr.  Van  Mons,  Professor  at  Louvain,  devoted  the  greater  part  of  his 
life  to  the  amelioration  of  fruits,  His  nurseries  contained,  in  182)5,  no 
less  than  two  thousand  seedlings  of  merit.  His  perseverance  was  inde- 
fatigable, and,  experimenting  mainly  on  Pears,  he  succeeded  in  raising  an 
immense  number  of  new  varieties  of  high  excellence.  The  Beurre  DieL 
De  Louvain,  Frederic  of  Wurtemberg,  &c,  are  a  few  of  the  many  well- 
known  sorts  which  are  the  result  of  his  unwearied  labors. 

The  Van  Mons  theory  may  be  briefly  stated  as  follows : 

All  fine  fruits  are  artificial  products ;  the  aim  of  nature,  in  a  wild 
a  ate,  being  only  a  healthy,  vigorous  state  of  the  tree,  and  perfect  seeds 
for  continuing  the  species.  It  is  the  object  of  culture,  therefore,  to  sul> 
due  or  enfeeble,  this  excess  of  vegetation ;  to  lessen  the  coarseness  of  the 
tree;  to  diminish  the  size  of  the  seeds;  and  to  refine  the  quality  and  in- 
crease the  size  of  the  flesh  or  pulp. 

There  is  always  a  tendencv  in  our  varieties  of  fruit-trees  to  return 
by  their  seeds  towards  a  wild  state. 

This  tendency  is  most  strongly  shown  in  the  seeds  borne  by  old  fruit- 
trees.  And  "  the  older  the  tree  is  of  any  cultivated  variety  of  Pear," 
says  Dr.  Van  Mons,  "the  nearer  will  the  seedlings  raised  from  it 
approach  a  wild  state,  without  however  ever  being  able  to  return  to  that 
state." 

On  the  other  hand,  the  seeds  of  a  young  fruit-tree  of  a  good  sort,  be- 
ing itself  in  the  state  of  amelioration,  have  the  least  tendency  to  retro- 
grade, and  are  the  most  likely  to  produce  improved  sorts. 

Again,  there  is  a  certain  limit  to  perfection  in  fruits.  When  this 
point  is  reached,  as  in  the  finest  varieties,  the  next  generation  will  more 
probably  produce  bad  fruit,  than  if  reared  from  seeds  of  an  indifferent 
sort  in  the  course  of  amelioration.  While,  in  other  words,  the  seeds  of 
the  oldest  varieties  of  good  fruit  mostly  yield  inferior  sorts,  seeds  taken 
from  recent  varieties  of  bad  fruit,  and  reproduced  uninterruptedly  for 
several  (fenerations,  will  certainly  produce  good  fruit.  * 

With  these  premises,  Dr.  Van  Mons  begins  bv  gathering  his  seeds 
from  a  young  seedling  tree,  without  paying  much  regard  to  its  quality, 
except  that  it  must  be  in  a  state  of  variation  ,'  that  is  to  say,  a  garden 
variety,  and  not  a  wild  sort.  These  he  sows  in  a  seed-bed  or  nursery, 
where  he  leaves  the  seedlings  until  they  attain  sufficient  size  to  enable 
him  to  judge  of  their  character.  He  then  selects  those  which  appear 
the  most  promising,  plants  them  a  few  feet  distant  in  the  nursery,  and 

*  Experience  of  American  growers  does  not  bear  out  the  supposition  here 
taken.  The  Seckel.  one  of  the  finest  and  most  perfect  pears,  has  perhaps  given 
more  valuable  seedlings  than  any  other  one  kind. 


* 

6  TB£    PRODUCTION    OF    NEW    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT. 

awaits  their  fruit.  Not  discouraged  at  finding  most  of  them  nmdiocr* 
in  quality,  though  differing  from  the  parent,  he  gathers  the  first  seeds  of 
the  most  promising  and  sows  them  again.  The  next  generation  comes 
more  rapidly  into  bearing  than  the  first,  and  shows  a  greater  numbe-  of 
promising  traits.  Gathering  immediately,  and  sowing  the  seeds  of  this 
generation,  he  produces  a  third,  then  a  fourth,  and  even  a  fifth  genera- 
tion, uninterruptedly,  from  the  original  sort.  Each  generation  he  finds 
to  come  more  quickly  into  bearing  than  the  previous  ones  (the  fifth  sow- 
ing of  pears  fruiting  at  three  years),  and  to  produce  a  greater  number  of 
valuable  varieties  ;  until  in  the  fifth  generation  the  seedlings  are  nearly 
all  of  great  excellence. 

Dr.  Van  Mons  found  the  pear  to  require  the  longest  time  to  attain 
perfection,  and  he  carried  his  process  with  this  fruit  through  five  gener- 
ations. Apples  he  found  needed  but  four  races,  and  peaches,  cherries, 
plums,  and  other  stone  fruits  were  brought  to  perfection  in  three  succes- 
sive reproductions  from  the  seed. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  it  is  a  leading  feature  in  this  theory  that, 
in  order  to  improve  the  fruit,  we  must  subdue  or  enfeeble  the  original 
coarse  luxuriauce  of  the  tree.  Keeping  this  in  mind,  Dr.  Van  Mons 
always  gathers  his  fruit  before  fully  ripe,  and  allows  them  to  rot  before 
planting  the  seeds,  in  order  to  refine  or  render  less  wild  and  harsh  the 
next  generation.  In  transplanting  the  young  seedlings  into  quarters  to 
bear  he  cuts  off  the  tap  root,  and  he  annually  shortens  the  leading  and 
side  branches,  besides  planting  them  only  a  few  feet  apart.  All  this  les- 
sens the  vigor  of  the  trees,  and  produces  an  impression  upon  the  nature 
of  the  seeds  which  will  be  produced  by  their  first  fruit ;  and,  in  order  to 
continue  in  full  force  the  progressive  variation,  he  allows  his  seedlings  to 
bear  on  their  own  roots.* 

Such  is  Dr.  Van  Mons'  theory  and  method  for  obtaining  new  varieties 
of  fruit.  It  has  never  obtained  much  favor  in  England,  and  from  the 
length  of  time  necessary  to  bring  about  its  results,  it  is  scarcsly  likely  to 
come  into  very  general  use  here.  At  the  same  time  it  is  not  to  be  de- 
nied that  in  his  hands  it  has  proved  a  very  successful  mode  of  obtaining 
new  varieties. 

It  is  also  undoubtedly  true  that  it  is  a  mode  closely  founded  on  natural 
laws,  and  that  the  great  bulk  of  our  fine  varieties  have  originated  by 
chance. 

The  first  colonists  here,  who  brought  with  them  many  seeds  gath- 
ered from  the  best  old  varieties  of  fruits,  were  surprised  to  find  their 
seedlings  producing  only  very  inferior  fruits.  These  seedlings  had  re- 
turned, by  their  inherent  tendency,  almost  to  a  wild  state.  By  rearing 
from  them,  however,  seedlings  of  many  repeated  generations,  we  have 
arrived  at  a  great  number  of  the  finest  apples,  pears,  peaches,  and  plums. 
According  to  Dr.  Van  Mens,  had  this  process  been  continued  uninter- 
ruptedly, from  one  generation  to  the  next,  a  much  shorter  time  would 
have  been  necessary  for  the  production  of  first-rate  varieties. 

To  show  how  the  practice  of  chance  sowing  works  in  the  other  hemis' 

*  "  T  have  found  this  art  to  consist  in  regenerating-  in  a  direct  line  of  descent, 
and  as  rapidly  as  possible,  an  improving  variety,  taking  care  that  there  be  no  in- 
terval between  the  generations.  To  sow,  to  re-sow,  to  sow  again,  to  sow  perpet- 
ually, in  short,  to  do  nothing  but  sow,  is  the  practice  to  be  pursued,  and  which 
cannot  be  departed  from  ;  and  in  short  this  is  the  whole  secret  of  the  art  I  hav<> 
immloyed.  '—Van  Mons'  Arbres  Frtritiers,  1.  p.  22.  223. 


THE    PRODUCTION    OF    NEW    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT.  7 

phere,  ii.  is  stated  by  one  of  the  most  celebrated  of  the  old  writera  on 
fruits,  Duhamel  of  France,  that  lie  had  been  in  the  habit  of  planting 
seeds  of  the  finest  table  pears  for  fifty  years  without  ever  having  pro 
duced  a  good  variety.  These  seeds  were  from  trees  of  old  varieties  of 
fruit. 

The  American  gardener  will  easily  perceive,  from  what  we  have  stated, 
a  great  advantage  placed  in  his  hands  at  the  present  time  for  the  ameli- 
oration of  fruits  by  this  system.  He  will  see  that,  as  most  of  our  Amer- 
ican varieties  of  fruit  are  the  result  of  repeated  sowings,  more  or  less 
Constantly  repeated,  he  has  before  him  almost  every  day  a  part  of  the 
ameliorating  process  in  progress ;  to  which  Dr.  Van  Mons,  beginning  de 
novo,  was  obliged  to  devote  his  whole  life.  Nearly  all  that  it  is  necessary 
for  him  to  do  in  attempting  to  raise  a  new  variety  of  excellence  by  this 
simple  mode,  is  to  gather  his  seeds  (before  they  are  fully  ripe)  from  a 
seedling  sort  of  promising  quality,  though  not  yet  arrived  at  perfection. 
The  seedling  must  be  quite  young — must  be  on  its  own  root  (not  graft- 
ed) ;  and  it  must  be  a  healthy  tree,  in  order  to  secure  a  healthy  gener- 
ation of  seedlings.  Our  own  experience  leads  us  to  believe  that  he  will 
scarcely  have  to  go  beyond  one  or  two  generations  to  obtain  fine  fruit. 
These  remarks  apply  to  most  of  our  table  fruits  commonly  cultivated. 

In  order  to  be  most  successful  in  raising  new  varieties  by  successive 
reproduction,  let  us  bear  in  mind  that  we  must  avoid — 1st,  the  seeds  of 
old  fruit-trees ;  2d,  those  of  grafted  fruit-trees ;  and  3d,  that  we  have 
the  best  grounds  for  good  results  when  we  gather  our  seeds  from  a 
young  seedling  tree,  which  is  itself  rather  a  perfecting  than  a  perfect 
fruit. 

It  is  not  to  be  denied  that,  in  the  face  of  Dr.  Van  Mons'  theory,  in 
this  country  new  varieties  of  rare  excellence  are  sometimes  obtained  at 
once  by  planting  the  seeds  of  old  grafted  varieties ;  thus  the  Lawrence's 
Favorite  and  the  Columbia  plums  were  raised  from  seeds  of  the  Green 
Gage,  one  of  the  oldest  European  varieties. 

Such  are  the  means  of  originating  new  fruits  by  the  Belgian  mode.  Let 
us  now  examine  another  more  direct,  more  interesting,  and  more  scientific 
process — cross-breeding;  a  mode  almost  universally  pursued  now  by  skil- 
ful cultivators  in  producing  new  and  finer  varieties  of  plants  ;  and  which 
Mr.  Knight,  the  most  distinguished  horticulturist  of  the  age,  so  success- 
fully practised  on  fruit-trees. 

Cross-breeding. 

In  the  blossoms  of  fruit-trees,  and  of  most  other  plants,  the  seed  is  tho 
offspring  of  the  stamens  and  pistil,  which  may  be  considered  the  male  and 
female  parents,  growing  in  the  same  flower.  Cross -breeding  is.  then 
nothing  more  than  removing  out  of  the  blossom  of  a  fruit-tree  the 
stamens,  or  male  parents,  and  bringing  those  of  another  and  different 
variety  of  fruit,  and  dusting  the  pistil  or  female  parent  with  them, — a 
process  sufficiently  simple,  but  which  has  the  most  marked  effect  on  tlx 
seeds  produced.  It  is  only  within  about  fifty  years  that  cross-breeding 
has  been  practised;  but  Lord  Bacon,  whose  great  mind  seems  to  have 
had  glimpses  into  every  dark  corner  of  human  knowledge,  finely  fore- 
shadowed it.  "  The  compounding  or  mixture  of  plants  is  not  found  out, 
which,  if  it  were,  is  more  at  command  than  that  of  living  creatures;  where- 
fore, it  were  one  of  the  most  notable  disco vories  toucliing  plants  to  fino 


8  THE   PRODUCTION   OF   NEW    VARIETIES   OP   FRUIT. 

it  out,  for  so  you  may  have  great  varieties  of  fruits  and  flowers  yet  un 
known." 

In  Figure  1  is  shown  the  blossom  of  the  Cherry.  The  central  por 
tion,  a,  connected  directly  with  the  young  fruit,  i? 
6  the  pistil.  The  numerous  surrounding  threads,  b,  are 
the  stamens.  The  summit  of  the  stamen  is  called  the 
anther,  and  secretes  the  powdery  substance  called  pol- 
len. The  pistil  has  at  its  base  the  embryo  fruit,  and  at 
its  summit  the  stigma.  The  use  of  the  stamens  is  to 
fertilize  the  young  seed  contained  at  the  base  of  the 
pistil ;  and  if  we  fertilize  the  pistil  of  one  variety  of 
fruit  by  the  pollen  of  another  we  shall  obtain  a  new 
variety,  partaking  intermediately  of  the  qualities  of  both  parents.  Thus, 
among  fruits  owing  their  origin  directly  to  cross-breeding,  Coe's  Golden 
Drop  Plum  was  raised  from  the  Green  Gage,  impregnated  by  the  Magnum 
Bonum  or  Egg  Plum ;  and  the  Elton  cherry  from  the  Bigarrieu,  impreg- 
nated by  the  White  Heart.*  Mr.  Knight  was  of  opinion  that  the  habits. 
of  the  new  variety  would  always  be  found  to  partake  most  strongly  of  the 
constitution  and  habits  of  the  female  parent.  Subsequent  experience 
does  not  fully  confirm  this,  and  it  would  appear  that  the  parent  whose 
character  is  most  permanent,  impresses  its  form  most  forcibly  on  the 
offspring. 

The  process  of  obtaining  cross-breed  seeds  of  fruit-trees  is  very  easily 
performed.  It  is  only  necessary,  when  the  tree  blooms  which  we  intend 
to  be  the  mother  of  the  improved  race,  to  select  a  blossom  or  blossoms 
growing  upon  it  not  yet  fully  expanded.  With  a  pair  of  scissors  we  cut 
out  and  remove  all  the  anthers.  The  next  day,  or  as  soon  as  the  blossom 
is  quite  expanded,  we  collect  with  a  camel's-hair  brush  the  pollen  from 
a  fully  blown  flower  of  the  variety  we  intend  for  the  male  parent,  apply 
ing  the  pollen  and  leaving  it  upon  the  stigma  or  point  of  the  pistil.  If 
your  trees  are  much  exposed  to  those  busy  little  meddlers,  the  bees,  it  is 
well  to  cover  the  blossoms  with  a  loose  bag  of  thin  gauze,  or  they  will 
perhaps  get  beforehand  with  you  in  your  experiments  in  cross-breeding. 
Watch  the  blossoms  closely  as  they  open,  and  bear  in  mind  that  the  two 
essential  points  in  the  operation  are:  1st,  to  extract  the  anthers  care- 
fully, before  they  have  matured  sufficiently  to  fertilize  the  pistil  ;  and 
2d,  to  apply  the  pollen  when  it  is  in  perfection  (dry  and  powdery),  and 
while  the  stigma  is  moist.  A  very  little  practice  will  enable  the  amateur 
to  judge  of  these  points. 

There  are  certain  limits  to  the  power  of  crossing  plants.  Wliat  is 
strictly  called  a  cross-bred  plant  or  fruit  is  a  sub-variety  raised  between 
two  varieties  of  the  same  species.  There  are,  however,  certain  species, 
nearly  allied,  which  are  capable  of  fertilizing  each  other.  The  offspring 
in  this  case  is  called  a  hybrid,  or  mule,  and  does  not  always  produce  per- 
fect seeds.  "  This  power  of  hybridizing,"  says  Dr.  Lindley,  "  appears  to 
be  much  more  common  in  plants  than  in  animals.  It  is,  however,  in 
g<  nerai  only  between  nearly  allied  species  that  this  intercourse  can  take 
place  ;  those  which  are  widely  different  in  structure  and  constitution  not 

*  The  seedling?  sometimes  most  resemble  one  parent,  sometimes  the  other ; 
bub  more  freqiiently  share  the  qualities  of  both.  Mr.  Coxe  describes  an  Apple,  a 
cross  between  a  Newtown  Pippin  and  a  Russet,  the  fruit  of  which  resembled  exter- 
nally at  one  end  the  Russet  and  at  the  other  the  Pippin,  and  the  fia\or  at  eithei 
end  corresponded  exactly  with  the  character  of  the  exterior. 


THE    PRODUCTION    OF    NEW    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT.  9 

being  capable  of  any  artificial  nnion.  Thus  the  different  species  of 
Strawberry,  of  the  gourd  or  melon  family,  intermix  with  the  greatest 
lacility,  there  being  a  great  accordance  between  them  in  general  struc- 
ture and  constitution.  But  no  one  has  ever  succeeded  in  compelling  the 
pear  to  fertilize  the  apple,  nor  the  gooseberry  the  current.  And  as  spe- 
cies that  are  very  dissimilar  appear  to  have  some  natural  impediment 
which  prevents  their  reciprocal  fertilization,  so  does  this  obstacle,  of 
whatever  nature  it  may  be,  present  an  insuperable  bar  to  the  intercourse 
of  the  different  genera.  All  the  stories  that  are  current  as  to  the  inter- 
mixture of  oranges  and  pomegranates,  of  roses  and  black  currants,  and 
the  like,  may  therefore  be  set  down  to  pure  invention." 

In  practice  this  power  of  improving  varieties  by  crossing  is  very 
largely  resorted  to  by  gardeners  at  the  present  day.  Not  only  in  fruit- 
trees,  but  in  ornamental  trees,  shrubs,  and  plants,  and  especially  in 
florists'  flowers,  it  lias  been  carried  to  a  great  extent.  The  great  number 
of  new  and  beautiful  Roses,  Azaleas,  Camellias,  Fuchsias,  Dahlias,  and 
other  flowering  plants  so  splendid  in  color  and  perfect  in  form,  owe  their 
origin  to  careful  cross-breediug. 

In  the  amelioration  of  fruits  it  is  by  far  the  most  certain  and  satisfac- 
tory process  yet  discovered.  Its  results  are  more  speedily  obtained,  and 
correspond  much  more  closely  to  our  aim,  than  those  procured  by  succes- 
sive reproduction. 

In  order  to  obtain  a  new  variety  of  a  certain  character,  it  is  only  neces- 
sary to  select  two  parents  of  well  known  habits,  and  which  are  both 
varieties  of  the  same  or  nearly  allied  species,  and  cross  them  for  a  new 
and  intermediate  variety.  Thus,  if  we  have  a  very  early  but  insipid 
and  worthless  sort  of  pear,  and  desire  to  raise  from  it  a  variety  both 
early  and  of  fine  flavor,  we  should  fertilize  some  of  its  pistils  with  the 
pollen  of  the  best  flavored  variety  of  a  little  later  maturity.  Among  the 
seedlings  produced  we  should  look  for  early  pears  of  good  quality,  and  at 
least  for  one  or  two  varieties  nearly  or  quite  as  early  as  the  female 
parent,  and  as  delicious  as  the  male.  If  we  have  a  very  small  but  liighly 
flavored  pear,  and  wish  for  a  larger  pear  with  a  somewhat  similar  flavor, 
we  must  fertilize  the  first  with  the  pollen  of  a  large  and  handsome  sort. 
If  we  desire  to  impart  the  quality  of  lateness  to  a  very  choice  plum,  we 
must  look  out  for  a  late  variety  as  the  mother,  and  cross  it  with  our 
best  flavored  sort.  If  we  desire  to  impart  hardiness  to  a  tender  fruit, 
we  must  undertake  a  cross  between  it  and  a  much  hardier  sort ;  if  we 
^eek  greater  beauty  of  color  or  vigor  of  growth,  we  must  insure  these 
qualities  by  selecting  one  parent  having  such  quality  strongly  marked. 

As  the  seeds  produced  by  cross  fertilization  are  not  found  to  produce 
precisely  the  same  varieties,  though  they  will  nearly  all  partake  of  the 
mixed  character  of  the  parents,  i+,  follows  that  we  shall  be  most  success- 
ful in  obtaining  precisely  all  we  hope  for  in  the  new  race  in  proportion 
to  the  number  of  our  cross-bred  seedlings  ;  some  of  which  may  be  infe- 
rior, as  well  as  some  superior  to  the  parents.  It  is  always  well,  there- 
fore, to  cross  sevei-al  flowers  at  once  on  the  same  plant,  when  a  single 
blossom  does  not  produce  a  number  of  seeds. 

We  should  observe  here,  that  those  who  devote  their  time  to  raising 
new  varieties  must  bear  in  mind  that  it  is  not  always  by  the  first  fruits 
of  a  seedling  that  it  should  be  judged.  Some  of  the  finest  varieties  require 
a  considerable  age  before  their  best  qualities  develop  themselves,  as  it  is 
only  when  the  tree  has  arrived  at  some  degree  of  maturity  that  its  seere* 


JO  DURATION    OF   VARIETIES    OP   FRUIT-TREES. 

tions,  either  for  flower  or  fruit,  are  perfectly  elaborated.  The  first  fruit 
of  the  Black  Eagle  cherry,  a  flue  cross-bred  raised  by  Mr.  Knight,  was 
pronounced  worthless  when  first  exhibited  to  the  London  Horticultural 
Society ;  its  quality  now  proves  that  the  tree  was  not  then  of  sufficient 
age  to  produce  its  fruit  in  perfection. 


CHAPTEK  II. 

REMARKS    ON    THE    DURATION    OF    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT-TREES. 

It  was  for  a  long  time  the  popular  notion,  that  when  a  good  variety 
of  fruit  was  once  originated  from  seed,  it  might  be  continued  by  grafting 
and  budding  forever, — or,  at  least,  as  some  old  parchment  deeds  pithily 
gave  tenure  of  land — "  as  long  as  grass  grows  and  water  runs." 

About  1830,  however,  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  the  distinguished 
President  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London,  published  an  Essay  in 
its  Trausactions  tending  entirely  to  overthrow  this  opinion,  and  tc 
establish  the  doctrine  that  all  varieties  are  of  very  limited  duration. 

The  theory  advanced  by  Mr.  Knight  is  as  follows  :  All  the  constitu- 
tional vigor  or  properties  possessed  hy  any  variety  of  fruit  are  shared  at 
the  same  time  by  all  the  plants  that  can  be  made  from  the  buds  of  that 
variety,  whether  by  grafting,  budding,  or  other  modes  of  propagating 
In  similar  terms,  all  the  plants  or  trees  of  any  particular  kind  of  pear  or 
apple  being  only  parts  of  one  original  tree,  itself  of  limited  duration,  it 
follows,  as  the  parent  tree  dies,  all  the  others  must  soon  after  die  also. 
"  No  trees,  of  any  variety,"  to  use  his  own  words,  "  can  be  made  to  pro- 
duce blossom  or  fruit  till  the  original  tree  of  that  variety  has  attained 
the  age  of  puberty ;  *  and,  under  ordinary  modes  of  propagation,  by 
grafts  and  buds,  all  become  subject,  at  no  very  distant  period,  to  the 
debilities  and  diseases  of  old  age." 

It  is  remarkable  that  such  a  theory  as  this  should  have  been  offered 
by  Mr.  Knight,  to  whose  careful  investigations  the  science  of  modern 
horticulture  is  so  deejdy  indebted — as,  however  common  it  is  to  see  the 
apparent  local  decline  of  certain  sorts  of  fruit,  yet  it  is  a  familiar  fact  that 
many  sorts  have  also  been  continued  a  far  greater  length  of  time  than 
the  life  of  any  one  parent  tree.  Still,  the  doctrine  has  found  supporters 
abroad,  and  at  least  one  hearty  advocate  in  this  country. 

Mr.  Kenrick,  in  his  new  American  Orchardist,  adopts  this  doctrine, 
and  in  speaking  of  Peai's  says :  "  I  shall,  in  the  following  pages,  desig- 
nate some  of  these  in  the  class  of  old  varieties,  once  the  finest  of  all  old 
pears,  whose  duration  we  had  hoped,  but  in  vain,  to  perpetuate.  For*, 
except  in   certain  sections  of  the  city,  and  some  very  few  and  highly 

*  This  part  of  the  doctrine  has  of  late  been  most  distinctly  refuted,  and  any 
cne  may  repeat  the  experiment.  Seedling  fruit-trees,  it  is  well  known,  are  usu- 
ally several  years  before  they  produce  fruit  But  if  a  graft  is  inserted  on  a 
bearing  tree,  and,  after  it  makes  one  reason's  fair  growth,  the  grafted  shoot  ia 
bent  directly  down  and  tied  there.  with  its  point  to  the  stock  below,  it  will  the 
next  season — the  sap  being  checked—  produce  flower-buds  and  begin  to  bear. 
lon£  before  *he  parent  tree. 


DUBATION    OF    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT-TREES.  11 

favored  situations  in  the  country  around,  they  (the  old  sorts)  have 
become  either  so  uncertain  in  their  bearing — so  barren — so  unproductive 
— -or  so  miserably  blighted — so  mortally  diseased — that  they  are  no 
longer  to  be  trusted ;  they  are  no  longer  what  they  once  were  with  us, 
and  what  many  of  them  are  still  described  to  be  by  most  foreign 
writers." 

Mr.  Kenrick  accordingly  arranges  in  separate  classes  the  Old  and 
JVew  Pears ;  and  while  he  praises  the  latter,  he  can  hardly  find  epithets 
sufficiently  severe  to  bestow  on  the  former  poor  unfortunates.  Of  the 
Doyenne  he  says :  "  This  most  eminent  of  all  Pears  has  now  become  an 
outcast,  intolerable  even  to  sight ;  "  of  the  Brown  Beurre,  "  once  the 
best  of  all  Pears — now  become  an  outcast."  The  St.  Germain  "  has 
long  since  become  an  abandoned  variety,"  &c,  &c. 

Many  persons  have,  therefore,  supposing  that  these  delicious  varieties 
had  really  and  quietly  given  up  the  ghost,  made  no  more  inquiries  after 
them,  and  only  ordered  from  the  nurseries  the  new  varieties.  And  this 
not  always,  as  they  have  confessed  to  us,  without  some  lingering  feeling 
of  regret  at  thus  abandoning  old  and  tried  friends  for  new-comers — 
which,  it  must  be  added,  not  unfrequently  failed  to  equal  the  good  quali- 
ties of  their  predecessors. 

But,  while  this  doctrine  of  Knight's  has  found  ready  supporters,  we 
are  bound  to  add  that  it  has  also  met  with  sturdy  opposition.  At  the 
head  of  the  opposite  party  we  may  rank  the  most  distinguished  vege- 
table physiologist  of  the  age,  Professor  De  Candolle,  of  Geneva.  Varie- 
ties, says  De  Candulle,  will  endure  and  remain  permanent  so  long  aa 
man  chooses  to  take  care  of  them,  as  is  evident  from  the  continued 
existence  to  this  day  of  sorts,  the  most  ancient  of  those  which  have 
been  described  in  books.  By  negligence,  or  through  successive  bad  sea- 
sons, they  may  become  diseased,  but  careful  cul  ture  will  restore  them, 
and  retain  them,  to  all  appearance,  forever. 

Our  own  opinion  coincides,  in  the  main,  with  that  of  De  Candolle. 
While  we  admit  that,  in  the  common  mode  of  propagation,  varieties  are 
constantly  Liable  to  decay  or  become  comparatively  worthless,  we  believe 
that  this  is  owing  not  to  natural  limits  set  upon  the  duration  of  a  vari- 
ety ;  that  it  does  not  depend  on  the  longevity  of  the  parent  tree ;  but 
upon  the  care  with  which  the  sort  is  propagated,  and  the  nature  of  the 
climate  or  soil  where  the  tree  is  grown. 

It  is  a  well-established  fact,  that  a  seedling  tree,  if  allowed  to  grow 
on  its  own  root,  is  always  much  longer  lived,  and  often  more  vigorous 
than  the  same  variety  when  grafted  upon  another  stock  ;  and  experi- 
ence has  also  proved  that  in  proportion  to  the  likeness  or  close  relation 
between  the  stock  and  the  graft  is  the  long  life  of  the  grafted  tree. 
Thus  a  variety  of  pear  grafted  on  a  healthy  pear  seedling  lasts  almost  as 
long  as  upon  its  own  roots.  Upon  a  thorn  stock  it  does  not  endure  so 
long.  Upon  a  mountain  ash  or  quince  stock  still  li'ss  ;  until  the  aver- 
age life  of  the  pear-tree  when  grafted  on  the  quince  is  reduced  to  one- 
third  of  its  ordinary  duration  on  the  pear  stock.  This  is  well  known  to 
every  practical  gardener,  and  it  arises  from  the,  want  of  affinity  between 
the  j'lince  stock  and  the  pear  graft.  The  latter  is  rendered  dwarf  in  its 
habits,  bears  very  early,  and  perishes  equally  soon. 

Next  to  this,  the  apparent  decay  of  riety  is  often  caused  by  graft- 

ing upon  unhealthy  stocks.      For  although  grafts  of  very  vigorous  haoit 
have  frequently  the  power  of  renovating  in  some  measure,  or  for  a  time, 


12  DURATION    OF    VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT-TREES. 

fchu  health  of  the  stock,  yet  the  tree,  when  it  arrives  at  a  bearing  state, 
will,  sooner  or  later,  sutler  from  the  diseased  or  feeble  nature  of  the 
stock. 

Carelessness  in  selecting  scions  for  engrafting  is  another  fertile  source 
of  degeneracy  in  varieties.  Every  good  cultivator  is  aware  that  if 
grafts  are  cut  from  the  ends  of  old  bearing  branches,  exhausted  by  over- 
hearing, the  same  feebleness  of  habit  will,  in  a  great  degree,  be  shared 
by  the  young  graft.  And  on  the  contrary,  if  the  thrifty  straight  shoots 
that  are  thrown  out  by  the  upright  extremities,  or  the  strong  limb- 
sprouts,  are  selected  for  grafting,  they  ensure  vigorous  growth,  and 
healthy  habit  in  the  graft. 

Finally,  unfavorable  soil  and  climate  are  powerful  agents  in  deterio- 
rating varieties  of  fruit-tree.  Certain  sorts  that  have  originated  in  a 
cold  climate  are  often  short-lived  and  unproductive  when  taken  to 
warmer  ones,  and  the  reverse.  This  arises  from  a  want  of  constitutional 
fitness  for  a  climate  different  from  its  natural  one. 

Most  varieties  of  apples  originating  in  the  climate  of  the  Middle 
States,  if  their  period  of  maturity  be  mid-winter,  when  taken  to  the  ex- 
treme northern  limits  lose  their  value,  because  of  the  season  not  being 
long  enough  for  their  juices  to  become  fully  matured.  Again,  if  they 
are  taken  to  the  Southern  States  their  period  of  maturity  is  hastened 
by  a  greater  amount  of  continued  heat,  and  the  quality  impaired. 

Varieties,  however,  that  originate  at  the  North,  and  have  their  matu- 
rity naturally  in  the  warm  summer  months,  are  improved  by  theii 
removal  South.  But  this  only  proves  that  it  is  impossible  to  pass  cer- 
tain natural  limits  of  fitness  for  climate,  and  not  that  the  existence  of 
the  variety  itself  is  in  any  way  affected  by  these  local  failures. 

Any  or  all  of  these  causes  are  sufficient  to  explain  the  apparent  decay 
of  some  varieties  of  fruit,  and  especially  of  pears,  over  which  some  culti- 
vators, of  late,  have  uttered  so  many  lamentations,  scarcely  less  pathetic 
than  those  of  Jeremiah. 

Having  stated  the  theories  on  this  subject,  and  given  an  outline  of 
our  explanation,  let  us  glance  for  a  moment  at  the  actual  state  of  the 
so-called  decayed  varieties,  and  see  whether  they  are  really  either  extinct, 
or  on  the  verge  of  annihilation. 

Mr.  Knight's  own  observation  in  England  led  him  to  consider  the 
English  Golden  Pippin  and  the  Nonpareil,  their  two  most  celebrated 
varieties  of  apple,  as  the  strongest  examples  of  varieties  just  gone  to  de- 
cay, or,  in  fact,  the  natural  life  of  which  had  virtually  expired  twenty 
years  before.  A  few  years  longer  he  thought  it  might  linger  on  in  the 
warmer  parts  of  England,  as  he  supposed  varieties  to  fall  most  speedily 
into  decay  in  the  north,  or  in  a  cold  climate. 

Lindley,  however,  his  contemporary,  and  second  to  no  one  in  practi- 
cal knowledge  of  the  subject,  writing  of  the  Golden  Pippin,*  very  frank- 
ly states  his  dissent,  as  follows  :  "  This  apple  is  considered  by  some  of 
our  modern  writers  on  Pomology  to  be  in  a  state  of  decay,  its  fruit  of 
inferior  quality,  and  its  existence  near  its  termination.  I  cannot  for  a 
moment  agree  with  such  an  opinion,  because  we  have  facts  annually  be- 
fore our  eyes  completely  at  variance  with  such  an  assertion.  In  Covent 
Garden,  and  indeed  in  any  other  large  market  in  the  southerr  or  mid- 
land counties  of  England,  will  be  found  specimens  of  fruit  as  perfect 

*  Chiide  to  the  Orchard,  by  George  Lindley. 


DURATION    OF   VARIETIES    OF    FRUIT-TREES.  13 

and  as  fine  as  have  been  figured  or  described  by  any  writer,  either  in 
this  or  any  other  country  whatever.  Instead  of  the  trees  being  in  a 
state  of  '  rapid  decay,'  they  may  be  found  of  unusually  large  size,  por 
fectly  healthy,  and  their  crops  abundant ;  the  fruit  perfect  in  form, 
beautiful  in  color,  and  excellent  in  quality."  And  the  like  remarks  air 
made  of  the  Nonpareil. 

Certain  French  writers,  about  this  time,  gladly  seized  Knight's  theorj 
as  an  explanation  of  the  miserable  state  into  which  several  fine  old  sorts 
of  pears  had  fallen  about  Paris,  owing  to  bad  culture  and  propagation. 
They  sealed  the  death-warrant,  in  like  manner,  of  the  Brown  Beurre, 
Doyenne,  Chaumontel,  and  many  others,  and  consigned  them  to  oblivion 
in  terms  which  Mr.  Kenrick  has  already  abundantly  quoted. 

Notwithstanding  this,  and  that  ten  or  fifteen  years  have  since  elaps- 
ed, it  is  worthy  of  notice  that  the  repudiated  apples  and  pears  still  hold 
their  place  among  all  the  best  cultivators  in  both  England  and  France. 
And  the  "  extinct  varieties  "  seem  yet  to  bid  defiance  to  theorists  and 
bad  cultivators. 

But  half  the  ground  is  not  yet  covered.  How  does  the  theory  work 
in  America  ?  is  the  most  natural  inquiry.  In  this  country  we  have 
soil  varying  from  the  poorest  sand  to  the  richest  alluvial,  climate  vary- 
ing from  frigid  to  almost  torrid — a  range  wide  enough  to  include  all 
fruit-trees  between  the  apple  and  the  orange. 

We  answer  that  the  facts  here,  judged  in  the  whole,  are  decidedly 
against  the  theory  of  the  extinction  of  varieties.  While  here,  as  abroad, 
unfavorably  soil,  climate,  or  culture  have  produced  their  natural  results 
of  a  feeble  and  diseased  state  of  certain  sorts  of  fruit,  these  are  only  the 
exceptions  to  the  general  vigor  and  health  of  the  finest  old  sorts  in  the 
country  at  large. 

Recent  experiments  have  proved  that  it  is  not  sufficient  to  bring 
healthy  trees  of  the  old  varieties  from  the  interior  of  the  seaboard  to  in- 
sure, in  the  latter  localities,  fair  and  excellent  crops.  But,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  complete  renovation  of  blighted  trees  by  the  plentiful  use  of 
wood-ashes,  bone-dust,  lime,  and  blacksmith  cinders,  along  with  common 
manure,  shows  us  distinctly  that  it  is  not  the  age  of  these  varieties  of 
fruit  which  causes  their  apparent  decline,  but  a  want  of  that  food  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  the  production  of  healthy  fruit.* 

But  there  is  another  interesting  point  in  this  investigation.  Do 
the  newly  originated  sorts  really  maintain  in  the  unfavorable  districts 
the  appearance  of  perfect  health?  Are  the  new  pears  uniformly 
healthy  where  the  old  ones  are  always  feeble  ? 

Undoubtedly  this  question  must  be  answered  in  the  negative.    Some 

*  Since  bhe  writing  of  this,  in  1845,  there  have  occurred  seasons  when  nearly 
every  variety  of  fruit  perfected,  and  there  have  also  been  seasons  when  the 
old  as  well  as  new  varieties  have  failed,  and  that  too  in  almost  all  soils  and  in 
many  varied  sections  of  the  country.  To  our  knowledge,  no  continued  experi- 
ments in  the  practice  of  applying  special  manures  as  remedial  agents  have  been 
tried,  but,  from  the  fact  that  old  as  well  as  new  sorts  have  frequently  failed  in 
our  rich  western  soils  and  inland  climates,  we  have  come  to  regard  the  cause  of 
cracking  and  other  diseases  of  the  pear  more  to  proceed  from  climatic  or  atmos- 
pheric influence  than  from  any  special  condition  or  quality  of  the  soil.  It  is 
now  generally  conceded  that  our  seasons  are  more  changeable  and  the  extremes 
greater  than  they  were  half  a  century  back,  and  to  this  influence  do  we  attribute 
in  a  great  measure  the  deterioration  noted  in  occasional  seasons  and  localities 


14  DURATION   OF   VARIETIES    OF   FBUIT-TBEES. 

of  the  latest  Flemish  pears  already  exhibit  symptoms  of  decay  or  bad 
health  in  these  districts.  Even  Mr.  Kenrick,  with  all  his  enthusiasm 
for  the  new  sorts,  is  obliged  to  make  the  following  admission  respecting 
the  Beurre  Diel  pear,  the  most  vigorous  and  hardy  here  of  all :  "  I  re 
gret  to  add,  that  near  Boston  this  noble  fruit  is  liable  to  crack  badly.'* 
We  predict  that  many  of  the  Flemish  pears  originated  by  Van  Mom 
will  become  feeble,  and  the  fruit  liable  to  crack,  in  the  neighborhood  of 
Boston,  in  a  much  less  time  than  did  the  old  varieties. 

And  this  leads  us  to  remark  here,  that  the  hardiness  of  any  variety 
depends  greatly  upon  the  circumstances  of  its  origin.  When  a  new 
variety  springs  up  accidentally  from  a  healthy  seed  in  a  semi-natural 
manner,  like  the  Seckel,  the  Dix,  and  other  native  sorts,  it  will  usually 
prove  the  hardiest.  It  is,  as  it  were,  an  effort  of  nature  to  produce  a 
new  individual  out  of  the  materials  in  a  progressive  state  which  garden 
culture  has  afforded.  Cross-bred  seedlings — one  parent  being  of  a  hardy 
nature,  and  both  healthy ;  such  as  Knight's  own  seedlings,  the  Monarch 
and  Dunmore  pears — are  next  in  hardiness.  Lastly,  we  rank  varieties 
reared  by  Van  Mons'  method — that  of  continually  repeated  reproduc- 
tions. This,  as  Van  Mons  distinctly  states,  is  an  enfeebling  process — 
without  any  compensating  element  of  vigor.  Hence  it  follows,  as  a 
matter  of  course,  that  seedlings  of  the  fifth  or  sixth  generation,  as  are 
some  of  his  varieties,  must  in  their  origin  be  of  feeble  habit.  Van  Mons 
himself  was  fully  aware  of  this,  and  therefore  resorted  to  "  grafting  by 
copulation," — in  fact,  root-grafting, — well  knowing  that  on  common 
stocks  these  new  varieties  would,  in  light  soils,  soon  become  feeble  and 
decayed.  It  is  needless  for  us  to  add  that  hence  we  consider  the  Belgian 
mode  of  producing  new  varieties  greatly  inferior  to  the  English  one, 
since  it  gives  us  varieties  often  impaired  in  health  in  their  very  origin. 

If  any  further  proof  of  this  is  desired,  we  think  it  is  easily  found  by 
comparing  the  robust  vigor  and  longevity  of  many  native  pear-trees  to 
be  found  in  the  United  States — some  of  them  80  or  100  years  old,  and 
still  producing  large  crops  of  fruit— with  the  delicate  trees  of  several 
new  varieties  now  in  our  gardens  from  Europe.  These  varieties  are 
delicate  not  only  with  respect  to  their  constitutional  vigor,  but  they  are 
also  more  susceptible  to  injury  from  the  severity  of  our  winter's  cold 
and  summer's  sun. 

There  are  great  advantages,  undoubtedly,  for  soils  naturally  unfavor- 
able, and  for  small  gardens,  in  grafting  the  pear  upon  quince  stocks ; 
yet,  as  it  diminishes  the  vigor  of  the  tree,  it  is  not  impossible  that  com 
tinued  piopagation  from  dwarf  trees  may  somewhat  lessen  the  vital 
powers  and  the  longevity  of  a  gr  en  variety. 

The  decay  of  varieties  of  the  Apricot,  or  Peach,  much  shorter  lived 
trees  by  nature,  we  seldom  or  never  hear  of.  Varieties  of  both  are  now 
in  cultivation,  and  in  the  most  perfect  vigor,  of  200  years'  duration. 
This,  probably,  is  owing  to  the  more  natural  treatment  these  tree? 
receive  generally.  Varieties  of  the  vine  are  said  never  to  degenerate, 
»md  this  is  perhaps  owing  to  their  having  very  rarely  been  propagated  by 
grafting.* 

*  We  do  not  deny  that  in  any  given  soil  there  is  a  period  at  which  a  variety  of 
tree  or  plant  exhibits  most  vigor,  and  after  having  grown  there  awhile  it  cease* 
to  have  its  former  luxuriance.  The  same  is  true  of  wheat  or  potatoes,  and 
accordingly  farmers  are  in  the  habit  of  "  changing  their  seed."  The  nutriment 
for  a  given  variety  is  after  a  time  exhausted  from  the  soil,  and  unless  it  is  again 


DURATION   OF    VARIETIES    OP   FRUIT-TREES.  15 

We  are  not  without  remedy  for  varieties  that  have  partially  decayed 
in  a  certain  district.  If  the  trees  have  mice  been  productive  of  excellent 
fruit,  and  are  still  in  a  sound  condition,  though  enfeebled,  a  thorough 
renewal  of  their  powers  will  again  restore  them  to  health.  To  effect 
this,  the  soil  about  the  roots  should  lie  replaced  by  new,  enriched  by 
manure  or  peat-compost,  and  mixed  with  the  mineral  substances  named 
in  the  preceding  page.  The  bark  of  the  trunk  and  large  branches  should 
be  well  scraped,  and,  as  well  as  all  the  limbs,  thoroughly  washed  with 
soft  soap;  the  head  should  be  moderately  pruned  ;  and  finally,  the  tree 
should  be  suffered  to  bear  no  fruit  for  the  two  following  seasons.  After 
this  it  will  generally  bear  excellent  fruit  for  several  years  again. 

In  making  plantations  of  fine  old  varieties,  in  districts  where  the 
stock  has  become  feeble,  something  may  be  gained  by  procuring  grafts  or 
trees  from  more  favorable  localities,  where  the  fruit  is  still  as  fair  as  ever, 
and  care  should  be  exercised  in  selecting  only  the  healthiest  grafts  or 
trees.  Nurserymen  in  unfavorable  districts  should  endeavor  to  pro- 
pagate only  from  trees  of  healthy  character  ;  and  if  those  in  their  own 
vicinity  are  diseased,  they  should  spare  no  pains  to  bring  into  their  nurse- 
ries and  propagate  only  such  as  they  feel  confident  are  healthy  and 
sound.  On  them,  next  to  the  soil,  depends  very  considerably  the  vigor 
or  debility  of  the  stock  of  any  given  variety  in  the  country  around 
them. 

In  Mr.  Knight's  original  essay  on  the  Decay  of  Varieties,  he  clearly 
stated  a  circumstance  that  most  strongly  proves  what  we  have  here  endea- 
vored to  show,  viz. :  that  the  local  decline  of  a  variety  is  mainly  owing  to 
neglect,  and  to  grafting  on  bad  stock.  We  allude  to  the  fact  repeatedly 
verified,  that  healthy  young  shoots,  taken  from  the  roots  of  an  old  variety 
in  apparent  decline,  produce  trees  which  are  vigorous  and  healthy.  "  The 
decay,"  says  he,  "  of  the  powers  of  life  in  the  roots  of  seedling  trees  is 
exceedingly  slow  comparatively  with  that  in  the  branches.  Scions  (or 
shoots)  obtained  from  the  roots  of  pear-trees  two  hundred  years  old 
afford  grafts  which  grow  with  great  vigor,  and  which  ai'e  often  covered 
with  thorns  like  young  seedling  stocks  ;  whilst  other  grafts,  taken  at  the 
same  time  from  the  extremities  of  the  branches  of  such  trees,  present  a 
totally  different  character,  and  a  very  slow  and  unhealthy  growth.  I  do 
not  conceive  that  such  shoots  possess  all  the  powers  of  a  young  seedling, 
but  they  certainly  possess  no  inconsiderable  portion  of  such  powers." 

This  is  nothing  more,  in  fact,  than  going  back  to  the  roots — the  por- 
tion of  the  tree  least  exhausted — for  the  renewal  of  the  health  of  a  variety 
when  the  branches  of  the  tree  have  been  exhausted  by  overbearing,  &c. 
It  is  a  simple  and  easy  mode  of  increasing  the  vigor  of  a  sort  of  delicate 
habit,  to  take  scions  from  young  root-suckers  for  grafting  anew.  This 
can  of  course  only  be  done  with  trees  that  grow  on  their  own  roots,  or 
have  not  been  grafted. 

supplied  the  tree  must  decline.      In  light  soils  this  speedily  happens.     In  strong 
clayey  or  rocky  soils,  the  natural  decomposition  of  which  affords  a  continual  stcre 
of  lime,  potash,  &c. ,  the  necessary  supply  of  inorganic  food  is  maintained,  and 
he  variety  continues  healthy  and  productive. 


16  PROPAGATION    OP   VARIETIES. 


CHAPTER  ill. 

PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES GRAFTING BUDDING CUTTINGS,    LAYERS^ 

AND    SUCKERS. 

After  having  obtained  a  new  and  choice  kind  of  fruit,  which  in  our 
hands  is  perhaps  only  a  single  tree,  and  which,  as  we  have  already  shown, 
seldom  produces  the  same  from  seed,  the  next  inquiry  is  how  to  continue 
this  variety  in  existence,  and  how  to  increase  and  extend  it,  so  that  othei 
gardens  and  countries  may  possess  it  as  well  as  ourselves.  This  leads  us 
to  the  subject  of  the  propagation  of  fruit-trees,  or  the  continuation  of 
varieties  by  grafting  and  budding. 

Grafting  and  budding  are  the  means  in  most  common  use  for  pro- 
pagating fruit-trees.  They  are,  in  fact,  nothing  more  than  inserting 
upon  one  tree  the  shoot  or  bud  of  another,  in  such  a  manner  that  the 
two  may  unite  and  form  a  new  compound.  No  person  having  any  inte- 
rest in  a  garden  should  be  unable  to  perform  these  operations,  as  they  are 
capable  of  effecting  transformations  and  improvements  in  all  trees  and 
shrubs,  no  less  valuable  than  they  are  beautiful  and  interesting. 

Grafting  is  a  very  ancient  invention,  having  been  well  known  and 
practised  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans.  The  latter,  indeed,  describe  a 
great  variety  of  modes,  quite  as  ingenious  as  any  of  the  fanciful  varia- 
tions now  used  by  gardeners.  The  French,  who  are  most  expert  in 
grafting,  practise  occasionally  more  than  fifty  modes,  and  within  a  few 
years  have  succeeded  perfectly  in  grafting  annual  plants,  such  as  the 
tomato,  the  dahlia,  and  the  like. 

The  uses  of  grafting  and  budding,  as  applied  to  fruit-trees,  may  be 
briefly  stated  as  follows  : 

1.  The  rapid  increase  of  propagation  of  valuable  sorts  of  fruit  not 
easily  raised  by  seeds  or  cuttings,  as  is  the  case  with  nearly  all  varieties. 

2.  To  renew  or  alter  the  heads  of  trees  partially  or  fully  grown,  pro- 
ducing in  two  or  three  years,  by  heading-in  and  grafting,  a  new  head, 
bearing  the  finest  fruit,  on  a  formerly  worthless  tree. 

3.  To  render  certain  foreign  and  delicate  sorts  of  fruit  more  hardy  by 
grafting  them  on  robust  stocks  of  the  same  species  native  to  the  country  y 
as  the  foreign  grape  on  the  native  ;  and  to  produce  fine  fruit  in  climates 
or  situations  not  naturally  favorable,  by  grafting  on  another  species  more 
hardy,  as  in  a  cool  climate  and  damp  strong  soil  by  working  the  Peach 
on  the  Plum. 

4.  To  render  dwarf  certain  kinds  of  fruit,  by  grafting  them  on  suit- 
able stocks  of  slower  growth,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Pear  on  the  Quince, 
the  Apple  on  the  Paradise  stock,  &c. 

5.  By  grafting  several  kinds  on  the  same  tree,  to  be  able  to  have  a 
succession  of.  fruit,  from  early  to  late,  in  a  small  garden. 

6.  To  hasten  the  bearing  of  seedling  varieties  of  fruit,  or  of  such  as 
are  a  long  time  in  producing  fruit,  by  grafting  them  on  the  branches  of 
full-grown  or  mature  bearing  trees.  Thus  a  seedling  pear,  which  would 
not  produce  fruit  on  its  own  root  in  a  dozen  years,  will  generally  begin 
to  bear  the  third  or  fourth  year  if  grafted  on  the  extremity  of  the  bear- 
ing branches  of  a  mature  tree. 

The  proper  time  for  grafting  fruit-trees  is  in  the  spring,  as  soon  aa 
fch*  sap  is  in  motion,  which  commences  earliest  with  the  Cherry  and 


PROPAGATION    OF   VARIETIES.  17 

Plum,  and  ends  with  the  Pear  and  Apple.  The  precise  time  of  course 
varies  with  the  season  and  the  climate,  but  is  generally  comprised  from 
February  to  the  middle  of  April.  The  grape-vine,  however,  which 
surfers  by  bleeding,  is  not  usually  grafted  until  it  is  ir.  leaf.  The  most 
favorable  weather  for  grafting  is  a  miM  atmosphere  with  occasional 
showers. 

The  scions  are  generally  selected  pi'eviously,  as  it  is  found,  in  nearly 
all  kinds  of  grafting  by  scions,  that  success  is  more  complete  when  the 
stock  upon  which  they  are  placed  is  a  little  more  advanced — the  sap  in  a 
more  active  state  than  in  the  scion.  To  secure  this,  we  usually  cut  the 
scions  very  early  in  the  spring,  during  the  winter,  or  even  in  the  autumn, 
burying  their  lower  ends  in  the  ground  in  a  shaded  place,  or  keeping 
them  in  tine  soil  in  the  cellar  till  wanted  for  use.  In  cutting  scions  we 
choose  straight  thrifty  shoots  of  the  last  year's  growth,  which  may  remain 
entire  until  we  commence  grafting,  when  they  may  be  cut  into  scions  of 
three  or  four  buds  each.  In  selecting  scions  from  old  trees  it  is  always 
advisable  to  choose  the  most  vigorous  of  the  last  year's  shoots  growing 
near  the  centre  or  top  of  the  tree.  Scions  from  sickly  and  unhealthy 
branches  should  be  rejected,  as  they  are  apt  to  carry  with  them  this  feeble 
and  sickly  state.  Scions  taken  from  the  lower  bearing  branches  will  pro- 
duce fruit  soonest,  but  they  will  not  afford  trees  of  so  handsome  a  shape 
or  so  vigorous  a  growth  as  those  taken  from  the  thrifty  upright  shoots  near 
the  centre  or  top  of  the  tree.  Nurserymen  generally  take  their  scions 
from  young  grafted  trees  in  the  nursery-rows,  these  being  usually  in  better 
condition  than  those  taken  from  old  trees,  not  always  in  a  healthy  state. 

The  stock  for  grafting  xipon  is  generally  a  tree  which  has  been, 
standing,  at  least  for  a  year  previously,  on  the  spot  where  it  is  grafted, 
as  success  is  much  less  certain  on  newly  moved  trees. 

In  the  case,  however,  of  very  small  trees  or  stocks,  which  are  grafted 
below  the  surface  of  the  ground,  as  is  frequently  the  practice  with  the 
Apple  in  American  nurseries,  the  stocks  are  grafted  in  the  house  in 
winter,  or  early  spring,  put  away  carefully  in  a  damp  cellar,  and  planted 
out  in  the  spring ;  but  this  method  is  only  successful  when  the  root  is 
small,  and  when  the  top  of  the  stock  is  taken  off,  and  the  whole  root  is 
devoted  to  supplying  the  graft  with  nourishment. 

The  theory  of  grafting  is  based  on  the  power  of  union  between  the 
young  tissues  or  organizable  matter  of  growing  wood.  When  the  parts 
are  placed  nicely  in  contact,  the  ascending  sap  of  the  stock  passes  into 
and  sustains  life  in  the  scion ;  the  buds  of  the  latter,  excited  by  this 
supply  of  sap  and  the  warmth  of  the  season,  begin  to  elaborate  and  send 
down  woody  matter,  which,  passing  through  the  newly  granulated  sub- 
stance of  the  parts  in  contact,  unites  the  graft  firmly  with  the  stock. 
"  If,"  says  De  Candolle,  "  the  descending  sap  has  only  an  incomplete 
analogy  with  the  wants  of  the  stock,  the  latter  does  not  thrive,  though 
the  organic  union  may  have  taken  place  ;  and  if  the  analogy  between  the 
albumen  of  stock  and  scion  is  wanting,  the  organic  union  does  not  ope- 
rat  r,  the  scion  cannot  absorb  the  sap  of  the  stock,  and  the  graft  fails." 

Grafting  therefore  is  confined  within  certain  limits.  A  scion  from 
one  tree  will  not,  from  the  want  of  affinity,  succeed  on  every  other  tree, 
but  only  upon  those  to  which  it  is  allied.  We  are,  in  short,  only  success^ 
ful  in  budding  or  grafting  where  there  is  a  close  relationship  and  simi- 
larity of  structure  between  the  stock  and  the  scion.  This  is  the  case 
with  varieties  of  the  same  species  which  take  most  freely,  as  the  different 

2 


16 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


sorts  of  Apple ;  next  with  the  different  species  of  a  genus,  as  the  Apple 
and  the  Pear,  which  grow,  but  in  which  the  union  is  less  complete  and 
permanent ;  and  lastly  with  the  genera  of  the  same  natural  family,  as  the 
Cherry  on  the  Plum,  which  die  after  a  season  or  two.  The  ancienta 
boasted  of  Vines  and  Apples  grafted  on  Poplars  and  Elms  ;  but  repeated 
experiments,  by  the  most  skilful  cultivators  of  modern  times,  have  clearly 
proved  that  although  we  may,  once  in  a  thousand  trials,  succeed  in  effects 
ing  these  ill-assorted  unions,  yet  the  graft  invariably  dies  after  a  few 
months'  growth.* 

The  range  in  grafting  or  budding,  for  fruit-trees  in  ordinary  culture., 
is  as  the  following :  Apples,  on  apple  or  crab  seedlings  for  orchards 
(standards),  or  on  Paradise  apple  stocks,  for  dwarfs  ;  Pears,  on  pear 
seedlings  for  common  culture,  or  Quince  stocks  for  dwarfs,  and  some- 
times on  the  thorn  for  clayey  soils  ;  Peaches,  on  their  own  seedlings  for 
standai-ds  or  for  orchards ;  on  Almonds,  for  hot  and  dry  climates  ;  on 
Plums  in  cold  or  moist  soils,  or  to  secure  them  against  the  worm ;  Apri- 
cots, en  Plum  stocks,  to  render  them  hardy  and  productive,  or  on  their 
own  seedlings  to  render  them  long-lived.  Nectarines  are  usually  worked 
on  the  Peach  or  Plum ;  and  Cherries  on  mazard  seedlings,  or  on  the  per- 
fumed Cherry,  and  on  the  morello  for  forming  half  dwarfs. 

The  manual  operation  of  grafting  is  performed  in  a 
very  easy  and  complete  manner  when  the  size  of  the  stock,  or 
branch  to  be  grafted,  corresponds  precisely  with  that  of  the 
scion.  In  this  case,  which  is  called  splice-grafting,  it  is 
only  necessary  with  a  smooth  sloping  cut,  upwards  on  the 
stock  a,  and  downwards  on  the  scion  b,  Fig  2,  to  make 
the  two  ht  precisely,  so  that  the  inner  bark  of  one  corre- 
sponds exactly  with  that  of  the  other,  to  bind  them  firmly 
together  with  a  strand  of  matting,  and  to  cover  the  wound 
entirely  with  grafting  clay  or  wax,  and  the  whole  is  fin- 
ished. In  this,  which  is  one  of  the  neatest  modes,  the 
whole  forms  a  complete  union  nearly  at  once,  leaving 
scarcely  any  wounded  part  to  heal  over.  But,  as  it  is 
only  rarely  that  the  stock  is  of  so  small  a  size  as  to  fit 
thus  perfectly  to  the  scion,  the  operation  must  be  varied 
somewhat,  and  requires  more  skill.  The  method  in  most 
common  use  to  cover  all  difficulties  is  called  tongue 
grafting. 

We  may  remark  here  that  grafting  the  shoots  of 
Peaches,  Nectarines,  and  Apricots,  owing  to  their  large 
pith,  is  more  difficult  than  that  of  other  fruit-trees.  A  variation  of 
splice-grafting,  Fig.  3,  lias  been  invented  to  obviate  this.  This  consists 
in  selecting  the  scion  a,  so  as  to  leave  at  its  lower  end  about  a  fourth  of 
an  inch  of  two  years  old  wood,  which  is  much  firmer.     The  bottom  of 

*  The  classical  horticulturist  will  not  fail  to  recall  to  mind  Pliny's  account  of 
the  tree  in  the  garden  of  Lucullns.  grafted  in  such  a  manner  as  to  bear  Olives, 
Almonds,  Apples,  Pears,  Plums,  Figs,  and  Grapes.  There  is  little  doubt,  how- 
ever, that  this  was  some  ingenious  deception,  as  to  this  day  the  Italian  gardeners 
pretend  to  sell  Jasmines,  Honeysuckles,  &c. ,  growing  together  and  grafted  on 
Oranges  and  Pomegranates.  This  is  ingeniously  managed,  for  a  short-lived 
effect,  by  introducing  the  stems  of  these  smaller  plants  through  a  hole  bored  up 
the  centre  of  the  stock  of  the  trees — their  roots  being  in  the  same  soil,  and  their 
stems,  which  after  a  little  growth  fill  up  tlese  holes,  appearing  as  if  reallj 
grafted. 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


19 


the  slope  on  the  stock  is  cut  with   a  dovetail   notch,  b,  into  which  the 
scron  is  fitted. 

Tongue- grafting   (or  whip-grafting),  Fig.  4.  resembles  very    nearr* 


5 


Splice-Grafting  the  Peach. 


Tongue-Grafting,  progressive  stages. 


splice-grafting,  except,  instead  of  the  simple  splice,  a  tongue  is  made 
to  hold  the  two  together  more  firmly.  In  order  to  understand  this 
method,  let  us  explain  it  a  little  in  detail. 

Having  chosen  your  stock  of  the  proper  size,  cut  it  off  at  the  point 
where,  a,  it  appears  best  to  fix  the  graft.  If  the  stock  is  quite  small, 
it  may  be  within  three  or  four  inches  of  the  ground.  Then,  with  a 
very  sharp  knife,  make  a  smooth  cut  upwards,  b,  about  two  inches  in 
length.  Next  make;  a  slit  from  the  top  of  this  .  ut  about  one-fourth  of 
the  way  downwardsj  c,  taking  out  a  thin  tongue  of  wood.  Cut  the  scion 
four  or  five  inches  long,  or  so  as  to  have  three  buds ;  then  shape  the 
lower  end  with  a  single  smooth  sloping  cut,  e,  about  the  same  length  as 
that  on  the  stock,  and  make  the  tongue  upward,  f,  to  fit  in  the  down- 
ward slit  of  the  stock.  Now  apply  the  scion  accurately  to  the  stock, 
making  the  inner  bark  of  the  scion  Jit  exactly  the  inner  bark  of  the  stock, 
at  least  on  one  side,  g.  Without  changing  their  position,  tie  them 
together  carefully  with  a  piece  of  bass  matting  or  tape,  h.  And  finally 
cover  the  wound  with  well-prepared  grafting  clay  or  wax,  i.  This  ball 
of  clay  should  more  than  cover  the  union,  by  an  inch  above  and  below, 
and  should  be  about  an  inch  thick.  If  grafting-wax  is  used,  the  cover- 
ing need  not  be  above  half  an  inch  thick. 

American  Whip  Tongue- Grafting — the  mode  generally  practised  by 
American  nurserymen — is  similar  to  the  foregoing  method,  but  much 
more  rapid  in  its  execution.  The  scion  and  stork  are  first  cut,  as  rep- 
resented in  Fig.  2,  for  splice-grafting,  and  then  the  knife  is  passed 
upward  in  the  scion,  a,  Fig.  b,  and  downward  in  the  stock,  b,  forming 
a  sliced  tongue  in  appearance,  and  when  joined  together,  c,  serves  to  hold 
the  scion  in  place.  The  tying  for  out-door  grafting  is  then  done  by  a 
narrow  strip  of  cloth,  say  half  an  inch  to  an  inch  wide,  our  side  of  which 
is  saturated  or  coated  with  grafting-wax,  and  as  eacl«   turn  round  tha 


20 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


American    Whip  Tongue-Grafting  in  its 

different  stages. 

(a).  Scion  cut  for  insertion.  (6).  Stock 
prepared  to  receive  the  scion,  (c).  Stock 
and  scion  united,     (d).  The  same  tied  up. 


Whip-Grafting  large  stock, 
(a).  Stock  prepared  to  receive  the  scion. 
(6).  Scion  cut  for  insertion,     (c).  Stock  and 
icion  united. 


graft  and  stock  is  made,  the  adhesiri 
power  of  the  wax  holds  the  stiip  firmly 
and  renders  the  work  complete  (</). 

Whip-grafting  large   stocks  is  fre- 
quently practised,  and  is  a  very  success- 
ful  manner   of   operating    upon    quite 
large  trees  in  the   nursery   row.      The 
sloping    cut   upon   the   stock,   and    the 
forming  of  the  graft,  is  the  same   as  in 
the    ordinary   American    whip   tongue- 
grafting,  except  that  one    side  of  the 
stock,  opposite  that  on  which  the  graft 
is  placed,  should  be  cut  away  upon  the 
same  slope  as  the  grafted  side,  as  indi- 
cated by  the  dotted  lines  in  Fig.  6.     As 
soon  as  the  graft  has  taken,  and  com- 
menced expanding  its  leaves  and  send- 
ing out  shoots,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
rub  or  cut  off  all  shoots  between  the  ball 
and  the  ground,  if  it  is  a  small  stock,  or 
all  those  which  woiild  rob  it  of  a  princi- 
pal share  of  nourishment,  if  upon  a  large 
tree.      If  the    scion    or    stock   is    very 
weak,  it  is  usual  to  leave  one    or   two 
other   buds    for    a    time,    to    assist   in 
drawing  up  the  sap.     When  the  graft 
has  made   a  growth    of  two    or   three 
inches  the  ball  of  clay  may  be  remov- 
ed, and  if  the  graft  is  securely  united, 
the    bandage    may  be  loosened  and  re- 
tied,  or  it  may  be  cut  partially  away  at 
the  back  of  the  graft,  for  the  purpose  of 
permitting    the    expansion    of    growth, 
that  otherwise  would  soon  be  checked, 
and  cause  the  graft  to  break  off.     In  the 
use  of  the  wax-cloth  strips,  passing  the 
knife  at  the  back  and  cutting  the  tie  is 
all  that  is  requisite.     Early  in  August 
the  angle  left  at  the  top   of  the  stock 
should  be  cut  off  smoothly,  in  order  to 
allow  the  bark  of  the  stock  and  the  scion 
to  heal  neatly  over  the  whole  wound. 

Though  it  is  little  attended  to  in 
common  practice,  the  amateur  will  be 
glad  to  know  that  the  success  of  a  graft 
is  always  greatly  insured  by  choosing 
the  parts  so  that  a  bud  is  left  near  the 
top  of  the  stock,  h,  Fig.  4,  and  another 
near  the  bottom  of  the  scion,  I.  These 
buds  attract  the  rising  sap  to  the  por- 
tions where  they  are  placed,  form  woody 
matter,  and  greatly  facilitate  the  union  of 
the  parts  near  them  ;  the  upper  part  of 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


21 


the  stock  and  the  lower  part  of  the  scion  being  the  portions  soonest 
liable  to  perish  from  a  want  of  nourishment.* 

Cleft-grafting  is  a  very  easy  though  rather  clumsy  mode,  and  is  is 
more  common  use  than  any  other  in  the  United  States.  It  is  chief!} 
practised  on  large  stocks,  or  trees  the  branches 
of  which  have  been  headed  back,  and  are  too 
large  for  tongue-grafting.  The  head  of  the 
stock  is  first  cut  over  horizontally  with  the  saw 
and  smoothed  with  a  knife.  A  cleft  about  two 
inches  deep  is  then  made  in  the  stock  with  a 
hammer  and  splitting-knife.  The  scion  is  now 
prepared  by  sloping  its  lower  end  in  the  form  of 
a  wedge  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  leaving 
it  a  little  thicker  on  the  outer  edge.  Opening 
the  cleft  with  the  splitting-knife,  or  a  small 
chisel  for  that  purpose,  push  the  scion  carefully 
down  to  its  place,  fitting  its  inner  bark  on  one 
side  to  that  of  one  side  of  the  stock.  When  the 
stock  is  large,  it  is  usual  to  insert  two  scions, 
Fig.  7.  On  withdrawing  the  chisel,  the  cleft 
closes  firmly  on  the  scions,  when  the  graft  is 
tied  and  clayed  in  the  usual  manner. 

Apple-stocks,  in  many  American  nurseries, 
are  grafted  in  great  quantities  in  this  mode — the 
stocks    being    previously    taken     out    of    the 

ground,  headed  down  very  near  the  root,  cleft-grafted  with  a  single 
scion,  sloping  off  with  an  oblique  cut  the  side  of  the  stock  opposite  that 
where  the  graft  is  placed,  and  then  planted  at  once  in  the  rows,  so  as  to 
allow  only  a  single  bud  of  the  scion  to  appear  above  ground.  It  is 
not  usual  with  many  either  to  tie  or  clay  the  grafts  in  this  case,  as  the 
wound  is  placed  below  the  surface  ;  but  when  this  plan  is  adopted,  the 
grafts  must  be  set  and  the  trees  planted  at  once,  drawing  the  well- 
pulverized  soil  with  great  care  around  the  graft.  Another  way  of 
grafting  apple-stocks,  common  in  western  nurseries,  consists  in  tongue- 
grafting  on  seedling  stocks  of  very  small  size,  cut  back  almost  to  the 
root. 

Large  quantities  of  trees  are  also  propagated  by  using  pieces  of  roots 
each  three  to  five  inches  long,  thus  forming  from  the  root  of  one  stock 
sufficient  root  for  two  or  more  grafts.  This  practice,  although  quite  com- 
mon, is  of  very  doubtful  value,  and  by  some  prominent  horticulturists 
considered  as  tending  to  debilitate  and  reduce  vitality: — the  seat  of  vital 
life  in  fact  resting  in  the  natural  crown  of  the  seedling,  and  that  once 
destroyed  cannot  be  renewed.  It  is  therefore  apparent  that  but  one 
healthy  permanent  tree  can  ever  be  grown  from  a  seedling  stock.  This 
is  performed  in  winter,  by  the  fireside,  the  grafts  carefully  tied,  and  the 


Cleft-Grafting, 
(a).    Scion  ready  for  inser 
tion.      (6).     Stock  with   two 
scions  inserted. 


*  In  grafting  large  quantities  of  young  trees  when  stocks  are  scarce,  it  is  not  an 
unusual  practice  in  some  nurseries  to  tongue  or  whip-graft  upon  small  pieces  of 
roots  of  the  proper  sort  of  tree,  planting  the  same  in  the  earth  as  soon  as  grafted. 
Indeed  Dr  Van  Mons  considers  this  the  most  complete  of  all  modes,  with  regard 
to  the  proper  condition  of  the  grafted  sort :  1st,  because  the  smallest  quantity  oi 
the  stock  is  used ;  and  2d,  because  the  lower  part  of  the  scion  being  thus  placed 
in  the  ground,  after  a  time  it  throws  out  fibres  from  that  portion,  and  so  at  las! 
V3  actually  growing  on  its  own  roots. 


22 


PROPAGATION    f)F    VARIETIES. 


roots  placed  in  the  cellar,  in  sand,  till  spring,  when  they  are  planted,  th« 
top  of  the  graft  just  above  ground. 

Grafting  the  Vine  is  attended  with  success  in  the  cleft  01  whip 
manner,  if  treated  as  follows : — Cut  your  scions  during  the  winter  or 
early  spring,  keeping  them  partially  buried  hi  a  cool  damp  cellar  till 
wanted.  As  soon  as  the  first  leaves  of  the  old  vine  or  stock  have 
grown  to  about  two  inches  in  diameter,  and  all  danger  of  bleeding  is 
past,  cut  it  off  smoothly  below  the  surface  of  the  ground,  and  split  the 
stock  and  insert  one  or  two  scions  in  the  usual  manner,  binding  the  cleft 
well  together  if  it  does  not  close  firmly.  Draw  the  soil  carefully  over 
the  whole,  leaving  one  bud  of  the  scion  at  the  surface.  If  the  root  of 
the  stock  is  a  strong  native  grape,  the  graft  will  frequently  grow  ten  or 
fifteen  feet  during  the  first  season,  and  yield  a  fair  crop  the  second  year. 


Saddle-Grafting. 


Saddle-Grafting  Large  Stocks. 


Saddle-grafting,  Fig.  8,  consists  in  cutting  the  top  of  the  stock  in 
the  form  of  a  wedge,  splitting  the  scion  and  thinning  away  each  half 
to  a  tongue  shape,  placing  it  astride  the  stock,  and  fitting  the  two,  at 
least  on  one  side,  as  in  tongue-grafting.  This  mode  otters  the  largest 
surface  for  the  junction  of  the  scion  and  stock,  and  the  union  is  very  per- 
fect. Mr.  Knight,  who  practised  it  chiefly  upon  Cherry-trees,  states 
that  he  has  rarely  ever  seen  a  graft  fail,  even  when  the  wood  has  been 
so  succulent  and  immature  as  to  preclude  every  hope  of  success  by 
anj  other  mode. 

A  variety  of  this  mode,  for  stocks  larger  than  the  scions,  is  prac- 
tised with  much  success  in  England  after  the  usual  season  is  past,  and 
when  the  bark  of  the  stock  separates  readily.  "  The  scion,  which 
must   be    smaller  than   the   stock,   is    split    up  between  two   or  three 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 

inches  from  its  lower  end,  so  as  to  have  one  side  stronger  than  the  other. 
This  strong  side  is  then  properly  prepared  and  introduced  between  the 
bark  and  the  wood,  while  the  thinner  division  is  fitted  to  the  oppo 
site  side  of  the  stock."  The  graft,  thus  placed,  receives  a  large  supply 
of  the  sustaining  fluid  from  the  stock,  and  the  union  is  rapid  ;  while  the 
wound  on  the  stock  is  speedily  covered  by  a  new  layer  of  baric  from  that 
part  of  the  scion  which  stands  astride  it. 

Side-grafti/ng  is  a  mode  described  by  Elliott,  and  considered  very 
successful  for  grafting  the  Magnolia,  and  other  trees  difficult  of  propaga- 
tion ;  and  also  for  the  greater  safety  of  grafts  received  or  delayed  late  ir_ 
spring.  It  is  performed  by  cutting  a  notch  or  slit  of  about  one  inch 
long  in  the  side  of  the  stock,  paring  the  outer  portion,  splitting  the  lower 
end  of  the  graft  and  paring  the  inner  portion,  then  inserting  it,  so  as  to 
form  a  union  of  the  bark  and  wood,  leaving  meanwhile  the  top  of  the 
stock  to  carry  on  the  circulation  of  the  sap  until  the  graft  becomes 
united,  wlien  the  stock  is  to  be  cut  away. 

Grafting-clay  is  prepared  by  mixing  one-third  cow-dung,  free  from 
straw,  and  two-thirds  clay,  or  clayey  loam,  with  a  little  hah',  like  that 
used  in  plaster,  to  prevent  its  cracking.  Beat  and  temper  it  for  two  01 
three  days,  until  it  is  thoroughly  incorporated.  When  used,  it  should 
be  of  such  a  consistency  as  to  be  easily  put  on  and  shaped  with  the  bands. 

Grafting-wax.  The  common  grafting-wax  of  the  French  gardeners  is 
of  two  kinds.  The  first  is  melted  and  laid  on  with  a  brush  in  a  fluid 
state,  and  is  made  of  half  a  pound  of  pitch,  half  a  pound  of  beeswax,  and 
a  pound  of  cow-dung,  boiled  together.  The  second,  which  is  spread 
while  warm  on  strips  of  coarse  cotton  or  strong  paper,  and  wrapped 
directly  about  the  graft,  answering  at  once  to  tie  and  to  protect  it,  is  com- 
posed of  equal  parts  of  beeswax,  turpentine,  and  resin.  The  grafting-wax 
most  commonly  used  here  is  made  of  tallow,  beeswax,  and  resin,  in 
equal  parts,  or,  as  many  prefer,  with  a  little  more  tallow  to  render 
it  pliable.  It  may  be  applied  directly  around  the  graft,  or  it  may 
be  spread  with  a  brush,  when  warm,  upon  cloth  or  paper,  and  after- 
ward the  cloth  or  paper  cut  into  suitable  strips  for  wrapping,  as  indicated 
in  the  directions  for  grafting. 

Grafting- wax  is  a  much  neater  and  more  perfect  protection  than 
grafting-clay. 

Budding. 

xfudding  (inoculating,  of  the  old  authors)  differs  from  common  graft- 
ing not  the  least  in  its  nature  or  elfects.  Every  bud  is  a  distinct  indi- 
vidual, capable  of  becoming  a  tree  under  favorable  circumstances.  In 
grafting  we  use  a  branch  composed  of  several  buds,  with  a  considi 
quantity  of  bark  and  wood;  while  in  budding  we  employ  but  a  single 
bud,  with  a  very  small  quantity  of  the  adjoining  bark  and  wood. 

The  advantages  of  budding  fruit-trees,  compared  with  grafting,  are 
80  considerable  that  in  this  country  it  is  ten  times  as  much  practised. 
These  are.  first,  the  great  rapidity  with  which  it  is  performed ;  a  skilful 
budder,  with  a  clever  boy  following  him  to  tie  the  buds,  being  able  to 
work  from  a  thousand  to  twelve  hundred  young  nursery  stocks  in  a  day. 
2d.  The  more  convenient  season  at  which  it  is  performed  in  all  coun 
tries  where  a  short  spring  crowds  garden  labors  within  a  small  space. 
3d.  Being  able  to  perform  the  operation  without  injuring  the  stock  in 


2* 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


case  of  failure,  which  is  always  more  or  less  the  case  in  stocks  ueaded 
down  for  grafting.     4th.  The  opportunity  which  it  affords,  when  per- 
formed in  good  season,  of  repeating  tbf 
^,—j  y—^  trial   on  the  same    stock.     To  these  we 

may  add  that  budding  is  universally  pre- 
ferred here  for  all  stone-fruits,  such  as 
Peaches,  Apricots,  and  the  like,  as  these 
require  extra  skill  in  grafting,  but  are 
budded  with  great  ease. 

The  proper  season  for  budding  fruit- 
trees  in  this  country  is  from  the  first  of 
July  to  the  middle  of  September ;  the  dif- 
ferent trees  coming  into  season  as  fol- 
lows:— Plums,  Cherries,  Apricots  01 
Plums,  Apricots,  Pears,  Apples,  Quinces, 
Nectarines,  and  Peaches.  Trees  of  con- 
siderable size  will  require  budding  earlier 
than  young  seedling  stocks.  But  the 
operation  is  always,  and  only,  performed 
when  the  bark  of  the  stock  parts  or  sep- 
arates freely  from  the  wood,  and  when 
the  buds  of  the  current  year's  growth 
are  somewhat  plump,  and  the  young  wood 
is  growing  firm.  Young  stocks  in  the 
nursery,  if  thrifty,  are  usually  planted 
out  in  the  rows  in  the  spring,  and  bud- 
Bndding-Knivea.  ded  the  same  summer  or  autumn. 

Before  commencing  you  should  pro- 
vide yourself  with  a  budding-knife,  Fig.  10  (about  four 
and  a  half  inches  long),  having  a  round  blade  at  one  end, 
and  an  ivory  handle,  terminating  in  a  thin  rounded  edge 
called  the  haft,  at  the  other. 

Fig.  11  represents  another  style  or  form  of  budding- 
knife,  by  many  considered  preferable.  The  cutting  por- 
tion extends  about  one-third  around  the  end  of  the  blade, 
and  about  two-thirds  of  its  length,  leaving  the  lower  part 
dull.  The  rounded  end  of  the  blade  to  this  knife  obviates 
the  necessity  of  reversing  it  for  opening  the  bark  when 
setting  a  bud,  and  thus  facilitates  work. 

In  choosing  your  buds,  select  thrifty  shoots  that  have 
nearly  done  growing,  and  prepare  what  is  called  a  stick 
of  buds,  Fig.  12,  by  cutting  off  a  few  of  the  imperfect  buds 
at  the  lower,  and  such  as  may  be  yet  too  soft  at  the  upper 
ends,  leaving  only  smooth,  well-developed  single  buds ; 
double  buds  being  fruit-buds. 

Great  care  is  essential  in  selecting  buds,  as  often  even 
on  sticks  cut  from  young  trees,  and  especially  from  bear 
ing  trees,  many  of  the  single  buds  will  be  found  developed 
into  fruit-buds,  and  are  therefore  unfitted  for  use.  The 
form  of  a  wood-bud  is  always  long  rather  than  round,  and, 
in  the  case  of  peaches,  there  are  sometimes  triple  buds, 
k  Btiok  of  Bad*    the  centre  one  of  which  is  always  a  wood-bud. 

Cut  off  the  leaves,  allowing  about  half  an  inch  of  the 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


25 


foot-stalks  to  remain  for  conveniently  inserting  the  buds.  Some  strai.da 
of  bass  matting,  about  twelve  or  fourteen  inches  long,  and  from  a  quarter 
to  half  an  inch  in  width,  moistened  in  water  to  render  them  soft  anc 
pliable  (or  in  the  absence  of  these  some  soft  woollen  yarn),  must  also  be 
at  hand  for  tying  the  buds. 

Shield  or  T-budding  is  the  most  approved  mode  in  all  countries. 
A  new  variety  of  this  method,  now  generally  practised  in  this  country,  we 
shall  describe  first,  as  being  the  simplest  and  the  best  mode  for  fruit-trees. 
American  shield-budding.  Having  your  stick  of  buds  ready,  choose 
a  smooth  portion  of  the  stock.  When  the  latter  is  small,  let  it  be  near 
the  ground,  and,  if  equally  convenient,  select  also  the  north  side  of  the 
stock,  as  less  exposed  to  the  sun.  Make  an  upright  incision  in  the  bark 
T"om  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  at  the  top 
of  this  make  a  cross  cut,  so  that  the  whole  shall  form 
a  T.  From  the  stick  of  buds,  your  knife  being  very 
sharp,  cut  a  thin,  smooth  slice  of  wood  and  bark  con- 
taining a  bud,  Fig.  13,  a.  With  the  rounded  end  of  your 
budding-knife,  now  raise  the  bark  on  each  side  of  the 
incision  just  wide  enough  to  admit  easily  the  prepared 
bud.  Taking  hold  of  the  footstalk  of  the  leaf,  insert 
the  bud  under  the  bark,  pushing  it  gently  down  to  the 
bottom  of  the  incision.  If  the  upper  portion  of  the 
bud  projects  above  the  horizontal  part  of  the  T,  cut 
it  smoothly  oft',  so  that  it  may  completely  fit  b.  A 
bandage  of  the  soft  matting  is  now  tied  over  the  whole 
wound,  Fig.  14,  commencing  at  the  bottom,  and  tying 
most  firmly  above,  leaving  the  bud  and  the  footstalk 
of  the  leaf  only  exposed  to  the  light  air. 

Common  shield-budding,  Fig.  15,  practised  in  all  gardens  in 
Europe,  differs  from  the  foregoing  only  in  one  respect — the  removal  of 
the  slice  of  wood  contained  in  the  bud.  This  is  taken  out  with  the 
point  of  the  knife,  holding  the  bud  or  shield 
by  the  leaf-stalk  with  one  hand,  inserting  the 
knife  under  the  wood  at  the  lower  extremity, 
and  then  raising  and  drawing  out  the  wood  by 
bending  it  upwards  and  downwards,  with  a 
slight  jerk,  until  it  is  loosened  from  the  bark; 
always  taking  care  that  a  small 
portion  of  the  wood  remains 
behind  to  fill  up  the  hollow  at 
the  base  or  heart  of  the  bud. 
The  bud  thus  prepared  is  in- 
serted precisely  as  before  de- 
scribed. 

The  American  variety  of 
shield-budding  is  found  greatly 
preferable  to  the  European 
mode,  at  least  for  this  climate. 
Many  sorts  of  fruit-trees,  es- 
pecially   Plums  and    Cherries,  nearly   mature 

their  growth,  and  require  to  be  budded  in  the  hottest  part  of  oar 
summer.  In  the  old  method,  the  bud  having  only  a  shield  of  bark  with 
but  a  j  article  of  wood  ir  the  heart  of  the  bud,  is  much  more  liable  tc 


American   shield 
budding. 


26 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


be  destroyed  by  heat,  or  dryness,  than  when  the  slice  of  wood  i.*  left 
behind  in  the  American  way.  Taking  out  this  wood  is  always  an 
operation  requiring  some  dexterity  and  practice,  as  few  buds  grow 
when  their  eye  or  heart- wood  is  damaged.  The  American  method 
therefore  requires  less  skill,  can  be  done  earlier  in  the  season  with 
vounger  wood,  is  performed  in  much  less  time,  and  is  uniformly  more 
successful.  It  has  been  very  fairly  tested  upon  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  fruit-trees  in  our  gardens  for  the  last  twenty  years,  and  although 
practised  English  budders  coming  here  at  first  are  greatly  prejudiced 
against  it,  as  being  in  direct  opposition  to  one  of  the  most  essential 
features  iu  the  old  mode,  yet  a  fair  trial  has  never  failed  to  convince 
them  of  the  superiority  of  the  new. 

After-treatment.  In  two  weeks  after  the  operation  you  will  be  able 
to  see  whether  the  bud  has  taken,  by  its  plumpness  and  freshness.  If 
it  has  failed,  you  may,  if  the  bark  still  parts  readily,  make  another 
trial ;  a  clever  budder  will  not  lose  more  than  6  or  8  per  cent.  If  it  has 
succeeded,  after  a  fortnight  more  has  elapsed  the  bandage  must  be 
loosened,  or,  if  the  stock  has  swelled  much,  it  should  be  removed  alto- 
gether, by  cutting  on  the  back  side  opposite  the  bud.  When  budding 
has  been  performed  very  late,  we  have  occasionally  found  it  an  advan- 
tage to  leave  the  bandage  on  during  the  winter. 

As  soon  as  the  buds  commence  swelling  in  the  ensu- 
ing spring,  head  down  the  stock,  -with  a  sloping  back  cut, 
within  two  or  three  inches  of  the  bud.  The  bud  will 
then  start  vigorously,  and  all  "  robbers,"  as  the  shoots 
of  the  stock  near  to  and  below  the  bud  are  termed,  must 
be  taken  oil'  from  time  to  time.  To  secure  the  upright 
growth  of  the  bud,  and  to  prevent  its  being  broken  by 
the  winds,  it  is  tied,  when  a  few  inches  long,  to  that  por- 
tion of  the  stock  left  for  the  purpose,  Fig.  1 6,  a.  During 
the  month  of  August,  if  the  shoot  is  strong,  this  support 
may  be  removed,  and  the  superfluous  portion  of  the  stock 
smoothly  cut  away  in  the  dotted  line  b,  when  it  will  be 
rapidly  covered  with  young  bark. 

We  have  found  a  great  advantage,  when  budding  trees 
which  do  not  take  readily,  in  adopting  Mr.  Knight's  ex- 
cellent mode  of  tj'ing  with  two  distinct  bandages,  one 
covering  that  part  below  the  bud,  and  the  other  the 
portion  above  it.  In  this  case  the  lower  bandage  is 
removed  as  soon  as  the  bud  has  taken,  and  the  upper 
left  for  two  6r  three  weeks  longer.  This,  by  arresting  the  upward  sap, 
completes  the  union  of  the  upper  portion  of  bud  (which  in  pluins  fre- 
quently dies  while  the  lower  part  is  united)  and  secures  success. 

Reversed  shidd-budding,  which  is  nothing  more  than  making  the 
cross  cut  at  the  bottom  instead  of  the  top  of  the  upright  incision  in 
the  bark,  and  inserting  the  bud  from  below,  is  a  good  deal  practised 
in  the  south  of  Europe,  but  we  have  not  found  that  it  possesses  any 
superior  merit  for  fruit-trees. 

An  ingenious  application  of  budding,  worthy  the  attention  of  ama- 
teur cultivators,  corsists  iu  using  a  blossom-bud  instead  of  a  wood-bud; 
when,  if  the  operation  is  carefully  done,  blossoms  and  fruit  will  be  pro- 
duced at  once.  This  is  most  successful  with  the  Pear,  though  we  have 
often  succeeded  also  with  the  Peach.     Blossom-buds  are  readily  distin- 


Treatment  of  the 
growing  bud. 


PROPAGATION   OP   VARIETIES.  2? 

guished,  as  soon  as  well  formed,  by  their  roundness,  and  in  seine  trees 
by  their  growing  in  pairs ;  while  wood-buds  grow  singly,  and  are  more 
or  less  pointed.  We  have  seen  a  curious  fruit-grower  borrow  in  this 
way,  in  September,  from  a  neighbor  ten  miles  distant,  a  single  blos- 
som-bud of  a  rare  new  pear,  and  produce  from  it  a  fair  and  beautiful 
fruit  the  next  summer.  The  bud,  in  such  cases,  should  be  inserted 
on  a  favorable  limb  of  a  bearing  tree. 

Annular  budding,  Fig.  17,  we  have  found  a  valuable 
mode  for  trees  with  hard  wood  and  thick  bark,  or  those 
which,  like  the  walnut,  have  buds  so  large  as  to  render 
it  difficult  to  bud  them  in  the  common  way.  A  ring  of 
bark,  when  the  sap  is  flowing  freely,  is  taken  from  the 
stock,  a,  and  a  ring  of  corresponding  size  containing  a 
bud,  b,  from  the  scion.  If  the  latter  should  be  too 
large  a  piece  must  be  taken  from  it  to  make  it  fit ; 
or  should  all  the  scions  be  too  small,  the  ring  upon  the 
stock  may  extend  only  three-fourths  the  way  round,  to 

Suit  the  ring  of  the  bud.  Annular  Budding 

An  application  of  this  mode,  of  great  value,  occa- 
sionally occurs  in  this  country.  In  snowy  winters,  fruit-trees  in  orchai'dt 
are  sometimes  girdled  at  the  ground  by  field-mice,  and  a  growth  of 
twenty  years  is  thus  destroyed  in  a  single  day,  should  the  girdle  extend 
quite  round  the  tree.  To  save  such  a  tree  it  is  only  necessary,  as 
soon  as  the  sap  rises  vigorously  in  the  spring,  to  apply  a  new  ring 
of  bark,  in  the  annular  mode,  taken  from  a  branch  of  proper  size  ; 
tying  it  firmly,  and  drawing  up  the  earth  so  as  to  cover  the  wound  com- 
pletely. When  the  tree  is  too  large  to  apply  an  entire  ring,  separate 
pieces,  carefully  fitted,  will  answer;  it  is  well  to  reduce  the  top  some- 
what by  pruning,  that  it  may  not  make  too  large  a  demand  on  the  root 
for  a  supply  of  food. 

Another  practice,  and  perhaps  one  more  easily  applicable,  is  the  tak- 
ing several  large  grafts  or  strong  twigs  of  last  year's  growth,  and  after 
splitting  them  in  halves,  pare  each  end  down  to  a  thin  edge,  and  in- 
sert them  underneath  the  bark  of  the  tree  just  above  and  below  the 
wound.  Tie  around  firmly  with  strong  bass  matting,  and  then  draw  up 
the  earth  to  cover  the  whole  and  keep  out  the  air. 

Budding  may  be  done  in  the  spring  as  well  as  at  the  latter  end  of 
Bummer,  and  is  frequently  so  performed  upon  roses  and  other  orna- 
mental shrubs  by  French  gardeners,  but  is  only  in  occasiona'  use  upon 
fruit-trees. 

Influence  of  the  stock  and  graft. 

,  The  well-known  fact  that  we  may  have  a  hundred  difTen.  *t  varieties 
of  pear  on  the  same  tree,  each  of  which  produces  its  fruit  of  the  proper 
form,  color,  and  quality  ;  and  that  we  may  have,  at  least  for  a  time, 
several  distinct  though  nearly  related  species  upon  one  stock,  as  the  Peach, 
Apricot,  Nectarine,  and  Plum,  prove  very  conclusively  the  power  of 
every  grafted  or  budded  branch,  however  small,  in  preserving  its  identity. 
To  explain  this,  it  is  only  necessary  to  recall  to  mind  that  the  ascending 
sap,  which  is  furnished  by  the  root  or  stock,  is  nearly  a  simple  fluid; 
that  the  leaves  ligest  and  modify  this  sap,  fo lining  a  proper  juice,  ^hich 
re-descends  in  the  inner  bark;  and  that  thus  every  bud  and  leaf  upon  t 


28  PROPAGATION   OF   VARIETIES. 

branch,  maintains  its  individuality  by  preparing  its  own  proper  nourish 
ment,  or  organizing  matter,  out  of  that  general  aliment  the  sap.  In 
deed,  according  to  De  Candolle,*  each  separate  cellule  of  the  inner  bark 
nas  this  power  of  preparing  its  food  according  to  its  nature ;  in  proof  of 
which  a  striking  experiment  has  been  tried  by  grafting  rings  of  bark,  of 
different  allied  species,  one  above  another,  on  the  same  tree,  without 
allowing  any  buds  to  grow  upon  them.  On  cutting  down  and  examining 
this  tree,  it  was  found  that  under  each  ring  of  bark  was  deposited  the 
proper  wood  of  its  species,  thus  clearly  proving  the  power  of  the  bark  in 
preserving  its  identity,  even  without  leaves. 

On  the  other  hand,  though  the  stock  increases  in  size  by  the  woody 
matter  received  in  the  descending  sap  from  the  graft,  yet  as  this  descends 
through  the  inner  bark  of  the  stock,  it  is  elaborated  by,  and  receives  its 
character  from  the  latter ;  so  that,  after  a  tree  has  been  grafted  fifty 
years,  a  shoot  which  springs  out  from  its  trunk  below  the  place  of  union 
will  always  be  found  to  bear  the  original  wild  fruit,  and  not  to  ha^  e  been 
in  the  least  affected  by  the  graft. 

But  whilst  grafting  never  effects  any  alteration  in  the  identity  of  the 
variety  or  species  of  fruit,  still  it  is  not  to  be  denied  that  the  stock  does 
exert  certain  influences  over  the  habits  of  the  graft.  The  most  important 
of  these  are  dwarfing,  inducing  fruitfulness,  and  adapting  the  graft  to  the 
soil  or  climate. 

Thus  every  one  knows  that  the  slower  habit  of  growth  in  the  Quince 
stock  is  shared  by  the  Pear  grafted  upon  it,  which  becomes  a  dwarf ;  as 
does  also  the  Apple  when  worked  on  the  Paradise  stock,  and,  in  some 
degree,  the  Peach  on  the  Plum.  The  want  of  entire  similarity  of  struc- 
ture between  the  stock  and  graft  confines  the  growth  of  the  latter, 
and  changes  it,  in  the  case  of  the  Pear,  from  a  lofty  tree  to  a  shrub  of 
eight  or  ten  feet  in  height.  The  effect  of  this  difference  of  structure  is 
very  apparent,  when  the  Peach  is  grafted  on  the  Plum,  in  the  greater 
size  of  the  trunk  above,  as  compared  with  that  below  the  graft ;  a  fact 
which  seems  to  arise  from  the  obstruction  which  the  descending  sap  of 
the  graft  finds  in  its  course  through  the  bark  of  the  stock. 

To  account  for  the  earlier  and  greater  fruitfulness  caused  by  grafting 
on  a  stock  of  slower  growth,  Mr.  Knight,  in  one  of  his  able  papers,  off  era 
the  following  excellent  remarks  : — 

"  The  disposition  in  young  trees  to  produce  and  nourish  blossom  buds 
and  fruit  is  increased  by  this  apparent  obstruction  of  the  descending 
sap ;  and  the  fruit,  I  think,  ripens  somewhat  earlier  than  upon  other 
young  trees  of  the  same  age  which  grow  upon  stocks  of  their  own  species. 
But  the  growth  and  vigor  of  the  tree,  and  its  power  to  nourish  a  succes- 
sion of  heavy  crops,  are  diminished,  apparently,  by  the  stagnation  in  the 
branches  and  stock  of  a  portion  of  that  sap  which,  in  a  tree  growing  on 
its  own  stem  or  upon  a  stock  of  its  own  species,  would  descend  to  nourish 
and  promote  the  extension  of  its  own  roots.  T^e  practice,  therefore,  of 
grafting  the  Pear  on  the  Quince,  and  the  Peach  on  the  Plum,  when  ex- 
tensive growth  and  durability  are  wanted,  is  wrong;  but  it  is  eligible 
wherever  it  is  wished  to  diminish  the  vigor  and  growth  of  the  tree,  and 
Its  durability  is  not  so  important." 

In  adapting  the  graft  to  the  soil  the  stock  has  a  marked  influence. 
Thus  in  dry  chalky  soils,  where  the  Peach  on  its  own  roots  will  scarcely 

*  Physiologie   Vegetable. 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES.  39 

giow,  it  is  found  to  thrive  admirably  budded  on  the  Almond.  We  liavr 
already  mentioned  that  in  clay  soils  too  heavy  and  moist  for  the  Peach, 
it  succeeds  very  well  if  worked  on  the  Plum.  M.  Floss,  a  Prussian 
gardener,  succeeded  in  growing  tine  pears  in  very  sandy  soils,  where  ii 
was  nearly  impossible  to  raise  them  before,  by  grafting  the  in  on  the 
Mountain  Ash,  a  nearly  related  tree,  which  thrives  on  the  driest  and 
lightest  soil. 

A  variety  of  fruit  which  is  found  rather  tender  for  a  certain  climate 
or  a  particular  neighborhood,  is  frequently  acclimatized  by  grafting  it  on 
a  native  stock  of  very  hardy  habits.  Thus  near  the  sea-coast,  where  the 
finer  plums  thrive  badly,  we  have  seen  them  greatly  improved  by  leing 
worked  on  the  beech-plum,  a  native  stock  adapted  to  the  spot ;  and  tho 
foreign  grape  is  more  luxuriant  when  grafted  on  our  native  stocks. 

A  slight  effect  is  sometimes  produced  by  the  stock  on  the  quality  of 
the  fruit.  A  few  sorts  of  pear  are  superior  in  flavor,  but  many  are  alsc 
inferior,  when  grafted  on  the  Quince,  while  thev  are  more  gritty  on  tho 
thorn.  The  Green  Gage,  a  Plum  of  great  delicacv  of  flavor,  varies  con- 
siderably upon  different  stocks;  and  Apples  raised  on  the  crab,  and  pears 
on  the  Mountain  Ash,  are  said  to  keep  longer  than  when  grown  on  tneir 
own  roots. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  a  diseased  stock  should  always  be 
avoided,  as  it  wall  communicate  disease  slowly  to  the  graft,  unless  the 
latter  is  a  variety  of  sufficient  vigor  to  renew  the  health  of  the  stock, 
which  is  but  seldom  the  case. 

The  cultivator  will  gather  from  these  remarks  that,  in  a  favorable 
climate  and  soil,  if  we  desire  the  greatest  growth,  duration,  and  develop- 
ment in  any  fruit  (and  this  applies  to  orchards  generally),  we  should 
choose  a  stock  of  a  closely  similar  nature  to  the  graft — an  apple 
seedling  for  an  apple  ;  a  pear  seedling  for  a  pear.  If  we  desire  dwarf 
trees  that  come  into  bearing  very  young,  and  take  little  space  in  a  gar- 
den, we  employ  for  a  stock  an  allied  species  of  slower  growth.  If  our 
soil  or  climate  is  unfavorable,  we  use  a  stock  which  is  adapted  to  the 
soil,  or  which  will,  by  its  hardier  roots,  endure  the  cold. 

The  influence  of  the  graft  on  the  stock  seems  scarcely  to  extend  be- 
yond the  power  of  communicating  disease.  A  graft  taken  from  a  tree 
enfeebled  by  disease  will  recover  with  difficulty,  even  if  grafted  on 
healthy  stocks  for  a  dozen  times  in  repeated  succession.  And  when  the 
disease  is  an  inherent  or  hereditary  one,  it  will  certainly  communicate  it 
to  the  stock.  We  have  seen  the  yellows,  from  a  diseased  peach-tree, 
propagated  through  hundreds  of  individuals  by  budding,  and  the  stock 
and  graft  both  perish  together  from  its  effects.  Hence  the  importance, 
to  nurserymen  especially,  of  securing  healthy  grafts,  and  working  only 
upon  healthy  stocks. 

Propagation  by  Cuttings. 

Propagating  by  cuttings,  as  applied  to  fruit-trees,  consists  in  causing 
a  shoot  of  the  previous  season's  wood  to  grow,  by  detaching  it  from  the 
parent  tree  at  a  suitable  season,  and  planting  it  in  the  ground  under  fa 
vorable  circumstances. 

In  this  case,  instead  of  uniting  itself  by  woody  matter  to  another 
tree,  as  does  the  scion  in  grafting,  the  des  sending  woody  matter  becomes 
roots  at  the  lower  end,  and  the  cutting  of  which  is  then  a  new  and  entire 


so 


PROPAGATION    OF    VAKIETEK8. 


plant.  Every  bud  being  a  distinct  individual,  capable  of  forming  a  new 
plant,  has  indeed  theoretically  the  power,  if  separated  from  the  parent 
stem,  of  throwing  out  roots  and  maintaining  a  separate  existence ;  and 
some  plants,  as  the  grape-vine,  are  frequently  propagated  by  single  buds 
slanted  in  the  soil.  But  in  practice  it  is  found  necessary,  with  almost 
all  trees  and  plants,  to  retain  a  considerable  portion  of  the  stem  with  the 
bud,  to  supply  it  with  food  until  it  has  formed  roots  to  draw  nourish- 
ment from  the  soil. 

All  fruit-trees  may  be  propagated  by  cuttings,  with  proper  care  and 
attention,  but  only  a  few  grow  with  sufficient  facility  in  this  way  to 
render  their  propagation  by  cuttings  a  common  mode.  These  are  the 
Gooseberry,  the  Currant,  the  Vine,  the  Quince,  the  Fig,  and  the  Mulberry. 
Cuttings  of  the  Currant,  Gooseberry,  and  the  hardy  sorts  of  Vine 
will  root  readily,  in  a  soil  not  too  dry,  in  the  open  garden.  Currants 
and  Gooseberries  are  generally  taken  off  in  the  fall  or  winter,  prepared 
for  planting,  and  two-thirds  of  their  lower  ends  buried  in  the  ground  till 
the  commencement  of  spring,  when  they  are  planted  out,  either  where 
they  are  to  remain  or  in  nursery  rows.  They  will  succeed  nearly  as 
well  if  taken  otl*  in  the  spring,  but,  owing  to  the  period  at  which  they 
commence  growing,  this  must  be  attended  to  very  early,  if  deferred  till 
that  season. 

A  successful  practice  is  to  prepare  the  cuttings  of  Gooseberries  and 
Currants  early  in  the  autumn,  and  to  plant  them  at  once  in  the  position 
where  they  are  to  grow  the  succeeding  summer.  In  planting,  set  the 
cuttings  into  the  ground  so  deeply  that  but  one  bud  will  be  left  at  or 
near  the  surface,  and  then,  as  soon  as  the  frosts  of  winter  come,  cover 
the  whole  ground  with  a  light  mulch  of  coarse  straw  manure,  or' other 
litter  three  or  four  inches  deep. 

In  order  to  raise  plants  of  the  Gooseberry  and  Currant, 
with  straight  clean  stems,  which  shall  not  throw  up  suckers, 
it  is  only  necessary,  before  planting  the  cutting,  to  cut  out 
every  eye  or  bud  to  be  placed  below  the  surface  of  the 
ground,  Fig.  18.  The  cutting  should  be  about  a  foot  long, 
eight  inches  of  which  may  be  inserted  in  the  ground.  To 
insure  greater  success  in  raising  the  finer  sorts  of  Gooseberry, 
or  other  shrubs,  it  is  customary  to  plant  tLe  cuttings  on 
the  shaded  side  of  a  wall  or  fence,  in  deep  rich  loam,  rather 
damp  than  dry.  Cuttings  of  the  vine  are  generally  prepared 
when  trimming  the  old  plants  in  autumn  or  winter ;  they 
'  may  then  be   buried  with  their  lower  ends  in  the  ground, 

or  kept  in  earth  in  the  cellar  till  spring. 

Grape  cuttings  are  also  made  as  soon  as  it  will  answer 
to  prune  the  vines  in  the  autumn  ;  and,  being  planted  at 
once  in  the  ground,  covered  as  above  noted  for  Gooseberries 
and  Currants,  are  found  to  grow  successfully. 

Scarce  sorts  of  grapes,  which  it  is  desirable  to  multiply 
extensively,  are  frequently  propagated  by  joints  :  that  is,  by 
buds  having  about  two  inches  of  wood  attached  to  each — 
every  hud  in  this  way  forming  a  plant.  When  this  mode 
is  adopted,  it  is  usual  to  plant  the  joints  about  half  an  inch 
deep,  in  light  soil,  in  a  common  hot-bed  prepared  for  the 
purpose,  or  each  joint  is  planted  in  a  pot  by  itself.  In  the  first  way 
*  great  number  of  plants  may  be  grown  in  a  small  space. 


Gooseberry 
«atting  pre- 
pared and 
Ulanted. 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES.  32 

Formerly  more  certain  success  in  propagating  the  vine  by  joints  waa 
considered  gained  by  halving  the  joint  before  planting,  as  shown  in  Fig 
19  ;  but,  recently,  operators  have  practised  the  simple  manner  of  prepar 
ing  the  cuttings  with  about  two  inches  of 

wood  below,  and  half  an  inch  above  the  -^..^-j^^-^^r— -  ^--  < 
bud,  and  then  planting  in  frames  or  pro- 
pagating-houses,  by  simply  placing  the 
eye  or  cutting  in  a  perpendicular  posi- 
tion, the  bud  just  level  with,  or  nearly 
covered  in  a  bed  of  clean,  sharp,  building  A  vine  Joint  PrePared  and  pi™** 
or  lake  sand.  A  gentle  bottom  heat  is  to  be  maintained  steadily,  at  the 
same  time  keeping  the  air  in  the  house  or  frame  quite  cool  until  the  lower 
end  of  the  cutting  or  bud  has  commenced  to  form  roots,  when  the  air  of 
the  surface  or  volume  of  the  house  may  be  increased  in  warmth  to  stimu- 
late growth  of  vine. 

In  the  method  of  growing  from  single  eyes,  or  two-eye  cuttings,  in 
out-door  practice,  it  is  considered  best  to  prepare  the  cuttings  during 
winter,  and  pack  them  in  clean  damp — not  wet — sand,  in  a  cool  dark  eel 
lar,  where  they  will  callus  ;  and  then,  just  as  soon  in  the  spring  as  the 
ground  can  be  worked,  plant  the  cuttings  out,  selecting  as  far  as  possible 
a  sharp  sandy  loam  for  the  location,  covering  the  bed  half  an  inch  deep 
with  the  soil,  and  then  two  to  three  inches  deep  with  mulch  of  sawdust, 
tan  bark,  &c. 

In  preparing  cuttings  of  what  are  termed  hard-wood  varieties,  such  as 
Delaware,  Norton's  Virginia,  &c,  it  is  customary  with  some  propaga- 
tors to  scrape  off  the  outer  bark  from  the  lower  end  of  the  cutting,  and 
to  soften  it  by  soaking  in  water  from  ten  to  twenty  hours  before  placing 
them  in  the  bed  or  frame. 

The  large  English  black  mulberry  is  propagated  by  cuttings,  as 
follows :  About  the  last  of  October  take  cuttings  from  the  thrifty  shoots 
of  a  bearing  tree,  cut  out  all  the  buds  except  two  or  three  at  the  top, 
and  pare  off  the  bottom  of  the  cutting  just  below  a  bud.  Lay  in  the 
cuttings  in  a  sheltered  border,  burying  them  so  that  only  the  two  buds 
at  the  top  are  exposed,  and  covering  them  with  some  loose  straw  or  lit- 
ter. In  the  spring  make  a  small  hot-bed  with  very  sandy  soil,  in  which 
bo  plant  the  cuttings  on  taking  them  out  of  the  ground,  or  place  each 
one  in  a  small  pot  in  any  hot-bed  ready  at  hand,  and  in  a  few  weeks 
they  will  be  found  to  have  made  roots  freely. 

As  a  general  rule,  cuttings  succeed  best  when  they  are  taken  off 
just  between  the  young  and  the  previous  year's  wood  ;  or,  in  the  case  of 
young  side  shoots,  when  they  are  cut  off  close  to  the  branch  preserving 
the  collar  of  the  shoot.  The  lower  end  should  be  cut  smoothly  across 
just  below  a  bud,  the  soil  should  in  all  cases  be  pressed  firmly  about  the 
lower  end  of  the  cutting,  and  it  should  always  be  planted  before  the 
buds  commence  swelling,  that  the  wound  may  in  some  measure  heal 
before  growth  and  the  absorption  of  fluid  commences. 

Propagation  by  Layers  and  Suckers. 

A  layer  may  be  considered  as  a  cutting  not  entirely  separated  from 
the  plant. 

Layering  is  a  mode  of  propagation  resorted  to  in  increasing  some 
fruit-tree    stocks,  as  the  Paradise  stock,  the   Muscle  Plum,  and    some 


32 


PROPAGATION    OF    VARIETIES. 


kinds  which  do  not  grow  so  well  from  the  seed.  Certain  varieties 
of  native  grape,  as  the  Norton's  Virginia,  which  do  not  root  readily  by 
cuttings,  are  also  raised  in  this  way,  and  it  may  be  applied  to  any  sort 
of  fruit-tree  which  it  is  desirable  to  continue  on  its  own  root  without 
grafting. 

Fruit-trees  are  generally  layered  in  the  spring,  and  the  layers  may  bf 
taken  off  well-rooted  plants  in  the  autumn.  But  they  may  also  be  lay- 
ered with  success  early  in  July. 

In  making  layers  the  ground  around  the  mother  plant  should  be 
made  light  and  mellow  by  digging.      Being  provided  with  some  hooked 

pegs  to  fasten  down  the 
layers,  bend  down  a  branch, 
so  that  the  end  may  recline 
upon  the  ground.  Open  a 
little  trench  three  or  four 
inches  deep  to  receive  the 
young  wood  to  be  layered  ; 
make  a  cut  or  tongue,  Fig. 
20,  a,  half  way  through  the 
under  or  upper  side  of  the 
shoot,  pegging  down  the 
branch  with  the  hooked  peg, 
b,  to  keep  it  in  its  place ; 
press  the  earth  slightly 
Layering.  round  the  tongue,  and,   in 

filling  in  the  soil,  raise  nearly  upright  the  end  of  the  layer,  c,  which  re- 
mains above  the  surface  of  the  ground. 

The  descending  sap,  filled  with  orgaxrizable  matter,  is  arrested  by  this 
tongue,  accumulates  there,  and  the  emission  of  roots  speedily  takes  place. 
Hinging,  wounding,  or  twisting  the  limb  answers  the  same  purpose  less 
perfectly,  and  indeed  many  trees  root  readily  from  the  mere  position  of 
the  branches  as  layers,  and  the  moisture  of  the  soil. 

A  tree  or  plant  which  is  kept  for  raising  layers  is  called  a  stool,  and 
is  headed  down  both  to  facilitate  the  rooting  of  the  layers  and  to 
afford  an  abundance  of  shoots  near  the  earth.  Shoots  of  some  of  the 
fruit-tree  stocks  in  the  English  nurseries  are  pegged  down  to  the  surface 
lefore  growth  commences  in  the  spring,  covered  about  an  inch  deep  with 
soil,  and  at  the  end  of  autumn  afford  hundreds  of  plants;  almost  every 
bud  making  a  separate  root. 

Suckers  are  shoots  sent  up  from  the  root,  or  from  portions  of  the 
stem  below  the  surface  of  the  soil,  which  are  easily  separated  from  the 
parent  plant. 

Suckers  of  fruit-trees  are  frequently  used  as  stocks  for  budding  or 
grafting  upon ;  but  they  are  greatly  inferior  to  seedlings  for  this  purpose, 
as  they  are  always  more  liable  to  produce  suckers,  and  they  have  not  the 
thrifty,  vigorous  habit,  or  the  same  power  of  forming  as  good  roots  as 
seedlings.  Besides  this,  should  the  tree  from  which  they  are  taken  be 
diseased,  they  will  be  likely  to  carry  the  malady  with  them. 

Propagating  by  suckers  is  an  easy  and  desirable  way  when  we  wish 
to  continue  a  seedling  fruit  of  value  on  its  own  root,  and  some  of  our 
common  fruits  appear  to  be  more  healthy  and  permanent  when  growing  in 
that  way.  It  is  also  a  mode  for  increasing  the  Raspberry ;  as  is  also  that 
of  runners,  which  is  a  kind  of  sucker  above  ground,  for  the  Strawberry. 


PRUNING.  33 


Propagation  by  Pieces  of  Roots. 

Many  varieties  of  trees,  and  nearly  all  varieties  of  Blackberries, 
Raspberries,  Gooseberries,  Currants,  &c.,  can  be  readily  propagated  by 
Email  pieces  of  roots.  Cut  the  root  into  pieces  of  about  two  inches 
in  length,  any  time  in  autumn  or  winter,  and  pack  them  in  moist 
sand,  storing  where  they  will  be  free  from  frost.  In  spring  prepare 
a  frame  with  a  gentle  bottom  heat  and  plant  them,  covering  about  an 
inch  deep,  in  a  sandy  loam ;  as  soon  as  they  have  well  started  they  may 
be  transplanted  out  into  the  open  field.  Some  propagators  keep  them 
in  the  winter  packages  until  the  spring  is  well  advanced  and  the  ground 
becomes  somewhat  warmed,  when  they  plant  at  once  in  the  open  ground, 
setting  the  upper  end  of  the  piece  of  root  just  level  with  the  ground, 
and  then  covering  the  whole  surface  with  about  three  inches  deep  of 
some  light  mulching  material. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

PRUNING. 


1.  Pruning  to  promote  Growth  or  modify  the  Form  of  Fruit-trees. 

In  this  country  almost  all  fruit-trees  are  grown  as  standards.  In 
this  way  they  develop  their  natural  forms,  attain  the  largest  size, 
and  produce  the  greatest  quantity  of  fruit  with  the  least  possible  care. 
Our  bright  and  powerful  sun,  reaching  every  part  of  the  tree,  renders 
the  minute  systems  of  pruning  and  training,  which  occupy  so  large  apor 
tion  of  the  English  works  on  the  subject,  of  little  or  no  moment  to  the 
cultivator  here.  Pruning  is  therefore  commonly  resorted  to  only  for 
the  purpose  of  increasing  the  vigor  of  feeble  trees,  or  to  regulate  and 
improve  the  form  of  healthy  and  luxuriant  trees. 

Pruning  has  the  power  of  increasing  the  vigor  of  a  tree  in  two  ways. 
If  we  assume  that  a  certain  amount  of  nourishment  is  supplied  by  the 
roots  to  all  the  branches  and  buds  of  a  tree,  by  cutting  oil'  one-half  of  the 
branches  at  the  proper  season  we  direct  the  whole  supply  of  nourish- 
ment to  the  remaining  portion,  which  will  consequently  grow  with 
nearly  double  their  former  luxuriance.  Again,  when  a  tree  becomes 
stunted  or  enfeebled  in  its  growth,  the  thinness  of  its  inner  bark,  with  its 
consequent  small  sap-vessels  (which  it  must  be  remembered  are  the  prin- 
cipal channel  for  the  passage  of  the  ascending  supply  of  food),  render's 
the  upward  and  downward  circulation  tardy,  and  the  growth  is  small. 
By  heading  back  or  pruning  judiciously,  all  the  force  of  the  nourishing 
fluid  is  thrown  into  a  smaller  number  of  buds,  which  make  new  and 
luxuriant  shoots,  larger  sap-vessels,  and  which  afford  a  ready  passage  to 
the  fluids,  and  the  tree  with  these  renewed  energies  will  continue  in  vigor 
for  a  long  time. 

This  treatment  is  especially  valuable  in  the  case  of  small  trees  of 
feeble  or  stunted  growth,  which  are  frequently  c  it  back  to  a  single  bud, 
and  a  new  shoot  or  shoots,  full  of  vigor,  gives  a  healthy  habit   to  the 

3 


34  PRUNING. 

tree.  In  the  nurseries  this  practice  of  heading  down  unthrifty  trees  ia 
frequently  pursued,  and  sma.l  orchard  trees  which  have  become  enfeebled 
may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner,  cutting  back  the  head  aa  far  as  the 
place  where  it  is  wished  that  new  shoots  should  spring  out.  Older  trees 
should  be  headed  back  more  sparingly,  unless  they  are  greatly  enfeebled, 
and  their  roots  should  at  the  same  time  be  assisted  by  manure. 

A  judicious  pruning,  to  modify  the  form  of  our  standard  trees,  is 
nearly  all  that  is  required  in  ordinary  practice.  Every  fruit-tree,  grown 
in  the  open  orchard  or  garden  as  a  common  standard,  should  be  allowed 
m  take  its  natural  form,  the  whole  efforts  of  the  pruner  going  no  further 
than  to  take  out  all  weak  and  crowded  branches:  those  which  are  filling 
uselessly  the  interior  of  the  tree,  where  their  leaves  cannot  be  duly 
exposed  to  the  light  and  sun,  or  those  which  interfere  with  the  growth 
of  others.  All  pruning  of  large  branches  in  healthy  trees  should  be 
avoided,  by  examining  them  every  season  and  taking  out  superfluous 
shoots  while  small.  Mr.  Coxe,  the  best  American  author  on  fruit-trees, 
remarks  very  truly :  "  When  orchard  trees  are  pruned,  they  are  apt  to 
throw  out  numerous  (superfluous)  suckers  from  the  boughs  in  the  follow- 
ing summer ;  these  should  be  rubbed  off  when  they  first  appear,  or  they 
may  easily  be  broken  off  while  young  and  brittle  - —  cutting  is  apt  to 
increase  their  number." 

Where  pruning  is  not  required  to  renovate  the  vigor  of  an  enfeebled 
tree,  or  to  regulate  its  shape, — in  other  words,  in  the  case  of  a  healthy 
tree  which  we  wish  to  retain  in  a  state  of  the  greatest  luxmiance,  health, 
and  vigor, — it  may  be  considered  worse  than  useless.  Bearing  in  mind 
that  growth  is  always  corresponding  to  the  action  of  the  leaves  and 
branches,  if  these  are  in  due  proportion  and  in  perfect  health,  the  knife 
will  always  be  found  rather  detrimental  to  luxuriance  and  constitutional 
vigor  than  beneficial.  * 

The  best  season  for  pruning  to  pjromote  growth,  theoretically,  is  in 
autumn,  soon  after  the  fall  of  the  leaf.  Next  to  this,  winter  pruning, 
performed  in  mild  weather,  is  best,  and  in  orchards  this  is  the  season 
usually  most  convenient.f  In  all  parts  of  the  country  where  the  winters 
are  not  very  severe  (and  always  in  the  Southern  or  Western  States)  the 
roots  are  collecting  a  certain  stock  of  nourishment  during  the  whole 
autumn  and  winter.  When  a  tree  is  pruned  in  autumn  or  winter  this 
whole  supply  goes  to  the  remaining  branches,  while  in  the  case  of  spring 
pruning  it  is  partly  lost.  North  of  the  43d  degree  of  latitude,  however, 
the  winters  are  so  severe  that  winter-pruning  should  be  deferred  till  the 
last  of  February. 

We  should  especially  avoid  pruning  at  that  period  in  spring  when 

*  Ignorant  cultivators  frequently  weaken  the  energies  of  young  trees,  ani 
cause  them  to  grow  up  with  lean  and  slender  stems,  by  injudiciously  trimming 
off  the  young  side  shoots  and  leaves  in  the  growing  season.  By  taking  off  these 
shoots  the  stem  is  deprived  of  all  the  leaves  which  would  attract  and  elaborate 
the  sap.  thus  preparing  nourishment  for  the  growth  of  the  stem ;  and  the  trunk 
of  the  tree  does  not  increase  in  size  half  so  fast  as  when  the  side  branches  are 
allowed  to  remain  for  a  time,  pruning  them  away  gradually.  It  is  better,  in  the 
case  of  these  young  trees,  to  stop  the  side  branches,  when  of  moderate  length,  by 
pinching  out  the  terminal  bud. 

f  Experience  of  many  years  convinces  us  that,  whatever  theory  may  sug- 
gest, the  best  time  to  prune  in  order  to  promote  growth,  and  to  have  the  wound 
healed  perfectly,  is  very  early  in  spring,  or  as  soon  as  the  severity  of  wintei  ha» 
passed 


PRUNING.  35 

the  buds  are  swelling,  and  the  sap  is  in  full  flow,  as  the  loss  of  sap  by 
bleeding  is  very  injurious  to  most  trees,  and  in  some  brings  on  a  serioua 
and  incurable  canker  in  the  limbs. 

In  pruning  large  limbs,  some  composition  should  always  be  at  hand 
to  cover  the  wound.  This  will  not  only  prevent  its  cracking  by  the 
cold  in  winter-pruning,  but  will  keep  out  the  air,  and  maintain  the 
exposed  wood  in  a  sound  state  until  it  is  covered  with  a  new  layer  of 
bark.  Many  compositions  have  been  in  fashion  abroad  for  this  pur- 
pose, which  under  our  summer  sun  and  wintry  frosts  are  nearly  worth- 
less, as  they  generally  crack  and  fall  oif  in  a  single  year.  The  following 
is  a  cheap  and  admirable  application,  which  we  recommend  to  all  culti- 
vators of  fruit-trees. 

Composition  for  wounds  made  in  pruning.  Take  a  quart  of  alcohol 
and  dissolve  in  it  as  much  gum-shellac  as  will  make  a  Liquid  of  the  con- 
sistence of  paint.  Apply  this  to  the  wound  with  a  common  painter's 
brush ;  always  paring  the  wound  smoothly  first  with  the  knife.  Tho 
liquid  becomes  perfectly  hard,  adheres  closely,  excludes  the  air  perfectly, 
and  is  affected  by  no  changes  of  weather ;  while  at  the  same  time  its 
thinness  offers  no  resistance  to  the  lip  of  new  bark  that  gradually  closes 
over  the  wound.  If  the  composition  is  kept  in  a  well-corked  bottle, 
sufficiently  wide-mouthed  to  admit  the  brush,  it  will  always  be  ready  for 
use  and  suited  to  the  want  of  the  moment. 

To  prevent  mice  or  rabbits  from  girdling  trees.  Great  inj  ury  is  done  to 
young  orchards  in  some  districts  by  the  meadow  mouse.  This  little  ani- 
mal always  works  under  cover,  and  therefore  does  its  mischief  in  winter 
when  the  snow  lies  deeply  upon  the  ground.  A  common  and  effectual  mode 
of  deterring  it  is  that  of  treading  down  the  snow  firmly  about  the  stem 
directly  after  every  fall  of  snow.     But  this  is  a  very  troublesoma  affair. 

The  following  mixture  will  be  found  to  be  an  effectual  prevention. 
Take  one  spadeful  of  hot  slaked  lime,  one  do.  of  clean  cow-dung,  half  do. 
of  soot,  one  handful  of  flowers  of  sulphur :  mix  the  whole  together  with  tho 
addition  of  sufficient  water  to  bring  it  to  the  consistenev  of  thick  paint. 
At  the  approach  of  winter  paint  the  trunks  of  the  trees  sufficiently  high  to 
be  beyond  the  reach  of  these  vermin.  Experience  has  proved  that  it  does 
no  injury  to  the  tree.     A  diy  day  should  be  chosen  for  its  application. 

English  nurserymen  are  in  the  habit  of  protecting  nurseries  of  small 
trees  from  the  attacks  of  rabbits,  simply  by  distributing  through  the 
squares  of  the  nursery  coarse  matches  made  by  dipping  bunches  of  rags, 
or  bits  of  tow,  in  melted  sulphur,  and  fastening  these  in  split  stakes  a 
couple  of  feet  high.  The  latter  are  stuck  into  the  ground,  among  the 
trees,  at  from  12  to  20  feet  apart,  and  are  said  completely  to  answer  the 
purpose. 

Wrapping  the  body  of  the  tree  with  coarse  hardware  paper,  letting 
the  lower  end  of  the  paper  go  below  the  soil  at  the  crown  of  the  tree, 
wilt  effectually  prevent  the  attacks  of  rabbits. 

Wash  for  the  trunks  and  branches  of  fruit-trees.  The  best  wash  for 
the  stems  and  branches  of  fruit-trees  is  made  by  dissolving  two  pounds 
of  potash  in  two  gallons  of  water.  This  is  applied  with  a  brush  at  nn> 
season,  but  perhaps  with  most  effect  in  the  spring.  One,  or  at  most 
two  applications  will  rid  the  stem  of  trees  of  the  bark-louse,  and  render 
it  smooth  and  glossy.  It  is  far  more  efficacious  than  whitewash,  as  a 
preservative  against  the  attacks  of  insects,  while  it  promotes  the  growth 
of  the  tree,  and  adds  to  the  natural  lively  color  of  the  bark. 


36  PRUNING. 

The  wash  of  soft  soap  is  also  a  very  good  one  for  mauy  purposes. 
Though  not  equal  for  general  purposes  to  the  potash  wash,  it  is  better  foi 
old  trunks  with  thick  and  rigid  bark,  as  a  portion  of  it  remains  upon  the 
surface  of  the  bark  for  some  time,  and  with  the  action  of  every  rain  is 
dissolved,  and  thus  penetrates  into  all  the  crevices  where  insects  may  be 
lodged,  destroying  them,  and  softening  the  bark  itself. 

2.  Pruning  to  induce  Fruitfulness. 

There  are  advantages  and  disadvantages  attending  all  seasons  of 
pruning,  but  our  own  experience  has  led  us  to  believe  that,  practically, 
a  fortnight  before  midsummer  is  by  far  the  best  season  on  the  whole  for 
pruning  in  the  Northern  and  JSIiddle  States.  Wounds  made  at  this 
season  heal  over  freely  and  rapidly ;  it  is  the  most  favorable  time  to 
judge  of  the  shape  and  balance  of  the  head,  and  to  see  at  a  glance  which 
branches  require  removal ;  and  all  the  stock  of  organizable  matter  in  the 
tree  is  directed  to  the  branches  that  remain. 

When  a  young  fruit-tree  is  too  luxuriant,  employing  all  its  energies 
in  making  vigorous  shoots,  but  forming  few  or  no  blossom  buds,  and 
producing  no  fruit,  we  have  it  in  our  power  by  different  modes  of 
pruning  to  lessen  this  over-luxuriance,  and  force  it  to  expend  its  ener- 
gies in  fruit-bearing.  A  successful  mode  of  doing  this  is  by  pruning  the 
roots — a  proceeding  recently  brought  into  very  successful  practice  by 
European  gardeners. 

Root-pruning  has  the  effect  of  at  once  cutting  off  a  considerable 
supply  of  the  nourishment  formerly  afforded  by  the  roots  of  a  tree.  The 
leaves,  losing  part  of  their  usual  food,  are  neither  able  to  grow  as  rapidly 
as  before,  nor  to  use  all  the  nutritious  matter  already  in  the  branches ; 
the  branches  therefore  become  more  stunted  in  their  growth,  the  organ- 
izable matter  accumulates,  and  fruit-buds  are  directly  formed.  The  en- 
ergies of  the  tree  are  no  longer  entirely  carried  off  in  growth,  and  the  re- 
turning sap  is  employed  in  producing  fruit-buds  for  the  next  year. 

Root-pruning  should  be  performed  in  autumn  or  winter,  and  it 
usually  consists  in  laying  bare  the  roots  and  cutting  off  smoothly  at  a  dis- 
tance of  a  few  feet  from  the  trunk  (in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  tree) 
the  principal  roots.  Mr.  Rivers,  an  English  nurseryman  of  celebrity, 
who  has  practised  this  mode  with  great  success,  digs  a  trench  early  in 
November,  eighteen  inches  deep,  round  and  under  his  trees  to  be  root- 
pruned,  cutting  off  the  roots  with  a  sharp  spade.  By  following  this 
practice  every  year  he  not  only  throws  his  trees  into  early  bearing,  but 
forces  Apples,  Pears,  and  the  like,  grafted  on  their  own  roots,  to  become 
prolific  dwarfs,  growing  only  six  feet  apart,  trained  in  a  conical  form, 
full  of  fruit  branches,  and  producing  abundantly.  Those  dwarf  trees, 
thus  annually  root-pruned,  he  supplies  abundantly  with  old  composted 
manure  at  the  ends  of  the  roots,  thus  keeping  up  their  health  and  vigor. 
The  plan  is  an  admirable  one  for  small  gardens,  or  for  amateurs  who 
wish  to  grow  a  great  many  sorts  in  a  small  surface.  Mr.  Rivers,  in  a 
pamphlet  on  this  subject,  enumerates  the  following  among  the  ad  van 
tages  of  systematic  root-pruning  : — 

"  1.  The  facility  of  thinning  (owing  to  the  small  size  of  the  trees), 
and,  in  some  varieties,  of  setting  the  blossoms  of  shy-bearing  sorts,  and 
of  thinning  and  gathering  the  fruit. 

"  2.  It  will  make  the  gardener  independent  of  the  natural  soil  of  hia 


PRUNING  37 

garden,  as  a  few  barrowfuls  of  rich  mould  will  support  a  tree  lor  a 
lengthened  period,  thus  placing  bad  soils  nearly  on  a  level  with  those  the 
most  favorable. 

"  3.  The  capability  of  removing  trees  of  fifteen  or  twenty  years" 
growth  with  as  much  facility  as  furniture." 

In  conclusion,  Mr.  Rivers  recommends  caution;  "  enough  of  vigor 
must  be  left  in  the  tree  to  support  its  crop  of  fruit,  and  one,  two, 
or  three  seasons'  cessation  from  root-pruning  will  often  be  found 
necessary." 

lloot-pruning  in  this  country  will,  we  think,  be  most  valuable  in  its 
application  to  common  standard  trees,  winch  are  thrifty  but  bear  little 
or  no  fruit.  They  will  generally  be  found  to  require  but  a  single  prun- 
ing to  bring  them  into  a  permanently  fruitful  condition ;  and  some  sorts 
of  Pears  and  Plums,  which  do  not  usually  give  a  fair  crop  till  they  are 
twelve  or  fourteen  years  old,  may  be  brought  into  fruit  by  this  means  as 
soon  as  they  are  of  proper  size.  Several  nearly  full-grown  peach,  pear, 
and  plum  trees,  on  a  very  rich  soil  on  the  Hudson,  which  were  over-lux- 
uriant but  bore  no  fruit,  were  root-pruned  by  our  advice,  and  yielded 
most  excellent  and  abundant  crops  afterwards. 

In  the  case  of  Apple  orchards,  where  the  permanent  value  depends 
on  the  size,  longevity,  and  continued  productiveness  of  the  trees,  it 
is  better  to  wait  patiently  and  not  resort  to  pruning  to  bring  them  into 
bearing,  as  it  cannot  be  denied  that  all  excessive  pruning  shortens 
somewhat  the  life  of  a  tree.  Mr.  Coxe,  indeed,  recommended  that  the 
first  fruit  should  never  be  allowed  to  ripen  on  a  young  apple  orchard,  as 
it  lessens  very  materially  the  vigor  of  the  trees. 

Shortening-in  the  shoots  of  Peaches,  Nectarines,  and  Apricots,  as  we 
shall  hereafter  point  out,  has  a  strong  tendency  to  increase  the  fruitful- 
ness  of  these  trees,  since  by  reducing  the  young  wood  the  sap  accumu- 
lates in  the  remainder  of  the  branch,  and  many  beaiing  shoots  are  pro- 
duced instead  of  one.  And  the  English  practice  of  spurring-in,  which 
consists  in  annually  shortening  the  lateral  shoots  of  trained  Pears,  Ap- 
ples, and  the  like,  in  order  to  make  them  throw  out  short  fruit  branches 
or  spurs,  is  founded  on  the  same  principle. 

Sending  down  the  limbs  is  an  easy  and  simple  means  of  throwing 
such  branches  directly  into  fruit.  By  this  means  the  circulation  is  retard- 
ed, rapid  growth  ceases,  organizable  matter  accumulates,  and  fruit-buds,  as 
before  stated,  surely  follow.  The  limbs  are  bent  while  flexible,  in  June 
or  July,  and  tied  down  below  a  horizontal  line  until  they  retain  of  them- 
selves their  new  position.  When  this  can  be  easily  applied,  it  is  a  never- 
failing  mode  of  rendering  such  branches  fniitful.  It  is  stated  in  Loudon's 
"  Gardener's  Magazine  "  that  "  a  very  large  crop  of  Pears  was  obtained 
by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Fisher,  in  Buckinghamshire,  from  trees  which  had  not 
borne  at  all,  by  twisting  and  breaking  down  the  young  shoots  late  in  the 
autumn,  when  the  wood  had  become  tough ;  and  the  pendent  branches 
afterwards  continued  perfectly  healthy." 

Disbarking  and  Hinging  are  two  modes  that  have  been  recommend- 
ed by  some  authors,  but  of  which,  except  as  curious  experiments,  we 
entirely  disapprove.  Disbarking,  that  is,  removing  the  outer  bark  of 
the  trunk  in  February,  May,  or  March,  is  and  may  be  practised  with 
good  results  on  trees  in  very  sheltered  positions,  and  under  glass,  but 
must  always  be  a  somewhat  dangerous  practice  in  open  orchards,  and  in 
a  variable  climate  like  ouis ;  while  its  good  effects  may  in  a  great  meas- 


38  TRAINING. 

ure  be  attained  by  keeping  the  bark  in  a  healthy  state  by  a  wash  of 
soft  soap.  Hinging,  which  is  nothing  more  than  stopping  the  descend 
ing  sap  in  a  branch,  and  forcing  it  to  organize  blossom-buds,  by  taking 
otf  a  ring  of  bark,  say  a  fourth  or  half  an  inch,  near  midsummer,  is  i 
mode  always  more  or  less  injurious  to  the  health  of  the  branch,  and  if 
carried  to  any  extent  finally  destroys  the  tree.  It  is  gradually  falling 
into  disuse  since  root-pruning  and  other  and  better  modes  are  becoming 
known.  A  ligature  or  bandage,  tightly  applied  to  the  limb,  will  have 
temporarily  the  same  effect  as  ringing,  without  so  much  injury  to  tna 
branch. 

Inducing  Fruitfulness  by  other  Means. 

The  influence  of  certain  soils  on  the  productiveness  of  frui*-treep  is  a 
subject  of  every-day  observation,  but  the  particular  ingredients  of  the 
soil  which  insure  this  abundant  bearing  are  not  so  well  known.  Lime- 
stone soils  are  almost  invariably  productive  of  all  sorts  of  fruit ;  and 
certain  strong  loams  in  this  country  seem  to  be  equally  well  adapted  to 
this  end. 

In  a  curious  work  called  the  "  Rejuvenescence  of  Plants,"  &c,  by 
Dr.  Schultz,  of  Berlin,  the  author,  who  has  devoted  considerable  time 
to  the  subject,  states  that  common  salt  and  chloride  of  lime  contribute 
greatly  to  the  flowering  of  most  plants,  to  which,  however,  the}7  can  only 
be  applied  with  safety  in  small  quantities.  "  Salts  of  lime,"  he  con- 
tinues, "  appear  to  produce  so  nearly  the  same  effect  as  those  of  potash 
and  soda,  that  it  is  only  necessary  to  place  lime  within  their  reach,  if 
there  is  no  deficiency  of  manure  in  the  shape  of  general  food.  Lime  will 
in  the  main  promote,  in  an  astonishing  degree,  the  fruit  and  flowering 
of  most  plants,  because  calcareous  salts  promote  evaporation  and  the  con- 
centration of  sap." 

Although  we  cannot  coincide  with  many  of  Dr.  Schultz's  views  as 
expressed  in  this  work,  yet  the  remarks  just  quoted  agree  so  entirely 
with  facts  that  have  come  under  our  own  observation,  that  we  gladly 
place  them  before  the  cultivator  of  fruit-trees.  One  of  the  most  produc- 
tive fruit-gardens  in  our  knowledge  is  on  a  limestone  soil,  and  another, 
more  than  usually  prolific,  in  a  neighborhood  not  very  fruitful,  is  every 
year  treated  with  a  top-dressing  of  coarse  salt,  at  the  rate  of  two  bushels 
to  the  acre.  These  facts  are  surely  worth  the  attention  of  growers,  and 
should  be  the  subject  of  more  extended  and  careful  experiments. 

Rendering  trees  more  fruitful  by  dwarfing,  and  by  adapting  them 
to  soils  naturally  unfruitful  by  growing  them  upon  other  and  better 
Btocks,  we  have  already  placed  before  the  reader  tinder  the  head  of 
Grafting. 


CHAPTER  V. 

TRAINING. 


Training  fruit-trees  is,  thanks  to  our  favorable  climate,  a  proceeding 
entirely  unnecessary  in  the  greater  part  of  the  United  States.  Our  fine 
dry  summers,  with  the  great  abundance  of  strong  light  and  svji,  are  suf 


TRAINING.  39 

ncient  to  ripen  fully  the  fruits  of  temperate  climates,  so  that  the  whole 
art  of  training,  at  once  the  trial  and  triumph  of  skill  with  English  fruit- 
gardeners,  is  quite  dispensed  with ;  and  in  the  place  of  long  lines  of 
brick  wall  and  espalier  rails,  surrounding  and  dividing  the  fruit-garden, 
all  covered  with  carefully  trained  trees,  we  are  proud  to  show  the  open 
orchard,  and  the  borders  in  the  fruit-garden  rilled  with  thrifty  and  pro- 
ductive standards.  Nothing  surprises  a  British  gardener  more,  knowing 
the  cold  of  our  winter,  than  the  first  sight  of  peaches  and  other  fine 
fruits  arriving  at  full  perfection  in  the  Middle  States  with  so  little 
care ;  and  he  sees  at  once  that  three-fourths  of  the  great  expense  of  a 
fruit-garden  here  is  rendered  entirely  needless. 

Training  fruit-trees,  in  this*  country,  is  therefore  confined  to  the 
colder  districts  north  of  the  43°  of  latitude,  and  to  the  gardens  of  ama- 
teurs. There  can,  however,  scarcely  be  a  more  beautiful  display  of  the 
art  of  the  horticulturist  than  a  fine  row  of  trained  trees,  their  branches 
arranged  with  the  utmost  symmetry  and  regularity,  and  covered,  in  the 
fruit  season,  with  large  and  richly  colored  fruit. 

North  of  the  43°  latitude  (or  north  of  the  Mohawk)  the  peach  does 
not  ripen  well,  and  this,  as  well  as  soem  other  rather  tender  trees,  will, 
in  such  situations,  generally  yield  abundant  crops  when  trained  on  a 
common  upright  trellis,  or  espalier  rail,  seven  or  eight  feet  high.*  Still 
farther  north,  as  in  Maine  or  Canada,  a  wall  must  be  resorted  to  ;  but 
our  own  observation  leads  us  to  believe  that,  generally,  the  espalier  rail 
will  be  found  not  only  cheaper  and  more  easily  managed  in  training, 
but  really  preferable  to  a  wall,  as  full  exposure  to  light  is  sufficient  with- 
out much  additional  heat.  With  regard  to  walls  themselves,  in  the 
middle  portions  of  the  Union  a  southern  aspect  is  almost  always  the 
worst,  being  too  hot  in  midsummer ;  a  wall  running  north  and  south, 
and  affording  east  and  west  aspects,  is  much  the  best.  The  western  as- 
pect is  indeed  preferable  for  all  tender  fruits,  as  the  blossoms  are  not 
there  liable  to  injury  from  early  frosts.  A.  north  wall  is  useful  for  pro- 
ducing a  later  crop. 

The  objects  of  training  are,  by  a  more  complete  exposure  of  the 
leaves  and  branches  to  the  light  and  sun,  to  ripen  fruits  in  a  naturally 
unfavorable  climate ;  to  render  them  more  fruitful — lessening  vigor  and 
excessive  growth  by  the  lateral  or  horizontal  arrangement  of  the 
branches ;  and  lastly,  economy  of  space,  as  trees  when  trained  on  a  Hat 
surface  occupy  much  less  space  in  the  fruit-garden  than  standards,  and 
leave  the  borders  more  open  for  cropping  with  vegetables. 

Training  conical  standards.  A  very  easy  and  simple  mode  of 
training  fruit-trees,  which  has  lately  come  into  great  favor  with  amateurs, 
is  the  conical  standard,  or  Quenouille  (pronounced  kenool)  of  the  French. 
It  is  applied  chiefly  to  pears,  which  when  treated  in  this  way  may  be 
planted  about  eight  feet  apart,  and  thus  a  great  variety  of  sorts  may  be 
grown  in  a  small  garden.  A  great  number  of  the  specimen  trees  in  the 
London  Horticultural  Society's  Garden  are  trained  in  this  manner;  and 
Loudon  remarks,  that  in  1840  the  Royal  Kitchen  Garden  of  Versailles 
contained  two  hundred  trees  trained  in  the  conical  manner,   with    the 

*  Cedar  or  locust  posts,  set  four  or  eight  feet  apart,  with  horizontal  bars  let 
in,  and  crossed  by  light  perpendicular  strips  of  pine  from  six  to  twelve  inches 
apart,  will  form  an  excellent  and  durable  trellis  for  espaliers.  See  Fig  88.  In- 
deed many  gardeners  here  prefer  having  a  light  trellis  a  few  inches  from  the  wall 
upon  which  to  train,  instead  of  nailing  directly  on  the  wall 


40 


TRAINING. 


current  year's  shoots  tied  down  en  quenouille.  "  They  had  attained  th« 
height  of  from  six  to  twelve  feet  before  the  branches  were  bent  down ; 
but  the  effect  of  this  was  to  cover  the  shoots  with  blossom-buds,  and  to 
produce  the  most  extraordinary  crops." 

To  produce  Quenouille  standards,  plant  a  young  tree,  three  or  four 
feet  high,  and,  after  the  first  summer's  growth,  head  back  the  top  and 
cut-in  the  side  branches,  as  represented  by  the  dotted  lines  on  a,  Fig. 
21.  The  next  season  the  tree  will  shoot  out  three  or  four  tiers  of  side 
branches,  according  to  its  strength.  The  lowest  should  be  left  about 
eighteen  inches  from  the  ground,  and,  by  pinching  off  superfluous  shoots, 
others  may  be  made  to  grow  pretty  regularly,  so  as  not  to  crowd  the 
head.  At  the  end  of  this  season  head  back  the  leader  as  in  b,  to 
strengthen  the  side  shoots.  Next  season  a  fresh  series  of  lateral  shoota 
will  be  produced,  four  or  five  of  which  may  be  kept  every  year ;  and 
the  third  or  fourth  year   the  lower  branches  may  be  bent  down  in  mid- 


Quenouille  or  Conical  Training,  progressive  stages. 


Conical  or  Quenouille  Training,  complete. 


summer,  c,  and  kept  in  a  pendulous  position  for  a  year  or  two,  by  tying 
them  to  stakes  driven  in  the  ground,  or  to  the  main  stem.  This  succes- 
sive growth  at  the  top,  and  arrangement  of  the  limbs  below,  must  be 
continued  till  the  requisite  height — say  ten  feet — is  attained,  when,  all 
the  branches  assuming  their  final  form,  the  tree  will  resemble  Fig.  22. 
A  moderate  pruning  to  produce  new  wood,  and  the  occasional  tying  in  of 
a  rambling  shoot,  will  be  all  that  is  required.  The  French  quenouille 
training  is  performed  with  dwarf  stocks,  but  the  trees  are  more  thrifty 
and  durable  when  grafted  on  their  own  stocks,  and  kept  within  proper 
bounds  by  root-pruning  after  Mr.  Bivers's  method,  explained  in  a 
previous  page. 

JPyramids  and  bushes  are  trees  adapted  for  small  gardens,  and  not 
standards  such  as  are  planted  in  orchards.  Mr.  Rivers,  whose  success  in 
training  and  fruiting  dwarf  trees  has  hardly  an  equal,  gives  the  following 
directions  : — "  If  a  young  gardener  intends  to  plant,  and  wishes  to  train 


TRAINING.  41 

up  his  trees  so  tliat  they  will  become  quite  perfect  in  shape,  he  should 
select  plants  one  year  old  from  the  bud  or  graft,  with  single  upright 
stems;  these  will  of  course  have  good  buds  down  to  the  junction  of  the 
graft  with  the  stock.  The  first  spring  a  tree  of  this  description  should 
be  headed  down,  so  as  to  leave  the  stem  about  eighteen  inches  long.  If 
the  soil  be  rich,  from  five  to  six  and  seven  shoots  will  be  produced ;  one 
of  these  must  be  made  the  leader,  and  if  not  inclined  to  be  quite  perpen- 
dicular, it  must  be  fastened  to  a  stake.  As  soon  in  summer  as  the 
Leading  shoot  is  ten  inches  long,  its  end  must  be  pinched  otf ;  and  if  it 
pushes  forth  two  or  more  shoots,  pinch  off  all  but  one  to  three  leaves, 
leaving  the  topmost  for  a  leader.  The  side  shoots  will  in  most  cases 
assume  a  regular  shape  ;  if  not,  they  may  be  this  first  season  tied  to 
slight  stakes,  to  make  them  grow  in  the  proper  direction.  This  is  best 
done  by  bringing  down  and  fastening  the  end  of  each  shoot  to  a  slight 
stake,  so  that  an  open  pyramid  may  be  formed  ;  for  if  it  is  too  close  and 
cypress-like,  enough  air  is  not  admitted  to  the  fruit.  They  may  remain 
unpruned  till  the  end  of  August,  when  each  shoot  must  be  shortened  to 
within  eight  buds  of  the  stem.  This  will  leave  the  tree  so  that  no  prun- 
ing in  winter  will  be  required.  The  second  season  the  tree  will  make 
vigorous  growth ;  the  side  shoots  which  were  topped  last  August  will 
each  put  forth  three,  four,  or  more  shoots.  In  June,  as  soon  as  these  have 
made  four  leaves,  they  must  be  pinched  off  to  three  leaves,  and  if  these 
spurs  put  forth  shoots,  which  they  often  do,  every  shoot  must  be  pinched 
down  to  one  leaf,  all  but  the  leading  shoot  of  each  side  branch.  This 
must  be  left  on,  to  exhaust  the  tree  of  its  superabundant  sap,  till  the  end 
of  August.  The  perpendicular  leader  must  be  topped  once  or  twice — in 
short,  as  soon  as  it  has  grown  ten  inches,  pinch  off  its  top,  and  if  it  break 
into  two  or  three  shoots,  pinch  them  all  but  the  leader,  as  directed  for 
the  first  season  ;  in  a  few  years  most  symmetrical  trees  may  be  formed." 

The  best  modes  of  training  for  this  country,  on  walls  or  espaliers,  are 
fan-cordon  and  horizontal  training.  The  first  is  the  simplest  and  easiest 
mode  of  training  the  Peach,  the  Apricot,  Nectarine,  and  Cherry ;  and 
the  latter  is  best  adapted  to  the  Pear.  In  training  to  a  wall,  the  branches 
are  fastened  in  their  places  by  shreds  of  leather  and  nails ;  and  as  espa- 
liers, by  tying  them  with  slips  of  bass  matting  to  the  rails  of  the  trellis. 

Cordon-training  has  within  the  past  few  years  become  quite  a  feature 
among  French  gardeners,  and  is  now  being  practised  with  success  by 
many  amateurs  in  this  country.  Thex-e  are  a  number  of  varied  modes  of 
training  en  cordon,  among  which  those  termed  oblique  cordon  and  espalier 
or  lateral  cordon  are  most  in  use.  Oblique  cordon  training  serves  to  test 
in  a  small  space  a  large  number  of  varieties,  and  may  in  many  cases  be 
adopted  with  great  satisfaction.  Dubreil  says  :  "  In  its  practice  choose 
healthy  and  vigorous  young  trees  of  one  year's  growth,  carrying  only  one 
stem.  Plant  them  sixteen  inches  apart,  and  incline  them  one  over  th'j 
other  at  an  angle  of  sixty  degri  s.  Cut  off  about  one-third  of  the  length 
at  or  just  above  a  front  fruit-bud.  During  the  following  summer  favor 
as  much  as  possible  the  development  of  the  terminal  shoot ;  all  the  others 
must  be  transformed  into  fruit  branches  by  the  same  means  as  described 
for  pyramidal  trees.  The  second  pruning  has  for  its  object  to  transform 
the  lateral  shoots  into  fruit-spurs ;  the  new  extension  of  the  stem  must 
be  cut  back  one-third.  If  the  terminal  extension  has  grown  but  slightly, 
and  shows  signs  of  weakness,  the  cut  must  be  made  lower  down  on  the 
two-years  wood,  in  order  to  obtain  a  more  vigorous  terminal  shoot.    Bj 


42 


TRAINING. 


the  time  of  the  third  pruning,  the  young  stem  has  generally  attained 
two-thirds  of  its  entire  length ;  it  must  then  be  inclined  to  an  angle  of  45°." 

The  same  pruning  of  side  branches  and  terminal  shoot  must  be  per- 
formed as  last  year,  and  continued  from  year  to  year  until  the  desired 
height  for  covering  the  wall  or  trellis  is  attained  ;  afterwards  it  must  be 
yearly  cut  back  about  two  feet,  for  the  purpose  of  allowing  a  vigorous 
shoot  to  grow  from  the  end,  and  thus  keep  up  a  healthy  circulation. 

Espalier  or  lateral  cordon  training  is  adapted  to  the  borders  of  walks 
in  gardens,  and  is  suited  more  to  the  Apple  worked  on  the  Paradise 
stock  than  any  other  variety  of  tree.  It  is  termed  double  or  single 
arm  cordon,  as  the  trees  have  arms  trained  one  or  both  ways.  Fig.  23 
shows  at  a  a  young  maiden  tree  pruned  for  planting,  while  b  shows  the 
same  with  its  limbs  tied  down  to  a  wire,  which  is  upheld  by  stakes  about 
one  foot  above  the  ground,  and  secured  firmly  at  each  end  of  the  line. 


Fig.    24  shows  the  plants  after  being  two  or  three  years  trained  in 

single  cordon — the  terminal  shoot  of  each  tree  being  united  by  inarching 

at  the  junction  with  the  stem  and  branch. 

The  following  account   of  fan-training  and  horizontal  training  is  so 

concisely  abridged  from  the  practice  of  the  best  English  gardens,  in  the 

"  Suburban  Horticulturist,'"  that  we  cannot  do  better  than  to  place  il 

before  the  reader. 

Fan- training  in  the  common  JSnglish  manner.     A  maiden  plant  (a 

tree  but  one  year  from  the  graft)  being  planted,  "  is  to  be  headed  down 
to  four  buds  or  eyes,  placed  in  such  a  manner  as 
to  throw  out  two  shoots  on  each  side,  as  shown 
in  Fig.  25.  The  following  season  the  two  upper- 
most shoots  are  to  be  headed  down  to  three  eyes, 
placed  in  such  a  manner  as  to  throw  out  one 
leading  shoot  and  one  shoot  on  each  side ;  the 
two  lowermost  shoots  are  to  be  headed  down  to 

two  eyes,  so  as  to  throw  out  one  leading 

shoot  and   one  shoot  on  the  uppermost 

side,  as  shown  in  Fig.  26.     We  have  now 

five    leading  shoots   on   each   side,   well 

placed,  to  form  our  future  tree.     Each  of 

these  shoots  must  be  placed  in  the  exact 

position  in  which  it  is  to  remain  ;  and  as 

it  is  these  shoots  which  are  to  form  the 

future  tree,  none  of  them  are  to  be  short- 
ened.    The  tree  should  by  no  means  be 

suffered    to    bear   <iuj   fruit    this    year. 

allowed  to  produce,  besides  the  leading  shoot  at  its  extremity,  two  othei 

shoots  on  the  uppermost  side,  one  near  to  the  bottom  and  one  about  mid 


Pan-training,  first  stage. 


Fan-training,  second  stage. 

Each    shoot    mist    now    be 


TRAINING. 


*5 


way  up  the  stem  ;  there  must  also  be  one  shoot  on  the  undermost  side-, 
placed  about  midway  between  the  other  two.  All  the  other  shoots  must 
be  pinched  on"'  in  their  infant  state.  The  tree  will  then  assume,  at 
the  end  of  the  year,  the  appearance  shown  in  Fig.  27.  From  this  tunc 
it  may  be  allowed  to  bear 
what  crop  of  fruit  the  gar- 
dener thinks  it  able  to  carry  ; 
in  determining  which  he 
ought  never  to  overrate  the 
vigor  of  the  tree.  All  of 
these  shoots  except  the  lead- 
ing ones  must  at  the  pro- 
per season  be  shortened,  but 
to  what  length  must  be  left 
entirely  to  the  judgment  of 
the  gardener,  it  of  course 
depending  upon  the  vigor  of  the  tree 
should  be  taken  to  cut  back  to  a  wood-bud  that  will  produce  a  shoot 
for  the  following  year.  Cut  close  to  the  bud,  so  that  the  wound  may 
heal  the  following  season.  •  The  following  year  each  shoot  at  the 
extremities  of  the  leading  branches  should  produce,  besides  the  leading 
shoot,  one  on  the  upper  and  two  on  the  under  part,  more  or  less,  accord- 
ing to  the  vigor  of  the  tree  ;  whilst  each  of  the  secondary  branches  should 
produce,  besides  the  leading  shoot,  one  other  placed  near  to  the  bottom; 
for  the  grand  art  of  pruning,  in  all  systems  to  which  this  class  of  trees  is 
subjected,  consists  in  preserving  a  sufficient  quantity  of  young  wood  at 
the  bottom  of  the  tree  ;  and  on  no  account  must  the  gardener  cut  away 
clean  any  shoots  so  placed,  without  well  considering  if  they  will  be 
wanted,  not  only  for  the  present  but  for  the  future  good  appearance  of 
the  tree.     The  quantity  of  young  wood  annually  laid  in  must  depend  upon 


Fan-training,  third  stage. 

In  shortening  the  shoot,  care 


Fan-training,  complete. 

the  vigor  of  the  tree.  It  would  be  ridiculous  to  lay  the  same  quantity 
into  a  weakly  tree  as  into  a  tree  in  full  vigor.  The  gardener  here  must 
use  his  own  judgment.  But  if  any  of  the  leading  shoots  manifest  a  dis- 
position to  outstrip  the  others,a  portion  of  young  shoots  must  belaid  in, 
and  a  greater  quantity  of  fruit  suffered  to  ripen  oil  the  ovei  ri 
branch.     At  the  same  time  a  smaller  <  of  fruit  than  usual 


14 


TRAINING. 


be  left  to  ripen  on  the  weaker  branch.  This  will  ton. I  to  restore  th€ 
equilibrium  better  than  any  other  method.  Fig.  28  presents  us  with  the 
figure  of  a  tree  in  a  more  advanced  state,  well  balanced,  and  well  calcu- 
lated for  an  equal  distribution  of  the  sap  all  over  its  surface.  [We  have 
varied  this  figure  by  representing  it  trained  on  a  trellis,  instead  of  a 
wall.]  Whenever  any  of  the  lower  shoots  have  advanced  so  far  as  to 
incommode  the  others,  they  should  be  cut  back  to  a  yearling  shoot ;  thia 
will  give  them  room,  and  keep  the  lower  part  of  the  tree  in  order.  In 
nailing  to  a  wall,  care  must  be  taken  not  to  bruise  any  part  of  the  shoot; 
the  wounds  made  by  the  knife  heal  quickly,  but  a  bruise  often  proves 
incurable.  Never  let  a  nail  gall  any  part  of  the  tree  ;  it  will  endanger 
the  life  of  the  branch.  In  nailing-in  the  young  shoots,  dispose  them  as 
straight  and  regular  as  possible  ;  it  will  look  workman-like.  Whatever 
system  of  training  is  pursued,  the  leading  branches  should  be  laid-in  in 
the  exact  position  they  are  to  remain ;  for  wherever  a  large  branch  is 
brought  down  to  fill  the  lower  part  of  the  wall,  the  free  ascent  of  the  sap 
is  obstructed  by  the  extension  of  the  upper,  and  contraction  of  the  lower 
parts  of  the  branch.  It  is  thus  robbed  of  part  of  its  former  vigor,  while 
it  seldom  fails  to  throw  out,  immediately  behind  the  parts  most  bent, 
one  or  more  vigorous  shoots." 

Horizontal  training  consists  in  preserving  an  upright  leader,  with 
lateral  shoots  trained  at  regular  intervals.  These  intervals  may  be  from 
a  foot  to  eighteen  inches  for  pears  and  apples,  and  about  nine  inches  for 
cherries  and  plums.  "  A  maiden  plant  with  three  shoots  having  been 
procured,  the  two  side  shoots  are  laid  in  horizontally, 
and  the  centre  one  upright,  as  in  Fig.  29  ;  all  the  buds 
being  rubbed  off  the  latter  but  three,  viz. :  one  next 
the  top  for  a  vertical  leader,  and  one  on  each  side  near 
the  top,  for  horizonal  branches.  In  the  course  of  the 
first  summer  after  planting,  the  shoots  may  be  allowed 
to  grow  without  being  stopped.  In  the  autumn  of 
Horizontal  training,  first  ^he  first  year  the  two  laterals  produced  are  nailed  or 
tied  in,  and  also  the  shoots  produced  from  the  extre- 
mities of  the  lower  laterals;  the  centre  shoot  being  headed  down  as  before, 
as  shown  in  Fig.  30.  But  in  the  second  summer,  when  the  main  shoot 
has  attained  the  length  of  ten  or  twelve  inches,  it  may  be  stopped ;  which, 
if  the  plant  is  in  proper  vigor,  will  cause  it  to  throw  out  two  horizontal 
branches,  in  addition  to  those 
which  were  thrown  out  from 
those  of  the  preceding  year. 
The  tree  will  now  be  in  its 
second  summer,  and  will  have 


Horizontal  training,  second  stage. 


Horizontal  training,  third  stage. 


four  horizontal  branches  on  each  side  of  the  upright  stem,  as  in  Fig. 
31 ;  and,  by  persevering  in  this  system,  four  horizontal  branches  will  be 


TRANSPLANTING 


4P 


produced  in  each  year  till  the  tree  reaches  the  top  of  the  wall  (01 
espalier),  when  the  upright  stem  must  terminate  in  two  horizontal 
branches.  In  the  following  autumn  the  tree  will  have  the  appearance 
of  Fig.  32."— Suburban  Horticulturist,  pp.  363  :  372. 


Horizontal  training,  fourth  year. 

Training  fruit-trees  is  nowhere  in  the  United  States  practised  u» 
much  extent,  nor  is  it  considered  desirable  in  the  general  practice  of  fruit- 
growing. The  additional  labor  is  not  met  by  a  balance  in  superior 
quantity  of  product,  and,  while  occasionally  a  few  specimens  may  be  pro- 
cured in  this  manner  of  great  beauty  and  excellence,  the  general  crop  is 
not  satisfactory  or  profitable,  either  to  the  amateur  or  the  market-grower. 


CHAPTER  YI. 


TRANSPLANTING. 

As  nearly  all  fruit-trees  are  raised  first  in  nurseries,  and  then  re 
moved  to  their  final  position  in  the  orchard  or  fruit-garden  ;  as  upon  the 
manner  of  this  removal  depends  not  only  their  slow  or  rapid  growth, 
their  feebleness  or  vigor  afterwards,  and  in  many  cases  even  their  life,  it 
is  evident  that  it  is  in  the  highest  degree  important  to  understand  and 
practise  well  this  transplanting. 

The  season  best  adapted  for  transplanting  fruit-trees  is  a  matter 
open  to  much  difference  of  opinion  among  horticulturists  ;  a  difference 
founded  mainly  on  experience,  but  without  taking  into  account  variation 
of  climate  and  soils,  two  very  important  circumstances  in  all  operations 
of  this  kin  I. 

All  physiologists,  however,  agree  that  the  best  season  for  transplant- 
ing deciduous  trees  is  in  autumn,  directly  after  the  fall  of  the  leaf.  The 
tree  is  then  in  a  completely  dormant  state.  Transplanted  at  this  early 
season,  whatever  wounds  may  have  been  made  in  the  roots  commence 
healing  at  once,  as  a  deposit  directly  takes  place  of  granulous  matter 
from  the  wound,  and  when  the  spring  arrives  the  tree  is  already  soine- 


4r"  TRANSPLANTING. 

what  established,  and  ready  to  commence  its  growth.  Early  autumn 
planting  is  for  this  reason  greatly  to  be  pieferred  in  all  mild  climatea 
aaid  dry  soils;  and  even  for  very  hardy  trees,  as  the  apple,  in  colder  lat 
itudes ;  as  the  fixed  position  in  the  ground,  which  trees  planted  then  get 
by  the  autumnal  and  early  spring  rains,  gives  them  an  advantage  at  thp 
text  season  of  growth  over  newly-moved  trees. 

On  the  other  hand,  in  northern  portions  of  the  Union,  where  the 
winters  commence  early,  and  are  severe,  spring  planting  is  greatly  pie- 
ferred. There  autumn  and  winter  are  not  mild  enough  to  allow  this 
gradual  process  of  healing  and  establisliing  the  roots  to  go  on ;  for  when 
the  ground  is  frozen  to  the  depth  of  the  roots  of  a  tree,  all  that  slow 
growth  and  connection  of  nutriment  by  the  roots  is  necessarily  at  an 
end.  And  the  more  tender  sorts  of  fruit-trees,  the  Peach  and  Apricot, 
which  are  less  hardy  when  newly  planted  than  when  their  roots  are  en- 
tire, and  well  fixed  in  the  soil,  are  liable  to  injury  in  their  branches  by 
the  cold.  The  proper  time,  in  such  a  climate,  is  as  early  as  the  ground 
is  in  a  fit  condition  in  the  spring. 

Earl}*  in  autumn,  and  in  spring  before  the  buds  expand,  may  as  a 
general  rule  be  considered  the  best  seasons  for  transplanting.  It  is 
true  that  there  are  instances  of  excellent  success  in  planting  at  all  sea- 
sons, except  midsummer;  and  there  are  many  who,  from  having  been 
once  or  twice  successful  in  transplanting  when  trees  were  nearly  in  leaf, 
avow  that  to  be  the  best  season;  not  taking  into  account  that  their  suc- 
cess was  probably  entirely  owing  to  a  fortunately  damp  state  of  the  at- 
mosphere at  the  time,  and  abundant  rains  after  the  experiment  was  per- 
formed. In  the  Middle  States  we  are  frequently  liable  to  a  dry  period 
in  early  summer,  directly  following  the  season  of  removal,  and  if  trans- 
planting is  deferred  to  a  late  period  in  spring,  many  of  the  trees  will 
perish  from  drought  before  their  roots  become  established  in  the  soil 
Spring  planting  should  therefore  always  be  performed  as  soon  as  possi- 
ble, that  the  roots  may  have  the  great  benefit  of  the  early  and  abundant 
rains  of  that  season,  and  get  well  started  before  the  heat  of  summer  com- 
mences. For  the  neighborhood  of  New  York,  therefore,  the  best  periods 
are  from  the  fall  of  the  leaf  to  the  middle  of  November,  in  autumn,  and 
from  the  close  of  winter  to  the  middle  of  April,  in  the  spring ;  though 
commonly  the  seasons  of  removal  are  frequently  extended  a  month  be- 
yond these  limits. 

Taking  up  the  trees  is  an  important  part  of  the  operation.  A  trans- 
planter should  never  forget  that  it  is  by  the  delicate  and  tender  points 
bremities  of  the  root  that  trees  take  up  their  food;  and  that  the 
chance  of  complete  success  is  lessened  by  every  one  of  these  points  that 
is  bruised  or  destroyed.  If  we  could  remove  trees  with  every  fibre  en- 
tire, as  we  do  a  plant  in  a  pot,  they  would  scarcely  show  any  sign  of 
their  change  of  position.  In  most  cases,  especially  in  that  of  trees 
taken  from  nurseries,  this  is,  by  the  operation  of  removal,  nearly  impos- 
sible. Bui  although  we  may  not  hope  to  get  every  root  entire,  we  may, 
with  proper  care,  presei  ve  by  far  the  larger  portion  of  them,  and  more 
particularly  the  small  and  delicate  fibres.  After  being  taken  up,  they 
should  be  planted  directly ;  or,  if  this  cannot  be  done,  they  should  be 
kept  from  (Irying  by  a  covering  of  mats,  and,  when  sent  to  a  distance,  by 
being  packed  in  damp  moss.* 

*  We  Rhould  notice  an  important  exception  to  this  in  the  case  of  trees  packed 


TRANSPLANTING.  47 

Pi  sparing  the  places.  Here  is  the  fatal  stumbling-block  of  all 
novices  and  ignorant  persons  in  transplanting.  An  English  gar  doner, 
when  he  is  about  to  plant  fruit-trees,  talks  about  preparing  his  borders; 
an  American  says  lie  will  dig  his  holes;  and  we  cannot  give  a  more 
forcible  illustration  of  the  ideas  of  two  persons  as  to  the  wants  of  a 
fruit-tree,  or  a  better  notion  of  the  comparative  provision  made  to  sup- 
ply these  wants,  than  by  contrasting  the  two  phrases  themselves.  The 
one  looks  upon  a  tree  as  a  living  being,  whose  life  is  to  be  rendered 
long,  vigorous,  and  fruitful  by  a  good  supply  of  food,  and  a  soil  mellow 
and  easily  penetrated  by  the  smallest  fibre;  the  other  considers  it  very 
much  in  the  light  of  a  truncheon  or  a  post,  which  he  thrusts  into  the 
smallest  possible  hole,  and  supplies  with  the  least  portion  of  manure, 
trusting  to  what  he  seems  to  believe  the  inextinguishable  powers  of 
nature  to  make  roots  and  branches  under  any  circumstances.  It  is 
true  that  the  terms  differ  somewhat  from  the  nature  of  the  culture  and 
the  greater  preparation  necessai-y  in  planting  fruit-trees  in  England,  but 
this  is  not  by  any  means  sufficient  to  justify  the  different  modes  of  per- 
forming the  same  operation  there  and  here. 

In  truth,  in  this  country,  -where  the  sun  and  climate  are  so  favorable, 
where  pruning  and  training  are  comparatively  so  little  necessary,  the 
great  requisite  to  success  in  the  ordinary  culture  of  fruit-trees  is  the 
•proper  preparation  of  the  soil  before  a  tree  is  planted.  Whether  a  trans- 
planted  tree  shall  struggle  several  years  to  recover,  or  grow  moderately 
after  a  short  time,  or  at  once  start  into  a  very  luxuriant  and  vigorous 
growth,  depends  entirely  upon  the  amount  of  care  and  labor  the  planter 
is  willing  to  bestow  on  the  soil  for  his  trees.  We  have  seen  several 
instances  where,  side  by  side,  one  man  planted  his  trees  in  large  spaces 
Df  deeply  moved  and  rich  soil,  and  another  in  small  holes  in  the  com- 
mon mode,  which  uniformly  showed  the  trees  of  the  first  larger  after 
five  years  than  those  of  the  last  after  twelve. 

No  fruit-tree  should  be  planted  in  a  hole  of  less  size  than  three  feet 
square,  and  eighteen  inches  to  two  feet  deep.  To  this  size  and  depth 
the  soil  should  be  removed  and  well  pulverized,  and  it  should,  if  neces- 
sary, be  properly  enriched  by  the  application  of  well-rotted  manure, 
wliich  must  be  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  whole  mass  of  prepared  soil 
by  repeated  turnings  with  the  spade.  This  preparation  will  answer,  but 
the  most  skilful  cultivators  among  us  make  their  spaces  four  or  five  feet 
in  diameter,  or  three  times  the  size  of  the  roots,  and  it  is  incredible  how 
much  the  luxuriance  and  vigor  of  growth,  even  in  a  poor  soil,  is  pro- 
moted by  this.  No  after-mending  of  the  soil,  or  top-dressings  applied 
to  the  surface,  can,  in  a  climate  of  dry  summers  like  ours,  equal  the 
effects  of  this  early  and  deep  loosening  and  enriching  the  soil,  its 
effects  on  the  growth  and  health  of  the  tree  are  permanent,  and  the 
little  expense  and  care  necessary  in  this  preparation  is  a  source  of  early 
and  constant  pleasure  to  the  planter.  This,  preparation  maybe  mada 
just  bet"  >ie  the  tree  is  planted,  but  in  heavy  soils  it  is  much  better  to  do 
it  several  months  previously  ;  and  no  shallow  ploughing  of  the  soil  can 
obviate  the  necessity  and  advantages  of  the  practice  where  healthy, 
vigorous  orchards  or  fruit-gardens  are  desired. 

for  shipping  across  the  Atlantic.  In  this  case  they  should  he  packed  only  in  dry 
moss ;  the  moisture  of  the  sea  air  being  sufficient  to  keep  the  root"-  in  good  con- 
dition, while  if  packed  in  damp  moss  they  will  be  injured  by  rotthjg  or  excessive 
growth. 


*fc  TRANSPLANTING. 

The  whole  art  of  transplanting,  after  this,  consists  in  placing  the 
roots  as  they  were  before,  or  in  the  most  favorable  position  for  growth. 
Begin  by  filling  the  hole  with  prepared  soil,  within  as  many  inches  of 
the  top  as  will  allow  the  tree  to  stand  exactly  as  deep  as  it  previonslv 
stood.  With  the  spade,  shape  the  soil  for  the  roots  in  the  form  of  a 
little  hillock  on  which  to  place  the  roots — and  not,  as  is  commonly 
done,  in  the  form  of  a  hollow ;  the  roots  will  then  extend  in  their  natu- 
ral position,  not  being  forced  to  turn  up  at  the  ends.  Next  examine 
the  roots,  and  cut  off  all  wounded  parts,  paring  the  wound  smooth, 
cutting  from  the  under  side.  Hold  the  tree  upright  on  its  little  mound 
in  the  hole  of  prepared  soil ;  extend  the  roots,  and  cover  them  care- 
fully with  the  remaining  pulverized  soil.  As  much  of  the  success  of 
transplanting  depends  on  bringing  the  soil  in  contact  with  every  fibre, 
bo  as  to  leave  no  hollows  to  cause  the  decay  of  the  roots,  not  only  must 
this  be  secured  by  patiently  filling  in  all  cavities  among  the  rpots,  but, 
when  the  trees  are  not  quite  small,  it  is  customary  to  pour  in  a  pail  of 
water  when  the  roots  are  nearly  all  covered  with  soil.  This  carries  the 
liquid  mould  to  every  hidden  jDart.  After  the  water  has  settled  away, 
fill  up  the  hole,  and  avoid  the  common  practice  of  shaking  it  up  and 
down  by  the  stem.  In  windy  situations  it  will  be  necessary  to  place  a 
stake  by  the  side  of  each  tree,  to  hold  it  upright,  until  it  shall  have  taken 
firm  root  in  the  soil,  but  it  is  not  needful  in  ordinary  cases. 

Avoid  deep  planting.  More  than  half  the  losses  in  orchard  plant- 
ing in  America  arises  from  this  cause,  and  the  equally  common  one  of 
crowding  the  earth  too  tightly  about  the  roots.  No  tree  should  be 
placed  deeper  than  it  formerly  grew,  as  its  roots  are  stifled  from  the 
want  of  air,  or  starved  by  the  poverty  of  the  soil  at  the  depth  where 
they  are  placed.  It  is  much  the  better  and  more  natural  process  in  fact 
to  plant  the  tree  so  that  it  shall,  when  the  whole  is  complete,  appear 
just  as  deep  as  before,  but  standing  on  a  little  mound  two  or  three 
inches  higher  than  the  level  of  the  ground  about.  This,  when  the 
mound  settles,  will  leave  it  nearly  on  the  level  with  the  previous  sur- 
face. 

Mulching  is  an  excellent  practice  with  transplanted  trees,  and  more 
especially  for  those  which  are  removed  late  in  the  spring.  Mulching  is 
nothing  more  than  covering  the  ground  about  the  stems  with  coarse 
straw,  or  litter  from  the  barn-yard,  which  by  preventing  evaporation 
keeps  the  soil  from  becoming  dry,  and  maintains  it  in  that  moist  and 
equable  condition  of  temperature  most  favorable  to  the  growth  of 
young  roots.  Very  many  trees,  in  a  dry  season,  fail  at  midsummer, 
after  having  made  a  fine  start,  from  the  parched  and  variable  condition 
of  the  earth  about  the  roots.  Watering  frequently  fails  to  save  such 
trees,  but  mulching  when  they  are  planted  will  entirely  obviate  the 
necessity  of  watering  in  dry  seasons,  and  promote  growth  under  any  cir- 
cumstances. Indeed  watering  upon  the  surface,  as  commonly  performed, 
is  a  most  injurious  practice,  as  the  roots,  stimulated  at  one  period  of  the 
day  by  water,  are  only  rendered  more  susceptible  to  the  action  of  the 
hot  sun  at  another,  and  the  surface  of  the  ground  becomes  so  hard  by 
repeated  watering  that  the  beneficial  access  of  the  air  is  almost  cut  off. 
If  trees  are  well  watered  in  the  holes,  while  transplanting  is  going  on, 
they  will  rarely  need  it  again,  and  we  may  say  never ',  if  they  are  well 
mulched  directly  after  planting. 

The  best  manure  to  be  used  in  preparing  the  soil  for  transplanting 


TRANSPLANTING.  49 

trees  is  a  compost  formed  of  two-thirds  muck  or  black  peat  earth, 
reduced  by  fermenting  it  several  months  in  a  heap  with  one-third  fresh 
barn-yard  manure.  Almost  every  farm  will  supply  this,  and  it  is  more 
permanent  in  its  effects,  and  less  drying  in  its  nature,  than  the  com- 
mon manure  of  the  stable.  An  admirable  manure  recently  applied  with 
great  success  is  charcoal — the  small  broken  bits  and  refuse  of  the  char- 
coal pits — mixed  intimately  with  the  soil.  Air-slaked  lime  is  an  excel- 
lent manure  for  fruit-trees  in  soils  that  are  not  naturally  calcareous. 
Two  or  three  handfuls  may  be  mixed  with  the  soil  when  preparing  each 
space  for  planting,  and  a  top-dressing  may  be  applied  with  advantage 
occasionally  afterwards,  to  increase  their  productiveness.  But  wherevei 
lai-ge  orchards  or  fruit-gardens  are  to  be  planted,  the  muck  compost 
heap  should  be  made  ready  beforehand,  as  it  is  the  cheapest,  most  valu- 
able, and  durable  of  all  manures  for  fruit-trees. 

Pruning  the  heads  of  transplanted  trees,  at  the  season  of  removal,  we 
think  generally  an  injurious  practice.  It  is  certainly  needless  and  hurt- 
ful in  the  case  of  small  trees,  or  those  of  such  a  size  as  will  allow  the 
roots  to  be  taken  up  nearly  entire ;  for  as  the  action  of  the  branches 
and  the  roots  is  precisely  reciprocal,  and  as  new  roots  are  rapidly  formed 
just  in  proportion  to  the  healthy  action  of  the  leaves,  it  follows  that  by 
needlessly  cutting  off  the  branches  we  lessen  the  vital  action  of  the 
whole  tree.  At  the  same  time,  where  trees  are  transplanted  of  so  large 
a  size  that  some  of  the  roots  are  lost  in  removing  them,  it  is  necessary 
to  cut  back  or  shorten  a  few  of  the  branches, — as  many  as  will  restore 
the  balance  of  the  system, — otherwise  the  perspiration  of  the  leaves  may 
be  so  great  as  to  exhaust  the  supply  of  sap  faster  than  the  roots  can  col- 
lect it.  A  little  judgment  only  is  necessary  to  see  at  a  glance  how 
much  of  the  top  must  be  pruned  away,  before  planting  the  tree,  to 
equalize  the  loss  between  the  branches  and  the  roots. 

When  it  is  necessary  to  transplant  fruit-trees  of  large  size,  the  best 
practice  is  to  prepare  them  previously  by  digging  a  trench  round  the 
whole  mass  of  roots,  iindermining  them,  and  cutting  off  all  roots  project- 
ing beyond  this  line.  The  trench  should  be  dug  at  such  a  distance  from 
the  tree  as  will  include  all  the  large  and  sufficient  ball  of  roots,  and  it 
should  be  done  early  in  the  spring  when  it  is  desirable  to  remove  the 
tree  the  next  year.  After  all  the  roots  that  extend  to  this  circular 
trench  are  cut  off,  the  earth  is  replaced,  and  by  the  season  following 
an  abundance  of  small  fibres  is  sent  out  by  the  amputated  roots, 
which,  when  the  whole  is  removed,  will  insure  the  success  and  speedy 
growth  of  the  tree.  This  is  more  completely  the  case  when  the  tree  is 
prepared  two  years  before  transplanting.  A  variation  of  this  mode, 
which  has  been  found  quite  as  successful  and  less  laborious,  consists  in 
leaving  the  trench  open  and  covering  it  with  boards  only,  or  boards 
with  a  top  layer  of  turf.  The  tree  then  is  somewhat  checked  in  its 
growth,  it  throws  out  an  abundance  of  small  fibres  into  the  ball  of  earth 
containing  the  roots,  and  is  the  next  season  transplanted  with  great  ease 
and  safety. 

Thei^roper  size  for  transplanting  varies  somewhat  with  the  sort  of 
tree  ind  the  kind  of  culture  intended.  It  is,  however,  a  maxim  equally 
well  settled,  both  among  theorists  and  the  best  practical  men,  that  health, 
immediate  vigor,  and  duration  are  all  greatly  promoted  by  transplant- 
ing fruit-trees  of  small  size — from  three  to  six  or  seven  feet.  We  are 
fully  aware  with  what  impatience  the  beginner,  or  a  person  who  knows 

4 


00  TKANSPLANTING. 

little  of  the  culture  of  tiees,  looks  upon  trees  of  this  size — out  who  Lfe 
eager  to  plant  an  orchard  and  stock  a  garden  with  large  trees,  thinking 
to  gather  a  crop  the  next  year.  The  latter  may  indeed  be  done ;  but  the 
transplanting  so  affects  the  tree  that  its  first  scanty  crop  is  followed  by  a 
long  season  of  rest  and  feeble  growth,  while  the  plantation  of  young  trees 
is  making  wood  rapidly,  and  soon  comes  into  a  healthy  and  long-continued 
state  of  productiveness — often  long  indeed  before  the  large  trees  have 
fairly  arrived  at  that  condition.  The  small  tree,  transplanted  with  its 
system  of  roots  and  branches  entire,  suffers  little  or  no  check  ;  the  ulder 
and  larger  tree,  losing  part  of  its  roots,  requires  several  years  to  resume 
its  former  vigor.  The  constitution  of  the  small  tree  is  healthy  and 
unimpaired  ;  that  of  the  large  is  frequently  much  enfeebled.  A  stout 
and  vigorous  habit — what  the  nurserymen  call  a  good  stocky  plant — is 
the  true  criterion  of  merit  in  selecting  fruit-trees  for  trans])  Ian  ting. 

Trees  intended  for  orchards,  being  often  more  exposed  than  those  in 
gardens,  should  be  somewhat  larger — not  less  than  six,  or  more  than 
eight  feet  is  the  best  size.  For  gardens,  all  experienced  cultivators 
agree  that  a  smaller  size  is  preferable ;  we  prefer  plants  two  years  old 
from  the  graft.  Most  gardeners  abroad,  when  they  select  trees  with 
more  than  usual  care,  take  what  are  called  maiden  plants, — those  one 
year  old  from  the  graft, — and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that,  taking  into 
account  health,  duration,  and  the  ease  with  which  such  a  tree  can  be 
made  to  grow  into  any  form,  this  is  truly  the  preferable  size  for  removal 
into  a  fruit-garden.  But  we  are  an  impatient  people,  and  it  is  not  till 
after  another  century  of  trial  and  experience  in  the  culture  of  fruit-trees, 
that  cultivators  generally  in  this  country  will  become  aware  of  the  truth 
of  this  fact. 

The  facility  with  which  the  different  fruit-trees  may  be  transplanted 
differs  considerably.  Plums  are  generally  removed  with  most  success, 
and  after  them  nearly  in  the  order  as  follows :  Quinces,  Apples,  Pears, 
Peaches,  Nectarines,  Apricots,  and  Cherries  ;  the  latter  succeeding  with 
some  difficulty  when  of  large  size. 

Laying  in  by  the  heels  is  a  practice  adopted  as  a  temporary  kind  of 
planting  when  a  larger  quantity  of  trees  is  at  hand  than  can  be  set  out 
immediately.  A  trench  is  opened,  and  the  roots  are  laid  in  and  covered 
with  soil,  the  tops  being  previously  placed  in  a  sloping  position,  inclin- 
ing to  within  a  few  feet  of  the  surface.  In  this  way  they  are  kept  fresh 
and  in  good  order  until  it  is  convenient  to  plant  them  finally.  In 
northern  districts,  where  the  autumn  is  often  too  severe  for  planting, 
and  the  spring  is  frequently  too  late  to  receive  trees  in  time  from  nur- 
series farther  south,  it  is  a  common  and  successful  mode  to  procure  trees 
in  autumn,  and  lay  them  in  by  the  heels  until  spring,  covering  over  the 
tops  of  the  more  tender  sorts,  if  necessary,  with  coarse  litter.* 

In  planting  an  orchard,  always  avoid  placing  the  trees  in  the  same 
spot,  or  near,  where  an  old  tree  stood  before.     Experience  has  taught  us 

*  We  have  often  known  trees  entirely  destroyed  by  wane  of  a  little  extra  care 
in  heading  them  in.  Select  first  a  dry  knoll,  or  position  where  do  water  cau- 
Btand,  and,  if  possible,  sheltered  from  the  southern  sun  After  first  digging  a 
breach  one  foot  or  more  deep,  lay  the  trees  down  at  an  angle  of  about  45  .  their 
tops  to  the  south  ;  then  make  the  soil  mellow  and  fine,  and  thoroughly  inter- 
mingle it  with  the  roots,  filling  all  interstices,  and  covering  them  at  least  eigh- 
teen inches  deep. 

Trees  are  sometimes  received  in  a  frozen  condition.  They  should  then  be 
placed  at  once,  without  unpacking,  in  a  dark  cellar,  and  left  until  gradually 


THE    POSITION    OF    FRUIT-TREES.  51 

Villi  the  growui  of  a  young  tree,  in  such  a  position,  is  weak  and  feeble  ,' 
the  nourishment  suitable  to  that  kind  of  tree  having  already  been 
exhausted  by  a  previous  growth,  and  the  soil  being  half  tilled  with  old 
and  decayed  roots  which  are  detrimental  to  the  health  of  the  young  tree 


CHAPTER  VII. 

THE    POSITION    OF    FRUIT-TREES SOIL    AND    ASPECT. 

In  our  favorable  climate  many  fruit-trees  will  thrive  and  produce 
some  fruit  in  almost  any  soil,  except  dry  sand  or  wet  swamps.  But 
there  is  much  to  be  gained  in  all  cKmates  by  a  judicious  selection  of 
soil,  when  this  is  in  our  power,  or  by  that  improvement  which  ma} 
generally  be  effected  in  inferior  soils,  where  we  are  necessarily  limited 
to  such.  As  we  shall,  in  treating  the  culture  of  each  genus  of  fruit, 
state  more  in  detail  the  soils  especially  adapted  to  its  growth,  our 
remarks  here  will  be  confined  to  the  subject  of  soils  generally  for  the 
orchard  and  fruit-garden. 

The  soils  usually  selected  for  making  plantations  of  fruit-trees  may 
be  divided  into  light  sandy  loams,  gravelly  loams,  strong  loams,  and 
clayey  loams ;  the  first  having  a  large  proportion  of  sand,  and  the  last  a 
large  proportion  of  clay. 

The  soil  most  inviting  to  the  eye  is  a  light  8<wdy  loam,  and  as  it  is 
also  a  very  common  soil,  more  than  half  the  fruit-gardens  in  the  country 
ire  composed  of  this  mould.  The  easy  manner  in  which  it  is  worked, 
owing  to  its  loose  and  very  friable  nature,  and  the  rapidity  with  which, 
from  its  warmth,  crops  of  all  kinds  come  into  bearing,  cause  it  to  be 
looked  upon  with  almost  universal  favor.  Notwithstanding  this,  a 
pretty  careful  observation  for  several  years  has  convinced  us  that  a 
light  sandy  soil  is,  on  the  whole,  the  worst  soil  for  fruit-trees.  Under 
the  bright  skies  of  July  and  August,  a  fruit-tree  requires  a  soil  which 
will  retain  and  atford  a  moderate  and  continued  supply  of  moisture, 
and  here  the  sandy  soil  fails.  In  consequence  of  this  the  vigor  of  the 
tree  is  checked,  and  it  becomes  feeble  in  its  growth,  and  is  compara- 
tively short-lived  or  unproductive.  As  a  tree  in  a  feeble  state  is 
always  most  liable  to  the  attacks  of  insects,  those  on  a  sandy  soil  are 
the  first  to  fall  a  prey  to  numerous  maladies.*  The  open  loose  tex- 
ture of  a  sandy  soil,  joined  to  its  warmth,  affords  an  easy  passage  and 
an  excellent  habitation  for  all  insects  that  pass  part  of  their  lives  in  the 
ground,  preparatory  to  rising  out  of  it  to  attack  the  fruit,  foliage,  or 
branches  of  the  tree. 


thawed  out ;  or  they  may  be  at  once — if  the  earth  will  allow — buried,  tops  and 
Toots  entire,  beneath  the  ground,  and  there  left  for  a  few  days,  or  until  a  moist 
cloudy  day  occurs  for  opening  and  exposing  them  to  the  light  and  air.  This  lat- 
ter course  is  also  a  good  one  for  trees  that  are  received  in  a  dry  ofr  shrivelled 
Btate. 

'    This  remark  applies  to  the  middle  and  southern  portions  of  this  country 
North  of  the  4;)°  a  light  sandy  soil  is  perhaps  preferable,  as  warmer  and  r„.-ier. 


62  THE    POSITION    OF    FRUIT- TREE8. 

Such  aro  some  of  the  disadvantages  of  a  light  sandy  soil ;  and  in 
thoroughly  examining  many  of  the  fruit-gardens  of  the  Middle  States 
the  last  few  seasons,  we  could  not  fail  to  be  struck  with  the  fact  that,  in 
nine  cases  out  of  ten,  where  a  variety  of  fruit  was  umrsually  liable  to 
disease,  to  blight,  or  to  the  attacks  of  certain  fruit-destroying  insects,  as 
the  curculio,  the  trees  themselves  were  on  sandy  soils ;  while  on  the 
other  hand,  and  frequently  in  the  same  neighborhood,  the  same  sorts 
were  growing  luxuriantly  and  bearing  abundant  crops  where  the  soil 
was  a  rather  strong  loam.*  For  a  few  years  the  growth  and  productive- 
ness of  the  trees  upon  sandy  soil  is  all  that  can  be  desired ;  but  tht 
trees  are  shorter  lived,  and  sooner  fall  into  decay  than  where  the  soil  is 
stronger.  If  there  is  any  exception  to  this  rule,  it  is  only  in  the  case 
of  the  Peach ;  and,  judging  from  the  superior  flavor  of  this  fruit  on 
stronger  soils,  we  are  inclined  to  doubt  the  value  of  the  exception  even 
here. 

Gravelly  loams  are  frequently  much  better  adapted  for  orchards  than 
sandy,  especially  where  the  loam  is  of  a  strong  quality,  and  the  gravel  is 
not  in  excess ;  and  the  hardier  fruits  usually  do  well  on  this  kind  of 
soil. 

Strong  loams,  by  which  we  mean  a  loam  with  only  just  a  sufficient 
portion  of  sand  to  make  it  easily  worked,  are,  on  the  whole,  by  far  the 
best  for  fruit-gardens  in  this  country.  A  strong  loam  is  usually  a  deep 
soil,  and  affords,  during  the  whole  heat  of  summer,  a  proper  supply  of 
moisture  and  nourishment  to  the  roots  of  trees.  Fruit-trees  do  not 
come  into  a  bearing  state  so  soon  in  a  strong  as  in  a  sandy  loam,  because 
the  growth  of  wood  is  more  vigorous,  and  fruit-buds  are  not  so  soon 
formed ;  but  they  bear  larger  crops,  are  much  less  liable  to  many  dis- 
eases, and  their  longevity  is  much  greater.  The  largest  and  most  pro- 
ductive orchards  of  the  Apple  and  Pear  in  this  country  are  upon  soils 
of  this  kind. 

Clayey  loams  are,  when  well  drained,  and  when  the  clay  is  not  in 
excess,  good  fruit  soils — they  are  usually  strong  and  deep  soils,  though 
rather  heavy  and  difficult  to  work.  Trees  that  will  flourish  on  these  soils, 
such  as  the  Apple,  Pear,  Cherry,  Plum,  and  Apricot,  usually  are  very 
free  from  disease  or  insects,  and  bear  large  crops.  In  a  moist  climate, 
like  that  of  England,  fruit-trees  on  a  clayey  loam  would  die  of  canker, 
brought  on  by  the  excessive  quantity  of  water  contained  in  the  soil,  but 
such  is  not  the  case  under  the  high  and  warm  temperature  of  our  sum- 
mers. The  finest,  largest,  and  most  productive  Plums  and  Pears  within 
our  knowledge,  grow  in  sites  on  the  North  River,  where  the  soil  is  a 
stiff  clayey  loam,  almost  approaching  a  clay.  Those  fruits  that  on  light 
sandy  soils  are  almost  worthless,  from  their  liability  to  disease  and  the 
attacks  of  insects,  are  here  surprisingly  luxuriant  and  fruitful. 

It  is,  however,  well  to  remark,  that  some  varieties  of  fruit,  perhaps 
from  the  circumstances  of  their  origin,  succeed  better  on  sandy  soils 
than  any  other ;  thus  the  Newtown  Pippin  will  only  arrive  at  perfection 
in  a  strong  loam,  while  the  Summer  Queen  is  finer  when  grown  on  a 

*  As  an  instance  in  point,  the  owner  of  one  of  the  most  highly  cultivated 
gardens  in  the  vicinity  of  Boston  was  showing  us,  in  despair,  some  trees  of  the 
Seckel  Pear,  upon  which  he  could  no  longer  get  good  crops  or  fair  fruit,  and 
lamenting  the  degeneracy  of  the  sort.  The  next  day  we  saw  in  a  neighboring 
garden  beautiful  crops  of  this  Pear  growing  with  the  least  possible  care.  Th« 
garden  in  the  first  case  was  a  light  sandy  loam .  in  the  second,  a  strong  loam. 


THE    POSITION    OF    FKUIT-TREES.  53 

dandy,  soil.  But  there  are  exceptions  to  all  rules,  and  what  we  have 
already  stato  I,  as  to  the  relative  quality  of  soils,  will  apply  pretty  gen- 
erally to  the  whole  of  this  country,  and  it  may  be  added  that  calcareous 
soils,  of  whatever  texture,  are  better  than  soils  of  the  same  quality  where 
no  limestone  is  present. 

Trenching  is  the  most  complete  method  of  improving  a  soil  too 
Bandy,  when  the  subsoil  below  is  of  a  loamy  or  clayey  nature.  Deep 
subsoil  ploughing,  by  bringing  up  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  stratum 
below,  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  When  the  subsoil  of  a  sandy  soil 
is  sand  or  gravel,  the  surface  can  only  be  improved  by  top-dressings  or 
the  application  of  manures.  Top-dressing  with  clay  is  the  most  simple 
means  of  changing  the  nature  of  such  a  soil,  and  it  is  surprising  how 
moderate  a  quantity  of  clay  will  give  a  closer  texture  to  light  sandy 
soils.  In  manuring  such  soils,  we  may  greatly  improve  their  nature  aa 
well  as  condition  by  using  composts  of  peat  or  bog  earth,  swamp  muck, 
or  river  mud,  instead  of  common  barn-yard  or  stable  manure.  The 
former  are  not  only  more  permanent  and  better  as  manures  for  fruit- 
trees,  but  they  gradually  consolidate  and  improve  the  whole  texture  of 
the  soil. 

Indeed  no  fruit-garden,  where  the  soil  is  not  naturally  deep  and  rich, 
is  in  perfect  condition  for  planting  trees,  unless  the  soil  has  been  well 
trenched  two  spades  in  depth.  This  creates  a  matrix  for  the  roots  so 
deep  and  permanent  that  they  retain  their  vigor  and  luxuriance  through 
the  droughts  of  summer,  and  continue  for  a  long  time  in  a  state  of  health 
and  productiveness. 

It  is  difficult  to  give  any  precise  rules  as  to  aspect.  We  have  seen 
fine  fruit-gardens  here  in  all  aspects.  Perhaps  the  very  best  aspect  on 
the  whole  is  a  gentle  slope  to  the  southwest,  because  in  such  positions 
the  trees  when  in  blossom  are  somewhat  protected  from  the  bad  effects  of 
a  morning  sun  after  spring  frosts.  But,  to  remedy  this  more  perfectly,  it 
is  sometimes  the  practice  to  plant  on  the  north  sides  of  hills,  and  this  is  an 
effectual  way  where  early  frosts  are  fatal,  and  where  the  season  is  long 
and  warm  enough  to  ripen  the  fruit  in  any  exposure.  A  fine  south  slope 
is,  south  of  New  York,  frequently  found  too  warm  for  many  fruit-trees 
in  soils  that  are  light  and  dry. 

Deep  valleys  with  small  streams  of  water  are  the  worst  situations  for 
fruit-trees,  as  the  cold  air  settles  down  in  these  valleys  in  a  calm  frosty 
night,  and  buds  and  blossoms  are  very  frequently  destroyed.  We  know  a 
rich  and  fertile  valley  of  this  kind  in  Connecticut  where  the  Cherry  will 
scarcely  grow,  and  a  crop  of  the  Apple  or  the  Pear  is  not  obtained  once 
in  ten  years ;  while  the  adjacent  hill-tops  and  high  country,  a  couple  or 
three  miles  distant,  yield  abundant  crops  annually.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  borders  of  large  rivers,  as  the  Hudson,  or  of  some  of  our  large  inland 
lakes,  are  the  most  favorable  situations  for  fruit-trees,  as  the  climate  is 
rendered  milder  by  large  bodies  of  water.  In  the  garden  where  we 
write,  a  fourth  of  a  mile  from  the  Hudson,  we  have  frequently  seen  ice 
formed  during  the  night  of  the  thickness  of  a  dollar,  when  the  blossoms 
of  the  Apricot  were  fully  expanded,  without  doing  the  least  harm  to  that 
tender  fruit.  This  is  owing  to  the  slight  fog  rising  from  the  river  in  the 
morning,  which,  softening  the  rays  of  the  sun,  and  dissolving  gr  ulually 
the  frost,  prevents  the  injurious  effects  of  sudden  thawing.  At  the  same 
time,  a  couple  of  miles  from  tin-  shores,  this  fruit  will  often  be  quite 
destroyed.     In  short   the  season  ">•   the  lover  half  of  the  Hudson  niaVi 


64  GENERAL   REMARKS    ON   INSECTS. 

from  the  ameliorating  influence  of  the  river,  he  said  to  be  a,  month  Icngei 
■ — a  fortnight  earlier  in  spring  and  later  in  autumn — than  in  the  same 
latitude  a  few  miles  distant ;  and  crops  of  the  more  tender  fruits  are 
therefore  much  more  certain  on  the  banks  of  large  rivers  or  lakes  than  in 
inland  districts  of  the  same  climate. 

As  our  native  forests  become  cleared  away  the  climate  is  changed 
and  becomes  more  harsh  ;  hence  it  is  found  desirable  to  construct  some 
kind  of  protection  from  the  point  of  most  destructive  harsh  winds  and 
storms.  Belts  of  trees,  either  evergreen  or  deciduous,  or  both  mingled, 
iind  surrounding  or  placed  so  as  to  screen  from  the  northeast,  north,  and 
northwest,  are  consideied  highly  advantageous;  and  when  we  consider 
that  foliage  is  an  absorbent  and  ameliorating  agent  in  tempering  cblmate, 
we  feel  that  it  is  the  duty  as  well  as  interest  of  every  fruit-grower  to 
plant  as  many  such  belts  as  his  property  and  pecuniary  means  admit. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

GENERAL    REMARKS    ON    INSECTS. 

The  insects  injurious  to  fruit-trees  are  numerous,  and  to  combat  them 
successfully  requires  a  minute  acquaintance  with  their  character  and 
habits.  While  considering  the  culture  of  each  class  of  fruit  in  the  suc- 
ceeding pages,  we  shall  point  out  the  habits  and  suggest  means  of  de- 
stroying the  most  important"  of  these  insects;  but  in  the  mean  time 
we  wish  to  call  attention  to  some  general  practical  hints  on  this  sub- 
ject. 

In  the  first  place,  we  cannot  too  strongly  impress  upon  the  attention 
of  the  fruit-grower  the  importance  of  watching  carefully  and  making  an 
early  attack  upon  every  species  of  insect.  It  is  only  necessary  to  look 
for  a  moment  at  the  astonishing  rapidity  with  wliich  many  kinds  of 
insects  increase,  if  allowed  to  get  wTell  established  in  a  garden,  to  become 
fully  aware  of  this.  The  common  caterpillars  are  the  young  of  moths  or 
butterflies,  and  that  careful  observer  of  the  habits  of  insects,  Dr.  Harris, 
says  as  each  female  lays  from  two  to  five  hundred  eggs,  a  thousand  moths 
or  butterflies  will,  on  the  average,  produce  three  hundred  thousand  cater- 
pillars ;  if  one  half  this  number,  when  arrived  at  maturity,  art  females, 
they  will  give  forty-five  millions  of  caterpillars  in  the  second,  and  six 
thousand  seven  hundred  and  fifty  millions  in  the  third  generation.*  T; 
take  another  example  :  the  aphides,  or  plant-lice,  which  are  frequently 
been  in  great  numbers  on  the  tender  shoots  of  fruit-trees,  have  an  almost 
incredibly  prolific  power  of  increase — the  investigations  of  Reaumur 
having  shown  that  one  individual  in  five  generations  may  become  the 
progenitor  of  nearly  six  thousand  millions  of  descendants.  With  such 
surprising  powers  of  propagation,  were  it  not  for  the  havoc  caused 
among  insects  by  various  species  preying  upon  each  other,  by  birds  and 
other  animals,  and  especially  by  unfavorable  seasons,  vegetation  would 

*  For  much  valuable  information  on  the  habits  of  insects  injurious  to  vegeta- 
tion, see  the  "  Treatise  od  the  Insects  of  Massachusetts,"  by  Dr.  T.  W  Harris, 
Cambridge. 


GENERAL   REMARKS    ON    INSECTS.  6C 

soon  be  entirely  destroyed  by  them.  As  it  is,  the  orchards  and  gardens 
of  careless  and  slovenly  cultivators  are  often  overrun  by  them,  and  many 
of  the  finest  crops  suffer  great  injury  or  total  loss  from  the  want  of  a 
little  timely  care. 

lu  all  well-managed  plantations  of  fruit,  at  the  tirst  appearance  of 
any  injurious  insect,  it  will  be  immediately  seized  upon  and  destroyed 
A.  few  moments  in  the  first  stage  of  insect  life — at  the  first  birth  of  the 
new  colony — will  do  more  to  rid  us  for  the  season  of  that  species  than 
whole  days  of  toil  after  the  matter  lias  been  so  long  neglected  that  the 
enemy  has  become  well  established.  We  know  how  reluctant  all  but  the 
experienced  grower  are,  to  set  about  eradicating  what  at  first  seems  a 
thing  of  such  trifling  consequence.  But  such  persons  should  consider 
that  whether  it  is  done  at  first,  or  a  fortnight  after,  is  frequently  the 
difference  between  ten  and  ten  thousand.  A  very  little  time  regularly 
devoted  to  the  extirpation  of  noxious  insects  will  keep  a  large  place  quite 
free  from  them.  We  know  a  very  large  garden  filled  with  trees,  and 
always  remarkably  free  from  insect  ravages,  which,  while  those  even  in 
its  vicinity  suffer  greatly,  is  thus  preserved  by  half  an  hour's  examination 
of  the  whole  premises  two  days  in  the  week  during  the  growing  season. 
This  is  made  early  in  the  morning,  the  best  time  for  the  purpose,  as  the 
insects  are  quiet  while  the  dew  is  yet  upon  the  leaves,  and  whole  races 
yet  only  partially  developed  may  be  swept  off  in  a  single  moment.  In 
default  of  other  more  rapid  expedients,  the  old  mode  of  hcmd'pickmg, 
and  crushing  or  burning,  is  the  safest  and  surest  that  can  be  adopted. 
For  practical  purposes,  the  numerous  bisects  infesting  fruit-trees  may 
be  divided  into  four  classes  :  1st,  those  which  for  a  time  harbor  in  the 
ground  and  may  be  attacked  in  the  soil;  2d,  winged  and  other  species, 
which  may  be  attacked  among  the  branches;  3d,  aphides  or  plant- 
lice,  which  infest  the  young  shoots ;  4:th,  moths,  and  all  night-flying 
insects. 

Insects,  the  larvce  or  grubs  of  which  harbor  in  the  ground  during  a 
certain  season,  as  the  curculio  or  plum-weevil,  are  all  more  or  less  affected 
by  the  application  of  common  salt  as  a  top-dressing.  On  a  larger  scale, 
in  farm  crops,  the  ravages  of  the  cut-worm  are  frequently  prevented  by 
sowing  three  bushels  of  salt  to  the  acre,  and  we  have  seen  it  applied  to 
all  kinds  of  fruit-grounds  with  equal  success.  Salt  seems  to  be  strongly 
disagreeable  to  nearly  all  this  class  of  insects,  and  the  grubs  perish  where 
even  a  small  quantity  has  for  two  or  three  seasons  been  applied  to  the 
soil.  Ina  neighborhood  where  the  peach-worm  usually  destroys  half  the 
peach-trees,  and  where  whole  crops  of  the  plum  are  equally  a  victim  to 
the  plum-weevil,  we  have  seen  the  former  preserved  in  the  healthiest 
condition  by  an  annual  application  of  a  small  handful  of  coarse  salt 
about  the  collar  of  the  tree  at  the  surface  of  the  ground;  and  the  latter 
made  to  hold  abundant  crops  by  a  top-dressing  applied  every  spring  of 
packing  salt,  at  the  rate  of  a  quart  to  the  surface  occupied  by  the  roots 
of  every  full-grown  ti 

Salt,  being  a  powerful  agent,  must  be  applied  for  this  purpose  with 
aaution  and  judgment.  In  small  quantities  i!  promotes  the  verdure  and 
luxu'-ianee  of  fruit -trees,  while  if  applied  very  frequently,  or  too  plenti 
fully,  it  will  certainly  cause  th<  death  of  any  tree.  Two  or  three  years' 
top-dressing  in  moderate  quantity  will  usually  be  found  sufficient  to 
drive  away  these  insects,  and  then  the  application  need  only  be  repeated 
once  in  two  or  three   seasons.      Any  coarse  refuse  salt  will  ana»ver   tut 


£>6  GENERAL    REMARKS   ON    INSECTS. 

purpose;  and  packing  salt  is  preferable  to  that  of  finer  quality,  aa  it 
dissolves  slowly  by  the  action  of  the  atmosphere.* 

In  the  winged  state  most  small  insects  may  either  be  driven  away  by 
powerful  odors,  or  killed  by  strong  decoctions  of  tobacco,  or  a  wash  of 
diluted  whale-oil  or  other  strong  soap.  Attention  has  but  recently  been 
called  to  the  repugnance  of  all  insects  to  strong  odors,  and  there  is  but 
little  doubt  that  before  a  long  time  it  will  lead  to  the  discovery  of  the 
means  of  preventing  the  attacks  of  most  insects,  by  means  of  strong 
smelling  liquids  or  odorous  substances.  The  moths  that  attack  furs,  aa 
every  one  knows,  are  driven  away  by  pepper-corns  or  tobacco,  and  should 
future  experiments  prove  that  at  certain  seasons,  when  our  trees  are 
most  likely  to  be  attacked  by  insects,  we  may  expel  them  by  hanging 
bottles  or  rags  filled  with  strong  smelling  liquids  in  our  trees,  it  will 
certainly  be  a  very  simple  and  easy  way  of  ridding  ourselves  of  them. 
The  brown  scale,  a  troublesome  enemy  of  the  orange-tree,  it  is  stated  in 
the  Gardener 's  Chronicle,  has  been  destroyed  by  hanging  plants  of  the 
common  chamomile  among  its  branches.  The  odor  of  the  coal-tar  of  gas- 
works is  exceedingly  offensive  to  some  insects  injurious  to  fruits,  and  it 
has  been  found  to  drive  away  the  wire-worm  and  other  grubs  that  attack 
the  roots  of  plants.  The  vapor  of  oil  of  turpentine  is  fatal  to  wasps,  and 
that  of  tobacco-smoke  to  the  green  fly.  Little  as  yet  is  certainly  known 
respecting  the  exact  power  of  the  various  smells  in  deterring  insects  from 
attacking  trees.  What  we  do  know,  however,  gives  us  reason  to  believe 
that  much  may  be  hoped  from  experiments  made  with  a  variety  of  power- 
ful-smelling substances. 

Tobacco-water  and  diluted  whale-oil  soap  are  the  two  most  efficient 
remedies  for  all  the  small  insects  which  feed  upon  the  young  shoots  and 
leaves  of  plants.  Tobacco-water  is  made  by  boiling  tobacco  leaves,  or  the 
refuse  stems  and  stalks  of  the  tobacco-shops.  A  large  pot  is  crowded 
full  of  them,  and  then  filled  up  with  water,  which  is  boiled  till  a  strong 
decoction  is  made.  This  is  applied  to  the  young  shoots  and  leaves  with 
a  syringe,  or,  when  the  trees  are  growing  in  nursery-rows,  with  a  common 
white- wash  brush,  dipping  the  latter  in  the  liquid  and  shaking  it  sharply 
over  the  extremities  or  the  infested  part  of  each  tree.  This  or  the  whale- 
oil  soap-suds,  or  a  mixture  of  both,  will  kill  every  species  of  plant-lice  and 
nearly  all  other  small  insects  to  which  young  trees  are  subject. 

The  wash  of  whale-oil  soap  is  made  by  mixing  two  pounds  of  this 
soap,  which  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  strongest  kinds,  with  fifteen  gal- 
lons of  water.  This  mixture  is  applied  to  the  leaves  and  stems  of  plants 
with  a  syringe,  or  in  any  other  convenient  mode,  and  there  are  few  of 
the  smaller  insects  that  are  not  destroyed  or  driven  away  by  it.  The 
merit  of  this  mixture  belongs  to  Mr.  David  Haggerston,  of  Boston,  who 
first  applied  it  with  great  success  to  the  rose-slug,  and  received  the  pre- 
mium of  the  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society  for  its  discovery. 
When  this  soap  cannot  be  obtained,  a  good  substitute  may  be  made  by 
turning  into  soap  the  lees  of  common  oil-casks,  by  the  application  of 
potash  and  water  in  the  usual  way. 

Moths  and  other  insects  which  jly  at  night  are  destroyed  in  large 
numbers  by  the  following  mode,  first  discovered  by  Victor  Adouin,  of 
France.     A  flat  saucer  or  vessel  is  set  on  the  grr  und,  in  which  is  placed 

*  After  repeated  tests,  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  use  of  salt  is  as  destructive 
to  insect  life  as  here  stated.  The  use  of  salt  as  manure  is  undoubtedly  a  good 
stimulant  to  vegetable  life  and  vigor. 


GENERAL    REMARKS    ON    INSECTB.  tT 

a  light,  partially  covered  with  a  common  bell-glass  besmeared  with  oil. 
All  the  small  moths  are  directly  attracted  by  tfte  light,  fly  towards  it 
and  in  their  attempts  to  get  at  the  light,  are  either  caught  by  the  glutin- 
ous sides  of  the  bell-glass,  or  fall  into  the  basin  of  oil  beneath,  and 
in  either  case  soon  perish.  M.  Adouin  applied  this  to  the  destruction 
of  the  pyralis,  a  moth  that  is  very  troublesome  in  the  French  vineyards ; 
with  two  hundred  of  these  lights  in  a  vineyard  of  four  acres,  and  iu  a 
single  night,  30,000  moths  were  killed  and  found  dead  on  or  about 
the  vessels.  By  continuing  his  process  through  the  season,  it  was  esti- 
mated that  he  had  destroyed  female  moths  sufficient  to  have  pro- 
duced a  progeny  of  over  a  million  of  caterpillars.  In  our  orchards 
myriads  of  insects  may  be  destroyed  by  lighting  small  bonfires  of  shav- 
ings or  any  refuse  brush ;  and  in  districts  where  the  apples  are  much 
worm-eaten,  if  repeated  two  or  three  nights  at  the  proper  season,  this  is 
a  very  efficient  and  cheap  mode  of  getting  rid  of  the  moth  which  causes 
so  much  mischief.  Dr.  Harris,  knowing  how  important  it  is  to  destroy 
the  caterpillar  in  the  moth  state,  has  recommended  flambeaux,  made  of 
tow  wound  round  a  stake  and  dipped  in  tar,  to  be  stuck  in  the  fruit-gar- 
den at  night  and  lighted.  Thousands  of  moths  will  find  a  speedy  death, 
even  in  the  short  time  which  these  flambeaux  are  burning.  The  melon- 
bug  may  be  extirpated  by  myriads  in  the  same  way. 

A  simple  and  most  effect ual  mode  of  ridding  the  fruit-garden  of 
insects  of  every  description,  which  we  recommend  as  a  general  extirpator 
suited  to  all  situations,  is  the  following : — Take  a  number  of  common 
bottles,  the  wider  mouthed  the  better,  and  fill  them  about  half  full  of 
a  mixture  of  water,  molasses,  and  vinegar.  Suspend  these  among  the 
branches  of  trees  and  in  various  parts  of  the  garden.  In  a  fortnight 
they  will  be  found  full  of  dead  insects  of  every  description  not  too  large 
to  enter  bottles — wasps,  flies,  beetles,  slugs,  grubs,  and  a  great  variety 
of  others.  The  bottles  must  now  be  emptied  and  the  liquid  renewed. 
A  zealous  amateur  of  our  acquaintance  caught  last  season  in  this  way 
more  than  three  bushels  of  insects  of  various  kinds ;  and,  what  is  more 
satisfactory,  preserved  his  garden  almost  entirely  against  their  attacks  in 
any  shape. 

The  assistance  of  birds  in  destroying  insects  should  be  duly  estimated 
by  the  fruit-grower.  The  quantity  of  eggs  and  insects  in  various  states 
devoured  anuually  by  birds,  when  they  are  encouraged  in  gardens,  is 
truly  surprising.  It  is  true  that  one  or  two  species  of  these,  as  the  ring- 
tail, annoy  us  by  preying  upon  the  earlier  cherries,  but  even  taking  this 
into  account,  we  are  inclined  to  believe  that  we  can  much  better  spare  a 
reasonable  share  of  a  few  fruits  than  dispense  with  the  good  services  of 
birds  in  ridding  us  of  an  excess  of  insects. 

The  most  serviceable  birds  are  the  common  sparrows,  the  wren,  the 
red-breast,  and  in  short  most  of  the  birds  of  this  class.  All  these  birds 
should  be  encouraged  to  build  nests  and  inhabit  the  fruit-garden,  and 
this  may  most  effectually  be  done  by  not  allowing  a  gun  to  be  fired  within 
its  boundaries.  The  introduction  of  hedges  or  live  fences  greatly  pro- 
motes the  domestication  of  birds,  as  they  afford  an  admirable  shelter  for 
their  nests.  Our  own  gardens  are  usually  much  more  free  from  insects 
than  those  a  mile  or  two  distant,  and  we  attribute  this  in  part  to  our  prac- 
tice of  encouraging  birds,  and  to  the  thorn  and  arbor  vitse  hedges  grow- 
ing here,  and  which  are  greatly  resorted  to  by  those  of  the  feathered  tribe 
which  are  f  he  greatest  enemies  of  the  insect  race. 


58  THE   APPLE. 

AiQong  animals,  the  toad  and  the  bat  are  great  insect  destroyers. 
The  common  bat  lives  almost  entirely  upon  them,  and  in  its  evening 
sallies  devours  a  great  number  of  moths,  beetles,  weevils,  etc. ;  and  the 
toad  quietly  makes  away  with  numberless  smaller  insects. 


CHAPTER   IX. 

THE   APPLE. 


Pyrus  Malus,  L.     Rosacea,  of  botanists. 

Pommitr,  of  the  French;  Apfelbaum,  German;  Apfd,  Dutch;  Mdo pomo,  Ital« 

ian ;  and  Manza?ia,  Spanish. 

The  Apple  is  the  world-renowned  fruit  of  temperate  climates.  From 
the  most  remote  periods  it  has  been  the  subject  of  praise  among  writers 
and  poets,  and  the  old  mythologies  all  endow  its  fruit  with  wonderful  vir- 
tues. The  allegorical  tree  of  knowledge  bore  apples,  and  the  celebrated 
golden  fruit  of  the  orchards  of  Hesperus,  guarded  by  the  sleepless  dragon 
which  it  was  one  of  the  triumphs  of  Hercules  to  slay,  were  also  apples, 
according  to  the  old  legends.  Among  the  heathen  gods  of  the  north, 
there  were  apples  fabled  to  possess  the  power  of  conferring  immortality, 
which  were  carefully  watched  over  by  the  goddess  Iduna,  and  kept  for 
the  especial  dessert  of  the  gods  who  felt  themselves  growing  old  !  As 
the  mistletoe  grew  chiefly  on  the  apple  and  the  oak,  the  former  tree  was 
looked  upon  with  great  respect  and  reverence  by  the  ancient  Druids  of 
Britain ;  and  even  to  this  day,  in  some  parts  of  England,  the  antique 
custom  of  saluting  the  apple-trees  in  the  orchards,  in  the  hope  of  obtain- 
ing a  good  crop  the  next  year,  still  lingers  among  the  farmers  of  portions 
of  Devonshire  and  Herefordshire.  This  old  ceremony  consists  of  salut- 
ing the  tree  with  a  portion  of  the  contents  of  a  wassail-bowl  of  cider 
with  a  toast  in  it,  by  pouring  a  little  of  the  cider  about  the  roots,  and 
even  hanging  a  bit  of  the  toast  on  the  branches  of  the  most  barren,  the 
farmer  and  his  men  dancing  in  a  circle  round  the  tree,  and  singing  rude 
Bongs  like  the  following  : 

"  Here's  to  thee,  old  apple-tree. 
Whence  thou  mayst  bud,  and  whence  thou  mayst  blow ; 
And  whence  thou  mayst  bear  apples  enow, 
Hats  full !  caps  full — 
Bushels  and  sacks  full ! 
Huzza  ! " 

The  species  of  crab  from  which  all  our  sorts  of  Apples  have  originated, 
is  wild  in  most  parts  of  Europe.  There  are,  indeed,  two  or  three  kinds 
of  wild  crab  belonging  to  this  country  ;  as  the  Pyrus  roronaria,  or  sweet- 
ucented  crab,  with  fruit  about  an  inch  in  diameter,  grows  in  many  parts 
of  the  United  States;  and  the  wild  crab  of  Oregon,  P.  riwla/ris,  bear- 
ing a  reddish-yellow  fruit,  about  the  size  of  a  cherry,  which  the  (jhenook 
Indians  use  as  an  article  of  food;  yet  none  of  our  cultivated  varieties  of 
Apple  have  been  raised  from  these  native  crabs,  but  from  seeds  of  the 
species  brought  here,  by  the  colonists,  from  Europe. 


THE    APPLE.  59 

The  Appl  vtree  is,  however,  most  perfectly  naturalized  in  America, 
and,  in  the  northern  and  middle  portions  of  the  United  States,  succeeds 
as  well,  or,  as  we  believe,  better  than  in  any  part  of  the  world.  The 
most  celebrated  apples  of  Germany  and  the  north  of  Europe  are  not 
superior  to  many  of  the  varieties  originated  here  ;  and  the  Anieiican  or 
Newtown  Pippin  is  now  pretty  generally  admitted  to  be  the  finest  ap- 
ple in  the  world.  No  better  proof  of  the  perfect  adaptation  of  our  soil 
and  climate  to  this  tree  can  be  desired,  than  the  seemingly  spontaneous 
production  of  such  varieties  as  this,  the  Baldwin,  the  Spitzenberg,  or  the 
Swaar— all  fruits  of  delicious  flavor,  and  great  beauty  of  appearance. 

The  Apple  is  usually  a  very  hardy  and  rather  slow-growing  fruit-tree, 
«dth  a  low-spreading  rather  irregular  head,  and  bears  an  abundance  of 
white  blossoms,  tinged  with  red.  In  a  wild  state  it  is  very  long-lived, 
but  the  finest  garden  sorts  usually  live  about  fifty  or  eighty  years ; 
though,  by  proper  care,  they  may  be  kept  healthy  and  productive  much 
longer.  Although  the  apple  generally  forms  a  tree  of  medium  growth, 
there  are  many  specimens  in  this  country  of  enormous  size.  Among 
others,  we  recollect  two  in  the  grounds  of  Mr.  Hall,  of  Raynham,  Rhode 
Island,  which,  ten  years  ago,  were  130  years  old;  the  trunk  of  one  of 
these  trees  then  measured,  at  one  foot  from  the  ground,  thirteen  feet  two 
inches,  and  the  other  twelve  feet  two  inches.  The  trees  bore  that  season 
about  thirty  or  forty  bushels;  but,  in  the  year  1780,  they  together  bore 
one  hundred  and  one  bushels  of  apples.  In  Duxbury,  Plymouth  County, 
Mass.,  is  a  tree  which  in  its  girth  measures  twelve  feet  five  inches,  and 
which  has  yielded  in  a  single  season  12 1^-  bushels. 

In  Lehigh  County,  Pa.,  there  is  an  apple-tree  which  measures  17^  feet 
in  circumference,  one  foot  above  the  ground.  The  tree  is  fifty-four  feet 
aigh,  and  the  branches  extend  thirty-six  feet  each  way  from  the  trunk. 

USES    OF    THE    APPLE. 

No  fruit  is  more  universally  liked  or  generally  used  than  the  apple. 
It  is  exceedingly  wholesome,  and,  medicinally,  is  considered  cooling  and 
laxative,  and  useful  in  all  inflammatory  diseases.  The  finest  sorts  are 
much  esteemed  for  the  dessert,  and  the  little  care  required  in  its  culture 
renders  it  the  most  abundant  of  all  fruits  in  temperate  climates.  As  the 
earliest  sorts  ripen  about  the  last  of  June,  and  the  latest  can  be  preserved 
until  that  season,  it  may  be  considered  as  a  fruit  in  perfection  the  whole 
year.  Besides  its  merits  for  the  dessert,  the  value  of  the  apple  is  still 
greater  for  the  kitchen  ;  and  in  sauces,  pies,  tarts,  preserves,  and  jellies, 
and  roasted  and  boiled,  this  fruit  is  the  constant  and  invaluable  resource 
of  the  kitchen. 

In  seasons  of  scarcity,  the  small  and  usually  considered  refuse  apples 
may  be  stewed,  and  then  rubbed  through  a  cullender,  separating  the 
seeds  and  skins  from  the  pulp,  forming  a  delicious  sauce. 

Apple-butter,  made  by  stewing  pared  and  sliced  sweet  apples  in  new 
cider  until  the  whole  is  soft  and  pulpy,  is  a  common  and  excellent  arti- 
cle of  food  in  many  farmers'  families,  and  is  frequently  made  by  the  bar- 
rel. In  France,  nearly  the  same  preparation  is  formed  oy  simmering 
apples  in  new  wine  until  the  whole  becomes  a  sort  of  marmalade,  which 
is  called  Iiaisine.  The  juice  of  the  apple  unfermented  is,  in  some  parts 
of  the  country,  boiled  down  till  it  becomes  molasses.  When  fermented 
it  forms  cider j  and  if  this  is  carefully  made  from  the  best  cider  apples 


(JO  TEE    APPLE. 

it  is  nearly  equal  to  wine ;  in  fact,  many  hundreds  of  barrel?  of  the  cidei 
of  New  Jersey  have  been  manufactured,  in  a  single  year,  into  an  imita< 
tion  champagne,  which  is  scarcely  distinguished  by  many  from  that  made 
from  the  grape. 

Apples  are  also  made  into  jelly,  by  grinding  and  pressing  in  the  ordi- 
nary way  for  cider,  then  passed,  in  a  thin  and  nearly  continuous  current, 
over  an  intensely  heated  clarifying  or  evaporating  pan,  such  as  is  ordi- 
narily used  in  the  manufacture  of  molasses  from  the  sorgho  sugar-cane. 
About  eight  gallons  of  the  apple-juice,  or  cider,  will  make  one  gallon  of 
a  very  delicious  jelly. 

Dried  apples  are  also  a  considerable  article  of  commerce.  Farmers 
usually  pare  and  quarter  them  by  hand,  and  dry  them  in  the  sun ;  but 
those  who  pursue  it  as  a  matter  of  trade  pare  them  by  machinery,  and 
dry  them  slowly  in  ovens.  They  are  then  packed  in  bags  or  barrels,  and 
used  either  at  home,  in  sea  stores,  or  are  exported. 

In  perfumery,  the  pulp  of  this  fruit,  mixed  intimately  with  lard,  forms 
pomatum.  The  wood  is  employed  for  lasts,  and  for  other  purposes,  by 
turners ;  and,  being  fine-grained  and  compact,  is  sometimes  stained  black 
and  used  for  ebony  by  cabinet-makers. 

The  quality  of  an  apple  is  always  judged  of  by  the  use  to  which  it 
is  to  be  applied.  A  table  or  dessert  apple  of  the  finest  quality  should 
be  of  medium  size,  regular  form,  and  fine  color ;  and  the  flesh  should  be 
fine-grained,  crisp,  or  tender,  and  of  a  sprightly  or  rich  flavor  and  aroma. 
Very  large-sized,  or  coarse  apples  are  only  admired  by  persons  who  have 
little  knowledge  of  the  true  criterion  of  excellence.  Apples  for  kitchen 
use  should  have  the  property  of  cooking  evenly  into  a  tender,  pulpy  con- 
sistence, and  are  generally  acid  in  flavor  ;  and,  although  there  are  many 
good  cooking  apples  unfit  for  the  table,  many  sorts,  as  the  Fall  Pippin 
and  the  Greening,  are  excellent  for  both  purposes.  To  this  we  may  add, 
that  for  the  common  apple-sauce  made  by  farmers,  a  high-flavored  sweet 
apple,  which  boils  somewhat  firm,  is  preferred,  as  this  is  generally  made 
with  cider.  The  very  common  use  made  of  this  cheap  preserve  at  the 
North  and  West,  and  the  recent  practice  of  fattening  hogs,  horses,  and 
other  animals  upon  sweet  apples,  accounts  for  the  much  greater  number 
of  varieties  of  sweet  apples  held  in  esteem  here  than  in  any  other 
country.  In  fact,  so  excellent  has  the  saccharine  matter  of  the  apple 
been  found  for  this  purpose,  that  whole  orchards  of  sweet  apples  are 
frequently  planted  here  for  the  purpose  of  fattening  swine  and  cattle, 
which  are  allowed  to  run  at  large  in  them. 

Cider  apples  are  varieties  frequently  useless  for  any  other  purpose. 
The  best  for  this  purpose  are  rather  tough,  piquant,  and  astringent ;  their 
juice  has  a  high  specific  quality,  and  they  are  usually  great  bearers,  as 
the  Harrison,  the  Red  Streak,  and  th^  Virginia  Crab. 

PROPAGATION. 

The  Apple  for  propagation  is  usually  raised  from  seeds  obtained 
from  the  pomace  of  the  cider-mills,  and  a  preference  is  always  given 
to  that  from  thrifty  young  orchards.  These  are  sown  in  autumn, 
in  broad  drills,  in  good  mellow  soil,  and  they  remain  in  the  seed-beds — 
attention  being  paid  to  keeping  the  soil  loose,  and  free  from  weeds,  from 
one  to  three  years,  according  to  the  richness  of  the  soil.  When  the 
seedlings  are  a  little  more  than  a  fourth  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  they 


THE    APPLE.  61 

should  be  taken  up  in  the  sj  ring  or  autumn,  their  tap-roots  shortened, 
and  then  planted  in  nursery  rows,  one  foot  apart,  and  three  to  four  feet 
between  the  rows.  If  the  plants  are  thrifty  and  the  soil  good,  they  may 
be  budded  the  following  autumn,  within  one  or  two  inches  of  the  ground, 
and  this  is  the  most  speedy  mode  of  obtaining  strong,  straight,  thrifty 
plants.  Grafting  is  generally  performed  when  the  stocks  are  about  half 
an  inch  thick ;  and  for  several  modes  of  performing  it  on  the  Apple,  see 
the  remarks  on  grafting  in  a  previous  page.  When  young  trees  are 
feeble  in  the  nursery,  it  is  usual  to  head  them  back  two-thirds  the 
length  of  the  graft,  when  they  are  three  or  four  feet  high,  to  make  them 
throw  up  a  strong,  vigorous  shoot. 

Apple-stocks  for  dwarfs  are  raised  by  layers,  as  pointed  out  in  the 
article  on  Layers. 

Apple-trees  for  transplanting  to  orchards  should  be  at  least  two 
years  budded,  and  six  or  seven  feet  high,  and  they  should  have  a  proper 
balance  of  head  or  side  branches. 

SOIL   AND    SITUATION. 

The  Apple  will  grow  on  a  great  variety  of  soils,  but  it  seldom  thrives 
on  very  dry  sands,  or  soils  saturated  with  moisture.  Its  favorite  soil,  in 
all  countries,  is  a  strong  loam  of  a  calcareous  or  limestone  nature.  A 
deep,  strong,  gravelly,  marly,  or  clayey  loam,  or  a  strong  sandy  loam  on 
a  gravelly  subsoil,  produces  the  greatest  crops  and  the  liighest-Havored 
fruit,  as  well  as  the  utmost  longevity  of  the  trees.  Such  a  soil  is  moist 
rather  than  dry — the  most  favorable  condition  for  this  fruit.  Too  damp 
soils  may  often  be  rendered  fit  for  the  Apple  by  thorough  draining,  and 
too  dry  ones  by  deep  subsoil  ploughing,  or  trenching,  where  the  subsoil 
is  of  a  heavier  texture.  And  many  apple  orchards  in  New  England  are 
very  flourishing  and  productive  on  soils  so  stony  and  rock-covered 
(though  naturally  fertile)  as  to  be  unfit  for  any  other  crop.* 

As  regards  site,  apple  orchards  flourish  best  in  southern  and  middle 
portions  of  the  country  on  north  slopes,  and  often  even  on  the  steep 
north  sides  of  lulls,  where  the  climate  is  hot  and  dry.  Farther  noi-th  a 
southern  or  southeastern  aspect  is  preferable,  to  ripen  the  crop  and  the 
wood  more  perfectly 

We  may  here  remai-k  that  almost  every  district  of  the  country  has  one 
or  more  varieties  which,  having  had  its  origin  there,  seems  also  peculiarly 
adapted  to  the  soil  and  climate  of  that  locality.  Thus  the  Newtown 
Pippin  and  the  Spitzenberg  are  the  great  apples  of  New  York ;  the 
Baldwin  and  the  Roxbury  Russet,  of  Massachusetts;  the  Bellflower  and 
the  Rambo,  of  Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey ;  and  the  Peck's  Pleasant 

*  Blowing  sands,  says  Mr.  Coxe,  when  bottomed  on  a  dry  substratum,  and 
aided  by  marl  or  meadow  mud,  will  be  found  capable  of  producing  very  fine 
Apple-trees.  Good  cultivation  and  a  system  of  high  manuring  will  always  re- 
munerate the  proprietor  of  an  orchard,  except  it  be  planted  on  a  quicksand  or  a 
cold  clay  ;  in  such  soils,  no  management  can  prevent  an  early  decay.  One  of  the 
most  thrifty  orchards  I  possess,  was  planted  on  a  blowing  sand,  on  which  I  carted 
three  thousand  loads  of  mud  on  ten  acres,  at  an  expense  of  about  twenty-five 
dollars  per  acre,  exclusive  of  much  other  manure  ;  on  this  land  I  have  raised 
good  wheat  and  clover.  Of  five  rows  of  the  Winesap  Apple  planted  upoD  it 
eight  years  ago,  on  the  summit  of  a  sandy  knoll,  not  one  has  died  out  of  near  an 
hundred  trees  -all  abundant  bearers  of  large  and  fair  apples.  —  View  of  Fruit 
T-ees,  p.  31. 


62  THK    AFPLE. 

an  A  the  Seek -no-further,  of  Connecticut;  and  though  these  apples  are 
cultivated  with  greater  or  less  success  in  other  parts  of  the  country,  yet 
nowhere  is  their  flavor  and  productiveness  so  perfect  as  in  the  best  soils 
if  their  native  districts — excepting  in  such  other  districts  where  a  soil 
containing  the  same  elements  and  a  corresponding  climate  are  also  to  be 
found. 

PREPARING,    PLANTING,    AND    CULTIVATION    OF    ORCHARDS. 

With  the  exception  of  a  few  early  and  very  choice  sorts  in  the  fruit- 
garden,  the  orchard  is  the  place  for  this  tree,  and  indeed,  when  we  con- 
sider the  great  value  and  usefulness  of  apples  to  the  farmer,  it  is  easy  to 
see  that  no  farm  is  complete  without  a  large  and  well-selected  apple 
orchard. 

The  distance  at  which  the  trees  should  be  planted  in  an  orchard,  de- 
pends upon  the  mode  in  which  they  are  to  be  treated.  When  it  is  de- 
sired finally  to  cover  and  devote  the  whole  ground  to  the  trees,  thirty  feet 
apart  is  the  proper  interval ;  but  where  the  farmer  wishes  to  keep  the 
land  between  the  trees  in  grain  and  grass,  fifty  feet  is  not  too  great  a 
distance  in  strong  soils.  Forty  feet  apart,  however,  is  the  usual  distance 
at  which  the  trees  are  planted  in  orchards. 

Before  transplanting,  the  gi-ound  should  be  well  prepared  for  the  trees 
by  ploughing  deeply  and  subsoiling  the  whole  field  one  year  or  more  pre- 
vious to  planting.  Poor  soils  require  manure ;  and  turning  under  green 
crops,  such  as  clover,  peas,  etc.,  serves  to  lighten  and  make  porous,  open, 
and  enrich  the  soil.  Where  the  subsoil  is  a  heavy  clay,  it  is  best  to 
thoroughly  underdrain  the  whole  by  means  of  tile  drains,  at  distances  of 
two  or  three  rods,  and  at  the  same  time  the  surface  drains  should  always 
be  kept  open,  to  prevent  any  water  standing  about  the  roots  of  the  trees. 

Vigorous,  healthy  young  trees  should  be  selected  from  the  nurseries. 
As  there  is  a  great  difference  in  the  natural  growth,  shape,  and  size  of  the 
various  sorts  of  apple-trees,  those  of  the  same  kind  should  be  planted  in 
the  rows  together  or  near  each  other ;  this  will  not  only  facilitate  cul- 
ture and  gathering  the  fruit,  but  will  add  to  the  neatness  and  orderly 
appearance  of  the  orchard. 

It  is  an  indispensable  requisite  in  all  young  orchards  to  keep  the 
ground  mellow  and.  loose  by  cultivation  ;  at  least  for  the  first  few  years, 
until  the  trees  are  well  established.  Indeed,  of  two  adjoining  orchards, 
one  planted  and  kept  in  grass,  and  the  other  ploughed  for  the  first  five 
years,  there  will  be  an  incredible  difference  in  favor  of  the  latter.  Not 
only  will  these  trees  show  rich,  dark,  luxuriant  foliage,  and  clean  smooth 
stems,  while  those  neglected  will  have  a  starved  and  sickly  look,  but  the 
size  of  the  trees  in  the  cultivated  orchard  will  be  treble  that  of  the 
others  at  the  end  of  this  time,  and  a  tree  in  one  will  be  ready  to  bear  an 
abundant  crop  before  the  other  has  commenced  yielding  a  peck  of  good 
fruit.  Fallow  crops  are  the  best  for  orchards — potatoes,  beets,  cairotfi, 
bush  beans,  and  the  like ;  while  grains,  such  as  rye,  wheat,  oats,  etc  ,  are 
very  injurious  ;  but  whatever  crops  may  be  grown,  it  should  constantly  be 
borne  in  mind  that  the  roots  of  the  tree  require  the  sole  occupancy  of 
the  ground,  so  far  as  they  extend,  and  therefore  that  an  area  of  more  than 
the  diameter  of  the  head  of  the  tree  should  be  kept  clean  of  crops,  weeds, 
and  grass. 

When  the  least  symptom  of  failure  or  decay  in  a  bearing  orchard  is 


THE   ArPLE.  63 

perceived,  the  ground  should  have  a  good  top-dressing  of  manure,  and  of 
marl,  or  mild  lime,  in  alternate  years.  It  is  folly  to  suppose  that  so  strong- 
growing  ;i  tree  as  the  apple,  when  planted  thickly  in  an  orchard,  will  nox<, 
after  a  few  heavy  crops  of  fruit,  exhaust  the  soil  of  much  of  its  proper 
food.  If  we  desire  our  trees  to  continue  in  a  healthy  bearing  state,  we 
should  therefore  manure  them  as  regularly  as  any  other  crop,  and  they 
will  amply  repay  the  expense.  There  is  scarcely  a  farm  where  the  waste 
of  barn-yard  manure,  the  urine,  etc.,  if  properly  economized  by  mixing 
this  animal  excrement  with  the  muck-heap,  would  not  be  amply  suffi- 
cient to  keep  the  orchards  in  the  highest  condition.  And  how  many 
moss-covered  barren  orchards,  formerly  very  productive,  do  we  not  every 
day  see,  which  only  require  a  plentiful  new  supply  of  food  in  a  substan- 
tial top-dressing,  thorough  scraping  of  the  stems,  and  washing  with 
diluted  soft  soap,  to  bring  them  again  into  the  finest  state  of  vigor  and 
productiveness. 

The  bearing  year  of  the  Apple,  in  common  culture,  only  takes  place 
every  alternate  year,  owing  to  the  excessive  crops  which  it  usually  pro- 
duces, by  which  they  exhaust  most  of  the  organizable  matter  laid  up  by 
tbe  tree,  which  then  requires  another  season  to  recover  and  collect  a 
sufficient  supply  again  to  form  fruit-buds.  When  half  the  fruit  is  thin- 
ned out  in  a  young  state,  leaving  only  a  moderate  crop,  the  apple,  like 
other  fruit-trees,  will  bear  every  year,  as  it  will  also  if  the  soil  is  kept  in 
high  condition.  The  bearing  year  of  an  apple-tree,  or  a  whole  orchard, 
may  be  changed  by  picking  off  the  fruit  when  the  trees  first  show  good 
crops,  allowing  it  to  remain  only  in  the  alternate  seasons  which  we  wish 
+•0  n^ake  the  bearing  year. 

PRUNING. 

The  Apple  in  orchards  requires  very  little  pruning  if  the  trees,  while 
the  orchard  is  young,  are  carefully  inspected  every  year  early  in  March, 
and  all  crossing  branches  taken  out  while  they  are  small.  When  the 
heads  are  once  properly  adjusted  and  well  balanced,  the  less  the  prun- 
ing-saw  and  knife  are  used  the  better,  and  the  cutting  out  of  dead  limbs, 
and  removal  of  such  as  may  interfere  with  others,  or  too  greatly  crowd 
up  the  head  of  the  tree,  is  all  that  an  orchard  will  usually  require. 
But  wherever  a  limb  is  pruned  away  the  surface  of  the  wound  should  be 
neatly  smoothed,  vnd  if  it  exceeds  an  inch  in  diameter,  it  should  be  covered 
with  the  liquid  shellac  previously  noticed. 

INSECTS. 

There  are  several  insects  that  in  some  parts  of  the  country  are  very 
destructive  or  injurious  to  this  tree;  a  knowledge  of  the  habits  of -which 
is  therefore  very  important  to  the  orchardist.  These  are  chieffy  the 
borer,  tl  e  caterpillar,  and  the  canker-worm. 

The  Apple-borer  is,  as  we  usually  see  it  in  the  trunks  of  the  Apple, 
Quince,  and  thorn  trees,  a  fleshy  white  grub,  which  enters  the  tree  at  the 
collar,  just  at  the  surface  of  the  ground,  where  the  bark  is  tender,  and 
either  girdles  the  tree  or  perforates  it  through  every  part  of  the  stem, 
finally  causing  its  death.  This  grub  is  the  larva  of  a  brown  and  white 
striped  beetle,  half  an  inch  long  (Saperda  blvUtala),  and  it  remains  in 
this  grub  state  two  or  three  years,  coining  out  of  the  tree  in  a  butterfly 


<>4  THE    APPLE. 

form  early  in  June— flying  in  the  night  only,  from  tree  to  tree,  after  its 
food,  and  finally  depositing  its  eggs,  during  this  and  the  next  month,  in 
the  collar  of  the  tree. 

The  most  effectual  mode  of  destroying  the  borer  is  by  picking  it  out 
•vith  the  point  of  a  knife,  or,  when  it  cannot  thus  be  reached,  killing  it 
by  thrusting  a  flexible  wire  as  far  as  possible  into  its  hole.  Dr.  Harris 
recommends  placing  a  bit  of  camphor  in  the  mouth  of  the  aperture  and 
plugging  the  hole  with  soft  wood.  But  it  is  always  better  to  prevent 
the  deposit  of  the  egg,  by  placing  about  the  trunk,  early  in  the  spring,  a 
small  mound  of  ashes  or  lime ;  or  by  drawing  away  the  soil  an  inch  or 
two  deep  at  the  base  of  the  tree  and  wrapping  with  coarse  hardware 
paper,  tying  it,  and  then  replacing  the  earth  ;  and  where  orchards  have 
already  become  greatly  infested  with  this  insect,  the  beetles  may  be  de- 
stroyed by  thousands  in  June,  by  building  small  bonfires  of  shavings  in 
various  parts  of  the  orchard.  The  attacks  of  the  borer  on  nursery  trees 
may  in  a  great  measure  be  prevented  by  washing  the  stems  in  May,  quite 
down  into  the  ground,  with  a  solution  of  two  pounds  of  potash  in  eight 
quarts  of  water. 

The  Caterpillar  is  a  great  pestilence  in  the  Apple  orchard.  The 
species  which  is  most  troublesome  to  our  fruit-trees  (  Clisiocampa  ameri- 
cana)  is  bred  by  a  sort  of  lackey  moth,  different  from  that  most  trouble- 
some in  Europe,  but  its  habits  as  a  caterpillar  are  quite  as  annoying  to 
the  orchardist.  The  moth  of  our  common  caterpillar  is  a  reddish  brown 
insect,  whose  expanded  wings  measure  about  an  inch  and  a  half.  These 
moths  appear  in  great  abundance  in  midsummer,  flying  only  at  night,  and 
often  buzzing  about  the  candles  of  our  houses.  In  laying  their  eggs 
they  choose  principally  the  Apple  or  Cherry,  and  they  deposit  thousands 
of  small  eggs  about  the  forks  and  extremities  of  the  young  branches. 
The  next  season,  about  the  middle  of  May,  these  eggs  begin  to  hatch,  and 
the  young  caterpillars  in  myriads  come  forth,  weaving  their*  nests  or 
tents  in  the  fork  of  the  branches.  If  they  are  allowed  by  the  careless 
cultivator  to  go  on  and  multiply,  as  the)'  soon  do  incredibly  fast,  they 
will  in  a  few  seasons,  sometimes  in  a  single  year,  increase  to  such  an  ex- 
tent as  almost  to  cover  the  branches.  In  this  caterpillar  state  they  live 
six  or  seven  weeks,  feeding  most  ferociously  upon  the  leaves,  and  often 
stripping  whole  trees  of  their  foliage.  Their  effect  upon  the  tree  at  this 
period  of  the  season,  when  the  leaves  are  most  important  to  the  health 
of  the  tree  and  the  growth  of  the  fruit,  is  most  deplorable.  The  crop  ia 
stunted,  the  health  of  the  tree  enfeebled,  and,  if  they  are  allowed  to  re- 
main unmolested  for  several  seasons,  they  will  often  destroy  its  life,  or 
render  it  exceedingly  decrepid  and  feeble. 

To  destroy  the  caterpillar  various  modes  are  adopted.  One  of  the 
most  effectual  is  to  touch  the  nest  with  a  sponge,  attached  to  the  end 
of  a  pole,  and  dipped  in  strong  spirits  of  ammonia  or  naphtha  from  coal- 
oil  refinings ;  the  sponge  should  be  turned  slowly  round  in  the  nests, 
and  every  insect  coming  in  contact  will  be  instantly  killed.  This  should 
be  done  early  in  the  season.  Or  they  may  be  brought  down  and 
destroyed  with  a  round  brush  fixed  to  the  end  of  a  pole,  and  worked 
about  in  the  nests.  On  small  trees  they  may  be  stripped  off  with  the 
nand,  and  crushed  under  the  foot ;  and  by  this  plain  and  simple  mode, 
begun  in  time,  with  the  aid  cf  a  ladder,  they  may  in  a  large  orchard  be 
most  effectually  kept  under  by  a  few  moments'  daily  labor  of  a  single 
man.     As  they  do  not  leave  their  nests  until  ninp  in  the  morning,  the 


THE   APPLE.  65 

extirpator  of  caterpillars  should  always  be  abroad  and  busy  before  that 
time,  and  while  they  are  all  lying  quietly  in  the  nests.  And  let  him 
never  forget  that  he  may  do  more  in  an  hour,  when  he  commences  early 
in  the  season,  than  he  will  in  a  whole  day  at  a  later  period,  when  they 
are  thoroughly  scattered  among  the  trees.  If  they  are  allowed  to  remain 
unmolested,  they  spin  their  cocoons  about  the  middle  of  June,  and  in  a 
fortnight's  time  comes  forth  from  them  a  fresh  brood  of  moths,  which, 
if  they  are  not  put  an  end  to  by  bonfires,  will  again  lay  the  eggs  of  an 
infinite  number  of  caterpillars  for  the  next  spring. 

The  Canker-worm  (Anisopteryx  pometaria  of  Harris)  is  in  some 
parts  of  the  country  one  of  the  worst  enemies  of  the  Apple,  destroying 
also  its  foliage  with  great  rapidity.  It  is  not  yet  common  here,  but  iu 
some  parts  of  New  England  it  has  become  a  serious  enemy.  The  male 
is  a  moth,  with  pale  ash-colored  wings,  with  a  black  dot,  a  little  more 
than  an  inch  across.  The  female  is  wingless,  oval,  dark  ash-colored 
above,  and  gray  beneath. 

The  canker-worm  usually  rises  out  of  the  ground  very  early  in  the 
spring,  chiefly  in  March,  as  soon  as  the  ground  is  free  from  frost ; 
though  a  few  also  find  their  way  up  in  the  autumn.  The  females,  having 
no  wings,  climb  slowly  up  the  trunks  of  the  trees,  while  the  winged 
males  hover  about  to  pair  with  them.  Very  soon  after  this,  if  we  ex- 
amine the  trees  we  shall  see  the  eggs,  of  which  every  female  lays  some 
sixty  or  a  hundred,  glued  over,  closely  arranged  in  rows,  and  placed  in 
the  forks  of  branches  and  among  the  young  twigs.  About  the  twentieth 
of  May  these  eggs  are  hatched,  and  the  canker-  lorras,  dusky  brown,  or 
ash-colored,  with  a  yellow  stripe,  make  their  appearance,  and  commence 
preying  upon  the  foliage.  When  they  are  abundant  they  make  rapid 
progress,  and  in  places  where  the  colony  is  firmly  established,  they  will 
sometimes  strip  an  orchard  in  a  few  days,  making  it  look  as  if  a  fire  had 
passed  over  it.  After  feeding  about  four  weeks,  they  descend  into  the 
ground  three  or  four  inches,  where  they  remain  in  a  chrysalis  form,  to 
emex-ge  again  the  next  season.  As  the  female  is  not  provided  with 
wings,  they  do  not  spread  very  rapidly  from  one  place  to  another. 

The  attacks  upon  the  canker-worm  should  be  chiefly  made  upon  the 
female  in  her  way  from  the  ground  up  the  trunk  of  the  tree. 

The  common  mode  of  protecting  Apple-trees  is  to  surround  the 
trunk  with  a  belt  or  bandage  of  canvas,  four  or  five  inches  wide,  which 
is  then  thickly  smeared  with  tar.  In  order  to  prevent  the  tar  from 
soon  becoming  dry  and  hard,  a  little  coarse  train-oil  must  be  well  mixed 
with  it ;  and  it  should  be  watched  and  renewed  as  often  as  it  appears 
necessary.  This  tarred  belt  catches  and  detains  all  the  females  on  their 
upward  journey,  and  prevents  them  from  ascending  the  tree  to  lay  their 
eggs.  And  if  kept  in  order  it  will  very  effectually  deter  and  destroy 
them.  When  the  canker-worm  is  abundant  it  is  necessary  to  apply  the 
tarred  bandage  in  October,  and  let  it  remain  till  the  last  of  May,  but 
usually  it  will  be  sufficient  to  use  it  in  the  spring.  It  is  probable  that 
a  mixture  of  coal-tar  and  common  tar  would  be  the  best  application, 
as  it  is  more  offensive,  and  will  not  so  easily  dry  and  become  useless  by 
exposure  to  the  air  and  sun.  Some  persons  apply  the  tar  directly  to  the 
stems  of  the  tree,  but  this  has  a  very  injurious  effect  upon  the  trunk. 
Old  India  rubber,  melted  in  an  iron  vessel  over  a  very  hot  fire,  forms  a 
very  adhesive  fluid  which  is  not  affected  by  exposure  to  tne  weather, 
and  is  considered,  by  those  who  have  made  use  of  it,  the  best  substance 

5 


^6  THE   APPLE. 

for  smearing  the  bandages,  as  being  a  more  effectual   barrier,  a  ad  set' 
dom  or  never  requiring  renewal. 

Mr.  Jonathan  Dennis,  Jun.,  of  Portsmouth,  Rhode  Island,  has 
invented  and  patented  a  circular  leaden  trough,  which  surrounds  the 
trunk  of  the  tree,  .and  is  filled  with  oil,  and  stops  effectually  the  ascent 
of  the  canker-worm.  There  appear,  however,  to  be  two  objections  to 
this  trough,  as  it  is  frequently  used  ;  one,  the  escape  of  the  oil,  if  not 
carefully  used,  which  injures  the  tree  ;  and  the  other,  the  injurious 
effect  of  nailing  the  troughs  to  the  bark  or  trunk.  They  should  be  sup- 
ported by  wedges  of  wood  driven  in  between  the  trough  and  the  trunk, 
and  the  spaces  completely  filled  up  with  liquid  clay,  put  on  with  a  brush. 
The  insects  must  be  taken  out  and  the  oil  renewed  from  time  to  time. 
For  districts  where  the  canker-worm  greatly  abounds,  this  leaden  trough 
is  probably  the  most  permanent  and  effectual  remedy  yet  employed. 

Circular  strips  of  zinc  or  tin,  about  four  inches  wide,  passing  around 
the  trunk  of  the  tree,  the  lower  end  standing  out  in  a  flaring  manner, 
resembling  a  bowl  bottom  upward,  proves  an  effectual  preventive  remedy, 
as  the  insects  cannot  pass  the  lower  rim. 

Experiments  made  by  the  Hon.  John  Lowell,  and  Professor  Peck,  of 
Massachusetts,  lead  to  a  belief  that  if  the  ground  under  trees  which  suffer 
from  this  insect  is  dug  and  well  pulverized  to  the  depth  of  five  inches,  in 
October,  and  a  good  top-dressing  of  lime  applied  as  far  as  the  branches 
extend,  the  canker-worm  will  there  be  almost  entirely  destroyed.  The 
elm,  and  linden-trees  in  many  places,  sutler  equally  with  the  Apple  from 
the  attacks  of  the  canker-worm. 

The  bark-louse,  a  dull  white,  oval,  scale-like  insect,  about  a  tenth  of  an 
inch  long  (a  species  of  coccus),  which  sometimes  appears  in  great  numbers 
on  the  stems  of  young  Apple  and  Pear  trees,  and  stunts  their  growth, 
may  be  destroyed  by  a  wash  of  soft  soap  or  the  potash  solution.  The 
b<;st  time  to  apply  these  is  in  the  month  of  June,  when  the  insects  are 
young,  or  when  the  tree  is  devoid  of  foliage. 

The  vioolly  Aphis  (aphis  lanigera),  or  American  blight*  is  a  dreadful 
enemy  of  the  Apple.  It  makes  its  appearance  in  the  form  of  a  minute 
white  down  in  the  crotches  and  crevices  of  the  branches,  which  is  com- 
posed of  a  great  number  of  very  minute  woolly  lice,  that  if  allowed  will 
increase  with  fearful  rapidity,  and  produce  a  sickly  and  diseased  state  of 
the  whole  tree.  Fortunately,  this  insect  is  easily  destroyed.  "  This  is 
effected  by  washing  the  parts  with  diluted  sulphuric  acid,  which  is  formed 
by  mixing  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  by  measure  of  the  sulphuric  acid  of 
the  shops  with  seven  and  a  half  ounces  of  water.  Ifc  should  be  rubbed 
into  the  parts  affected  by  means  of  a  piece  of  rag  tied  to  a  stick,  the 
operator  taking  care  not  to  let  it  touch  his  clothes.  After  the  bark  of  a 
tree  has  been  washed  with  this  mixture,  the  first  shower  will  redissolve 
it,  and  convey  it  into  the  most  minute  crevice,  so  as  effectually  to  destroy 
all  insects  that  may  have  escaped." — (LondovbS  Magazine,  ix.,  p.  336.) 
It  is  the  more  common  practice  to  destroy  it  by  the  use  of  whale-oil,  soap 
or  lime  wash. 

The  Apple-worm  or  Codling  moth  (  Carpocapsa  2)omonella  of  Euro- 
pean writers)  is  the  insect  introduced  with  the  Apple-tree  from  Europe 

*  It  is  not  a  little  singular  that  this  insect,  which  is  not  indigenous  to  thii 
country,  and  is  never  seen  here  except  where  introduced  with  imported  trees, 
should  be  called  in  England  the  American  blight.  It  is  the  most  inveterate  enemj 
of  the  Apple  in  the  north  of  France  and  Germany. 


THE   APPLE.  67 

which  appears  in  the  early  worm-eaten  Apples  .inu  Pears  in  tl  e  foim  of 
a  reddish  white  grub,  and  causes  the  fruit  to  fall  prematurely  from  the 
trees.  The  perfect  insect  is  a  small  moth,  the  fore-wings  gray,  with  a 
large  round  brown  spot  on  the  hinder  margin.  These  moths  appear  in 
the  greatest  numbers  in  the  warm  evenings  of  the  first  of  June,  and  lay 
their  eggs  in  the  eye  or  blossom-end  of  the  young  fruit,  especially  of  the 
early  kinds  of  Apples  and  Pears.  In  a  short  time  these  t'^p;*  hatch,  aud 
the  grub  burrows  its  way  till  it  reaches  the  core;  the  fruit  then  ripens 
prematurely,  and  drops  to  the  ground.  Here  the  worm  leaves  the  fruit 
and  creeps  into  the  crevices  of  the  bark  and  hollow  of  the  tier,  and  spins 
its  cocoon,  which  usually  remains  there  till  the  ensuing  spring,  when  the 
young  moth  again  emerges  from  it.  The  readiest  way  of  destroying 
them,  when  it  can  be  done  conveniently,  is  to  allow  swine  and  poultry 
to  run  at  large  in  the  orchards  when  the  premature  fruit  is  falling ;  or 
otherwise  the  fruit  may  be  picked  up  daily  and  placed  where  the  worms 
will  be  killed.  It  is  said  that  if  an  old  cloth  is  placed  in  the  crotch  of 
the  tree  about  the  time  the  fruit  begins  to  drop,  the  Apple-worm  will 
make  it  a  retiring-place,  and  thousands  may  be  caught  and  killed  from 
time  to  time.  As  the  cocoons  are  deposited  chiefly  under  the  old  loose 
bark,  the  thorough  cultivator  will  take  care,  by  keeping  the  trunks  of  his 
trees  smooth,  to  afford  them  little  harbor ;  and  by  scraping  and  wash- 
ing the  trunks  early  in  the  spring,  to  destroy  such  as  may  have  alreadv 
taken  up  their  quarters  there. 

When  the  fruit  of  orchards  is  much  liable  to  the  attacks  of  this 
insect,  we  cannot  too  much  insist  on  the  efficacy  of  small  bonfires  lighted 
in  the  evening,  by  which  myriads  of  this  and  all  other  moths  may  be 
destroyed  before  they  have  time  to  deposit  their  eggs  and  cause  worm- 
eaten  fruit. 

A  simple  preventive  remedy,  or  method  of  trapping  the  insect  when 
in  the  grub  form,  has  been  introduced  by  Dr.  J.  P.  Trimble,  of  New 
Jersey,  and  consists  in  twisting  a  band  or  rope  of  hay,  long  enough  to 
pass  three  or  four  times  around  the  body  of  the  tree,  and  putting  it 
thereon,  "  securing  its  ends  so  as  to  prevent  its  becoming  loose;  as  soon 
as  the  fruit  shows  signs  of  the  worms  being  at  work,  or  from  the  middle 
to  the  last  of  June.  They  should  be  examined  every  two  weeks,  as  long 
as  the  warm  weather  lasts,  the  earlier  broods  of  worms  becoming  moths 
and  producing  a  second  crop.  If  the  orchard  is  pastured,  the  bands  must 
of  course  be.  put  out  of  the  reach  of  animals.  Sometimes  it  may  be  neces- 
sary to  place  them  around  the  limbs;  in  that  case  the  scales  of  rough 
bark  on  the  body  of  the  tree  below  them  should  be  scraped  off." 

The  Blight,  which  occasionally  kills  suddenly  the  ends  of  the  limbs 
of  the  apple  and  the  quince,  is  caused  by  an  insect  (  13 ostrich ti8  bieauda- 
tus)  which  affects  the  small  bwigs,  by  penetrating  the  wood  at  the  axil 
of  a  leaf,  and  causing  it  to  wither.  It  is  designated  the  Twig  blight. 
Little  or  no  injury  results,  but  it  is  always  well  to  cut  away  the  injured 
twig  just  below  the  wound. 

The  Apple-bark  Beetle  (  Tomicua  maM),  described  by  Fitch,  is  a  small, 
smooth,  black  or  chestnut-red  beetle;  the  larvae  feed  under  the  bark  md 
then  enter  the  wood,  sometimes  killing  the  young  tree. 

GATHERING    AND    KEEPING   THE    FRUIT. 

In  order  to  secure  soundness  and  preservation,  it  is  indispensably 


68  THE   APPLE. 

necessary  that  the  fruit  should  be  gathered  by  hand.  For  winter  fruit 
the  gathering  is  delayed  as  long  as  possible,  avoiding  severe  frosts ;  and 
the  most  successful  practice  with  our  extensive  orchardists  is  to  place  the 
good  fruit  directly,  in  a  careful  manner,  in  new,  tight  flour- barrels  aa 
soon  as  gathered  from  the  tree.  These  barrels  should  be  gently  shaken 
while  filling,  and  the  head  closely  pressed  in ;  they  are  then  placed  in  a 
cool,  shady  exposure,  under  a  shed  open  to  the  air,  or  on  the  north  side 
of  a  building,  protected  by  covering  of  boards  over  the  top,  whei-e  the}' 
remain  for  a  fortnight,  or  until  the  cold  becomes  too  severe,  when  they 
are  carefully  transferred  to  a  cool,  dry  cellar,  in  which  air  can  be  admit- 
ted occasionally  in  brisk  weather. 

Another  method,  by  some  regarded  as  superior,  and  tending  to  keep 
the  fruit  longer  and  better,  is  to  gather  carefully,  in  a  dry  day,  as  late  as 
possible  in  the  fall,  and  place  the  fruit  on  a  floor,  or  in  open  bins,  from 
one  foot  to  sixteen  inches  in  depth.  After  about  a  week  examine,  and 
if  the  dampness,  commonly  called  sweat,  has  passed  off,  prepare  a  good 
clean  barrel,  and  as  each  fruit  is  placed  in  the  barrel,  see  that  it  is  made 
perfectly  dry  by  wiping  it  with  a  soft  cloth.  As  soon  as  the  barrel  is 
filled,  head  it  up  securely  and  place  it  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar. 

A  cellar  for  this  purpose  should  be  dug  in  dry,  gravelly,  or  sandy 
soil,  with,  if  possible,  a  slope  to  the  north ;  or,  at  any  rate,  with  open- 
ings on  the  north  side  for  the  admission  of  air  very  rarely  in  weather 
not  excessively  cold.  Here  the  barrels  should  be  placed  in  tiers  on  their 
sides,  and  the  cellar  should  be  kept  as  dark  as  possible.  In  such  a  cellar, 
one  of  the  largest  apple-growers  in  Dutchess  County  is  able  to  keep  the 
Greening  Apple,  which,  in  the  fruit-room,  usually  decays  in  January, 
until  the  1st  of  April,  in  the  freshest  and  finest  condition.  Some  per- 
sons place  a  layer  of  clean  rye-straw  between  every  layer  of  apples,  when 
packing  them  in  the  barrels. 

Apples  are  frequently  kept  by  farmers  in  pits  or  ridges  in  the  ground, 
covered  with  straw  and  a  layer  of  earth,  in  the  same  manner  as  potatoes ; 
but  it  is  an  inferior  method,  and  the  fruit  very  speedily  decays  when 
opened  to  the  air.  The  English  apple-growers  lay  their  fruit  in  heaps, 
in  cool,  dry  cellars,  and  cover  them  with  straw. 

Various  plans  and  methods  have  been  designed  for  the  keeping  of 
fruit,  few,  if  any  of  which  are  found  practically  adapted  to  the  general 
wants  of  a  family.  Among  those  most  prominent  is  the  Roberts  Fruit 
House,  which  is  constructed  by  forming  a  room  inside  of  an  ice-house, 
having  the  ice  around  the  sides  and  overhead ;  and  with  an  arrangement 
for  drainage  below,  by  means  of  a  pipe  beneath  the  floor,  and  a  condens- 
ing-tube  inside  the  chamber  or  fruit-room. 

The  ISTyce  Fruit  House  is  constructed  with  upright  walls,  sheeted  on 
the  inside  and  outside  with  sheet-iron,  nailed  to  upright  studding,  and 
having  the  inside  space  closely  packed  with  sawdust  or  chaff.  Above 
the  fruit-room  is  a  floor  of  galvanized  iron,  on  which  ice,  five  to  six  feet 
in  depth,  is  packed,  and  from  it  a  tube  or  pipe  is  led  off,  for  the  purpose 
of  conveying  the  water  as  the  ice  melts.  Below  the  floor  of  the  fruit- 
room,  which  is  also  of  galvanized  iron,  shavings  three  feet  thick  are  first 
laid,  and  then  coated  with  tar  and  pitch,  to  prevent  any  rise  of  mois- 
ture from  below.  The  temperature  is  kept  at  all  seasons  at  just  above 
the  freezing-point,  and  the  moisture  from  the  fruit  engendered  in  the 
room  is  absorbed  by  the  use  of  "  bittern  "  from  salt-works.  This  absorp- 
tion of  moisture  by  means  of  chloride  of  calcium,  or  the  waste  bittern  of 


THE   APPLE.  69 

salt-works,  is  the  principal  feature  of  novelty  in  this  house.  But  while 
upon  a  large  scale  these  fruit -houses  are  found  of  value,  their  adoption 
involves  too  much  of  expense  in  their  first  construction,  and  too  great 
care,  to  meet  the  wants  of  the  general  fruit-grower.  When  a  fruit- 
house  or  room  is  to  be  constructed,  aside  from  the  cellar,  under  the  barn 
or  dwelling,  select  a  location  where  complete  drainage  can  be  had.  Ex- 
cavate so  as  that  the  lower  fruit-room  will  be  about  two-thirds  of  its 
height  under  ground  ;  lay  the  outside  wall,  and  then,  leaving  a  space  of 
four  inches,  lay  another  inside  cement  wall.  Construct  windows  so  as 
to  give  free  circulation,  and  yet  keep  the  room  dark  by  having  blinds 
on  the  outer  side,  and  sash  opening  on  the  inner  wall.  For  winter, 
double  sash  will  be  required.  For  the  upper  room,  the  same  principle 
of  forming  a  double  wall,  leaving  a  space  of  at  least  four  inches,  is  to  be 
continued,  and  the  arrangement  of  shelves  or  drawers  through  the  cen- 
tre, keeping  a  passage  open  all  around,  may  be  made  to  meet  the  wants 
for  which  the  room  is  to  be  used. 

When  apples  are  exported,  each  fruit  in  the  barrel  should  be  wrapped 
in  clean  soft  paper,  and  the  barrels  should  be  placed  in  a  dry,  airy  place 
between  decks. 


CIDER. 

To  make  the  finest  cider,  Apples  should  be  chosen  which  are  espe- 
cially suited  to  this  purpose.  The  fruit  should  be  gathered  about  the 
first  of  November,  and  coarse  cloths  or  straw  should  be  laid  under  the 
tree,  to  secure  them  against  bruising  when  they  are  shaken  from  the  tree. 
If  the  weather  is  fine  the  fruit  is  allowed  to  lie  in  heaps  in  the  open  air, 
or  in  airy  sheds  or  lofts  for  some  time,  till  it  is  thoroughly  ripened.  All 
immature  and  rotten  fruit  should  then  be  rejected,  and  the  remainder 
ground  in  the  mill  as  nearly  as  possible  to  a  uniform  mass.  This  pulp 
should  now  remain  in  the  vat  from  2-i  to  48  hours,  or  even  longer  if  the 
weather  is  cool,  in  order  to  heighten  the  color  and  increase  the  saccharine 
principle.  It  is  then  put  into  the  press  (without  wetting  the  straw),  from 
whence  the  liquor  is  strained,  through  hair-cloth  or  sieves,  into  perfectly 
clean,  sweet,  sound  casks.  The  casks,  with  the  bung  out,  are  then  placed 
in  a  cool  cellar,  or  in  a  sheltered  place  in  the  open  air.  Here  the  fermen- 
tation commences,  and  as  the  pomace  and  froth  work  out  of  the  bung- 
hole,  the  casks  must  be  filled  up  every  day  with  some  of  the  same  press- 
ing, kept  in  a  cask  for  this  purpose.  In  two  or  three  weeks  this  rising  will 
cease,  when  the  first  fermentation  is  over,  and  the  bung  should  at  first  be 
put  in  loosely — then  in  a  day  or  two  driven  in  tight — leaving  a  small  vent- 
hole  near  it,  which  may  also  be  stopped  in  a  few  days  after.  If  the  casks 
ire  in  a  cool  airy  cellar  the  fermentation  will  cease  in  a  day  or  two,  and 
this  state  may  be  known  by  the  liquor  becoming  clear  and  bright,  by  the 
cessation  of  the  discharge  of  fixed  air,  and  by  the  thick  crust  which  has 
collected  on  the  surface.  The  clear  cider  should  now  be  drawn  otF  and 
placed  in  a  clean  cask.  If  the  cider,  which  must  be  carefully  watched  in 
this  state,  to  prevent  the  fermentation  going  too  far,  remains  quiet,  it  may 
be  allowed  to  stand  till  spring,  and  the  addition  at  first  of  about  a  gill  of 
finely  powdered  charcoal  to  a  barrel  will  secure  this  end ;  but  if  a  scum 
collects  on  the  surface,  and  the  fermentation  seems  inclined  to  proceed 
further,  it  must  be  immediately  racked  again.  The  vent-spile  may  now 
be  driven  tight,  but  examined  occasionally.     In  the  beginning  of  March 


JO  THE    APPLE. 

1 

a  final  racking  should  take  place,  when,  should  the  cider  not  be  perfectly 
fine,  about  three- fourths  of  an  ounce  of  isiuglass  should  be  dissolved  iu 
the  cider  and  poured  in  each  barrel,  which  will  render  it  perfectly  clear 
It  may  be  bottled  now,  or  any  period  before  the  blossoming  of  the  Apple 
or  afterwards,  late  in  May.  When  bottling,  fill  the  bottles  within  au 
inch  of  the  bottom  of  the  cork,  and  allow  the  bottles  to  stand  an  hour 
before  the  corks  are  driven.  They  should  then  be  sealed  and  kept  in  a 
cool  cellar,  with  clean  dry  sand  up  to  their  necks,  or  laid  on  their  sides 
in  boxes  or  bins,  with  the  same  between  each  layer. 

VARIETIES. 

The  varieties  of  the  Apple  at  the  present  time  are  very  numerous. 
The  garden  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London,  which  contains  the 
most  complete  collection  of  fruit  in  the  world,  enumerates  now,  1845, 
about  900  varieties,  and  nearly  1500  have  been  tested  there.  Of  these 
the  larger  proportion  are  of  course  inferior ;  but  it  is  only  by  comparison 
in  such  an  experimental  garden  that  the  value  of  the  different  varieties 
for  a  certain  climate  can  be  fully  ascertained. 

The  European  Apples  generally  are,  in  this  climate,  inferior  to  oui 
first-rate  native  sorts,  though  many  of  them  are  of  high  merit  also  with 
us.  There  is  much  confusion  in  regard  to  names  of  Apples,  and  the 
variation  of  fruits  from  soil,  location,  or  other  causes,  makes  it  difficult 
to  identify  the  kinds,  and  until  they  are  brought  together  and  fruited  on 
the  same  ground  the  certainty  of  their  nomenclature  will  not  be  estab- 
lished. New  varieties  of  Apples  are  constantly  springing  up  in  thit, 
country  from  the  seed,  in  favorable  soils ;  and  these,  when  of  superior 
quality,  may,  as  a  general  rule,  be  considered  much  more  valuable  for 
orchard  culture  than  foreign  sorts,  on  account  of  their  greater  produc- 
tiveness and  longevity.  Indeed  every  State  has  some  fine  Apples  pecu- 
liar to  it,  and  it  is  therefore  impossible  in  the  present  state  of  pomology 
in  this  country  to  give  a  complete  list  of  the  finest  Apples  of  the  United 
States  To  do  this  will  require  time,  and  an  extended  and  careful  exa- 
mination of  their  relative  merits  collected  in  one  garden.  The  following 
descriptions  comprise  all  the  finest  American  and  foreign  varieties  yet 
known  in  our  gardens. 

CLASSIFICATION. 

The  distinctive  characters  of  fruits  have,  during  the  past  quarter  of  a 
century,  become  so  much  intermingled  and  hybridized  that,  after  carefully 
studying  them,  and  comparing  them  with  the  orders  of  classification 
adopted  by  authors,  we  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  no  definite 
order  can  safely  be  made  to  embrace  them.  Forms,  colors,  growths,  and 
periods  of  ripening  are  so  much  interwoven  and  distributed  as  to  defy 
all  arbitral-)'  rules  of  classification,  and  hence  we  have  without  hesitation 
abandoned  it  entirely,  substituting  in  our  work  the  simple  order  of  the 
alphabet  as  confined  to  names,  believing  such  course  will  prove  the  most 
available  and  useful. 

TERMS    USED    IN    DESCRIBING    APPLES. 

In  identifying  fruits,  not  only  certain  forms  and  features  of  the  fruit 
itself  are  desirable,  to  have  a  definite  description  under  plain  and  inteili 


THE   APPLE. 


'I 


gible  terms,  bvit  often  the  form  of  the  growth  of  the  tree,  as  well  as  thp 
color  of  its  young  wood,  are  essential  to  a  clear  knowledge  for  decision 
The  form  and  general  appearance  of  a  fruit  may  be  changed  by  soil  or 
climate,  but  the  general  habit  of  growth  and  color  of  the  young  wood  is 
always  the  same,  and  in  the  ensuing  pages  this  latter  point  has  been 
kept  in  view  and  recorded,  so  far  as  knowledge  could  be  obtained, 
respecting  valuable  varieties. 

The  terms  used  we  have  sought  to  make  simple  and  uniform,  and 
within  the  comprehension  of  all,  rather  than  scientific.  In  describing 
trees,  the  character  designed  to  be  represented  is  that  of  the  orchard, 
or  trees  in  a  healthy  bearing  condition,  and  the  growth  is  said  to  b<* 
strong  and  vigorous,  as  the  Rhode  Island  Greening,  or  Baldwin;  vigor- 
ous and  slender,  as  the  Jonathan  or  Winesap ;  stout  and  short-jointed,  as 
Jersey  Sweet  or  Primate  ;  medium  and  vigorous,  as  Fameuse,  or  Maiden's 
Blush.  And  for  the  general  form  of  the  tree,  the  word  upright  spread- 
ing is  used  to  designate  such  as  Baldwin ;  spreading,  as  the  Rhode 
Island  Greening;  round-headed,  as  in  the  Early  Harvest ;  upright,  as 
with  Benoni.  In  describing  fruits,  the  word  base  means  that  part  of  the 
fruit  in  which  the  stem  is  planted ;  and  apex,  the  blossom  end,  or  crown, 
as  it  is  sometimes  termed.  Forms  are  so  much  interwoven,  as  it  were, 
one  with  another,  that  we  have  selected  but  four  as  the  primary  bases  on 
which  all  others  are  built,  and  are  subsidiary. 


Oblate. 


Conical. 


These  primary  forms  are  roundish,  oblate,  conical,  and  oblong.  The 
terms  rov/nd,  roundish,  ov  globular,  arc  sometimes  used  in  connection, 
rather  as  qualifying  expressions  than  as  distinctive;  for  while  the  word 
roundish,  which  indicates  the  height  and  diameter  as  nearly  equal,  ap- 


72  THE   APPLE. 

plies  to  many  fruits,  there  is   no    perfectly  round   or  globular   apple 
known. 

Oblate  indicates  the  height  as  much  less  than  diameter.  Conical,  ia 
when  the  fruit  is  roundish,  having  the  apex  end  contracted.  Oblong,  is 
when  the  fruit  is  longer  than  broad,  and  having  the  apex  and  base  of 
nearly  the  same  breadth.  Connected  and  subsidiary  terms,  such  as 
roundish,  conical,  or  conic,  are  when  the  Apple  unites  the  two  primary 
forms  of  roundish  and  conical ;  or  elongated  conical,  or  conic,  when  the 
length  is  considerably  beyond  the  breadth.  Truncate  conic,  is  when  ;he 
fruit  is  flattened  at  the  apex.  Ribbed,  or  obscurely  ribbed,  when  the 
surface  has  rising  lines  and  channels  from  apex  to  base.  Oblique,  is 
when  the  fruit  presents  the  appearance  as  of  being  one-sided,  or  when 
the  axis  is  inclined  to  one  side.  Oblate,  not  symmetric,  or  sides  unequal, 
when  one  side  is  less  than  the  other.  Corrugated,  having  depressed 
lines,  furrows,  or  wrinkles.  Acute,  when  narrowing  to  a  sharp  point. 
Obtuse,  round  or  blunt.  Abriipt,  when  the  depression  breaks  off  sud- 
denly. 

In  designating  the  quality  of  fruits,  the  terms  of  the  American 
Pomological  Society  have  been  adopted ;  but  it  must  be  remembered 
that  these  terms  apply  strictly  and  only  to  the  actual  quality  of  the  fruit 
as  a  dessert  sort. 

Some  varieties  classed  as  best,  and  which  are  strictly  of  the  highest 
quality  as  fruit,  are,  nevertheless,  unprofitable  as  varieties  to  grow, 
except  by  the  amateur,  while  many  to  which  the  term  very  good,  or  very 
good  to  best,  is  applied,  are  known  to  be  highly  valuable  and  profitable 
for  market,  as  well  as  excellent  for  the  dessert. 


APPLES. 

Abbott. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  obscurely  ribbed,  greenish- 
yellow,  shaded  and  striped  with  red,  few  light  and  brown  dots.  Stalk 
long,  cavity  broad,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small,  uneven. 
Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Core  medium.  Yery  good. 
December  to  March. 

Abbott's  Sweet. 

Origin,  New  Hampshire. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium,  roundish,  conical,  yellow,  covered  with 
stripes  and  blotches  of  red,  and  many  white  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  and  pleasant.  Very  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  December  to 
March. 

Abbott's  Five-Sided  Spice. 

Origin  tinknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  pale  yellow,  splashed  and  striped 
with  two  shades  of  red,  light-gray  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  moderately  juicy, 
mild  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     October  and  November. 


the  apple.  73 

Abram. 

Origin  unknown.  Grown  extensively  in  Eastern  Virginia  and  North 
Carolina 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellow  shaded,  and  splashed  with  red. 
Many  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  subacid.  "  Good."  December 
to  March. 

Acklam's  Russet. 
Aclemy  Russet. 

Origin,  Acklam,  England. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellowish  green,  some 
gray  russet  and  yellowish-gray  specks.  Flesh  whitish,  firm,  crisp,  sub- 
acid.    "  Good."     November  to  February. 

Adams. 

Originated  with  James  Adams,  Union,  Penn.  Tree  quite  strong, 
vigorous,  spreading.  Young  shoots  dull  reddish  brown.  Very  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblate,  slightly  oblique,  yellow,  shaded  and 
splashed  with  red  and  russet  netting.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  deep. 
Calyx  generally  open.  Segment  long,  reflexed.  Basin  large,  abrupt. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good.  January 
to  April. 

Adams  Pearmain. 
Norfolk  Pippin.  Matchless. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  free,  healthy  grower.  Young  shoots 
Good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  conical,  inclining  to  oblong,  pale  yel- 
low, shaded,  mottled  and  splashed  with  red,  with  many  light  dots. 
Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  brisk,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic 
Very  good.     December  to  February. 

Agate  D'Enckhuysen. 

Origin,  Enckhuysen,  Holland.  Tree  upright.  Young  shoots  slender, 
dark  reddish. 

Fruit  small  or  medium,  conical,  clear  yellowish  green,  and  with 
many  small  dots.  Calyx  large,  open,  or  nearly  so.  Segments  large. 
Basin  deep.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Cavity  acute,  deep.  Flesh  white,  very 
fine  grained,  rather  firm,  juicy,  sugary,  perfumed.  January  to  March 
(Verg.) 

Agathe. 
Pomme  Double  Agathe. 

Origin,  Limbourg,  Holland.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Fruit 
medium  or  large,  conical  oblate,  deep  yellow  in  the  shade,  bright  red- 
cheek  in  sun.     Many   conspicuous   gray  dots.     Flesh  vellowish-white, 


74  THE   APPLE. 

sometimes  slightly  rose-colored,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  pleasant.     Core 
large,  open.     October   to  February.     (An.  Pom.) 

Agnes's. 

Origin,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.  Fruit  rather  below  medium,  oblate, 
somewhat  oblique.  Skin  yellowish,  striped,  and  shaded  with  red,  and 
sprinkled  with  light  brown  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small,  inserted  in  a 
large  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  medium  basin.  Flesh  tender,  with  a 
spicy,  pleasant,  subacid  flavor.     "  Good."     September,  October. 

Ailes. 

Origin,  Chester  Co.,  Pa.,  of  vigorous  growth,  and  productive.  Fruit 
large,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded  and  striped  with  red.  Stalk  short.  Cavity 
narrow.  Calyx  in  a  round  moderate  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  fine,  crisp, 
juicy,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor.  Good.  Highly  esteemed  for  cooking, 
not  in  eating  till  spring,  and  will  keep  till  midsummer. 

Alant. 
Pomme  d'Auuee. 

Probably  of  German  origin.  Tree  slender,  short  jointed.  Young 
shoots  reddish-brown. 

Fruit  medium,  truncated  conic,  greenish-yellow,  with  indistinct  dots. 
Calyx  small.  Basin  deep.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep.  Flesh  yellow, 
tender,  juicy,  with  a  cinnamon  aroma.     Winter.     (Yerg.) 

Alexander. 

Emperor  Alexander.  Russian  Emperor.     Aporta. 

Victoria,  incorrectly. 

A  very  large,  showy  Russian  variety.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading, 
productive.  Fruit  very  large,  regularly  formed,  conical.  Skin  greenish- 
yellow,  faintly  streaked  with  red  on  the  shaded  side,  but  orange,  bril- 
liantly streaked,  and  marked  with  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Calyx  large, 
set  in  a  deep  basin.  Stalk  rather  slender,  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long, 
planted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish- white,  crisp,  tender,  and 
juicy,  with  a  rather  pleasant  flavor.     Good.     October  to  December. 

Alfriston. 

Lord  Gwydr's  Newtown  Pippin.  Oldaker's  New 

Shepherd's  Pippin.  Baltimore,  incorrectly. 

A  third-rate  Apple,  valued  in  England  for  cooking.  Fruit  large, 
roundish,  a  little  ribbed,  and  rather  broadest  at  the  base,  pale  greenish- 
yellow.  Flesh  yellowish- white,  crisp,  tender,  with  a  tolerable,  some- 
what acid  flavor.     Good.     October  to  January. 

Allemand. 

Pepin  d'Or  Allemand. 

Of  Hanoverian  origin.  Tree  a  slender  grower.  Fruit  small,  coni- 
cal truncated,  pale  yellow,  with  pearl-color  spots.  Flesh  yellow,  fine, 
tender,  sugary  vinous      Winter.     (Virg.) 


the  apple.  76 

Allen's  Choice. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania.  Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  yel- 
low, mostly  shaded,  and  striped  with  red.  Flesh  white,  stained  with 
red,  coarse,  crisp,  juicy,  aromatic.    "  Good."     January. 

Allen's  Pippin. 

Origin,  Chatham,  N.  C.  Tree  upright,  productive.  Fruit  medium, 
oblate,  greenish-yellow.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  mild,  subacid.  Good. 
October  to  December. 

All-Hallows. 

Origin  from  seed  by  Richard  H.  Graves,  Ireland.  Fruit  medium, 
roundish,  handsome.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  very  pleasant.  October  and 
November.    A  new  variety,  not  yet  fully  tested  in  this  country. 

All-Summer. 

Origin,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  slow  growth,  spreading,  an  annual 
bearer,  and  very  productive.  Fruit  small,  oblate,  greenish  waxy  yellow, 
slight  tinge  of  red  in  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  pleasant.    Almost  "  very  good."     July  and  August. 

Allum. 

Hallum.  Rockingham  Red. 

Much  grown  in  northern  N.  Carolina ;  valuable  chiefly  because  of 
its  productiveness  and  for  its  keeping  properties.  Fruit  medium,  oblate, 
irregular,  deep  red.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  brisk 
acid  flavor.    Good.     January  to  April. 

Alsace. 

Origin,  Alsace  Township,  Pa.  Fruit  medium,  conical,  whitish-yel- 
low, blush  in  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  pleasant.  "  Good."  January 
to  March.     (Pa.  Hort.) 

Amelia. 

Of  European  origin.  Fruit  medium,  roundish,  conical,  pale  yellow, 
shaded,  and  obscurely  splashed  with  two  shades  of  crimson.  Flesh 
whitish,  firm,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good.  January  and  Febrv 
ary. 

American  Beauty. 
Sterling  Beauty.  Beauty  of  America. 

Origin,  Sterling,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous,  productive,  an  annual  bearer., 
Wood  dull  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  large,  form  roundish,  slightly  inclining  to  conic,  obscurely 
ribbed.  Color  a  yellow  ground  mostly  covered  with  red,  which  is  quits 
dark  in  the  sun,  i  bickly  sprinkled  wil  h  small  light  and  brown  dots.  Stalk 
rather  short, somewhal  slender.  Cavity  medium,  with  russet,  the  rays  of 
which  sometimes  extend  out  over  :i    portion  of  the  fruit.     Calyx  small, 


76  THE   APPLE. 

closed.  Segments  medium,  slightly  recurved.  Basin  medium,  uneven. 
Flesh  yellowish,  rather  compact,  tender,  juicy,  rich  mild,  subacid,  aro« 
aiatic.     Core  small.     Very  good.     December  to  April. 

American  Golden  Pippin. 

Golden  Pippin.  New  York  Greening. 

Ribbed  Pippin.  Newtown  Greening. 

Golding.  Golden  Apple. 

This  old  Apple  is  one  of  our  finest  American  fruits,  and  seems  not 
to  be  generally  known.  It  has  been  cultivated  more  than  fifty  years, 
and  is  considered  one  of  the  most  profitable  for  orchard  culture  and  mar- 
keting; it  is  also  a  superior  Apple  for  family  use.  Growth  strong, 
similar  to  R.  I.  Greening,  but  less  drooping,  making  a  round,  spreading 
head ;  does  not  bear  young,  but  very  productive  when  a  little  advanced, 
and  a  popular  fruit  where  known.  Wood  dark  reddish,  downy,  with  pro- 
minent flattened  buds. 

Fruit  medium  to  large;  form  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic, 
obscurely  ribbed ;  color  yellow,  sometimes  a  brownish  blush  in  sun,  thinly 


American  Golden  Pippin. 

sprinkled  with  gray  dots,  often  slightly  netted  with  thin  russet.  Stalk 
short,  moderately  stout.  Cavity  large,  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Segments 
pointed,  slightly  recurved.  Basin  broad,  open,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh 
yellowish,  breaking  juicy,  rather  coarse,  rich,  aromatic,  subacid.  Core 
rather  large.     Very  good.     November  to  February. 

American  Golden  Russet. 

Golden  Russet.         Bullock's  Pippin. 
Sheep  Nose.  Little  Pearmain. 

The  American  Golden  Russet  is  one  of  the  most  delicious  and  tender 


THE   APPLE.  77 

Apples,  its  flesh  resembling  more  in  texture  that  of  a  buttory  Pear  than 
that  of  an  ordinary  Apple.  It  is  widely  cultivated  at  the  West  and 
in  New  England  as  the  Golden  Russet,  and  though  neither  handsome  nor 
large,  is  still  :i  universal  favorite,  from  its  great  productiveness  and 
aclmirable  flavor.  The  uncouth  name  of  Coxe,  Sheep-nose,  is  nearly 
obsolete,  except  in  New  Jersey,  and  we  therefore  adopt  the  present  one, 
to  which  it  is  well  entitled.  The  tree  is  thrifty,  with  upright  shoots,  dull 
reddish  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  roundish-ovate,  dull  yellow,  sprinkled  with 
a  very  thin  russet.  Stalk  rather  long  and  slender.  Calyx  closed,  and 
set  in  a  rather  narrow  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  very  tender,  juicy,  with  a 
mild,  rich,  spicy  flavor.     Best.     October  to  January. 


American  Golden  Russet. 


American  Nonpareil. 


Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  round,  and  regular.  Fruit  medium, 
oblong  conic,  yellow,  streaked  with  lively  red.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy, 
August.     (Coxe.) 

American  Pippin. 
Stone.  Grindstone. 

Treo  thrifty,  spreading,  with  crooked  shoots.  Valuable  only  for  its 
late  keeping  and  for  cider. 

Fruit  of  medium  size  and  regular  form,  oblate,  dull  red  in  patches 
and  stripes,  on  a  dull  green  ground.  Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  with  a 
gomewhat  brisk,  acid  flavor.     Good.     Keeps  till  June. 

American  Plate. 
Origin  unknown.     Tree  of  slow  growth,  hardy,  very  productive. 


78 


THE    APPLE. 


Fruit  small,  roundish,  oblate,  greenish,  with  a  brown  tinge.  Flesh 
crisp,  juicy,  pleasant.     December  and  January.     (Ron.) 

American  Summer  Pearmain. 
Early  Summer  Pearmaiu. 

A  rich,  highly-flavored  fruit,  much  esteemed  where  it  is  known.  Lt 
appears  to  be  quite  different  from  the  Summer  Pearmain  (of  the  English), 
and  is  probably  a  seedling  raised  from  it.  It  ripens  gradually  from  the 
tenth  of  August  to  the  last  of  September.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
with  slender  branches,  round-headed.    Young  shoots  dull  reddish-brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong,  widest  at  the  crown,  and  tapering  slight- 
ly to  the  eye.     Skin  red,  spotted  with  yellow  in  the  shade,  but  streaked 


American  Summer  Pearmain. 


with  livelier  red  and  yellow  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  three-fourths  of 
an  inch  long,  and  pretty  deeply  inserted.  Eye  deeply  sunk.  Calyx 
closed.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  abrupt,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh 
j  ellow,  remarkably  tender,  with  a  rich  and  pleasant  flavor,  and  often 
biurets  in  falling  from  the  tree.     Quality  best.     Core  medium. 

Ananas. 

Rother  Ananas.  Bromelia  Ananas. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  streaked  with  bright  red  in  the  sun, 
biown  spots  in  shade.     Stalk  long,  slender.     Cavity  deep,  open.     Calyx 


THE    APPLE.  79 

irregular,  open.     Basin  deep      Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  per 
fumed.     Excellent.     October.      (Al.  Pom.) 

Ananas  de  Liege. 
Calville  Ananas  de  Liege.  Lutticher  Ananas  Calville. 

Originated  in  Belgium.  Tree  moderately  Vigorous,  with  long,  jointed, 
dark-reddish  shoots. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  truncated,  greenish,  with  patches  of  brown  or 
brownish  russet.  Calyx  large.  Basin  deep,  abrupt.  Stalk  short.  Cavity 
large  and  deep.  Flesh  white,  half-line,  firm,  a  little  dry,  subacid.  Cook 
ing      January,  February.      (Verg.) 

Angle. 

Medium,  roundish,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  stripes  and  splashes 
of  light  and  dark  red,  with  white  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  sweet  and 
good,  fair  and  handsome.     Good.     First  of  September. 

Anglo-American. 

Raised  by  W.  H.  Read,  Canada  West.  Tree  vigorous  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  marbled,  striped  and  splashed  with 
bright  red.  Stalk  short,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  cavity  of  moderate 
depth.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  long,  partly  recurved.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good.  August,  Sep 
tember. 

Archiduc  Antoine. 

Tree  upright,  vigorous.     Young  shoots  reddish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow  green,  dotted  with  inconspicuous 
small  brown  dots.  Calyx  half  open.  Basin  small.  Stalk  rather  long. 
Cavity  deep.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Early 
winter.      (Verg.) 

Aromatic  Carolina. 

Origin,  Pomaria,  South  Carolina.     Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  light  yellow,  slightly 
streaked  with  pale  red.  Flesh  moderately  firm,  crisp,  pleasant,  mild, 
subacid,  aromatic.  Veiy  good.  August  and  September.  William 
Sumner  says  this  is  exceedingly  tender  and  melting,  and  in  season  all 
July. 

Aromatic  Russet. 

An  English  Apple,  of  vigorous,  upright,  rather  slender  growth,  hardy 
and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  truncate  conic,  greenish,  with  a  thin  gray 
russet,  and  a  tinge  of  dull  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  firm, 
brisk,  subacid,  aromatic.     November,  February.     (Lind.) 

Ashland. 

Origin,  Clermont  Co.,  O.  Tree  upright,  moderate  grower,  a  good  and 
annual  bearer. 


flO  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  approaching  conic,  truncate,  yellowish,  striped  and 
shaded  with  carmine,  and  considerably  sprinkled  with  large  light  dots. 
Stalk  small  and  short,  inserted  in  a  large  open  cavity  surrounded  by 
greenish  russet.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  round,  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  yel- 
low, tender,  juicy,  with  a  very  pleasant,  mild,  subacid  flavor.  Very 
good.     January  to  April. 

Ashmead's  Kernel. 

A  variety  from  Gloucestershire,  England.  Tree  hardy  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  tinge  of  brown- 
ish orange  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  aromatic. 
November  to  May.     (Lind.) 

Ashmore. 
Red  Ashmore. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading.  Young  shoots 
dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  form  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conical,  generally 
regular;  color  whitish  yellow,  washed  or  shaded  with  rich  bright  red^ 
obscurely  splashed,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots.  Skin 
glossy,  smooth.  Stalk  medium;  cavity  broad,  deep,  slightly  russeted. 
Calyx  small,  finely  closed.  Segments  erect.  Basin  deep,  open,  slightly 
uneven.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  subacid.  Core  small.  Very 
good.     Octobei',  November. 

Striped  Ashmore  is  claimed  by  some  as  a  distinct  variety,  differing 
only  in  its  coloring. 

ASTERUS. 

D'Asterus.  Staining  d'Hiver. 

An  English  variety,  valuable  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  green,  with  some  dull  red  streaks.  Flesh  firm, 
rich,  subacid  or  acid.     January  to  April.     (Ron.) 

Augustine. 

Large,  roundish,  conic,  yellow,  striped  with  red,  sweet  and  dry. 
August. 

Augustus  Pearmain. 

An  English  variety.  Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  conical, 
yellow,  with  streaks  of  red,  deepest  in  the  sun.  Calyx  small,  closed. 
Stalk  short,  and  having  a  knobby  attachment.  Flesh  tender,  j  uicy ,  vinous, 
aromatic.     November,  December.     (Hogg.) 

Aunt  Anna.  * 

Aunt  Anna's  Seedling. 

Introduced  by  John  Reeder,  South  Charleston,  Ohio.  Fruit  medium, 
oblate,  yellow,  finely  striped  with  red.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  rather  dry. 
(O.  P.  S.  Rep.) 


the  apple.  81 

Aunt's  Apple. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  small,  delicate,  very  productive.  Fruit 
large,  oblong,  yellow,  mostly  covered  and  streaked  with  a  lively  red 
Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  juicy,  not  rich.     November.     (Coxe.) 

Aunt  Hannah. 

Origin,  Essex  Co.,  Mass.  Tree  of  slow  growth.  Fruit  medium, 
oblate,  nearly  globular.  Skin  golden  yellowish,  sprinkled  with  russet. 
Stem  short,  inserted  in  a  cavity  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  closed. 
Basin  very  shallow.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  with  a  rich  peculiar 
flavor,  slightly  musky.     Good.     December  to  February. 

Aunt  Susan's  Favorite. 

Originated  from  seed,  by  Mrs.  Susan  Tippet,  in  Missouri,  about 
twenty-five  years  since.  Tree  hardy,  thrifty,  vigorous,  round  open  head, 
good  and  regular  bearer.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened,  light  yellow, 
shaded  and  striped  with  shades  of  deep  and  light  red.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  subacid. 
Good.     August.     (M.  S.  H.  Soc.) 

Austin  Sweet. 

Origin,  Mercer  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  irregular  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  sprinkled 
with  a  few  brown  dots  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  short  and  small ; 
cavity,  wide  open,  deep,  russeted.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  erect. 
Basin  abrupt,  deep,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  rich,  sweet. 
Very  good.     Core  medium.     September  to  December. 

Autumn  Golden  Pippin. 

An  old  English  variety.  Tree  vigorous.  Fruit  small,  lemon-yel- 
low, little  russeted.     Flesh  rich,  and  delicious  flavor.     (Bon.) 

Autumn  Pearmain. 

Winter  Pearmain. 

A  slow-growing  tree,  but  attains  a  large  size.  Branches  slender, 
spreading.  Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  narrowing  gradually  toward 
the  eye.  Color  brownish-yellow,  mixed  with  green  on  the  shaded  side, 
but  next  the  sun  reddish,  blended  with  yellow,  streaked  with  deeper  red, 
and  sprinkled  with  numerous  small  brown  specks.  Stalk  short,  obliquely 
planted  under  a  fleshy  lip.  Calyx  small,  set  in  a  broad  shallow  basin, 
which  is  sometimes  scarcely  at  all  sunk,  and  obscurely  plaited.  Flesh 
pale  yellow,  crisp,  firm,  a  little  dry,  but  rich  and  high  flavored.  Core 
rather  small.     Quality  very  good.     October  to  March. 

Autumn  Bomanite. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Jacob  Nicely,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.  Fruit 
medium,  round,  somewhat  flattened,  beautiful  red.  Flesh  yellow,  plea- 
sant.    September.     (A.  Pom.  S.  Bep.) 

6 


82  the  apple. 

Autumn  Rose. 

Roseau  d'Automne. 

An  old  English  variety.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading.  Fruit  medium, 
red  on  bright  rich  yellow,  russet  at  the  stem.  Flesh  yellow,  rich, 
juicy,  tender,  high  flavored.     September.     (Coxe.) 

Autumnal  Swaar. 

Fall  Swaar  of  West. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  spreading.  Fruit  large,, 
roundish,  conic,  orange-yellow,  netted  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  star- 
shaped  dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  broad,  deep,  slightly  russeted. 
Calyx  small  and  closed.  Basin  deep,  abrupt,  and  corrugated.  Flesh  yel- 
low, juicy,  tender,  with  a  pleasant,  rich,  mild,  slightly  aromatic  sub- 
acid flavor.     Core  small.      "Very  good.     September 

Autumn  Sweet  Bough. 

Late  Bough.  Sweet  Bellflower. 

Fall  Bough.  Philadelphia  Sweet. 

White  Sugar  ? 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  round-headed,  very  pro- 
ductive. One  of  the  very  best  dessert  sweet  Apples  of  its  season. 
Fruit  medium,  conical,  angular,  smooth,  pale  yellow,  sprinkled  with  a 
few  brown  dots.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a 
deep  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  long.  Basin  deep,  corru- 
gated. Flesh  white,  very  tender,  with  a  sweet,  refreshing,  vinous  flavor. 
Very  good.     Last  of  August  to  first  of  October. 

Autumnal  Sweet  Swaar. 

Sweet   Swaar.  Sweet  Golden  Pippin. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive.  Fruit 
medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  deep  yellow,  with  occasional  blush 
in  sun.  Stalk  rather  long,  slender.  Cavity  broad  and  even.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  round,  open,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  mode- 
rately juicy,  rich  and  sweet.  Core  medium.  Very  good.  September,, 
October. 

Autumn  Seek-no-farther. 
Dr.  Watson. 

Origin  unknown.  A  variety  considerably  grown  in  Indiana,  where 
it  is  much  esteemed.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sides  sometimes  unequal.  Color  greenish-white, 
shaded,  and  splashed  in  the  sun  with  dull  crimson.  Stalk  of  medium 
length.  Canity  broad,  uneven.  Calyx  open.  Basin  large,  '-ather  deep 
Flesh  whitish-yellow,  rather  firm,  juicy,  rich,  subacid.  Core  medium, 
Very  good.     September,  October. 


the  apple.  83 

Aver  ill. 

Wolfs  Den. 

Origin,  Pomfret,  Conn.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Fruit  rather 
large,  irregularly  conic,  angular,  greenish  yellow,  striped  and  shaded 
with  red.  Stem  short  and  stout,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx 
closed,  set  in  a  very  shallow  slightly  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  whitish, 
tender,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  subacid  flavor.  Good.  February  tc 
June. 

Baccolinus. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  very  productive.  Fruit  small, 
roundish  to  roundish  oblong,  whitish,  shaded  and  splashed  with  light  and 
dark  red.  Flesh  firm,  moderately  juicy,  vinous.  Core  small.  Good. 
January  to  April. 

Bachelor's  Blush. 

Origin  unknown.  An  annual  moderate  bearer.  Fruit  rather  large, 
form  oblate  depressed,  often  obscurely  ribbed,  color  yellowish  with  blush 
in  sun,  sprinkled  with  a  few  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  very  short. 
Cavity  large,  deep.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  medium,  un- 
even. Flesh  white,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  rather  rich,  subacid.  Core  small. 
Very  good.     August  and  September. 

Bachelor's  Glory. 

An  English  variety.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  irregularly  ribbed,  golden 
yellow  with  crimson  stripes.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  flat.  Stalk  medium. 
Cavity  deep,  funnel-shaped.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant.  Oc- 
tober, November.     (Hogg.) 

Backhouse's  Lord  Nelson. 

Origin,  York,  England.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  yellowish  with  dull  green  shade.  Flesh 
tender.     Good.     December  to  January.     (Ron.) 

Baddow  Pippin. 

Ribston  Pippin,  Spring. 

An  English  dessert  Apple,  valued  for  its  keeping  properties.  Fruit 
medium,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  yellowish  green,  with  dull  red  in  the 
Bun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large,  open  Flesh  whitish,  firm,  crisp,  rich 
vinous.     Good.     April  to  May. 

Bailey's  Golden. 

Origin,  Kennebec  Co.,  Maine.  Tree  productive.  Fruit  large,  oblong, 
flattened  at  base  and  crown,  yellowish,  slightly  russeted,  with  ;t  warm 
cheek.  Stalk  short,  surrounded  by  iusset  in  a  broad  deep  cavity.  Calyx 
large  and  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white,  with  a  pleasant  subacid 
flavor.     Good.     January  to  March. 


84  the  apple. 

Bailey's  Spice. 

Origin,  Plattshurg,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately  vigorous  and  productive 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  light  yellow,  sometimes  a  faint  blush» 
Stalk  rather  long,  slender.  Cavity  rather  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
abrupt,  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  lively  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic.     Core  large.     Nearly  very  good.     September  and  October. 

Bailey's   Sweet. 
Edgerly's  Sweet.        Howard's  Sweet.        Paterson's  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown,  introduced  by  J.  Edgerly  of  Perry,  Wyoming  Co., 
N.  Y.     Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  spreading,  productive. 

This  variety  is  regarded  as  profitable  for  all  purposes,  although  per- 
haps a  little  too  tender  skin  for  shipping  long  distances.  Fruit  large, 
form  roundish  conical,  often  approaching  oblong,  obscurely  ribbed,  color 
yellowish,  mostly  shaded  and  obscurely  striped  with  red,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  minute  dots.  Stalk  short  and  rather  small,  inserted  in  a 
narrow  cavity.  Calyx  small,  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  irregular  basin 
Flesh  white,  tender,  not  very  juicy,  almost  melting,  with  a  honeyed  sweet 
flavor.     Core  rather  large.     Very  good.     November  to  March. 

Baker. 
Scott. 

Origin,  Bidgefield,  Ct.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  abundant  bearer, 
young  wood  reddish  brown,  with  prominent  round  buds.  In  its  native 
locality  this  Apple  is  highly  esteemed  both  for  market  and  cooking  pur- 
poses. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  mostly 
shaded  and  splashed  with  shades  of  crimson.  Stalk  short,  moderately 
stout.  Cavity  regular,  medium.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  slightly  recurved. 
Basin  shallow,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  often 
tinged  with  crimson  near  the  skin,  pleasant  subacid.  Very  good.  Core 
small.     October  to  February. 

Baker's  Sweet. 
Winter  Golden  Sweet.        Long  Stem  Sweet.         Late  Golden  Sweet. 

An  old  fruit  of  Connecticut  and  Massachusetts,  and  much  cultivated 
there.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  slender,  somewhat  resembling  Jonathan. 
Wood  clear  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  of  a  golden  yellow  color,  with  some  patches 
of  russet.  Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  large  smooth  cavity.  Calyx  closed. 
Rather  large  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  rich,  exceedingly  saccharine  and  plea- 
sant.    Good  to  very  good.     November,  December. 

Balm. 

Origin,  Vermont.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  oblate  conical,  yellowish,  mostly 
covered  with  red.  Stalk  slender.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  mild,  pleasant.     Good.     October. 


Woodpecker. 
Felch  ? 


the  apple. 

Baldwin. 

Pecker. 

Red  Baldwin. 


85 


Steele's  Red  Winter. 
Butters. 


The  Bald-win  standi  at  the  head  of  all  New  England  Apples,  and  it 
unquestionably  a  first-rate  fruit  in  all  respects.  It  is  a  native  of  Massa- 
chusetts, and  is  more  largely  cultivated  for  the  Boston  market  than  any 
other  sort.  It  bears  most  abundantly  with  us,  and  we  have  had  the 
satisfaction  of  raising  larger,  more  beautiful,  and  highly  flavored  speci- 
mens here  than  we  ever  saw  in  its  native  region.  The  Baldwin  in  flavor 
and  general  characteristics  evidently  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  our 
Esopus  Spitzenberg,  and  deserves  its  extensive  popularity. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  productive.  Young  shoots  d>dl 
reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  and  narrowing  a  little  to  the  eye.  Color  yellow 
in  the  shade,  but  nearly  covered  and  striped  with  crimson,  red,  and 
orange  in  the  sun,  dotted  with  a  few  russet  dots,  and  with  radiating 
streaks  of  russet  about  the  stalk.  Calyx  closed,  and  set  in  a  rather  narrow 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  half  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  rather  slender 
for  so  lnrge  a  fruit,  planted  in  an  even,  moderately  deep  cavity.     Flesh 


Baldwin. 


yellowish  white,  crisp,  with  that  agreeable  mingling  of  the  saccharine  an 4 
acid  which  constitutes  a  rich,  high  flavor.  Very  good.  The  tree  is  a 
vigorous  upright  grower,  and  bears  most  abundantly.  Bipe  from  No- 
vember to  March,  but  with  us  is  in  perfection  in  January.* 

*  The  Baldwin,  like  nearly  all  other  varieties  of  winter  fruits,  originated  in  th« 
Northern  and  Eastern  States  ;  when  grown  in  Southern  latitudes  they  become 


8# 


THE  ArrLE. 


Baldwin   Sweet. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  yellow,  striped  and  shaded  with  red 
Flesh  yellow,  rather  compact,  sweet  and  good.  Productive.  October 
January. 


Cable's  Gilliflower. 


Baltimore. 
Baltimore  Pippin. 


Royal  Pippin 


Origin  unknown.  Tree  healthy,  hardy,  moderately  vigorous,  making  a 
round  head  that  when  loaded  with  fruit  appears  almost  drooping.  Young 
shoots  slender,  dull  reddish  brown.  A  profitable  variety  for  market  01 
table  use. 


Baltimore. 


Fruit  medium.  Form  roundish,  conical,  regular.  Color  pale  yellow, 
shaded  with  Light  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  dark  red,  almost  pur- 
plish, having  a  grayish  appearance  of  bloom,  large  light  dots,  with  a 
dark  centre.  Stalk  shoi-t.  Cavity  medium  size,  rather  thinly  russeted. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Segments  drawn  to  a  point.  Basin  shallow,  nearly 
smooth.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  subacid.  Core  medium. 
Very  good.     December  to  April. 

An  apple  received  from  Maryland  as  Baltimore  proves  identical  with 
Fallawater. 

Baltimore   Greening. 

Origin  unknown.  Specimens  received  from  John  Edgerton,  Coal 
Creek,  Iowa. 

Fruit  large,    globular  flattened,   greenish  yellow,  with  a   brownish 

autumn  01  early  winter  sorts,  and  lose  more  or  less  of  their  sprightliness  and  good 
qualities  as  table  fruits.  On  the  other  hand,  the  summer-ripening  varieties,  origi- 
nating North,  are  greatly  improved  when  grown  at  the  South. 


THE    APPLE.  87 

blush  cheek  in  sun,  some  slight  stripes  of  russet,  and  a  few  small  raised 
gray  dots.  Stem  short.  Cavity  broad,  open,  and  deep.  Calyx  closed,  01 
nearly  so.  Basin  open,  deep,  slightly  furrowed  at  base.  Flesh  yellow 
ish,  rather  coarse,  tender,  mild,  subacid.  Very  good.  Core  medium. 
December.     (Elliott's  Notes.) 

Baltzby 

From  Virginia.  Tree  spreading,  productive.  Fruit  large,  oblate, 
yellowish  white,  with  a  faint  blush;  dots  scattered,  small,  white.  Flesh 
white,  nrni,  somewhat  tough,  juicy,  almost  sweet.     Good.     October. 

Bar. 

A  large,  fair  apple,  slightly  tinged  with  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  sweet,  and  agreeable.  Good.  An  early  fall  fruit,  and 
keeps  well  through  the  winter. 

Barbour. 

Originated  with  J.  Barbour,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.  Fruit  medium 
roundish,  oblate,  inclining  to  conical,  mottled,  and  striped  with  red  of 
different  hues  on  a  grayish  ground,  with  numerous  gray  specks.  Flesh 
yellowish,  white,  tender,  juicy,  flavor  pleasant.  Quality  very  good.  (Pa. 
Rep.) 

Barcelona  Pearmain. 

Speckled  Golden  Reinette.  Speckled  Pearmain 

Polinia  Pearmain  Reinette  Rousse. 

Reinette  Rouge.  Reinette  des  Cannes. 

Glace  Rouge.  Cassel  Reinette. 
KLeine  Casseler  Reinette. 

A  foreign  variety  of  uncertain  origin,  which  frOm  its  good  qualities 
there,  has  evidently  been  widely  grown  under  many  names.  Tree  hardy 
and   productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  pale  yellow,  mostly  covered  with 
red,  and  many  star-like  russet  specks.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  c  dsp, 
ricb,  aromatic,  subacid.     November  to  March. 

Barchard's  Seedling. 

An  English  variety,  valuable  for  kitchen  use.  Fruit  medium,  round- 
ish oblate,  yellow  striped  with  red.  Flesh  white,  sugary.  October. 
(L.  H.  S.) 

Barniiam's  Sweet 

Origin,  Connecticut.  Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  rough, 
russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  dry,  rich,  sweet.  Good  for  baking. 
November,  December. 

Barnhilt. 

American,  small,  conical,  yellow,  striped  with  red.  Flesh  white, 
tough,  dry.     October,  November. 


88  THE   APPLE. 


Bark  Apple 


Originated  with  the  Messrs.  Ronalds,  England,  and  there  regarded  val 
uable  for  culinary  use.  Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow, 
blush  in  sun,  some  russet.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy  acid.  November  to 
February.     (Hogg.) 

Barre. 
Colville  Barre. 
Origin  unknown.     Introduced  from  Angers  in  1848.     Fruit  large, 
roundish  conical,  yellow,  with  spots  or  patches  of  greenish.    Flesh  yellow- 
ish white,  juicy,  acid.     December.     (An.  Tom.) 

Barrett. 

Origin,  Kensington,  Conn.  Fruit  medium  to  large,  conic,  yellow, 
striped  and  splashed  with  carmine.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  tender,  with 
a  very  pleasant  vinous  aromatic  flavor,  almost  sweet.#  Good.  Janu- 
ary to  March. 

Bars. 

Origin,  Rhode  Island.  Fruit  rather  large,  round,  pale  yellow,  mar- 
bled, and  nearly  covered  with  red  and  a  few  russet  spots.  Stalk 
long,  slender.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  closed.  Segment  slightly  recurv- 
ed. Basin  medium,  furrowed.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  sub- 
acid.    Core  small.     Very  good.     September. 

Bartlett. 

Origin  unknown.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  ribbed,  striped  and  splashed 
with  bright  red  on  yellow.  Flesh  whitish,  mild  subacid.  Good.  (Count. 
Gent.) 

Barton. 

Originated  with  Michael  Aikman,  in  the  township  of  Barton,  C.  W. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  light  yellow,  with  bight  red  cheek. 
Stalk  short.  Cavity  even.  Calyx  small,  regular.  Basin  medium.  Flesh 
white,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  subacid.  Core  small.  Very 
good.  September  October.  A  new  variety  promising  of  value  for  des- 
sert.    (Tat.  Mss.) 

Barton's  Incomparable. 

An  English  variety,  regarded  abroad  as  of  the  highest  excellence  fol 
the  dessert.  Tree  healthy  and  productive.  Fruit  below  medium,  round- 
ish conical,  five  ribbed,  yellowish  green,  with  patches  and  specks  of 
russet,  orange  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  sprightly,  vi« 
nous.     October  to  February.     (Hogg.) 

Bauman's   Reinette. 
Reinette  Bauman. 
Of  Flemish  origin,  introduced  and  named  by  Van  Mons.     Fruit  me- 
dium, roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  with   numerous  distinct  brown 
dots.     Flesh   yellowish  white,  fine,  firm,  sugary,  perfumed.     January. 
(L.H.  S.) 


the  apple.  %9 

Baxter's   Pearmaist. 

From  Norfolk,  England.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  productive.  Fruit 
large,  roundish,  elongated  conical,  pale  green,  with  shades  and  ntreakp 
of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  brisk,  sprightly  subacid.  Val 
uable  for  all  purposes.     November  to  March.    (Hogg.) 

Beachemwell   Seedling. 

Motteux's  Seedling. 

From  Norfolk,  England.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  productive.  Fruit 
below  medium,  roundish,  yellowish,  with  faint  stripes  and  splashes  of 
red,  brown  patches.  Calyx  and  stalk  prominent.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
tender,  brisk,  subacid.     December  to  March.      (Bon.) 

Beadell. 
Hanover  Seedling. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Edward  Beadell,  "Westchester  Co.,  N.  Y. 
Tree  strong,  vigorous,  spreading,  good  bearer.  Fruit  resembles  the  Mc- 
Lellan  in  form,  color,  size,  and  similar  in  flavor.  Good  to  very  good. 
Bipe  in  October. 

Bean  Sweet. 

Originally  sent  out  by  Judge  Buel.  Fruit  medium,  oblong  rounded, 
nearly  white.    Flesh  crisp,  juicy.    October  to  March.    Baking.  (Elliott.) 

Bear   Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Fruit  medium,  roundish,  conical,  yellowish,  sha- 
ded and  splashed  with  red.  Flesh  moderately  tender,  juicy,  pleasant, 
sweet.     Good  for  cooking.     November. 

Beau. 

Distributed  by  Judge  Buel.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblate,  yellowish 
green,  with  blush  in  sun,  and  white  dots.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  acid. 
August  to  October.     Culinary.     (Ken.) 

Beauty  of  Kent. 

A  showy  English  sort  for  culinary  uses.  The  tree  grows  very  strong 
and  upright,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  but  flat  at  the  base,  and  narrowing  dis- 
tinctly to  the  eye,  where  it  is  slightly  ribbed,  smooth,  greenish-yellow, 
marked  with  large,  broken  stripes  of  purplish  red.  Stalk  short,  slender, 
deeply  planted  in  a  round,  russeted,  corrugated  cavity.  Calyx  small,  set 
in  a  narrow  basin.  Fl^sh  juicy,  crisp,  tender,  witl  a  simple  subacid 
flavor.     Good.     October  and  November. 

Beauty  of  the  West. 

Western  Beauty.  Ohio  Beauty. 

Musgrove's  Cooper. 

Origin  unknown.     First  sent  out  and  noticed  by  Judge  Buel  some 


90  THE    APPLE- 

thirty  or  more  years  since,  and  yet  but  little  known.  The  tree  is  a 
strong,  vigorous  grower,  forming  a  large  spreading  head,  moderately 
productive.      Young  wood  dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblate,  conical,  greenish  yellow,  nearly  covered 
with  pale  dull  red,  striped  with  a  darker  shade,  and  dotted  with  large 
yellow  specks.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large,  half  open.  Jle&h  greenish- 
white,  not  firm,  tender,  mild,  subacid.      Good.     November  to  February. 

Bedfordshire  Foundling. 
Cambridge  Pippin. 

A  large  green  English  Apple,  excellent  for  kitchen  use.  Fruit  large, 
roundish,  obscurely  ribbed,  deep  green,  paler  at  maturity.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, tender,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  acid  flavor.  Good.  October  to 
February. 

Beefsteak. 
Garden  Apple  of  some,  incorrectly. 

Origin,  farcn  of  Joel  Davis,  Amesbury,  Mass.  Habits  similar  to 
Baldwin,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conical.  Sides  sometimes  une- 
qual. Skin  whitish-yellow,  shaded  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark 
red  over  two-thirds  its  surface,  large  areole  dots.  Stalk  medium  and 
slender,  often  with  bracts.  Cavity  rather  large,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx 
"losed.  Segments  slightly  recurved.  Basin  medium,  nearly  smooth. 
Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  subacid.  Core  medium.  Very 
good.     October,  November. 

Beeler's  Russet. 

Origin  unknown.  Fruit  medium  to  small,  round,  truncated,  rus- 
Beted.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic.  Novem- 
ber, December.     (Warder.) 

Belden  or  Red  Cheek 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  moderately  productive. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  conic,  greenish-yellow,  with  patches  of  russet, 
sometimes  a  little  bronzed  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  subacid,  pleas- 
ant.    Good.      October,  February. 

Belden  Sweet. 

Grown  in  Connecticut,  very  prolific.  Fruit  medium,  or  below, 
roundish  conic,  light  yellow,  with  a  warm  cheek.  Stalk  medium,  in  an 
acute,  deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  small  basin.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, juicy,  saccharine,  with  a  pleasant,  aromatic  flavor.  Core  large. 
Good.     December  to  March. 

Belle  Bonde. 
Billy  Bond.  Belly  Bounder. 

This  variety  is  somewhat  grown  in  Central  New  York,  and  claimed 
as  having  originated  in  France,  in  1790,  and  brought  there  by  one  John 


THE    APPLE.  91 

Deidens.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  spreading.  Fruit  medium,  or  above, 
roundish  conical,  pale-yellow,  striped  and  splashed  with  red,  and  with 
large  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  brisk,  subacid. 
Good  for  cooking.     January  and  February. 

Belle  Bonne. 
Winter  Belle  boon.         Winter  Belle  and  Bonne.         Rolland. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened,  greenish-yellow,  with  a  few  reddish 
streaks  in  the  sun.  Flesh  firm,  juicy.  October  to  January.  Culinary. 
(Hogg.) 

An  old  variety,  first  described  by  Parkinson,  in  1629,  and  which 
is  probably  identical  with  the  Belle  et  Bonne  above  described. 

Belle  d'Angers. 

Origin  in  doubt.  Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  pale-yellow,  splashed 
and  shaded  with  dull  red.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  crisp,  brisk,  subacid, 
aromatic.      Core  medium.     Very  good.     October. 

Belledge. 

Belledge  Pippin. 

Origin,  Derbyshire,  England.  A  dessert  and  culinary  apple.  Fruit 
below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  lemon  yellow,  tinged  with  pale  brown 
in  sun,  many  embedded  gray  dots.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  pleasant,  aromatic, 
acid.     October,  December.     (Lind.) 

Belle  et  Bonne. 
Tenon  Hills. 

A  large,  fine  apple,  having  a  great  reputation  in  the  vicinity  of 
Hartford,  Conn.,  a  vigorous  grower  and  productive.  Shoots  dull  red- 
dish brown. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  golden  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  small  dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  broad,  deep  cavity,  sur- 
rounded by  thin  russet.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  moderate  and  uneven. 
Flesh  yellow,  coarse,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  rather  rich,  subacid 
flavor.     Good.     A  profitable  variety  for  market.     October  to  March. 

Belle    Grideline. 

Belle  Grisdeline. 

An  old  variety,  originated  at  Norwich,  England.  Tree  healthy, 
vigorous.  Good  bearer.  Fruit  medium,  round,  regular,  yellow,  mar- 
bled, and  washed  with  lively  red,  gray  russet  in  sun.  Flesh  white, 
crisp,  brisk,  subacid.     November  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Bellflower  Pippin. 

Originated  with  Joseph  Curtis,  Edgar  Co.,  111.     Tree  resembles  Yel 
low  Bellflower,  but  more  slender  in  its  branches. 


12 


THE    APPLE. 


Fruit  medium,  or  above,  oblate,  orange-yellow,  sometime*  shaded 
with  crimson  in  the  sun,  thinly  sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rather  rich,  subacid.  Core  small.  Very 
good.     December,  January. 

Belmont 

Gate.  White  Apple. 

Mamma  Beam.  Waxen  of  some. 

Golden  Pippin  of  some.     Kelley  White. 

Origin,  near  Strasburgh,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.,  in  the  garden  of  Mrs. 
Beam,  at  her  gate,  hence  the  names  "  Gate  Apple,"  and  "  Mnmmn 
Beam."      It  was  taken  to  Ohio  by  Jacob  Neisley,  Sen.,  and  became 


Belmont. 


very  popular  in  Belmont  Co.,  and  we  retain  this  name  as  being  the 
most  universal  one.  Tree  vigorous,  healthy,  and  very  productive. 
Wood  smooth,  light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  globular,  a  little  flattened  and  narrower 
towards  the  eye,  sometimes  oblong.  Color  light,  waxen-yellow,  often 
with  a  bright  vermilion  cheek.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  generally  large. 
Calyx  usually  closed.  Basin  rather  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sometimes  almost  melting,  of  a  mild  agreeable 
flavor.     Very  good.     November  to  February. 

Belpee  Keeper. 

jtfYuit  below  medium,  roundish,  pale  greenish-white,  some  shades  of 
erimson  in  sun.  Flesh  greenish,  crisp,  tender,  pleasant,  subacid, 
Good.     January  to  March. 


THE    APPLE. 


Belvoir  Pippin. 


Of  English  origin.  Fruit  small,  roundish  ohlate,  yellow  with 
crimson  in  sun,  russet  at  the  stalk.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  firm,  crisp, 
rich  brisk  acid.     November,  December.     (Lind.) 

Belzer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow  striped  with  rsd.  Flesh  white, 
fine,  sub-acid.     Good.     Middle  August.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Ben  Davis. 

New  York  Pippin.  Baltimore  Red. 
Victoria  Pippin.  do.         Pippin. 

Victoria  Red.  do.        Red  Streak. 

Red  Pippin.  Carolina  Red  Streak. 

Kentucky  Pippin.  Funkhouser. 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  unknown.  J.  S.  Downer  of  Kentucky 
writes  that  old  trees  are  there  found  from  which  suckers  are  taken  in 
way  of  propagating.     The  tree  is  very  hardy,  a  free  grower,  with  very 


Ben.   Davia. 

dark  reddish  brown,  slightly  grayish  young  wood,  forming  an  erect 
round  head,  bearing  early  and  abundantly.  In  quality  it  is  not  first- 
rate,  but  from  its  early  productiveness,  habit  of  blooming  late  in  Spring 
after  late  frosts,  good  size,  fair  even  fruit,  keeping  and  carrying  well,  it 
is  very  popular  in  all  the  Southwest  and  West. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish,  truncated  conical,  often 
sides  unequal.  Color  yellowish,  almost  entirely  overspread,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  two  shades  of  red,  and  dotted  sparsely  with  areola 
dots;     Stalk  medium,  rather  slender.     Cavity  narrow,  deep,  russeted. 


94  THE   APPLE. 

Calyx  partially  open.  Basin  wide,  abrupt,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh 
wliite,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant,  subacid.  Core  medium  to 
large.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  March 

Bennf.t 

Origin,  Herefordshire,  England,  where  it  is  valued  for  cider.  Fruit 
medium,  elongated,  oblong,  conical,  dingy  russet  gray,  orange,  and 
muddy  red.     (Land.) 

Benonl 

This  excellent  early  apple  is  a  native  of  Dedham,  Mass.  The  tree 
is  of  vigorous,  upright,  spreading  habit ;  hardy  and  productive ;  Light 
reddish  brown.     It  is  a  valuable  variety  for  market  or  table  use. 


Benoni. 


Fruit  rather  below  medium  size.  Form  roundish  obla'e  conical. 
Color  pale  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  and  marbled  with  dark  crimson,  and 
thinly  sprinkled  with  bright  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Cavity  deep  rus- 
seted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  persistent,  sometimes  a  little  recurved. 
Basin  abrupt,  quite  deep,  somewhat  uneven.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  tender, 
pleasant,  subacid.     Core  small.     Very  good.     August. 

Bentley's  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Supposed  Virginia.  Tree  moderately,  vigorous, 
hardy,  good  bearer  and  keeper,  valuable  in  the  Southwest  in  rich  soils. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened  at  ends,  sometimes  slightly  oblique, 
and  sometimes  sides  unequal,  pale  yellowish  green,  shaded  with  pale 
red  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  long, 
Blender,  curved.  Cavity  smooth,  deep.  Calyx  large,  closed,  or  partially 
open.  Segments  medium  length,  erect,  sometimes  a  little  recurved, 
Basin  large,  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  fine,  whitish,  compact,  sweet,  some- 
what  honeyed  flavor.     Core  small.     Very  good.     January  to  May. 


the  apple.  95 

Benwell's  Pearmain. 

An  English  variety.  Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  dull  green, 
with  stripe  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  aromatic 
December,  January.     (Hogg.) 


Bentley's  Sweet. 

Bere  Court  Pippin. 

Origin,  Berkshire,  England.  Fruit  medium  round,  slightly  oblate, 
yellowish  with  stripes  of  red  in  sun.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  acid 
September  and  October.     (Hogg.) 

Bergner. 

Originated  with  G.  Bergner,  near  Hermann,  Mo.  Tree  a  rapid 
grower,  with  strong  branches,  somewhat  drooping ;  hardy  and  an  abund- 
ant bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Color  a  rich  yellow  ground,  mostly 
covered,  striped  and  splashed  with  shades  of  maroon  red,  with  some 
yellow  gray  or  russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  open,  regular,  deep. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  deep,  slightly  plaited  at  base.  Core 
small.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  sprightly,  aromatic,  quince-like.  Very 
good.     February  to  April. 

Bess,  Pool. 
Best  Pool 
Origin,  Warwickshire,  England.     Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  productive. 


96 


THE    APPLE. 


Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  conical,  regular,  yellow,  washed  and 
striped  with  clear  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  vinous,  subacid.  The 
stem  almost  always  has  a  fleshy  protuberance  on  one  side.  November 
to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Best  Bache. 

Bache's  Kernel. 

Origin,  Herefordshire,  England,  where  it  is  grown  mostly  for  cider- 
making.  Fruit  medium,  oblong,  yellow,  shaded  and  streaked  with  pale 
red.     (Hogg.) 

Betsey. 

An  English  variety,  there  regarded  as  a  valuable  dessert  Apple.  Fruit 
small,  roundish  oblate,  conical;  pale  yellow  with  brownish  russet  in 
sun.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  and  sugary.  November 
to  January.     (Hogg.) 

Betsy's  Fancy. 

Origin  unknown.     A  free  grower,  rather  spreading,  good  bearer. 

Fruit  scarcely  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded  with  dull  red. 
Stem  short,  inserted  in  a  moderate  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow 
and  uneven.  Flesh  compact,  tender,  pleasant,  mild,  subacid  flavor. 
Good  to  very  good.     December  to  March. 


Betblemite. 


Bethlemite. 

The  origin  of  this  fine  apple  is  unknown.  It  was  first  brought  to 
notice  from  the  town  of  Bethlehem,  in  Ohio,  and  is  undoubtedly  a  seed- 
ling of  the  Newtown  Spitzenberg,  which  it  much  resembles.     Tree  an 


THE   APPLE.  97 

upright,  strong,  stocky,  short-jointed  grower,  with  young  shootd,  dull 
reddish  brown,  quite  downy.  A  productive  bearer,  the  fruit  keeping 
and  carrying  well ;  very  valuable  for  all  purposes. 

Fruit,  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conical,  regular.  Color  pale  yel- 
low, striped,  shaded  and  splashed  with  shades  of  light  and  dark  red  nearly 
over  the  whole  surface,  thin  grayish  tinge,  and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled 
with  light  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  slender.  Cavity  large, 
considerably  russeted.  Calyx  open  or  partially  closed.  Segments  large 
and  generally  erect.  Basin  large,  sbightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  com- 
pact, crisp,  juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Core  small.  Very 
good.     December  to  March. 

Better  than  Good. 

Origin  uncertain.  Tree  thrifty,  but  rather  slender,  very  productive, 
Fruit  medium,  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  a  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  short, 
inserted  in  a  broad  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  large  and  open.  Flesh 
yellowish,  very  tender,  juicy,  with  a  mild,  pleasant,  subacid  flavor.  Good 
to  very  good.     November  to  January. 

Bevan's  Favorite. 

Origin,  Salem,  New  J  ersey,  where  it  is  a  favorite.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive.  Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  striped  and 
splashed  with  red.     Flesh  white,  firm,  crisp,  subacid.     Good.     August. 

Bigg's  Nonsuch. 

Origin,  Middlesex,  England.  Tree  hardy  and  productive.  Fruit  me- 
dium, round,  broadest  at  base,  yellow,  striped  with  bright  crimson. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy.  Culinary  use.  October  to  December. 
(Hogg.) 

Billy  Barker. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Wm.  Barker,  Wake  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  up- 
right grower  and  good  bearer.  Fruit  large,  green,  oval,  elongated.  Flesh 
yellowish,  juicy,  tender,  brisk,  vinous.     August.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Billy's  Pippin. 

Fruit  large,  round  ovate,  smooth,  shaded  and  indistinctly  striped 
with  rich  red  on  yellow.     Flesh  subacid.     Very  good.    (Coun.  Gent.) 

Birmingham. 

Of  moderate  growth,  productive.  Fruit  medium,  obliquely  oblate, 
yellow,  sprinkled  with  a  few  whitish  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  in  a  broad, 
deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  large  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  yellowish, 
tender,  rather  acid,  good  for  cooking.     September. 

Birmingham  Pippin. 
Gramas  Pippin.  Stone  Pippin. 

Brammage  Pippin.  Grammage  Pippin. 

Tree  of  small  growth,  with  short,  stout  shoots,  productive.  Fruit 
small,  roundish    flattened,  dingy    yellow,  with    gray   russet,  especially 

7 


98  THE   APPLt. 

niBseted  at  base.     Flesh  greenish,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  pleasant.     January 
to  June.     (Lind.) 

Bischoff's  Reinette. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  lemon  yellow,  with  marl  lings  of 
russet.  Flesh  whitish-yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  aromatic.  Novem- 
ber to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Bishop's   Bourne. 

Received  from  C.  C.  Hamilton,  Cornwallis,  Nova  Scotia.  Fruit  me- 
dium, roundish  conical,  pale  yellow,  shaded,  and  obscurely  splashed 
and  striped  on  the  sunny  side,  few  gray  and  light  dots.  Stalk  medium, 
slender.  Cavity  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments 
long,  erect.  Basin  abrupt,  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  mild,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good.  Core  small.  No- 
vember, December. 

Black  Coal. 

Welcome.  Baltimore  Red.  Baltimore  Red  Streak. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  very  productive.  Fruit  rather  large, 
roundish,  deep  red,  almost  black,  with  a  slight  bloom,  and  many  white  dots. 
Flesh  white,  slightly  tinged  with  red,  crisp,  agreeable,  moderately  juicy. 
Good.     Core  medium.     November  to  February. 

Black  Oxford. 

Originated  in  Maine,  where  it  is  by  many  highly  esteemed,  especially 
as  a  good  keeper  and  great  bearer. 

Fruit  msdium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  nearly  covered 
with  shades  of  red,  numerous  light-colored  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  com- 
pact, not  very  juicy,  mild  subacid.     Good.     March  to  May. 

Black  Jack. 

Received  from  W.  C.  Hampton,  Ohio.  Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slight- 
ly conic,  yellowish,  mostly  overspread  with  dark  rich  red,  few  light 
gray  dots.  Flesh  whitish-yellow,  rather  dry,  rich,  sweet.  Good  for 
baking.     January,  February. 

Black  Warrior. 

Origin,  Alabama.  Fruit  medium  or  small,  roundish,  inclining  to 
conic,  regular,  greenish,  with  a  few  brown  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  moderate- 
ly juicy,  rather  firm,  subacid,   good.     Core  small.    November,  December. 

Blackstone  Valley  Sweet. 

Originated  in  Massachusetts.  Tree  productive.  Fruit  medium,  oblate, 
often  depressed,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish-yellow,  some  nettings  of 
russet,  gray  and  green  dots.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  sweet,  and  rich. 
Good  for  cooking.     August.     Core  small. 


THE    APPLE. 


Black  Annette. 


An  old  variety,  considerably  grown  in  some  parts  of  the  Eastern  State* 
Tree  a  good  bearer.  Fruit  medium,  small,  roundish,  dark  red.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  negative  in  character,  pleasant.     Good.     November,  December. 

Black  Apple. 
Small  Black.  Jersey  Black.  Black  American. 

An  old  variety,  described  and  put  out  by  Coxe,  and  now  found  in  man} 
sections.  The  trees  are  healthy,  moderate  growers,  forming  medium-sized, 
spreading  round  heads,  with  drooping  limbs.  It  is  a  pleasant  table  fruit, 
although  not  of  high  or  rich  flavor. 

Fruit  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate,  deep  red,  with  a  bloom.  Flesh 
white,  sometimes  slightly  stained  with  pinkish  red.  Good.  November 
to  February. 

Black  Gilliflower. 

Medium  size,  oblong  conical.  Skin  very  dark,  dull  red.  Flesh  white, 
dry,  mild,  subacid.  Good.  November  to  February.  Very  productive, 
and  some  call  it  a  profitable  market  fruit. 

Bland's  Jubilee. 

Originated  in  Norwich,  England.  Fruit  large,  round,  slightly  conical, 
obscurely  ribbed,  clear  yellow,  with  many  large  russet  dots  or  patches, 
and  russet  at  the  calyx.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  sugary, 
perfumed.     October  to  January.     (Hogg.) 

Blake. 

Originated  in  Westbrook,  Cumberland  Co.,  Maine.  Fruit  medium 
to  large,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  quite  yellow  at  maturity.  Flesh 
firm,  fine,  crisp,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.    October  to  January.    (Me.  Rep.) 

Blakely. 

Origin,  Pawlet,  Vermont,  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Blakely.  Vigorous,  up 
right  growth,  regular  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  regularly  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  with  a  sunny  cheek 
thinly  sprinkled  with  reddish  dots.  Stalk  small  and  short,  inserted  in  i 
broad  cavity  of  moderate  depth.  Calyx  nearly  closed.  Basin  small  and 
shallow.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  very  pleasant,  mild,  subacid  flavor. 
Good.     January,  March. 

Bleckensderfer. 

Originated  at  Zoar,  Ohio.  Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic, 
yellow,  shaded  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  red  or  crimson.  Flesh 
white,  rather  firm,  tender,  juicy,  subacid  Hardly  good.  November 
to  February. 

Bledsoe  Pippin. 

Raised  by  John  Bledsoe,  of  Carroll  Co.,  Kentucky.  Growth  moderate, 
rather  spreading,  productive,  a  promising  winter  Apple  for  the  South. 


100  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  very  large,  regular,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  base,  taper- 
ing to  the  apex,  greenish  yellow,  very  obscurely  striped.  Stalk  short 
Cavity  deep,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  partly  closed,  in  a  somewhat  fur 
rowed  basin.  Flesh  white,  fine  texture,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a  mild,  pleasant 
subacid  flavor.     Good.     December  to  April.     (Ky.  Hort.  Soc.) 

Blenheim  Pippin. 

Blenheim.  Blenheim  Orange.  Woodstock  Pippin. 

Northwick  Pippin.  Kempster's  Pippin. 

An  old  variety,  originated  at  Woodstock,  in  Oxfordshire,  England. 
Tree  a  strong  and  vigorous  grower,  a  regular  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  conical,  yellowish,  becoming  deep  orange, 
stained  on  the  sunny  side  with  dull  and  dark  red  stripes.  Stalk  short  and 
stout,  in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open,  in  a  deep  broad  basin.  Flesh 
yellow,  breaking,  very  sweet,  pleasant.    Good.     October,  December. 

Blinkbonny. 

Blinkbonny  Seedling. 

Raised  by Cleghorn,  Montreal,  Canada.     Tree  vigorous,  upright 

spreading,  very  productive.  Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate, 
pale  whitish  yellow.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white, 
rather  firm,  pleasant,  subacid.     Core  small.     Good.     September. 

Blockley. 
Blockley  Pippin. 

Origin,  near  Philadelphia.     Growth  upright,  moderate,  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  large,  roundish  oblate.  Color  fine  yellow,  sometimes 
with  a  faint  blush,  thinly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  rather 
stout,  inserted  in  a  deep  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a 
broad,  deep,  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  rich,  sprightly 
mild  subacid.     Good.     November  to  January. 

Blondin. 

Originated  with  Reuben  Ragan,  Indiana.  Fruit  very  large,  oblate, 
unequal,  greenish  yellow,  splashed  and  striped  with  red,  dots  large  gray, 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  tender,  juicy.     October,  November.     (Warder.) 

Blooming  Orange. 

Under  this  name  W.  G.  Waring,  of  Centre  Co.,  Pa.,  has  introduced 
an  Apple  said  to  have  been  brought  from  Herefordshire,  England. 
We  have  been  unable,  from  the  few  specimens  examined,  to  identify 
it  with  any  known  sort.  Tree  vigorous,  with  strong,  smooth  shoots, 
resembling  the  Rhode  Island  Greening  in  color,  but  of  upright  growth. 

Fruit  lai'ge,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  strip- 
ed, splashed,  and  shaded  with  dull  red,  with  large  whitish  and  gray 
dots.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core 
medium.  November  and  December.  This  may  yet  prove  to  be  some 
known  kind  but  as  we  have  not  fruited  it  ourself,  cannot  decide. 


the  apple.  101 

Blue  Mountain. 
Trout  Apple  or  Forelle.  Blauberger. 

Introduced  by  W.  G.  Waring.  Tree  hardy,  moderate  grower,  forn> 
ing  a  small  round  head.     Young  shoots,  slender,  dark  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  whitish,  with  broken  splashes  and 
stripes  of  light  red,  dotted  with  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  rather  short. 
Calyx  small  and  closed.  Basin  medium,  corrugated.  Flesh  white, 
crisp,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Core  large.  Good  to  very  good.  Novem- 
ber to  February. 

Blue  Mountain  Sweet. 

Origin   unknown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a 
shade  of  brown.  Flesh  fine-grained,  solid,  sweet.  Very  good.  (Count. 
Gent.) 

Blue  Pearmain. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  roundish,  regularly  formed,  very  slightly 
conical.  Color  stripes  of  dark  purplish-red,  over  a  dull  ground,  and 
appearing  bluish  from  the  white  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  mild,  rather 
rich,  aromatic,  and  very  good.  The  tree  grows  strongly,  and  bears  mode- 
rate crops.     October  to  February. 

Bluff  Sweet. 

From  the  banks  of  the  White  River. 

Fruit  medium  to  small,  round,  regular,  smooth,  green.  Flesh  green 
ish  white,  sweet.     Good.     July.     (Warder.) 

Boas. 
Kelter. 

A  Pennsylvania  Apple,  introduced  by  Rev.  Mr.  Boas,  of  Berks 
Co.     Tree  a  strong  grower  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  shaded  and 
indistinctly  splashed  and  striped  with  crimson  over  most  of  its  surface. 
Stalk  short  and  stout.  Cavity  medium.  Calyx  closed  or  partly  open. 
Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine-grained,  juicy, 
pleasant,  brisk  subacid.     Core  small.     Very  good.     January  tc  March. 

Boalsbueg. 

A  seedling  of  Centre  Co.,  Pa.  Large,  oblong,  inclining  to  conical, 
delicately  mottled,  and  striped  with  red  on  a  yellow  ground.  Stem 
short,  thick,  inserted  in  a  deep  acuminate  russeted  cavity.  Basin 
deep,  moderately  wide.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  sprightly.    Good.    February, 

BOHANNAN. 
Buchanan. 
A  Southern  fruit  introduced  by  Lewis  Sanders,  of  Kentucky.     Tree 
upright  spreading,  young  shoots,  light   reddish  brown.     Good  regular 
bearer. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  approaching  conic,  fine  yellow, 
with  a  bright  crimson  cheek  in  the  sun.     Stalk  slender,  inserted  in  a  round, 


102  THE    APPLE. 

uneven,  slightly  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  closed  in  a  narrow  tbrupt  basin. 
Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  fine  spicy  subacid  flavor  Cor« 
large.     Good  culinary.      September,  August. 

BONUM. 
Magnum  Bonum. 

Raised  by  Squire  Kinney,  Davidson  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  upright  spread- 
ing, hardy  and  vigorous,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  shoots, 
smooth  reddish  gray. 


Bonum. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  shaded  "with  deep  crimson,  and 
indistinct  stripes  and  splashes  of  dark  red,  rather  thinly  sprinkled  "with 
pretty  large  bight  dots,  a  portion  of  them  having  a  dark  centre.  Stalk 
long  and  slender.  Cavity  medium  to  large,  often  with  a  little  green 
russet.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  leather  long  and  sometimes  recurved. 
Basin  shallow,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  often  stained  next  the 
Bkin,  firm,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid.  Core  small.  Very  good. 
November  to  December. 

Borden's  Early. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  conical,  yellow,  striped,  and  splashed 
with  two  shades  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
Core  large.     Good.     A  desirable  cooking  apple. 

Borovitsky. 

A  Russian  Apple  of  medium  size,  roundish,  angular.  Skin  pale 
whitish  yellow,  faintly  striped.      Flesh  white,  firm,  subacid.     August. 

There  may  be  a  distinct  variety  under  this  name,  but,  so  far  as  re- 
ceived by  me,  it  has  proved  to  be  identical  with  Duchess  of  Oldenburg. 


THE    APPLE.  103 

BORSDORFFER. 

Bursdorff.  King  George  the  1'hird. 

Queen's.  Reinette  Btltarde. 

Edler  Winter  Borsdorffer.  Bursdorffer. 

Garret  Pippin.  King. 

Le  Grand  Bohemian  Borsdorffer.  Reinette  de  Misnie. 

A  small  celebrated  German  Apple. 

Fruit  roundish  oval,  narrowing  at  the  eye.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with 
a  full  red  cheek,  sprinkled  with  a  little  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white 
very  firm  and  crisp,  with  a  rich,  brisk,  perfumed  flavor.  November  te. 
February. 

BORSDORF    OGNON. 
Reinette  Plate.  Zweibel  ApfeL 

Of  Gerniau  origin.  Tree  with  short,  stocky,  yellowish-brown  shoots, 
regular  roundish  head. 

Fruit  small,  greenish  yellow,  with  large,  distinct  gray  spots.  Flesh 
white,  firm,  subacid,  perfumed,  rich  flavor.     Winter.     (Verg.) 

Bonne  Virginie. 

A  Belgian  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened  at  base,  glossy  greenish  yellow, 
with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  firm,  sugary,  slightly  acid,  agreeably 
perfumed.     October.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Bossom. 

Originated  at  Petworth,  England. 

Fniit  large,  conical,  pale  greenish  yellow,  very  much  russeted,  and 
with  bright  red  on  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  sugary, 
subacid.      Valuable  as  a  cooking-apple.     November  to  March.      (Lind.) 

Botigxe. 
De  Boutigne. 

Of  Belgic  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  with  large  reddish-brown 
shoots,  downy  at  the  end. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  conical,  yellow,  washed  over  with  car- 
mine red,  and  marbled  with  spots  of  gray  and  black.  Flesh  yellowish, 
firm,  very  juicy,  sugary.  Core  long,  irregular.  November  to  March. 
(Alb.  Pom.) 

Bottle  Greening. 

Tli is  variety  was  found  near  the  Vermont  and  New  York  State  line, 
and  takes  its  name  from  a  hollow  in  the  original  tree,  where  workmen 
were  accustomed  to  keeping  their  bottle.  If  was  introduced  to  notice 
tii id  disseminated  by  Eben  Wight,  of  Dorchester,  ..Mass.  Tree  a  tine 
grower,  vigorous,  spreading.      Young  wood  reddish  yellow. 

Fruit  in    limn,  oblate  incUning  greenish-yellow,  shaded  with 

dull  crimson  in  the  sun,  a  slight  bloom,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with 
light  dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  broad.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
small,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  subacid,  almost  melting.  Core  snialL 
Very  good.      January,  February. 


104  THE   APPLE. 


BOURASSA. 


A  foreign  variety,  succeeds  well  at  the  North,  apt  to  shrivel,  and 
does  not  keep  well. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  ribbed,  yellowish,  rich  orange  rus- 
set on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  sometimes  stained,  tender,  with  a 
pleasant  aromatic  flavor.     Good.     November,  December. 

Bowyer's  Russet. 

An  English  variety.  Valuable  for  desert  there  in  September.  Tree 
healthy  and  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  yellowish,  russeted.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish wb*1*  b,  crisp,  brisk,  aromatic.     September.     (Lind.) 

Bowker. 

Tree  vigorous,  rather  spreading,  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  flattened,  slightly  conic,  pale  yellow,  tinged 
with  crimson,  sparsely  covered  with  brown,  and  gray  dots.  Flesh 
■white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild,  subacid.     Good.     October. 

Bowling's  Sweet. 

From  Spottsylvania  Co.,  Va.  A  very  vigorous  grower  and  very 
pi  oductive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Color  dull  red,  on  a  yellow  ground. 
Flesh  rich,  juicy,  sweet,  and  entirely  free  from  acid.  Good.  October 
to  January. 

BOXFORD. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate.  Skin  whitish,  striped  with  red.  Flesh  com- 
pact, crisp,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     September,  October. 

Braddick's  Nonpareil. 

Originated  at  Surrey,  England. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  or  flattened  at  base,  yellowish,  with 
brownish  red  in  the  sun,  and  russet  near  the  calyx.  Flesh  yellowish, 
rich,  sugary,  aromatic.     October,  December.     (Lind.) 

Bradley's  Autumn. 

Originated  in  orchard  of  Mr.  Bradley,  Plymouth,  Mich.  Tree 
thrifty,  with  a  spreading  top,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  somewhat  ribbed,  whitish-yellow,  shaded 
where  exposed  to  the  sun  with  fine  crimson,  and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled 
with  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short  and  small.  Cavity  uneven,  acute. 
Calyx  closed.  Segments  erect.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  furrowed.  Flesh 
white,  moderately  juicy,  brisk,  subacid.  Core  large.  Good.  Excel- 
lent for  cooking.     October  to  January. 

Brand  ywine. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conical,  slightly  ribbed,  a  little  ob« 


THE   APPLE.  106 

lique,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  red  over  half  tc 
two-thirds  its  surface,  many  large,  light  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small. 
Cavity  deep.  Calyx  closed,  or  partially  open.  Basin  large.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, crisp,  juicy,  tender,  mild,  somewhat  rich,  subacid,  slightly  aro- 
matic.    Core  small.     Good  to  very  good.     November  to  February. 

Brabant  Bellflower. 
Brabant  Belle-fleux.  Iron  Apple. 

The  Brabant  Belle-fleur  is  a  variety  from  Holland.  The^.abit  of  the 
tree  is  spreading,  and  it  requires  to  be  grafted  high  to  make  •  good  head. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  slightly  ribbed.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
much  striped  with  red.  Calyx  large,  set  in  a  pretty  wide,  irregular 
basin.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  pleasant,  subacid  flavor.  Good 
Valuable  for  cooking.     October  to  January. 

Breedon  Pippin. 

A.  variety  from  Berkshire,  England.     Tree  hardy,  slender,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  dull  yellow,  tinged  with  orange,  be- 
coming red  in  the  sun,  with  traces  of  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm, 
with  a  vinous  brisk  flavor.     October,  November.     (Lind.) 

Brennaman. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Brennaman,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  up- 
right, productive.  Young  wood  short-jointed,  reddish-brown,  some- 
what downy. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  nearly 
covered  with  red  stripes,  and  splashed.  Stem  short,  in  a  large  cavity. 
Calyx  closed  in  a  deep  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  pleas- 
ant, subacid  flavor.  Good.  Excellent  for  cooking.  August,  Sep- 
tember. 

Brewer. 

From  Massachusetts,  a  good  grower,  an  annual  bearer. 
Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  yellow,  with  a  slight  blush.     Flesh  yel- 
lowish, tender,  pleasant,  mild,  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Brewer's  Pippin. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  brownish  yellow,  with  red  stripes.  Flesh 
white,  crisp,  tender,  subacid.      Cooking.     November.     (L.  H.  S.) 

Beickley  Seedling. 

Of  English  origin.     Tree  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  red  when  exposed  to 
the  sun.     Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  rich,  sugary.     January  to  April.     (Lind.) 

Brigg's  Auburn. 

Origin,  Auburn,  Me.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive  ; 
fruit  large,  oblat°,  somewhat  ribbed,  whitish  yellow,  blush  in  sun,  with 
a  few  light  anil  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  firm,  pleasant,  mild,  subacid. 
Core  medium.     Good.     September,  October. 


106  the  apple. 

Bridgewater  Pippin 

An  old  English  culinary  sort. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  ribbed,  deep  yellow,  witk 
blush  of  red  in  sun  and  near  the  stalk.  Flesh  yellowish,  brisk,  pleasant. 
October,  December.     (Hogg.) 

Brill's   Seedling. 

A  chance  seedling  of  Francis  Brill,  Newark,  N.  J.  Tree  a  rapid  up- 
right grower,  with  light-colored  shoots. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conical,  much  ribbed,  yellow,  moderately  sprin 
kled  with  gray  dots.  Skin  oily.  Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Basin  large,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  subacid. 
Core  very  large  and  open.  Good  to  very  good.  November.  An  apple 
of  good  promise  as  a  profitable  market  sort,  being  large  and  showy. 

Brimer. 
Voder. 

Of  Pennsylvania  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  sides  sometimes  unequal  and 
slightly  ribbed,  whitish  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  thinly 
sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy,  pleas- 
ant, subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     February,  March. 

Brincklet  White   Sweet. 

Unknown  origin. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  pale  whitish  green,  dull  red  on  the  sun- 
ny side,  few  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  honeyed 
flavor.     Very  good.     October. 

Bringewood    Pippin. 

Originated  with  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  Esq.,  Herefordshire,  Eng- 
land.    Tree  hardy,  but  a  slender  grower. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  rich  yellow,  dotted  and  marked  with  russet. 

Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  sugary,  aromatic,  dry.  October  to 
March.  (Lind.) 

Bristol   Pearmain. 

Origin,  Hampshire,  England. 

Fruit  small,  oblong,  ribbed,  dull  yellowish  green,  stripes  of  crimson 
and  patches  of  gray  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  not  juicy  or  of  much 
value.     October  to  February.     (Hogg.) 

Bristol. 

An  old  variety,  much  grown  in  Connecticut  many  years  since.  A 
pleasant  but  not  rich  fruit.  Tree  hardy,  rather  slender,  drooping  when 
in  fniit. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  dark  rich  crim- 
son red.  Flesh  very  white,  often  stained  under  the  skin,  tender,  juicy. 
Good  to  very  good.     Core  rather  large.     January  to  March. 


the  apple.  107 

Brittle   Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  very  productive  Thin 
valuable  apple  is  little  known  ;  in  beauty  and  quality  it  may  be  classed 
as  among  the  best,  and  deserves  more  attention. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  approaching  conical.  Color  pale  yel- 
low, shaded,  splashed  and  marbled  over  nearly  the  entire  surface,  with 
shades  of  light  and  dark  crimson  red,  many  small  gray  and  white  dots. 
Stalk  rather  short,  slender.  Cavity  regular,  broad,  moderately  deep. 
Calyx  closed.  Segments  small,  often  recurved.  Basin  small  corrugated. 
Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy  with  a  peculiar  honeyed  sweet,  and 
slightly  aromatic.  Core  rather  large.  Very  good.  October  and  No- 
vember. 

Broad-End. 
Winter  Broading.  Kentish  Broading.  Broading. 

An  old  English  culinary  apple,  in  use  from  November  to  Christmas. 
Tree  strong,  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  red  in  sun,  with  patches 
of  russet.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  subacid.     (Hogg.) 

Broad-Eye  Pippin. 

Another  old  English  sort  for  culinary  use. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  tinged  with  red  in  the  suiu 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  brisk,  juicy.     January.     (Hogg.) 


Broad  well. 
Broadwell   Sweet. 
Originated  with    Jacob   Broadwell,    near    Cincinnati,   O.     An    ex- 
tremely valuable  sweet   apple,  either   for   the  table  or  cooking.     Tree 
vigorous,   quite   hardy,    very   spreading,  irregular,  productive.    Young 
shoots  dull  reddish  brown,  downy 


108  1HE   AFPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  somewhat  conic.  Color  clear  bright  yellow, 
brownish  blush  in  the  sun  exposure,  with  carmine  spots.  Dots  few,  green- 
ish, suffused  beneath.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  broad,  russeted.  Calyx 
closed,  with  short  segments.  Basin  abrupt,  regular.  Flesh  whitish,  firm, 
juicy,  rich,  sweet.     Core  small.     Very  good.     November  to  February. 

Brookes. 

An  old  Norman  Apple.  Tree  a  free  but  slender  grower,  abundant 
bearer. 

Fruit  small,  conical,  golden  orange,  with  bright  red  next  the  sun,  some 
russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  rich,  sweet,  aromatic.  October  to  Feb- 
ruary.    (Bon.) 

Bronson   Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  This  variety  was  many  years  since  carried  by  a 
Dr.  Bronson  from  Connecticut  to  Ohio,  without  name,  and  there  re- 
ceived its  present  title.     Tree  a  moderate  grower,  making  a  round  head. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sometimes  oblate  conic,  yellowish,  mostl) 
overspread,  striped,  and  splashed  with  red.  Flesh  white,  compact, 
moderately  juicy,  pleasant,  sweet.     Good.     October,  November. 

Brown. 

A  Pennsylvania  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  ribbed,  yellow,  striped,  splashed  and 
shaded  with  light  and  dark  crimson  over  two-thirds  the  surface.  Flesh 
yellowish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rather  rich,  subacid.  Very  good.  Core 
small.     October,  November. 

Brown  Renting. 

An  English  dessert  apple. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  slightly  ribbed,  yellowish,  with  rus- 
set marblings  and  brown  russet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp, 
brisk,  aromatic.      October  to  December.     (Hogg.) 

Brown's  Summer  Beauty. 

Origin,  Slough,  England.  Tree  vigorous,  good  bearer. 

Fruit   medium,   roundish  conical,  dull  greenish  yellow,  with  a  red 

cheek.  Flesh  delicate,  rich,  juicy.  A  fine  table  apple.  September. 
(Bon.) 

Brownlee's  Busset. 
Brownlee's  Seedling  Russet.  Reinette  Grise  Brownlee's. 

An  English  variety.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened  greenish,  with  brownish  red  next  the 
Bun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  aromatic.  Good  for 
cooking  or  the  dessert.     From  January  to  May.     (Hogg.) 

Brownite. 
Brown's  Winter. 
Origin,  supposed  Delaware.     Tree  a  regular  grower,  with  spreading 
branches. 


THE   APPLE.  109 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblong,  conical.  Flesh  tendei,  ciisp< 
sprightly.     Mid- winter.      (Coxe.) 

Buoughton. 

A  valuable  English  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  small,  conical,  regular,  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  livelj 
red,  becoming  deep  red  in  sun,  and  with  many  russet  dots.  Flesh  green- 
ish yellow,  tender,  brisk,  rich  flavor.     October  to  December.     (Hogg.) 

Buchanan's  Pippin. 
Buchanan's  Seedling. 

Kaised  by  Robert  Buchanan,  Cincinnati,  O.  Tree  vigorous,  round- 
headed,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate.  Color  yellow,  splashed 
and  striped  with  light  and  dark  crimson,  in  the  sun  dark  crimson  ma- 
roon, many  light  conspicuous  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small.  Cavity 
medium  to  large,  russeted.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  medium 
erect,  or  partially  recurved.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  slightly  corrugated. 
Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant,  slightly  aromatic, 
subacid.     Core  close  and  small.    Very  good.    January  to  April. 

Buckingham. 

Queen.  Equinetely.  Sol.  Carter. 

Fall  Queen.  Byer's.  Winter  Queen. 

Winter  Queen.  Ox-Eye  of  some  in  Ky.     Ne  Plus  Ultra. 

Kentucky  Queen.  Bachelor.  King. 

Lexington  Queen.  Merit.  Byer's  Red. 

Frankfort  Queen.  Blackburn.  Red  Gloria  Mundi  of  some. 

Ladies'  Favorite  of  Tenn.  Henshaw.  Red  Horse  of  some. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  appears  all  unknown.  It  has  been  long  grown 
In  Virginia,  Kentucky,  and  other  Southwestern  States,  and  is  there  a 
profitable  and  popular  variety,  valuable  either  for  market  or  table  use. 
It  matures  often  in  November,  but  will  keep  into  February.  Tree 
hardy,  healthy,  moderately  vigorous  and  productive,  forming  a  round- 
headed  spreading  tree  of  medium  size.  Young  shoots  rather  slender, 
dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  oblate,  inclining  to  conic.  Color  green- 
ish yellow,  mostly  covered,  shaded,  striped,  and  splashed  with  two  shades 
of  crimson  or  purplish  red,  many  light  brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity 
broad,  deep,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  to  a  point.  Basin 
rather  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,. rather  coarse, 
breaking,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  sprightly,  subacid.  Core  small.  Very 
good  to  best.     November  to  February. 

Bucks  County  Pippin. 

Origin,  ±5ucks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  upright,  spreading.  Young  shoot 
pretty  stout,  short-jointed,  reddish  brown,  downy,  with  pi'ominent  downy 
buds. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  oblique,  greenish  yel- 
low, sometimes  with  a  dull  blush  hi  the  sun,  brown  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  large,  irregular.     Calyx  closed  or  partially  open.    Basin  abrupt^ 


110  THE    APPLE. 


slightly  furrowed.     Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  brisk,  subacid. 
Very  good.     November  to  March. 


Buckingham. 

Buck  Meadow. 

Origin,  Norwich,  Conn.,  productive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  lightly  conic,  yellow,  marbled  and 
streaked  with  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  rather  rich, 
pleasant,  vinous  flavor.      Good.     November  to  March. 

Buel's  Favorite. 
Spotted  Pippin.  Gray  Pippin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  white,  firm.  No- 
vember.    Hardly  good. 

Buel's  Sweet. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  shaded  with  rich  deep  red  in 
sun,  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  con  pact,  not  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
not  quite  good.     Winter. 

Buffington's  Early. 

Origin  said  to  be  on  the  Brandywine,  Pa.  Tree  of  good  upright 
growth,  bears  moderately. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  yellowish  white,  sometimes  a  faint 
blush.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
shallow,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  sub- 
acid flavor.     Good.     Middle  of  August. 


THE    APPLE.  Ill 

Buff. 
Granny   Buff. 

Origin,  Haywood  Co.,  N.   C.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large.  Form  roundish  oblate,  irregular.  Sides  un- 
equal. Color  whitish  yellow,  overspread  with  broad,  broken  splashes  and 
stripes  of  dark  crimson.  Stalk  short,  rather  slender.  Cavity  large,  deep, 
much  l-usseted.  Calyx  open  or  partially  closed.  Segments  medium 
length,  separated  and  partially  recurved.  Basin  deep,  abrupt,  slightly  cor- 
rugated. Flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  breaking,  subacid.  Core  medium. 
Good.    December  and  January. 

Bull's  Golden  Reinette. 

An  English  variety.  Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish, 
highly  colored  with  crimson  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy, 
sweet.     December,  January.     (Hogg.) 

Bullett. 

Bartlett.  Priestly  of  some. 

An  old  variety,  origin  unknown.  Fruit  medium,  oblong  truncated, 
bright  red  and  yellow.  Flesh  light  yellow,  subacid.  Good.  Valuable 
only  as  a  long  keeper.     January  to  June. 

Bullett. 

Green  Abram.  North  Carolina  Greening. 

An  old  variety  of  Southern  origin,  formerly  much  grown  in  Virginia, 
Kentucky,  and  North  Carolina,  but  uow  superseded  by  better  sorts.  Tree 
hardy,  a  slow,  rather  slender  grower,  of  a  drooping  habit,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  oblique,  greenish,  mostly  overspread  with 
stripes  and  shades  of  red  and  grayish  russet.  Flesh  white,  firm,  mode- 
rately juicy,  peculiar  subacid.  Good.  Core  small,  compact.  January  to 
June.     Valuable  only  for  its  long  keeping  quality. 

Burrell's  Red. 

An  English  Apple  of  robust  growth  and  productive.  Fruit  above 
medium,  conical,  red,  approacliing  scarlet.  Flesh  juicy,  agreeable  acid. 
November  to  January.     (Ron.) 

Burr's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Marlborough,  England.  Fruit  medium  roundish,  slightly 
conical,  yellow,  blush  red  in  the  sun,  patches  and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh 
yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     October  to  December.     (Hogg.) 

Burr's  Winter  Sweet. 

Raised  by  Elisha  Burr,  Hingham,  Mass.,  a  good  grower,  comes  early 
into  bearing,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  marbled  and  striped 
with  light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx 
closed.       Basin    small.       Flesh   yellowish,    fine    grained,   tender,  juicy, 


112  THE    APPLE. 

with  a  sugary  aromatic  flavor.     Very  good.     Core  small.     November  to 
March. 

Burst  Open. 

Origin  unknown.  Fruit  medium,  oblate,  much  ribbed,  pale  whitish 
yellow,  splashed  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  crimson,  few  gray  and 
light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good 
Core  medium.     November. 

Burroughs  Greening. 

Origin,  farm  of  Stephen  M.  Burroughs,  Vergennes,  Vt.  Good  grower, 
tree  spreading,  and  regular  bearer.  Medium,  nearly  globular,  inclining 
to  conic.  Skin  greenish,  yellow.  Stem  long,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
furrowed.  Flesh  solid,  juicy,  crisp,  with  a  pleasant  spicy  subacid  flavor. 
Good.    January  and  February. 

Bush's  Beauty. 

Origin  on  the  farm  of  Henry  Bush,  near  Sandusky,  O.  Tree  spread- 
ing, a  yearly  abundant  bearer.  Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened  at 
base.  Surface  irregular,  creamy  white,  striped  and  splashed  with  vermil- 
ion pink,  a  little  russet  toward  the  stalk.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender, 
acid.     Good.     September,  October.     "Valuable  for  market. 

Bush. 

Origin,  farm  of  Christian  Dale,  near  Boalsburg,  Centre  Co.,  Pa. 
Rather  above  medium,  oblate  inclining  to  conical,  light  yellow,  faint 
blush  in  the  sun,  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  rather  firm,  mild  subacid. 
Nearly  very  good.     Core  small.     September. 

Bushwhacker. 

A  variety  found  wild  near  Nyack,  N.  J.  Fruit  large,  roundish  con- 
ical, yellow.     Good.     February  to  May. 

Butter. 

From  Pennsylvania.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  very  productive.  Fruit 
above  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  fair.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep  and  round. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  large  and  open.  Flesh  whitish,  very  sweet  and 
rich,  valuable  for  cooking,  and  esteemed  for  making  apple-butter.  Sep- 
tember and  October. 

Another  Butter  apple  is  described  in  Elliott  as  follows : — "  Fruit  below 
medium,  regular  roundish,  red  marbling  and  overspreading  yellow,  few 
yellow  russet  dots,  russet  near  and  in  cavity  of  stem.  Stem  long,  slen- 
der. Cavity  narrow,  deep.  Calyx  half  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  ribbed.  Core 
medium.  Seeds  roundish  ovate.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  sweet. 
Very  good.  November  to  February." 

Another  Butter  is  thus  described  by  Warder,  with  Fulkerson's  as  a 
■ynonjm : — "  Fruit  small,  very  regular,  oblate.  Surface  very  smooth  and 
bo  covered  with  mixed  red  as  rarely  to  show  the  yellow  ground  color ;  upon 
this  are  laid  darker  stripes  of  deep  red.  Dots  minute  and  inconspicuous. 
Basin  medium,  regular,  folded.  Eye  rather  large,  closed.  Cavity  acute. 
Stem  of  medium  thickness,  rather  long.     Core  wide ;  large,  plump  pointed 


THE   APPLE.  113 

■eed.     Flesh  yellow,  tender,  fine-grained,  juicy,  with  a  sweet  rici   and 
aromatic  flavor.     October  to  January." 

There  are,  besides  these,  three  or  four  different  varieties  under  the 
name  of  Butter,  which  appears  to  be  a  favorite  name  with  some  to  apply 
to  any  good  sweet  apple  for  sauce  or  cooking. 

B yam's  Sweet. 

Of  unknown  origin.    An  eastern  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  with  a  shade  of 
red  in  the  sun,  gray  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  tender,  juicy,  lively, 
sweet  pleasant  flavor.     Core  small.     Very  good.     October. 

Byson  Wood  Russet. 
Byson  Wood. 

An  English  Apple,  there  esteemed  for  dessert. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  gray  rus- 
set. Flesh  greenish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  sugary,  aromatic.  Decem- 
ber to  February.  (Hogg.) 

Cabashea. 
20-Ounce  Pippin.  King. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  poor  bearer,  and  unprofit- 
able.    Young  shoots  very  dark  reddish  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  conical,  yellow  striped  and  splash- 
ed with  dull  red.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  subacid.  Poor.  December  to 
February. 

Cabbage-Head. 

Probable  origin,  New  Jersey.    Tree  a  vigorous  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  conical,  golden  yellow,  with  a  few  gray  dots. 
Flesh  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  subacid.  Good.  Core 
medium.     December. 

Cache. 

A  native  of  Pulaski  Co.,  111.     Tree  healthy  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish,  with  a  shade  of  brownish 
crimson  in  the  sun,  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  close-grained,  not  very  juicy, 
mild  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     November. 

Cake  Apple. 

Connecticut  Cake. 

Origin,  Connecticut.  Medium,  oblate,  much  depressed,  yellowish,  with 
a  blush.  Flesh  juicy,  tender,  pleasant,  subacid,  almost  sweet.  Good, 
sometimes  very  good.  A  great  keeper,  and  in  some  localities  considered 
valuable  on  account  of  its  productiveness,  fair  even  size,  and  keeping 
quality.     January  to  March. 

Caleb  Sweet. 

Of  Pennsylvania  origin.     Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive. 

8 


114  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conical,  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  brown  in  son,. 
Flesb  yellowish,  crisp,  rich,  sweet.     Core  small.     Good.     September. 

Calville  Blanche  a  Cote's. 

Of  French  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  productive,  with  long  jointed 
branches  of  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  flattened  at  base,  lemon  yellow,  with  red  in 
sun.    Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  acid.    December  to  May.     (Verg.) 

Calville  Malingre. 
Pomme  de  Malingre,  and  many  other  synonyms. 

An  old  variety.     Origin  in  doubt. 

Fruit  very  large,  elongated,  ribbed,  yellow,  deep  red  next  the  sun, 
with  stripes  of  darker  red.  Flesh  white,  delicate,  juicy,  agreeable,  acid. 
A  culinary  apple.     From  July  to  April.     (Hogg.) 

Calville  Rouge  de  Micoud. 

This  is  an  old  French  Apple,  said  to  blossom  and  get  three  crops  of 
fruit  in  a  season. 

The  fruit  is  large  to  small  in  size,  mostly  covered  with  red,  with  a  yel- 
lowish-white sweet  flesh.     (Lind.) 

Calef's  Sweet. 
Magoun  Apple. 

Origin,  Kingston,  N.  H. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  flattened,  yellow,  with  gray  dots  and  crimson 
specks.  Flesh  white,  very  rich  and  sweet.  November  to  January. 
(Maine  Report.) 

Camack's  Sweet. 

Camack's  Winter  Sweet.  Grape  Vine. 

Origin,  Macon  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  a  slow  grower,  with  small  wiry 
branches,  irregular  spreading,  an    early   and    abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  sometimes  conical,  light  yellow  gren,  red 
in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  brisk,  pleasant,  saccharine. 
Good.     Core  small.     February. 

Campbell. 

This  new  variety  is  an  accidental  seedling  in  the  grounds  of  George  W. 
Campbell,  Delaware,  O.  He  describes  the  tree  as  a  vigorous  strong  grow- 
er, open  spreading  habit,  shoots  stout,  blunt,  leaves  large  and  abundant,  a 
good  regular  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  oblate,  a  little  oblique,  pea  green,  with  bro- 
ken dull  red  stripes  in  the  sun  or  toward  the  stalk  end,  and  with  more  or 
less  of  russet  from  the  stalk  cavity ;  scattering  rough  distinct  dots- 
Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  open,  narrow,  russeted.  Calyx  closed  with 
broken  segments.  Basin  very  deep,  slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  crisp,  breaking,  half  tender,  mild,  juicy,  subacid,  pleasant.  Good 
to  very  good.  Core  small.  Slightly  hollow  in  centre.  Seeds  dark 
blackish,  pointed.     December  to  February. 


the  apple.  116 

Cambusnethan  Pippin. 

Winter  Red  Streak.  Watch  Apple. 

A  Scotch  variety,  medium,  roundish,  light  yellow,  striped  and  shaded 
with  crimson  and  dark  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  subacid.  Good  to 
rery  good.     September,  December. 

Campfield. 
Newark  Sweeting.        Sweet  Maiden's  Blush. 

A  capital  New  Jersey  cider  apple,  ranking  next  to  the  Harrison.  It 
forms  a  fine  large  tree,  with  straight,  spreading  limbs,  and  is  very  pro- 
ductive.    Fine  for  baking  and  stock  feeding. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  rather  flattened.  Skin  smooth, 
washed  and  striped  with  red,  over  a  greenish-yellow  ground.  Flesh  white, 
rather  dry,  firm,  rich  and  sweet.     Good.     April,  May. 

Can. 

A  very  old  Apple,  originated  in  Schenectady,  N.  Y.   Tree  a  good  bearer. 
Fruit  above  medium,  oblong,   yellow,  shaded  with  crimson.     Flesh 
whitish,  not  juicy,  pleasant.     Good.     November. 

Cann. 
Winter  Sweet  Bough.  Winter  Bough.  Sweet  Cann. 

Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  conic,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  dull  crimson 
cheek,  slightly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Flesh  wliite,  compact,  not 
very  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  and  pleasant.  Core  large.  December  to 
March.     A  good  cooking  and  market  apple. 

Canada  Reinette. 

Canadian  Reinette.  De  Bretagne. 

Grosse  Reinette  d'Angleterre.  Portugal. 

Pouime  du  Caen.  Januarea. 

Reinette  du  Canada  Blanche.  Wahr  Reinette. 

Reinette  Grosse  du  Canada.  Praire  Rambour  Reinette. 

Reinette  du  Canada  a  Cortes. 

It  is  easy  to  see  that  the  Canada  Reinette  is  a  popular  and  highly 
esteemed  variety  in  Europe,  by  the  great  number  of  synonyms  under 
which  it  is  known.  It  is  doubtful,  notwithstanding  its  name,  whether 
it  is  truly  of  Canadian  origin,  as  Merlet,  a  French  writer,  describes  the 
same  fruit  in  the  17th  century,  and  some  authors  think  it  was  first 
brought  to  this  continent  from  Normandy,  and  carried  back  under  its 
new  name.  At  any  rate,  it  is  a  very  large  and  handsome  fruit,  a  good 
bearer,  and  of  excellent  quality  in  all  respects.  Wherever  grown  in 
this  country  it  sustains  its  foreign  reputation,  the  tree  being  of  vigor- 
ous habit,  spreading,  open,  and  productive.  Young  shoots  clear  red- 
dish-brown, slightly  downy. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  oblate  conical,  flattened  ;  rather  irregular, 
with  projecting  ribs  ;  broad  at  the  base,  narrowing  towards  the  eve,  four 
inches  in  diameter,  and  three  deep.  Skin  greenish-yellow,  slightly 
Washed  with   brown  on  the  sunny  side,  sprinkled  with  dots  ami  russet 


116  THE   APPLE. 

patches.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  wide  hollow.  Calyx  short  and 
large,  set  in  a  rather  deep,  irregular  basin.  Flesh  nearly  white,  rather 
firm,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  lively,  subacid  flavor.  Very  good  to  best. 
Ripe  in  December,  and,  if  picked  'early  in  autumn,  it  will  keep  till 
April. 

The  Canada  Reinette  Grise  is  very  much  like  the  above,  and  may 
prove  identical. 


Canada  Reinette. 


Cane  Creek  Sweet. 


Origin,  Burke  Co.,  on  Cane  Creek,  N.  C. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  greenish-yellow,  shade  of  brown.  Flesi 
white,  rather  firm,  mild,  sweet.     Core  medium.     Good.     July,  August. 

Cannon  Pearmain. 

Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  and  productive  ;  much  grown  in  North  Caro 
Una,  and  some  portions  of  the  West. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic.  Color  yellow,  striped,  and  marbled 
with  red  and  dark  crimson,  with  large  grayish  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  small,  russeted.  Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  large,  round,  deep, 
and  open,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  with  a  rich,  brisk,  subacid 
flavor.     Very  good.     December  to  March. 

Canterbury  Reinette. 
Reinette  de  Cantorbery. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  conical,  greenish-yellow.  Stalk  long. 
Cavity  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  juicy,  sharp,  acid, 
January  to  March.     (Alb.  Pom.) 


the  apple.  117 

Capital. 

Origin,  Indiana. 

Fruit  small,  globular,  truncate,  deep  red  on  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  yel« 
low,  breaking,  juicy,  subacid.    Good.    December  to  January.    (Warder.) 

Capron's  Pleasant. 

Fruit  medium,  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a 
brownish  tinge.  Stalk  rather  stout,  inserted  in  an  open  cavity,  slightly 
russeted.  Calyx  large,  closed,  in  a  medium  basin.  Flesh  yellow, 
juicy,  tender,  mild,  subacid,  and  very  agreeable.  Good.  Core  small. 
September  to  October. 

Caraway  Russet. 

From  England. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  pale  brown  russet,  with  an  orange 
tinge  in  sun.    Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  sweet.     February.     (Hogg.) 

Garbage. 

Medium,  roundish  conic,  yellow.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  with- 
out much  flavor.     September,  October. 

Cardinal  Red. 

Of  European  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic  ;  sides  unequal ;  very  dark  red, 
almost  blackish  next  the  stalk  ;  some  light  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  rather 
firm,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.    January,  February. 

Carey's  Seedling. 
Ohio  origin. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow,  slight  blush  in  sun.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish white,  tender,  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Carlisle  Codlin. 

A  dwarf  variety  of  the  old  English  Codlin.  Tree  hardy,  and  abun- 
dant bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  ovate,  flattened  at  base,  pale  yellow  with  a  few 
russety  specks.  Flesh  white,  tender,  crisp,  juicy.  A  good  cooking 
apple  from  August  to  September.     (Hogg.) 

Carmel  Sweet. 
Speckled  Sweet. 

A  native  of  Carmel,  Putnam  Co.,  1ST.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  upright, 
spreading.    Very  productive.    Young  shoots  dull  reddish  brown,  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  blush,  many  fine  red 
dots.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  tender,  sweet,  and  rich.  Very  good.  Octo- 
ber, November. 

Carnahan's  Favorite. 
Origin,  with   Mr.   Carnahan,  Cincinnati,  O.     Tree  vigorous,  produo 


1 18  THE    APPLE. 

tive.  Fniit  large,  roundish  conic.  Color  yellowish,  striped  and  shaded 
with  red,  and  much  sprinkled  with  green  or  russet  dots.  Fiesh  fine 
grained,  juicy,  with  a  very  pleasant  vinous  flavor.  Good  December 
to  March. 

Carnation. 

Fruit  medium  size,  a  delicious  subacid  apple,  fully  first-rate,  dark- 
red,  splashed  with  russet.  Flesh  white,  brittle,  and  very  juicy.  Both 
the  calyx  and  stem  are  sunk  in  deep  depressions.  10th  of  August. 
(White's  Gai-d.) 

Caroline. 

Said  to  have  originated  near  Tremont,  O.  Tree  a  strong  upright 
grower  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  pale  lemon  yellow,  brown- 
ish blush  in  the  sun.  Calyx  large.  Stalk  slender.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, mild,  subacid.      Core  rather  large.     Very  good.     September. 

Caroline. 
Carolina  Baldwin. 

Origin,  premises  of  A.  G.  Baldwin,  Hanover,  N.  J.  Tree  vigorous 
and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  mostly  shaded  with  maroon,  ob- 
scurely striped,  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red,  and  thickly  cov- 
ered with  light  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  mild,  subacid, 
rather  rich.     Very  good.     Core  medium.     December  to  March. 

Caroline. 

From  Norfolk,  England. 

Fruit  above  middle  size,  roundish,  rich  yellow,  streaked  with  red. 
Flesh  firm,  brisk  juice,  high  flavor.  Cooking.  November  to  February. 
(Lind.) 

Caroline  Auguste. 

Of  Belgic  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  with  upright  reddish  brown  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  green  with  spots  of  brown.  Flesh  white, 
•ringed  with  rose  on  the  sunny  side,  fine  acid,  with  a  pine-apple  perfume. 
September.     (Verg.) 

Carolina  Red  June. 

Knight's  Red  June.  Blush  June.  Wilson's  June 

Red  June.  Georgia  June. 

Origin  somewhat  uncertain,  supposed  to  be  Carolina.  Tree  very 
vigorous,  upright,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer,  much  esteemed  at  the 
South  and  Southwest  as  their  best  early  Apple,  ripe  a  few  days  after 
Early  Harvest,  not  equal  to  it  in  flavor,  but  more  profitable  as  an  orchard 
fruit. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oval,  irregular,  inclining  to  conic.  Skin 
smooth,  nearly  the  whole  surface  shaded  with  deep  red,  and  almost  of  a 
purplish  hue  on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered  with  a  light  bloom.     Stnlk 


THE    APPLE.  119 

variable  in  length,  inserted  in  a  small  narrow  cavit}'.  Calyx  closed. 
Segments  long,  reflexed.  Basin  narrow,  plaited.  Flesh  very  white 
tender,  juicy,  with  a  brisk  subacid  flavor.  Core  rather  large.  VeiT 
good.* 


Carolina  Bed  June. 


Carolina  Sweet. 


Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  a  little  flattened,  yellow,  slightly 
shaded  in  the  sun.     Flesh  yellow,  dry,  sweet.     Poor.     August. 

Carolina  Watson. 

Of  Southern  origin. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  conical,  greenish,  shaded,  splashed  and  striped 
»ith  dull  red,  large  light  dots,  with  dark  centres.     Flesh  white,  coarse, 
mild,  subacid.     Good.     August. 

Carpenter. 

Originated  from  a  seed  of  the  Belmont,  with  Charles  Carpenter, 
Aelley  Island.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  forming  a  medium-sized  round, 
spreading  head. 

Fruit  medium  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  oily  surface,  shaded  with  a 
brownish  crimson  in  sun,  and  occasional  marblings  of  russet.  Flesh 
yellowish,  rather  firm,  rather  rich,  pleasant  subacid.  Good,  or  almost 
♦cry  good.     Core  small.     Productive.    Good  keeper.  January  to  March. 

*  Carolina  Striped  June — (Carolina  June).  This  is  generally  confounded 
with  the  above,  and  is  scarcely  distinguishable  except  that,  as  it  ripens,  it  be 
comes  striped.     One  is  doubtless  a  seedling  from  the  other. 


120  the  apple. 

Oarpentin  Reinette. 
Heine  Graue  Keinette.  Der  Carpentdn. 

A  German  Apple.     Tree  a  free  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblong,  yellowish  green,  striped  and  washed 
with  red,  dark  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yeUowish  white,  tender,  juicy, 
vinous,  aromatic.     December  to  April.     (Hogg.) 

Carter. 
Royal  Pippin. 

Origin,  farm  of  Nath.  Carter,  Leominster,  Mass.  A  vigorous  grower 
and  productive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  slightly  shaded,  striped, 
and  marbled  with  red.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx, 
closed,  set  in  a  large  basin.  Flesh  tender,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  pleasant, 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     October  to  January. 

Carter's    Blue. 
Lady  Fitzpatrick. 

This  variety  originated  at  Mount  Meigs,  near  Montgomeiy,  Ala. 
Tree  a  fine  upright  grower,  an  early  bearer.  Young  shoots  reddish  brown, 
very  close  grained. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  washed  and  striped  with  dull 
red  and  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  crisp,  sugary,  rich,  aromatic.  Very  good.  September 
to  November. 


Carver. 

Origin,  Norristown,  Pa.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  lemon  yellow.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small, 
closed.    Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  tender,  vinous,  subacid.    Good.    August. 

There  is  also  a  Carver  Apple  from  Montgomery  Co.,  which  is  red,  and 
a  winter  fruit. 

Cart's  Summer. 
Of  unknown  origin.     Probably  an  old  variety. 
Fruit  large,  round,   flattened,  rich  yellow,  splashed  with  crimson. 
Flesh  yellow,   tender,  juicy,  subacid.      Good.     Core   medium.     June 
to  September.     (Warder.) 

Case. 

An  Apple  somewhat  grown  in  Connecticut. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  light  and  dark  red,  striped  and 
splashed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  crisp,  aromatic,  pleasant,  sub- 
acid.    Good.     November. 

Cash    Sweet. 

Medium  'size,  oblate,  conic.  Skin  whitish,  with  a  blush.  Flesh 
white,  sweet,  and  rather  dry.     September. 


the  apple.  121 

Castle  Major. 
An  English  cooking  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  white  specks, 
Flesh  firm,  juicy,  brisk,  acid.     January  to  April.     (Lind.) 

Catface. 

From  Kentucky. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  truncated,  greenish  yellow,  with  streaks  of  red, 
Flesh  white,  tender,  brisk,  subacid.    Good.    February,  March. 

Cathead  Sweet. 

Tree  hardy,  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  greenish  yellow,  slight  blush.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  sweet,  not  rich.     Good.    October. 

Catline. 
Gregson  Apple. 

Origin,  Maryland.  Tree  of  slow  growth,  very  productive,  much 
esteemed  in  the  lower  part  of  Delaware.  Below  medium  size,  oblate, 
yellow,  bright  red  cheek,  with  stripes.  Flesh  tender,  rich,  juicy,  and 
sweet.     Good.     October  to  December. 

There  is  also  a  White  Catline,  which  is  smaller  in  size,  oblate,  green- 
ish white,  and  maturing  in  September  and  October.  It  is  juicy,  tender, 
pleasant.      Good. 

Catshead. 
Round  Catshead.  Cathead  Greening. 

A  very  large  Apple,  cultivated  for  drying  in  some  parts  of  the  coun- 
try, but  of  little  other  value  except  as  a  cooking  apple. 

Fruit  of  the  lai-gest  size,  round,  quite  smooth,  pale  green.  Flesh 
tender,  with  a  subacid  juice.     Good.     October  and  November. 

Cato. 

Origin,  probably  Maryland. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  white  shaded,  and  splashed  with  bright  red, 
deep  in  sun,  few  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  often  stained  next  the 
skin,  tender,  sprightly,  subacid.     Good.     January  to  March. 

Catooga. 
Corbin.  Cattoogaja.  Cuttugaja. 

A  Southern  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  sides  unequal,  yellow,  with  brown  dots. 
Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Cooking  fruit. 
November. 

Caywood. 

Origin,  Ulster  Co.,  N.  Y.     Only  valued  as  a  keeper. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate.     Skin  bright  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red  on 
the  sunny  side.     Stalk  rather  long,  in  a  broad,  shallow  cavity.     Calyx 


122  THE    APPLE. 

Email,  closed.    Basin  broad  and  wrinkled.     Flesh  yellowhh,  rather  firm, 
pleasant,  but  not  juicy  or  rich.     Good.     December,  May. 

Cedar   Falls. 

A  native  of  Forsyth  Co.,  N.  C. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  a  little  oblate  in  form,  deep  yellow,  nearly 
covered  with  purplish  red ;  patch  of  russet  around  the  stalk.  Flesh 
yellow,  firm,  aromatic,  subacid.      November  to  February.     (White.) 

Celestia. 

Originated  with  L.  S.  Mote,  Miami  Co.,  O.  A  new  variety  of  good 
promise  as  an  amateur  sort. 

Fruit  large,  form  roundish,  conical,  slightly  ribbed.  Color  pale  yel- 
low, moderately  sprinkled  with  gray  or  brown  dots,  and  sometimes 
large  dots  of  red.  Stalk  rather  short  and  slender.  Cavity  deep,  uneven. 
Calyx  closed.  Segments  long,  slender,  partially  recurved.  Basin  rather 
small,  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  very  pleasant, 
rich,  mild,  subacid.     Core  rather  large.     Very  good.     October. 

Cellini. 

An  English  culinary  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  deep  yellow,  with  streaks  and  mot- 
tlings  of  dark  crimson.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  slightly  russeted.  Calyx 
large,  open.  Basin  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  and 
pleasant.     Very  good.     September,  October. 

Challenge. 

Raised  by  D.  C.  Bichmond,  Sandusky,  O.  A  thrifty  grower,  and 
exceedingly  productive.     Wood  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  deep  yellow,  sprinkled  with  brown- 
ish dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  large,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet. 
Very  good.     October  to  June. 

Champaigne   Beinette. 
Reinette  de  Champagne.  Soskrieger. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  more  or  less 
of  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  mild,  subacid,  vinous.  Very  good.  De- 
cember to  January.      (Verg.) 

Chandler. 

Late  Chandler. 

Of  Connecticut  origin,  where  it  is  a  favorite.  Tiee  moderately  vig- 
orous, great  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  and  one-sided  or  angular  in  its 
form,  obscurely  ribbed  on  its  sides,  thickly  streaked  and  overspread  with 
dull  red  with  a  few  streaks  of  bright  red,  on  a  greenish  yellow  ground, 
the  red  sprinkled  with  light  gray  dots.  Core  and  seeds  small.  Flesh  green- 
ish white,  tender  juicy,  with  a  moderately  rich,  subacid  flavor.  Good. 
November  to  February. 


the  apple.  123 

Chaney. 

A  Pennsylvania  Apple,  valuable  mainly  as  a  loi  g  keeper.  Iree  » 
straggling  grower,  vigorous  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yel- 
low, shaded  in  the  sun  with  crimson,  and  sprinkled  with  light  gray  dots. 
Flesh  whitish,  firm,  moderately  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  subacid  flavor. 
Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     December  to  March. 

Chapman's   Orange. 
Fruit  small,  deep  orange,  juicy,  rich,  suoacid.     October. 

Charley's   Winter. 

Raised  by  H.  ft.  Robey,  Fredericksburgh,  Va. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  often 
shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  compact,  juicy,  crisp, 
brisk  subacid.     Good.     January,  February. 

Chase's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Maine. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  splashed  and  marbled  over 
nearly  the  entire  surface  with  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  mild  subacid.     Good.     September. 

Chattahoochie. 

A  Southern  variety  from  the  banks  of  the  Chattahoochie  River,  Ga. 
Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below  in  size,  roundish  oblate,  oblique,  slightly 
conic,  greenish  yellow,  faint  brownish  blush  in  sun.  Stalk  very  short. 
Cavity  large,  open,  deep,  somewhat  russeted.  Calyx  partially  open, 
with  short  segments,  broad,  divided,  sometimes  closed,  sometimes  erect. 
Basin  deep,  broad,  abrupt,  slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
breaking,  crisp,  partially  tender,  subacid,  pleasant.  Good.  Season, 
December  to  April. 

Cheese. 

Origin,  Lewisburgh,  Pa.  Tree  strong,  vigorous,  spreading,  produc- 
tive annually. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  greenish,  mostly  overspread  and 
striped  with  red,  small  grayish  dots.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  ten- 
der, subacid.     Good.     November  to  February. 

Cheeseborough  Russet. 

Pumpkin  Sweet  of  some.         Kingsbury  Russet. 
Forever  Pippin.  Cheeseboro. 

Howard  Russet.  York  Russet. 

Sweet  Russet. 

An  old  fruit  of  little  value,  large,  conical,  green  russet.  Flesh 
coarse,  dry,  mild,  subacid,  almost  sweet.     Poor.     October,  November. 

Cheltenham. 

Calf  Pasture. 
The  Cheltenham  is  a  handsome  and  popular  market  variety  that  origi- 


124 


THE    APPLE. 


nated  ai  Cheltenham  Township,  Montgomery  Co.,  Pa.,  in  a  field  where 
calves  were  pastured,  and  hence  the  synonym  by  which  it  is  locally  known 
It  is  a  moderate  grower,  but  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  striped  and  marbled  with  red  on  a  yellow 
ground.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  narrow.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin 
deep.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant.  Good.  Septem- 
ber. 

Chenango  Strawberry. 

Frank.  Sherwood's  Favorite.  Jackson  Apple. 

Buckley.  Strawberry.  Smyrna. 

Originated  in  the  town  of  Lebanon,  Madison  Co.,  N,  Y.  It  is  an 
apple  pleasant  to  the  taste  and  much  esteemed  as  a  table  fruit  wher- 
ever grown.  Tree  is  vigorous,  spreading.  Young  wood  light  reddish 
brown,  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conic  or  oblong  truncated  conic,  indistinctly 


Chenango  Strawberry. 


ribbed.  Color  whitish,  shaded,  splashed  and  mottled  with  light  and 
dark  crimson  over  most  of  the  surface,  light  dots.  Stalk  rather  short 
email.  Cavity  acute,  somewhat  uneven.  Calyx  closed,  or  partially 
3pen.  Segments  erect.  Basin  rather  large,  abrupt,  slightly  corrugated. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  peculiar  mild,  subacid.  Core  rather  large. 
Very  good.     September  and  October. 


Cheney. 

Originated  on  the  old  Cheney  farm,  South  Manchester,  Conn, 
upright,  spreading,  an  early  and  regular  bearer. 


Tree 


THE   APPLE.  125 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow  shaded  with  rich  crimson  over  the 
whole  surface.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     September  and  October. 

Chestatee. 

A  Southern  fruit  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spread- 
ing.    Wood  smooth,  reddish  gray,  with  very  small  reddish  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow  with  a  slight 
blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Good. 
November. 

Chester. 
Chester  Red  Streak. 
Origin,  Chester  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  sunny 
cheek  and  sprinkled  with  carmine  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant,  subacid,  aromatic.     Good.     November  to  December. 

Chester  Pearmain. 

An  English  dessert  Apple.  Tree  hardy,  free  grower,  attaining  a  con- 
siderable size,  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  conical,  pale  yellow,  striped  with  crimson  in 
the  sun,  some  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy.  Second- 
rate.     October  to  December.     (Hogg.) 

Chester  Spitzenberg. 

A  Pennsylvania  Apple.  Tree  a  good  grower  and  productive.  Young 
wood  dark  dull  reddish  brown,  very  stout. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblate,  yellowish,  splashed  and 
striped  nearly  over  the  whole  surface  with  light  and  dark  red.  Flesh 
yellowish,  rather  compact,  moderately  juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic. 
Good.     February  to  April. 

Chestoa. 
Rabbit's  Head. 
A  Southern  variety. 

Fruit  large,  elongated  conical,  irregular  at  apex  end,  deep  ricn 
yellow,  striped,  splashed  and  shaded  with  red,  and  with  many  minute 
dark  specks.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  juicy,  rather  rich,  vinous,  aromatic. 
Very  good.     November  to  March. 

Chief  Good. 
Summum  Bonum. 

From  Kentucky,  near  Louisville. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  flattened  at  base,  light  yellow, 
Btreaked  and  mottled  with  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  aro- 
matic.    September,  October.     (Elliott.) 

Christiana. 

Origin,  on  the  premises  of  John  R.  Brinckle,  near  Wilmington,  Del. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate,  splashes  and  stripes  of  rich  crimson  red  over  8 


126  THE    APPLE. 

yellow  ground.    Flesh  yellowish  white,  moderately  juicy,  spxightly,  mild, 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     November. 

Christie's   Pippin. 

Origin,  Kingston-on-Thames,  England.  Tree  of  slender  growth,  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  lemon  yellow,  with  faint  red  stripes,  russety 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  agreeable,  mild  subacid.  December  to 
February.     A  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality.     (Ron.) 

Christ's  Gold  Reinette. 
Christ's  Deutsche   Goldreinette. 
Of  German  origin. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate,  golden  yellow,  red  cheek  in  sun,  and 
much  cinnamon-colored  russet.  Flesh  fine,  juicy,  aromatic,  vinous. 
November  to  May.     (Hogg.) 

Chronical. 

Cotton  Apple. 

This  variety  originated   on  the   farm  of  John  Cotton,  Putnam  Co., 

Ind.     It  is  a  thrifty  grower,  with  a  rather  upright  spreading  habit,  very 

hardy,  and  a  moderate  annual  bearer.       It  is  valued  much  for  properties 

enabling  it  to  be  kept  in  good  condition  for  two  years  without  extra  care. 

Fruit    medium,    roundish,    slightly    conical,    greenish    yellow,    with 

Bplashes  and  stripes  of  dull  red,  few  light  dots  with  dark  centres.     Flesi 

yellowish  white,  compact,  firm,  mild  subacid.     Core  small,  close.    Good 

Churchill  Greening. 

Origin  uncertain.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fi-uit  large,  oblate,  somewhat  conic,  ribbed,  yellowish  green,  shaded 
with  dull  red,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  green  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  ten- 
der, granular,  with  a  brisk,  vinous,  almost  saccharine  flavor.  Good 
December  to  February. 

Church's  Late  Sweet. 

A  Southern  Apple  of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  inclining  to  conic,  rich  yellow,  with  occa- 
sionally a  shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  rather 
rich,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet.     Good.     February  to  May. 

Citron  des  Carmes. 

A  French  Apple.  Fruit  small,  oblong,  light  dull  brown,  dry.  Poor. 
December.     (Ron.) 

ClTRONEN    ReINETTE. 
Reinette  de  Citron. 
An  Apple  of  German  origin,  there  regarded  as  of  value  for  the  dessert. 
Fruit    large,    roundish    conical,   bright  yellow,   with  blush  in  the 
eun.     Flesh  very  white,  fine-grained,  juicy,  brisk,  sugary,  vinous.     De- 
cember t«  June.     (Hogg.) 


the  apple.  127 

Clafper  Flat. 
Flat  Apple. 

Origin,  town  of  Bethlehem,  A  lbany  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  productn  o. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  mostly 
covered,  shaded  and  splashed  with  deep  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately 
juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Highly  valued  for  cooking 
September,  October. 

Clara  Pippin. 

Origin,  Cranford,  England. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  ovate,  orange,  with  brownish  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  deep  orange,  firm,  rich,  brisk,  sugary.  December  to  May.  (Hogg.) 

Clarke. 

A  new  variety  originated  with  J.  N.  Clarke,  Naples,  N.  Y.,  who 
states  it  a  strong  grower,  with  an  open  top,  and  annually  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  inclining  to  conic,  slightly  angu- 
lar, pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark 
crimson,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Cavity  narrow,  rather 
deep.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Segments  slightly  recurved.  Basin  small, 
a  little  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  vinous,  subacid. 
Very  good.     October,  November. 

Clarke's  Delaware. 

Originated  with  John  C.  Clarke,  Maryland.     Tree  very  productive. 

Fruit  nearly  medium  size,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  oblique, 
smooth,  )Tellow,  shaded  in  the  sun  with  orange  red,  many  gray  dots.  Flesh 
whitish,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Almost  very  good. 
December  to  March. 

Clarke  Pearmain. 

Yellow  Pearmain.  Columbian  Russet. 

Gloucester  Pearmain.  Golden  Pearmain. 

From  North  Carolina,  an  old  variety.  Tree  of  slow  growth,  very 
product]  ve. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  greenish  yellow, 
shaded,  striped  and  marbled  with  red  and  russet  dots.  Stalk  very  short. 
Cavity  small,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small.  Flesh 
yellow,  rather  firm,  crisp,  rich,  subacid.  Very  good.  Core  small.  De- 
cember. 

Clarkson. 

Originated  on  the  premises  of  David  Clarkson,  Plymouth,  Wayne 
Co.,  Mich.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate  conic,  clear  white,  shaded  with  crimson 
in  the  sun,  with  light  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  ten- 
der, juicy,  sharp  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Core  rather  large.  Good. 
Valuable  for  cooking  and  drying  oidy. 


128  the  afplk. 

Clatgate  Pearmain. 

An  English  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  nearly  covered 
with  brownish  red.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  rich,  aromatic.  Good.  No- 
vember to  March. 

Clayton. 

Origin,  Indiana. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  flattened,  regular,  greenish  yellow,  covered, 
striped,  and  splashed  with  dull  red.  Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  subacid. 
Good.     Kitchen  and  market.     January  to  March.  (Warder.) 

Clepington. 

An  English  dessert  Apple.  Fruit  small,  round  oblate,  yellow.  Sep- 
tember. 

Cley  Pippin. 

Aliso  an  English  dessert  Apple,  there  counted  as  of  first-rate  quality. 
Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow.     October  to  March.     (H.  S.  C.) 

Cluster. 

Tree  productive. 

Fruit  small,  yellow,  oblate,  sweet.     November. 

Another  Cluster  Apple  is  small,  roundish  conical,  or  oblong  conical! 
greenish  white.     Flesh  white.     Poor.     December,  February. 

Cluster  Golden  Pippin. 
Cluster  Pippin.  Twin  Cluster  Pippin.  Thickset. 

An  old  variety.  A  hardy  tree,  slender  grower,  good  bearer,  produ- 
cing its  fruit  in  clusters,  and  often  with  two  fruits  united  or  grown  to- 
gether. 

Fruit  small,  round,  flattened,  yellow,  with  orange  in  the  sun,  and 
patches  of  gray  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  subacid  perfumed. 
November  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Cluster  Pearmain. 

Introduced  by  P.  Pagan,  of  Indiana. 

Fruit  full  medium  size,  round,  flattened,  regular,  inclined,  yellowish 
green,  mixed  and  striped  light  red,  dots  large,  gray  and  yellow,  white 
bloom.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  breaking,  granular,  subacid,  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.  An  autumn  fruit,  acceptable  as  a  substitute  for 
Rambo.     (Warder.) 

Clyde  Beauty. 
Mackie's  Clyde  Beauty. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Mackie,  Clyde,  Wayne  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous, 
upright,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  conic,  angular,  greenish,  oily,  sprinkled  and 
motlled  with  dull  red  and  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short,  slender, 
inserted  in  an  acute  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  small  corrugated  basin. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Good.      October  to  January. 


THE   APPLE.  12$ 

COBHAM. 

From  Kent,  England.    Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  dull  yellowish  green,  faint 
red  in  the  sun,  some  light  russet.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  crisp,  saccharine, 
aromatic.     November,  December.     (Lind.) 

Cobourg  Pippin. 

An  Apple  originated  in  "Warwickshire,  England. 
Fruit  small,    oblate    conical,  pea    green,  with    large    russet  dots. 
Flesh  firm,  rich,  acid.     March.     (Ron.) 

Coccagee. 
Cocko  Gee. 

An  Irish  Apple,  mostly  valued  for  cider. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  conical,  pale  yellow.  Flesh  yellowish, 
acid.     October,  December.     (Hogg.) 

Cockle  Pippin. 

Nutmeg  Cockle.  Nutmeg  Pippin. 

White  Cockle.  Brown  Cockle. 

A  variety  from  Sussex,  England.  Tree  healthy,  hardy.  Shoots 
moderately  stout,  chestnut  colored. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  slightly  ribbed,  green,  with  brown 
russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  aromatic.  Good.  January  to 
April. 

Cocklin's  Favorite. 
Grandfather. 

Introduced  by  Jacob  Cocklin,  York,  Pa.  Tree  a  good  upright  grower 
productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  whitish,  thinly  shaded  with 
light  crimson  in  the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Stalk 
medium,  very  slender.  Cavity  large,  deep,  sometimes  thinly  russeted. 
Calyx  closed.  Segments  medium,  erect,  sometimes  slightly  recurved. 
Basin  abrupt,  deep,  rather  uneven.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  mild, 
pleasant  subacid.     Very  good.     Core  small.     November. 

Cockpit. 

Origin,  North  of  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  truncated,  yellow.  Flesh  tendei, 
brisk,  a  pleasant  apple  for  table  or  kitchen.  November,  December. 
(Ron.) 

Coe's  Golden  Drop. 

An  English  Apple,  the  origin  of  which  is  in  doubt.  Tree  hardy,  free 
upright  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  fine  yellow,  with  a  shade  of  crimson 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  rich,  brisk  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     November,  February. 

9 


130  the  apple. 

Cogswell. 
Cogswell  Pearmain. 

This  excellent  Apple  originated  in  the  town  of  Griswold,  near  Nor- 
wich, Ct.,  on  a  farm  which  came  into  the  possession  of  William  Cogs- 
well about  the  year  1798.  The  original  tree  was  then  about  forty  or 
fifty  years  old.  The  fruit  was  first  exhibited  in  1816  or  '18,  before  the 
Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society. 

It  is  an  extremely  valuable  variety  wherever  grown,  either  for  table 
or  market  purposes,  a  good  keeper,  and  bears  carriage  to  market  long 
distances  without  apparent  injury.  Tree  a  vigorous,  upright,  spreading 
grower,  an  abundant  bearer  of  very  regular,  even-sized  fruit.  Youm? 
shoots  dark  reddish  brown,  somewhat  downy. 


CogswelL 

Fruit  size  above  medium.  Form  roundish  oblate,  regular.  Color 
rich  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  red,  marked  and  streaked  with  bright 
red,  pretty  thickly  sprinkled  with  areole  dots.  Stalk  short,  rather  slender. 
Cavity  large,  thinly  russeted.  Calyx  small,  nearly  closed.  Basin  small, 
shallow.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  scarcely  subacid, 
rich  aromatic.     Core  small.     Very  good  to  best.     December  to  March. 

Cole. 
Scarlet  Perfume.  Duling  ? 

A  variety  from  England,  of  second  quality,  but  admired  for  its  beauty 
of  appearance. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  conic,  ribbed.  Color  deep  crimson 
on  a  yellowish  ground,  or  sometimes  entirely  red,  with  a  little  russet. 
Stalk  medium,  woolly,  planted  in  a  cavity  broad  and  deep.  Calyx  large, 
in  a  broad  basin.  Flesh  white,  rather  firm,  juicy,  yellowish,  somewhat 
rich  and  agreeable.     Nearly  very  good.     September  and  October. 


THE   APPLE.  131 

Columbian. 

Received  from  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  inclining  to  conical,  yellowish,  shaded, 
splashed  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  crimson,  few  light  gray  dota, 
Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  slightly  aromatic 
Very  good.     Core  small.     October,  November. 

Colvert. 
Prussian. 

An  old  variety,  of  uncertain  origin,  valued  mainly  for  cooking. 
Tree  a  strong  grower,  and  an  enormous  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish  yellow,  striped  and 
shaded  with  dull  red  in  sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  brisk  sub- 
acid.    Good.     October,  November. 

Conant's   Red. 

Much  cultivated  in  Southern  Ohio. 

Fruit  full  medium,  regular,  oblate,  sometimes  nearly  round,  yellow, 
obscurely  mixed  with  red,  on  which  are  streaks  of  russet,  dots  fawn- 
colored.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid  to  sweet,  aromatic. 
September,  December.     (Warder.) 

Condit  Sweet. 
A  New  Jersey  Apple. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  whitish  yellow,  tinge  of  brown  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Congress. 
Jackson  Apple.  Tyler  Apple. 

A  Massachusetts  variety,  cultivated  in  the  New  England  States  for 
half  a  century  or  more.  Tree  very  vigorous,  spreading,  abundant  bearer. 
Fruit  valuable  mainly  for  cooking  or  market. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellowish, 
splashed,  striped,  and  marbled  with  i"ed.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  juicy, 
tender,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     Core  large.     November,  December. 

Connecticut  Summer  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow  and  red  striped.  Flesh  yellowish, 
sweet,  tough.     August.     (Elliott.) 

Connett's  Sweet. 

Tree  strong,  upright  grower,  early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  dark 
ted.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  sweet.  Very  good.  December 
to  March.     '(Elliott.) 

Contin  Reinette. 

From  Ross-shire,  Scotland.  Tree  hardy,  a  slender  grower,  and  sure 
oearer 


132  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  dull  yellow,  red  in  the  sun  Flesh  yellowish, 
firm,  pleasant,  acid.     October,  November.     (Hogg.) 

Conway. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  obscurely  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  with  a 
bronzed  cheek  in  the  sun,  few  brown  gray  dots  and  traces  of  russet. 
Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  vinous,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good. 
December  to  April. 

Cook's  Red  Winter. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  produced  by  Jacob  Cook,  Edisto,  S.  C.  Tree 
vigorous  and  regular  bearer.     October  to  April.     (Summer  Notes.) 

Cooledge's  Favorite. 

Said  to  have  originated  in  Cambridge,  Mass.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  deep  yellow,  splashed  and  marblea 
with  red,  becoming  brilliant  in  the  sun,  russet  at  the  stem,  and  with  whitish 
specks  over  the  whole.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  deep,  broad.  Calyx 
in  a  shallow  plaited  basin.  Flesh  fine-grained,  tender,  and  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     Very  good.     September,  October.     (J.  of  H.) 

Cooper. 

\ 
Beauty  Red.  Lady  Washington. 

Origin  unknown ;  supposed  to  be  an  old  Eastern  variety,  as  yet 
unrecognized.  Thrives  well  at  the  West,  and  much  esteemed  there  by 
mariy.     Growth  vigorous,  upiight,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  sides  unequal.  Color  greenish  yellow, 
with  a  few  stripes  and  splashes  of  bright  red,  thickly  sprinkled  with 
brown  dots.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  vinous,  with  a  pleasant  but  not  high 
flavor.     Good.     October  to  December. 

Cooper's  Early  White. 

Grown  in  Illinois  and  other  Western  States,  where  it  is  regarded  by 
many  as  productive  and  profitable. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  Little  flattened,  pale  yellow  with  faint 
blush,  tinge  of  green  at  the  stem.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  sprightly.  Sep- 
tember and  October.     (Elliott.) 

Cooper's  Market. 
Cooper's  Redling.  Bigley.  Redling  r 

Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  with  long  slender  branches,  very 
productive  and  a  late  keeper.     Valuable  for  market  in  New  Jersey. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  yellowish,  shaded  with  red  and  striped 
with  crimson.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  narrow.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
small.  Flesh  white,  tender,  with  a  brisk  subacid  flavor.  Good.  De- 
cember to  May. 

Cooper's  Russeting. 
Originated  in  Gloucester  Co.,  N.  J.     Tree  irregular  in  form,  healthy 
grower,  abundant  bearer.  x 


THE   APPLE.  133 

Fruit  small,  oblong,  conical,  pale  yellow  mixed  with  russet.  Flesh 
rich,  sweet,  dry.  Valuable  for  cooking  or  for  cider.  October  to 
December. 

Corlie's  Sweet. 

Origin  on  the  farm  of  A.  Corlies,  Shrewsbury,  New  Jersey.  Tree 
rigoi-ous,  round-headed,  great  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  conical,  whitish  yellow,  bight  blush  in  sun- 
Flesh  white,  firm,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant  sweet,  fine  for  cooking. 
Hardly  good.     September,  November. 

Cornell's   Fancy. 
Cornell's  Favorite. 

From  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  conical.  Color  waxen  yellow,  shaded  and 
splashed  with  crimson.  Stalk  of  medium  length.  Cavity  rather  large. 
Calyx  closed,  abrupt,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  with 
a  pleasant  subacid  flavor.     Core  medium  or  large.     Very  good. 

Cornfield. 

A  Southern  variety  from  J.  S.  Downer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  truncate  regular,  yellow,  covered 
with  mixed  deep  red,  striped.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  rather 
dry,  subacid.     Good.     December.     (Warder.) 

Cornish  Aromatic. 

An  English  Apple. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  angular.  Color  rich  red,  much 
marked  with  russet  yellow  dots,  on  a  pale  russet  ground.  Flesh  yellow, 
with  a  rich,  aromatic,  subacid  flavor.     Good.     October  to  December. 

Cornish  Gilliflower. 

Cornish  July-flower.  Pomme  Regelans.  Red  Gilliflower  f 

Calville  d'Angleterre.  Cornwallisser.  Nelken  Apfel. 

An  old  English  Apple.     Tree  a  poor  grower  and  shy  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  conical,  narrowing  much  to  the  eye 
where  it  is  ribbed,  dull  green,  or  dark  yellowish  green,  with  a  sunny  side 
of  brownish  red,  intermixed  with  a  few  streaks  of  richer  red.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, firm,  with  a  rich,  high  flavor,  and  a  slight  aromatic  perfume. 
Good.     November  to  April. 

Cornish  Spice. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  pale  yellow,  slight  shade  in  sun.  Flesh  yellow 
iah,  crisp,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic,  subacid.     Good.     November. 

Corse's  Favorite. 

A  Canadian  Apple,  valuable  for  stewing. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  depressed,  yellowish  green.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  brisk,  subacid.     Good.     September. 


134  THE    APPLE. 

Cos,  ok  Caas. 

A  native  of  Kingston,  N.  Y.,  where  it  is  productive  and  highly 
esteemed. 

Fruit  large,  one-sided  or  angular,  roundis.a,  broad,  and  flattened  at 
the  stalk,  narrowing  a  good  deal  to  the  eye.  Skin  smooth,  pale  green- 
ish yellow  in  the  shade,  but  red  in  the  sun,  with  splashes  and  specks  of 
bright  red,  and  a  few  yellow  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  with  a  mild, 
agreeable  flavor.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  March. 

Costard. 

Coulthard.  Prussian  Pippin. 

An  old  English  culinary  Apple  mentioned  by  Lawson  in  1597,  and 

was  in  the  fruiters'  bills  in  the  time  of  Edward  the  First,  1292,  under 

name  of  Pomme  Costard.     Tree  hardy,  strong,  vigorous,  with   downy 

shoots,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  prominently  ribbed,  dull  yellowish 
green,  embedded  all  over  with  gray  specks.  Flesh  greenish  white,  ten- 
der, juicy,  brisk,  subacid.     October  to  December.     (Hogg.) 

COTSVILLE    SPITZENBERG. 

A  variety  received  from  Nelson  &  Son,  Mercer  Co.,  Pa.,  by  whom  it 
was  obtained  as  a  seedling  of  the  Rambo,  from  Ohio.  It  looks  much 
like  the  Baltimore,  on  p.  86,  and  may  prove  identical. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  whitish,  covered  over  with 
deep  crimson  in  the  sun,  lighter  in  the  shade,  a  little  russet,  and  pretty 
thickly  sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  sometimes  a  little 
stained,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Core 
small.     Very  good.     December  to  February. 

Coral  Blush. 

From  Ross-shire,  Scotland.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  dull  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk.    A  good  culinary  sort.    December.    (Lind.) 

Court  Pendu  de  Tournay. 

Reinette  d'Orleans. 

Originated  in  Holland.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish,  conical.     Flesh  creamy  white,  ten- 
der, fine,  aromatic.     (An.  Pom.) 

Court  Pendu  Plat. 

Court-pendu.  Court-pendu  MuBque\ 
Court-pendu  plat  rougeatre.  Rouge  Musque\ 

Capendu.  Coriandre  Rose. 

Garnon's  Apple.  Pomme  de  Berlin. 

Court-pendu  Extra.  Wollaton  Pippin. 

Rond  Gros.  Russian. 

Rose.  Princess  Noble  Zoete. 

A  popular  French  variety. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  regularly  formed,  and  qtiite  flat.  Skin  rich, 
deep  crimson  on  the  sunny  side,  with  a  little  pale  greenish  yellow  in  the 


THE    APPLF  135 

shade.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  very  deep  cavity.  Calyx  large,  set  in 
a  wide  shallow  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  with  a  rich  brisk  acid  flavor. 
Good.     The  tree  bears  young  and  plentifully.     November  to  February. 

Court  Pendu  Rosf 
Court  Pendu  Rosat. 
Of  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  flattened,  yellow,  marked  with  gray  dots,  and 
shaded  with  bright  red  around  the  stem.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy, 
vinous,  acid,  perfumed.     (An.  Pom.) 

Court  of  Wick. 

Court  of  Wick  Pippin.  Golden  Drop.  Philip's  Reinette. 

Court  de  Wick.  Wood's  Huntingdon.  Knightwick  Pippin. 

Rival  Golden  Pippin.  Barlow.  Week's  Pippin. 

Fry's  Pippin.  Transparent  Pippin.  Yellow. 

A  highly-flavored  English  dessert  Apple  of  the  Golden  Pippin  class, 
which  does  not  succeed  well  with  us. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  regularly  formed,  roundish  oblate,  some- 
what flattened,  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  but  becoming  a  warm 
orange,  with  a  little  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  and  juicy,  with 
a  high  poignant  flavor.     Very  good.     October  to  February. 

Cowarne  Red. 

Origin,  Herefordshire,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  narrowing  to  the  crown,  pale  yellow,  bright 
red  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  sometimes  deep  purplish  crimson.  Valu- 
able for  cider.     (Hogg.) 

Cowarne's  Queening. 
Northern  Greening. 

Tree  upright,  compact,  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  conical,  golden  yellow,  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  tender.  Fine  for  cooking  or  drying.  November  to  Jan- 
uary.  (Ron.) 

Cox's  Orange  Pippin. 

An  English  variety  much  esteemed  for  dessert.  Tree  is  well  adapted 
for  dwarfing  on  the  paradise  stock,  and  a  free  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed  and  slightly  mot- 
tled nearly  over  the  whole  surface  with  crimson.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather 
firm,  juicy,  brisk,  rich,  subacid.  Core  small.  Very  Good.  September, 
October. 

Cox's  Pomona. 

A  variety  from  England,  valuable  as  a  culinary  apple. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  somew  hat  conic,  greenish  yellow,  shade  of  crim 
Bon  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good.  Core 
small.     October. 

Cracking. 

Origin,  farm  of  Henry  Barger,  Harrison  Co.,  O.  Tree  spreading 
vigorous,  and  productive.     Young  shoots  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 


136  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  fair,  large,  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  inclining  to  conic,  ol> 
scurely  ribbed,  pale  yellow,  with  a  slight  tinge  of  red,  thinly  sprinkled 
with  large  dots.  Stalk  medium,  in  a  rather  deep  slightly  russeted  cav- 
ity. Calyx  closed  in  a  coi-rugated  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Core  large.  Valuable  for  cooking, 
October,  November. 

Cram  or  Kram. 

An  old  fruit  nearly  out  of  use  and  not  worth  cultivating. 

Cranberry. 

From  Georgia. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical.  Color  yellow,  brightly  striped  with 
carmine  on  the  unexposed  side,  and  of  deeper  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun. 
Many  gray  russet  dots.     Calyx  small,  closed.     Flesh  whitish.     Good. 

Cranberry  Pippin. 

This  strikingly  beautiful  Apple  was  found  growing  on  a  farm  near 
Hudson,  N.  Y.  It  is  only  sev.ond-rate  in  point  of  flavor— but  it  is  an 
excellent  cooking  and  market  apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  regular.  Skin  very  smooth,  light 
yellow,  with  a  bright  scarlet  cheek.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy, 
brisk  subacid.     Good.     November  to  February. 

Cranberry  Russet. 

Introduced  to  notice  by  J.  Austin  Scott,  Toledo,  O. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  compressed.  Surface  rough,  russeted, 
blushed  carmine,  uneven.  Flesh  breaking,  tender,  not  very  juicy,  acid. 
Good.  Said  to  be  superior  for  cooking.  November,  December.  (War- 
der.) 

Crawford. 

Of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  with  a 
tinge  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  few  grayish  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender, 
juicy,  rather  rich,  slightly  aromatic,  subacid.  Very  good.  November  t* 
March. 

Crawford's  Keeper. 

Originated  in  Lawrence  Co.,  O.  Tree  strong  grower  and  &  grea* 
bearer.     Young  shoots  slender,  clear,  smooth,  light  reddish  brora. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  truncated  conical,  oblique.  Coior 
light  yellow,  mostly  overspread  with  a  rich  red,  large  light  gray  specks. 
Stem  very  short.  Cavity  large,  deep,  acute,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx 
closed  or  nearly  so.  Segments  divided.  Basin  very  deep,  broad, 
abrupt,  slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  breaking  moderately 
juicy,  mild,  sweet,  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     January  to  March. 

Cray  Pippin. 

"Raised  in  Kent,  Englan  1,  where  it  is  said  to  be  a  valuable  dessert 
Appxe. 

Fruit  below   medium,   conical,  pale    yellow,    tinge   of   red   iu   the 


THE   APPLE.  137 

sun.     Flesh     yellow,    crisp,  sweet,    and     highly    flavored.      October. 
(Hogg.) 

Crayton. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  fine  flavor.  November  to  April.  (Sum- 
ner's MS.) 

Cream. 

Origin,  Queens  Co.,  L.  I.,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  forming  a 
compact  head,  an  early  bearer,  and  by  some  thought  valuable  for  dessert 
or  culinary  purposes. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  thickly  sprin- 
kled with  brown  and  gray  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant,  sweet  and  rich.     September  and  October. 

Creed's  Marigold. 

Raised  from  seed  of  the  Scarlet  Nonpareil,  in  Kent,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  deep  rich  yellow,  orange  in  the  sun,  covered 
and  striped  with  shades  of  rich  red.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  sugary, 
richly  flavored.     October,  November.     (Hogg.) 

Crede's  Quittenreinette. 
Credo's  Gutten  Reinette. 
A  German  variety  of  medium  size,  roundish,  lemon  yellow  with  star- 
like russety  dots.     Flesh  white,   very  fine  and  juicy,  sugary,  vinous, 
quince  flavor.     December  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Creek. 

A  native  of  Hellam  township,  York,  Pa.,  where  it  is  highly  prized 
on  account  of  its  quality  and  extraordinary  productiveness.  Tree  vig- 
orous, upright,  slightly  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  greenish  yellow,  obscurely 
striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy, 
mild,  pleasant,  subacid.     Core  small.     Very  good.     December  to  March. 

Creeper. 

Common  in  Berkshire,  England. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  somewhat  conical,  dark  green,  nearly 
overspread  with  red,  striped  in  the  sun  with  darker  shades.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  slight  aroma.     September.     (Hogg.) 

Crego  Red  Streak. 

From  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  very  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish   oblate,  whitish,  witb  stripes  and  shades  of 
red.     Flesh  white,  sharp  subacid.     Hardly  good.     September. 

Crimson  Queening. 

Scarlet  Queening.  Red  Queening. 

Summer  Queening.  Herefordshire  Queening. 

A  second-rate  English  variety. 

Fruit  medium  size,  conical,  mostly  covered  with  deep  crimson.     Flesh 


138  THE   APPLE. 

white,  with  a  red  tinge  under  the  skin,  tender,  juky,  sweet,  aromatic- 
December  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Crispin. 

Of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblong  truncated,  greenish,  shaded  and  striped 
with  shades  of  red.  Flesh  whitish,  dry,  compact,  subacid.  Not  quite 
good.     December  to  May. 

Crittenden. 

A  new  variety,  seedling  from  Kentucky,  introduced  to  notice  by  J.  C. 
Teas,  of  Indiana.     Tree  a  sure  and  prolific  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  dull  red  on  yellow.  Flesh  juicy,  very 
sweet.     Good.     Keeps  until  May  or  June. 

Crofton  Pippin. 

An  Apple  from  Ireland.  Tree  blossoms  late,  and  bearing  its  fruit  at 
ends  of  the  branches  gives  it  a  drooping  appearance. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  mostly  over 
spread  with  red.    Flesh  firm,  rich,  juicy.     December,  January.     (Ron.) 

Crook's  Seedling. 

From  the  county  of  Way,  Indiana,  where  it  is  esteemed  as  a  market 
sort.     Tree  forms  an  open  round  head,  a  great  bearer. 

Fruit  full  medium  size,  red  striped  on  yellow  ground.  Good.  October. 

Cropsey's  Favorite. 

Originated  with  D.  W.  Cropsey,  Plainfield,  Will  Co.,  111. 

Fruit  full  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  mixed  and  splashed  with  car- 
mine. Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid.  December. 
(Warder.) 

Crotcher. 

Supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Dorchester  Co.,  Md.  Tree  moderate, 
rather  upright  grower,  producing  large  crops  of  very  even-sized  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conical,  slightly  truncated.  Color  waxen 
white,  with  a  slight  blush,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  light  and  green 
dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  large,  partially  russeted.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  rather  large,  abrupt,  a  little  uneven.  Flesh  whitish, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  refreshing,  subacid.     Very  good.     August. 

Crow  Egg. 

An  old  variety  of  not  very  good  quality,  oblong  oval,  long  stem, 
greenish  yellow,  tender,  sweet,  large  core.     October,  November. 

There  is  also  another  Crow  Egg  in  Kentucky,  of  conical  form,  yel- 
low, striped  with  dull  red.  Stem  short.  Flesh  yellow,  compact,  sub- 
acid.    Good.     December,  January. 

Crow  Nest. 

Originated  at  Kelley's  Island,  O.,  in  the  orchard  of  Chas.  Carpenter. 
Tree  vigorous,  productive. 


THE    APPLE.  13S 

Fruit  full  medium,  round,  truncated,  greenish  yellow,  thinly  covered 
with  russet.  Flesh  green,  tender,  breaking,  subacid,  only  good  for  cook- 
ing.    November  to  January.     (Warder.) 

CULLASAGA. 

Raised  by  Miss  Ann  Bryson,  Macon  Co.,  N.  C.  Good  grower,  and 
a  standard  winter  fruit  for  the  South.     Very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  sides  sometimes 
unequal.  Skin  yellowish,  mostly  shaded  and  striped  with  dark  crimson, 
and  sprinkled  with  whitish  dots.  /  Stalk  small  and  short,  inserted  in  a 
deep  cavity,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  shallow  corru- 
gated basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  compact,  moderately  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid.    Good.     November  to  April. 

CULLAWHEE. 

A  Southern  seedling,  with  slender  wood.     Tree  resembling  the  Buff. 

Fruit  medium,  or  above,  oblate,  slightly  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yel- 
low, nearly  overspread,  shaded  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  red, 
light  crimson  and  dark  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid. 
Good.     December  to  March. 

Culp. 

Origin,  Jefferson  Co.,  O.  Introduced  by  George  Culp.  Tree  very 
vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  conic,  waxen  yellow,  shaded  with  blush 
or  dull  crimson.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  agreeable,  subacid.  Good 
December  to  March. 

Cumberland  Seedling. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  in  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  a  fine 
grower  and  great  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  sides  unequal,  pale  yellow, 
mostly  splashed  and  shaded  with  dark  crimson,  few  large  light  dots. 
Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firin,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good  to  very  good. 
October,  December. 

Cumberland  Spice. 

From  Cumberland  Co.,  N.  J.  Tree  thrifty,  upright,  spreading,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium,  roundish  conic,  pale  yellow,  rarely  with 
a  blush,  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  and 
pleasant  subacid ;  apt  to  shrivel.  Good.  Core  large  and  hollow. 
December  to  February. 

Curry's   Red  Winter. 

Origin  unknown.  Came  from  Eastern  North  Carolina.  Tree  vigor- 
>us  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong.  Color  yellow  ground  nearly  covered  with  prtlo 
red  and  russet  dots.  St;dk  ratlin-  short,  slender  set  in  a  small  cavity. 
Calyx  large  and  open.  Basin  large.  Flesh  white,  and  solid,  and  keeps 
well  into  January.      (So.  Cult.) 


14c  the  apple. 

Curtis  Greening. 

Origin  uncertain,  found  in  Illinois. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong,  truncated,  axis  inclined,  yellow- 
bronzy.  Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  subacid.  Good.  January  to  Febru- 
ary.    (Warder.) 

Curtis  Sweet. 

Introduced  to  notice  by  Joseph  Curtis,  St.  Alban's,  "Vt.  Tree  vigor- 
ous, upright,  productive,  and  hardy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  conical,  ribbed,  pale  yellow,  sprinkled,  marbled, 
and  splashed  with  crimson,  and  thickly  covered  with  crimson  dots.  Flesh 
white,  fine-grained,  very  tender,  with  a  very  pleasant  sweet  flavor.  Core 
large.     Good.     August  to  October. 

Custard. 

Originated  in  the  grounds  of  L.  B.  Langworthy,  Greece,  Monroe  Co., 
N.  Y.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  to  small,  roundish,  or  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to 
conic,  greenish  yellow,  faintly  marbled  and  splashed  with  dull  red,  deep- 
er in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  very  tender,  juicy,  very  mild,  almost  sweet, 
agreeable,  good  for  the  amateur.  Core  small.  Very  good.  November, 
December. 

Cut  Pippin. 

West's  Spitzenberg.  Haymaker. 

Honemaker  Pippin.  Hommacher  Apfel. 

From  Western  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  medium   to    large,  greenish.     Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  subacid. 
Good.     December  to  April.     (Elliott.) 

Dahlongea. 

Of  Southern  origin,  but  precise  locality  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  light  greenish  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  marbled  with  crimson,  a  slight  bloom,  and  thickly  sprin- 
kled with  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  subacid. 
Good.     February  to  March. 

Dahlton. 
Dahlton  Pippin. 

Origin  unknown.     So  far  as  we  know,  only  grown  in  Massachusetts. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  slight  blush  in  the  sun, 
greenish  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 

Dame  Jeannetie. 

Joannetten's  Reinette. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish,  conical,  yellowish,  with  a  bronzed 
cheek  in  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  large.  Flesh  white,  veined  with 
yellow,  mild  svbacid,  perfumed.     December      (Verg.) 


the  applk.  141 

Dana. 

Origin,  near  Cincinnati,  0.     Tree  large,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  flat  rich,  yellow  partially  covered  with  mixed  red, 
distinctly  striped  with  carmine,  white  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  fine- 
grained, subacid.    August.     (Warder.) 

Dana  Greening. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  few  gray  dots.  Flesh 
whitish,  crisp,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Dana's  Striped  Sweet. 

From  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  sides  sometimes  unequal,  yellowish 
shaded,  and  striped  with  red.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  mild,  pleas- 
ant sweet.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Daniel. 

From  Henry  Co.,  Ind. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  partially  striped  and 
splashed  with  dull  crimson.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good.     August  and  Septembei*. 

Daniel's  Apple. 

An  old  variety.     Origin  unknown,  of  no  value. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish,  with  dull  crimson.  Flesh 
white,  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Core  large  and  hollow.     October. 

Dan  Pear  main. 

Originated  in  Indiana. 

Fruit  medium  to  small,  round,  flattened,  yellow,  covered,  mixed,  and 
Btriped  with  bright  red.  Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  tender,  mild  subacid, 
rich.     Too  small  for  profit.     December  to  March.     (Warder.) 

Danvers  Winter  Sweet. 
Epse's   Sweet. 

Origin,  Massachusetts,  in  the  town  of  Danvers,  from  which  this  variety 
takes  its  name,  it  has  been  for  a  long  time  one  of  the  best  market 
apples,  but  we  think  it  inferior  to  the  Ladies'  Sweeting.  It  is  an 
abundant  bearer,  and  a  very  rapid  tree  in  its  growth.  Young  shoots 
dark  grayish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblong.  Skin  smooth,  dull  yellow, 
with  an  orange  blush.  Stalk  slender,  inclining  to  one  side.  Calyx  set 
in  a  smooth,  narrow  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  sweet,  and  rich.  Very 
good.  It  bakes  well,  and  is  fit  for  use  the  whole  winter,  and  often  till 
April. 

Dapper. 

From  Georgia. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  truncate,  yellow,  with  crimson  specks.  (Pa. 
Rep.) 


142  the  apple. 

Darlington. 

Darlington  Russet. 

Native  of  Northern  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  smooth  russet.  Flesh  *»hite.  Hardly  vert 
good.     January  to  June.     (Elliott.) 

Darling  Pippin. 

An  old  English  sort,  described  in  1665. 

Fruit  m  edium,  oblate  conical,  lemon  yellow,  small  pearly  specks.  Flesh 
yellowish,  firm,  juicy  pleasant  subacid.     November  to  January.    (Lind.) 

Dartmouth  Sweet. 

An  old  Massachusetts  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, moderately  juicy,  tender,  sweet.     Good.     October. 

Davis. 

Origin,  Plymouth,  Wayne  Co.,  Mich.,  on  the  farm  of  Jehiel  Davis. 
Tree  vigorous,  upright,  bears  annually. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  flattened  at  base  and  crown,  yellowish,  shaded, 
and  obscurely  striped  with  crimson,  russeted  at  the  crown,  and  sprinkled 
with  gray  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  fine-grained,  compact,  juicy,  crisp, 
sprightly,  subacid.     Good.     April,  May. 

Davis's  Sweet. 

Origin  said  to  be  Monroe  Co.,  O.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  rather  conical,  regular. 
Color  yellow,  shaded  with  mixed  red,  splashed  crimson,  numerous  large 
gray  or  fawn-color  dots.  Skin  not  smooth,  thick.  Stem  long,  slender. 
Cavity  acute,  regular.  Calyx  medium,  closed.  Basin  small,  abrupt, 
russeted.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  rather  sweet.  Core  medium. 
Quality  good.     April  to  July.     (A.  Pom.  S.) 

Dawson's  Cluster. 

From  Clark  Co.,  O. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  truncate,  pale  yellow,  blushed  lightly  with 
brown.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Novem- 
ber.    (Warder.) 

Day. 
Royal  Pippin. 

A  native  of  Kentucky. 

Fruit  large,  round,  somewhat  conic,  yellow  striped,  splashed,  and 
nottW  with  bright  red.  Flesh  white,  firm,  breaking,  subacid.  Poor. 
January.     Kitchen  use. 

Dayton. 
Haley. 
From  Maine. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  whitish  yellow,  marbled  and  striped 
with  red.     Flesh  juicy,  tender,  subacid.    Good.     Core  large.    December. 


THE   APPLE.  143 


Defiance. 


Originated  with  H.  N.  Gillett,  Ohio,  from  seed  of  Prycr's  Red. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conical,  yellow,  nearly  overspread,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  striped  with  rich  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  not  juicy,  rich 
peculiar  aroma.     Good.     August,  September. 

Delaware. 
Trumpin^tou. 
Of  unknown  origin,  supposed  American,  although  heretofore  found 
described  only  in  Ronalds. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblate,  golden  yellow,  blotched  with  deep  red. 
Flesh  firm,  rich,  high-flavored.     October  to  December. 

Delight. 

From  Robert  Buchanan,  Cincinnati,  O. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  some  russet,  and  a  red  cheek 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet.  Good. 
December  to  March.     (Elliott.) 

Democrat. 

Varick. 

An  Apple  consideraly  grown  in  Tompkins  Co.,  N.  Y.,  the  origin  of 

which  cannot  be  correctly  traced.     The  trees  are  great  bearers,  fruit 

keeping  well,  and  always  meeting  a  ready  sale  in  market.     Tree  an  up* 

nght,  good  grower,  annually  productive.     Young  shoots  reddish  brown. 


Fruit — size  medium,  or  above  ;  form  roundish  conical,  obscurely  rib- 
ted.  Color  pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded,  partially  striped,  and  splashed 
nearly  over  the  whole   surface  with   light  and  dark  crimson,  and  pretty 


144  THE   APPLE. 

thickly  sprinkled  with  small  light  dots.  Stalk  medium,  slender  Cavit) 
large,  deep,  acute.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Segments  small  and  short  to  a 
point.  Basin  medium,  rather  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  sometimes 
a  little  stained  next  the  skin,  very  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid. 
Very  good.     Core  large.     December  to  March. 

Democrat. 

Warder  describes  an  Apple  under  this  name  obtained  of  George 
Powers,  Perrysburgh,  O.,  as  follows : 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  blushed  scarlet.  Dots  minute. 
Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good. 
October,  December. 

Derry  Nonsuch. 
Dinsrnore.  Londonderry. 

Origin  unknown,  from  Keene,  N.  H.,  and  held  in  estimation  there. 
Tree  thrifty  and  productive,  a  late  keeper. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  or  conic,  yellow,  sprinkled,  shaded,  and 
splashed  with  crimson.  Stalk  short,  in  a  moderate  cavity.  Calyx  large, 
closed.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  tender,  slightly 
aromatic,  agreeably  subacid.     Good.     January  to  April. 

Detroit  Black. 

Crimson  Pippin.  Grand  Sachem. 

Black  Detroit.  Washington  Pearmain. 

A  showy,  large,  dark,  blood-red  fruit,  but  rather  coarse,  and  scarcely 
worth  cultivation. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  distinctly  ribbed,  and  irregular  in  its  out- 
line. Skin  smooth,  deep,  dingy  red  over  the  whole  surface.  Flesh 
white,  rather  dry,  and  without  much  flavor.     Good.     September. 

Detroit  Red. 
Detroit.  Black  Apple  of  some.  Large  Black. 

This  fruit,  commonly  known  in  Western  New  York  and  Michigan 
as  the  Detroit,  is  supposed  to  have  been  brought  to  the  neighborhood 
of  Detroit  by  early  French  settlers,  and  thence  disseminated. 

Fruit  of  medium  or  rather  large  size,  roundish,  somewhat  conical, 
bright  crimson  at  first,  but  becoming  dark  blackish  purple  at  maturity, 
somewhat  dotted  and  marbled  with  specks  of  fawn  color  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  white  (sometimes  stained  with  red  to  the  core  in  exposed 
specimens),  crisp,  juicy,  of  agreeable,  sprightly  subacid  flavor.  Good. 
October  to  February. 

Devonshire  Buckland. 
Dredge's  White  Lily.  White  Lily.  Lily  Buckland. 

An  English  culinary  Apple. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  waxen    yellow.      Flesh    yel 
low,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  sweet.     October  to  February.     (Hogg.) 

Devonshire  Golden  Ball. 
An  English  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as  follows  : 
Fruit  large,  globular,  straw-colored,  with  flesh  of  unstiiped  carmine. 


THE   APPLE.  145 

A  beautiful  sauce    apple,  with  an    agreeable  acid.     Janua.ry  and  Feb- 
ruary.    Tree  grows  well  and  bears  freely. 

Devonshire  Quarrexden. 
Red  Quarrenden.  Sack  Apple. 

An  English  fruit,  scarcely  of  medium  size,  roundish,  flattened,  and 
slightly  narrowed  at  the  eye.  Skin  rich  deep  crimson,  with  lighter 
crimson,  sprinkled  with  numerous  gveen  dots.  Flesh  nearly  white, 
crisp,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  subacid  flavor.  Good.  Ripe  during  all 
August  and  September. 

Devonshire  Queen. 
Ronalds  describes  this  as  a  favorite  apple  in  the  West  of  England. 
Fruit  rather  large,   roundish  oblate,  straw-colored,  with  bright  red 
stripes.     Flesh  juicy,  high  flavored,  for  table  or  sauce. 

Devonshire  Red  Streak. 

Another  old  West  of  England  fruit,  which,  when  grown  in  the  States, 
becomes  increased  in  size. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellowish  with  many  stripes  of  red, 
few  brown  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  brisk,  subacid.  Good.  Core 
large,  hollow.     November,  December. 

Devonshire  Wilding. 
A  cider  Apple  much  valued  in  North  Devon,  England.    Tree  a  strong 
grower  and  free  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish  green.     Flesh  firm,  sharp,  acid. 

Diel's  Reinette. 
Reinette  DieL  Diel  Kernobst. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  Van  Mons.  Tree  strong,  healthy,  vigor- 
ous grower,  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  orange  yellow  at  maturity, 
with  crimson  and  russety  dots  and  spots.  Flesh  white,  firru,  crisp,  juicy 
rich,  spicy.     December  to  March. 

Dickson's  Emperor. 

From  Scotland. 

Fruit  large,  slightly  ribbed,  yellow,  with  dashes  of  carmine,  dull  red 
in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy.  Good.  November,  January. 
(Elliott.) 

DlCKSKILL. 

This  Apple  was  first  found  among  the  Dutch,  on  the  west  end  of  Long 
Island.  It  is  valued  where  known  for  being  an  early  and  regular  bearer, 
but  is  not  an  attractive  market  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  mostly  covered,  shaded  and 
splashed  with  dull  red.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  mild,  almost 
Bwwt,  subacid.     Good.     November,  December. 

DlETZER    ROTHE    MANDEL    REINETTE. 

A  German  dessert  Apple,  wliich  should  bear  the  test  of  American 

10 


146  THE    APPLE. 

palates  before  being  highly  praised.     Tree  a  fine  grower  and  productive 
Hogg  thus  describes  it : — 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  clear  yellow,  with  light  red,  slightly  broken 
into  stripes  in  the  sun.  Flesh  fine,  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  aroma- 
tic, subacid.     December. 

Dillingham. 

Raised  by  D.  C.  Richmond,  of  Sandusky,  O.  Tree  moderately  vigo- 
rous, productive,  and  particularly  excellent  for  baking.  Wood  light 
reddish  brown.     Buds  prominent,  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish  yellow,  with  green 
and  red  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  closed  in  a  niedi  m  basin. 
Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained,  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  November  to  February. 

Disharoon. 

Origin,  Habersham  County,  Georgia,  growth  upright  and  vigorous, 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish  white,  covered  with  gray 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  tender,  with  a  pleasant  subacid  flavor. 
Good.     November  to  December. 

Dobb's  Kernel  Golden  Pippin. 

From  Gloucester,  England,  and  only  estimated  over  the  old  Golden 
Pippin  because  of  more  free  growth,  and  more  productive. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  rich,  golden  yellow.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  sharp  sub- 
acid.    March  to  April.     (Ron.) 

Doctor. 
Red  Doctor.     De  Witt. 

A  Pennsylvania  Apple  ;  the  tree  is  rather  an  indifferent  grower  and 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  striped  and  washed  with 
two  or  three  shades  of  i*ed,  with  a  few  darker  spots.  Flesh  tender, 
juicy,  breaking,  slightly  aromatic,  subacid.     Good.     October,  January. 

Doctor  Helsham's  Pippin. 
From  Norfolk  Co.,  England.     Tree  slender,  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellowish  green,  slight  red   in  sun. 
Flesh  white,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.     August,  September.     (Lind.) 

Doctor  Fulcher. 

Origin,  Todd  Co.,  Ky.  Tree  thrifty,  an  early  abundant  bearer.  Shoots 
slender. 

Fruit  medium,  globular,  truncated,  yellow  marbled,  and  splashed 
with  carmine.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,,  subacid.  De- 
cember, January.     (Warder.) 

Dodge's  Crimson. 
Cumberland   Black. 

Originated  with  J.  W.  Dodge,  Pomona,  Tenn.  Tree  a  free  grower, 
making    a    round  or  spreading  head,  with  slender  limbs,  which  droop 


THE   APPLE. 


147 


with  the  weight  of  the  fr.iit.     Young  shoots  very  dark  brown  ;  an  an- 
imal and  great  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  deep  rich  red,  almost  purplish,  few 
small  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  sometimes  stained  a  little  next  the  skin, 
firm-grained,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  vinous.  Good  to  very  good. 
December,  January. 


English  Rambo  of  some. 
Hogan. 

English  Red  Streak. 


DOMINE. 

Wells. 

Striped  R.  I.  Greening. 

English  Beauty  of  Pa. 


Cheat. 
Cling  Tight 


This  Apple,  extensively  planted  in  the  orchards  on  the  Hudson  and 
west,  so  much  resembles  the  Rambo  externally,  that  the  two  are  often 
confounded  together,  and  the  outline  of  the  latter  fruit  (see  Rambo) 
may  be  taken  as  nearly  a  fac-simile  of  this.  The  Domine  is,  however, 
of  a  livelier  color,  and  the  flavor  and  season  of  the  two  fruits  are  very 
distinct, — the  Rambo  being  rather  a  high-flavored  early  winter  or  au- 
tumn apple,  while  the  Domine  is  a  sprightly,  juicy,  long-keeping  winter 
fruit. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  flat.  Skin  lively  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade, 
with  stripes  and  splashes  of  bright  red  in  the  sun,  and  pretty  large  rus- 
set specks.  Stalk  long  and  slender,  planted  in  a  wide  cavity  and  inclin- 
ing to  one  side.  Calyx  small,  in  a  broad  basin,  moderately  sunk.  Flesh 
white,  exceedingly  tender  and  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  pleasant,  though 


not  high  flavor.  Young  wood  of  a  smooth,  lively  light  brown,  and  the 
tree6  are  very  hardy,  and  the  most  rapid  growers  and  prodigious  early 
bearers  that  we  know — the  branches  being  literally  w-:sfhed  down  by  the 
rope-like  clusters  of  fruit. 


1 48  THE     APPLE. 

The  Domiiie  does  not  appear  to  be  described  by  any  foreign  author. 
Ooxe  says  that  he  received  it  from  England,  bill,  the  apple  he  describes 
and  figures  does  not  appear  to  be  ours,  and  we  have  never  met  with  it  in 
any  collection  here.  It  is  highly  probable  that  this  is  a  native  fruit. 
It  is  excellent  from  December  till  April. 

Donnelan's   Seedling. 

Of  American  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  dull  red  stripes.  Flesh 
yellowish,  dry,  subacid.     September.     (Elliott.) 

Doux  d' Argent. 
Doux  d'Angers.  D'Eve.  Ostogate. 

Supposed  French  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  productive,  with  straight, 
downy  young  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  conical,  waxen  yellow,  bright  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  firm,  crisp,  not  very  juicy,  partially  sweet.  December,  Jan- 
uary. 

Dowell's  Pippin. 

An  old  Berkshire,  England,  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  conical,  green,  with  russet  and  brownish  red 
in  the  sun.     Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  aromatic.     October. 

Downing's  Paragon. 

Raised  by  A.  G.  Downing,  near  Canton,  111.  Growth  upright,  not 
very  strong.     Bears  regularly  and  well. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  truncated.  Skin  light  yellow,  with 
a  sunny  cheek.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  sweet,  rich,  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.     September  to  December. 

Downton  Pippin. 

Elton  Pippin.  Downton  Golden  Pippin. 

Knight's  Golden  Pippin.  St.  Mary's  Pippin. 

A  rather  early  variety  of  the  English  Golden  Pippin,  raised  by  Mr 
Knight,  of  Downton  Castle. 

Fruit  a  little  larger  than  the  Golden  Pippin,  about  two  and  a  quar- 
ter inches  in  diameter,  roundish,  flat  at  the  ends.  Skin  smooth,  yellow. 
Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  with  a  brisk,  rich  tart  flavor.  Very  good.  Oc- 
tober and  November. 

Dow's  Winter  Pippin. 

Origin,  on  the  grounds  of  V.  P.  Dow,  Greenbush,  near  Albany,  N.  Y. 
Tree  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  green  inclining  to  yellow,  slightly  shaded  in  the 
sun  with  crimson,  few  brown  dots.  Flesh  greenish,  tender,  juicy,  brisk 
subacid,  slightly  aromatic      Good.     November. 

Drap  d'Or. 

Fennouillet  Jaune .  Vrai  Drap  d'Or .  Embroidered  Pippin. 

Bay  Apple.  Pomme  de  Caractere.  Bonne  de  Mai. 

Tree  straggling,  unproductive,  moderately  vigorous. 

This  is  distinct  from  the  Draj  d'Or  of  Lindley,  and  of  Noisette,  and 


THE   APPLE.  149 

most  French  authors,  which  is  quite  a  small  apple  ;  but  it  is  the  Vrai 
Drap  cT  Or  of  the  old  Duhamel,  pi.  xii.  Fig.  4. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  smooth,  yellow  or  dead  gold 
color,  with  distinct  small  brown  dots  or  specks.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy, 
mild  subacid.     Good.     August  to  October. 

There  are  two  or  three  apples  under  <iiis  name — one  is  similar  in 
size  to  the  above,  but  the  tree  is  of  stronger  growth,  dropping  its  fruit 
before  mature,  which  is  rather  coarse,  spongy.     Flesh  quite  inferior. 

Another  variety,  the  Drap  d'Or  of  Knoop,  is  small,  bright  yellow, 
firm  and  crisp. 

Dredge's  Fair  Maid  of  Wishford. 

A  variety  from  near  Salisbury,  England.  Tree  a  free  grower,  and 
good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  with  patches  of  brown  russet,  and 
streaks  of  red  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  brisk,  juicy,  sugary. 
December  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Dredge's  Fame. 

Tree  hardy,  vigorous  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  dingy  yellow,  patches  of  thin  russet,  pale 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  brisk,  sugary,  aro- 
matic.    December  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Dredge's  Golden  Pippin. 

Ronalds  describes  this  as  a  little  larger  than  the  original,  flattish 
in  shape,  clear  yellow,  firm,  and  sweet.     February  to  March. 

Duchesse  de  Brabant. 
Reinette  Duchesse  de  Brabant. 

Tree  very  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  variable  in  form,  yellow,  spotted  with  reddish  gray  dots, 
crimson  cheek  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  juicy, 
acid.     September  to  December.     (An.  Pom.) 

Duchess  of  Oldenburgh. 

Smith's  Beauty  of  Newark.  New  Brunswick. 

This  handsome  Russian  Apple  proves  one  of  the  most  hardy  and 
profitable  varieties  in  cultivation,  and  especially  in  our  northwestern 
sections.  The  tree  is  vigorous,  forming  a  roundish,  upright,  spreading 
head,  requiring  little  or  no  pinning,  and  producing  abundantly  a  fruit 
of  fair,  even,  and  regular  size,  that,  although  not  of  the  first  quality, 
always  commands  a  ready  sale,  as  it  is  valuable  for  market  and  cooking, 
and  passably  good  for  dessert.     Young  shoots  smooth,  reddish. 

Fruit  medium  size,  regularly  formed,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  smooth, 
finely  washed  and  streaked  with  red  on  a  gulden  or  yellow  ground.     Calya 


150  THE   A?PLE. 

pretty  large  and  nearly  closer!,  set,  in  a  wide,  even  hollow.  There  is  a 
♦hint  blue  bloom  on  this  fruit.  The  flesh  is  juicy,  sprightly  subacid 
Ripens  early  in  September. 


Duchess  of  Oldenburgh. 
DUCKETT. 

A  Southern  fruit. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate,  light  waxen  yellow,  often  with  a  crimson 
cheek.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  aromatic.  Good.  Very 
good  at  the  South,  where  it  is  ripe  October  to  November. 

Duffield  Pippin. 

Probably  an  old  variety,  claimed  as  a  seedling  of  the  Rev.  George 
Duflfield's  ancestors. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  shade  of  light 
crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant,  subacid. 
Good.     November. 

Du  Haxder. 

Probably  a  Holland  variety.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  golden  yellow,  with  gray  white  dots. 
Flesh  white,  fine,  semi-tender,  sugary  acid.  November  to  May.  (An. 
Pom.) 

Duke  of  Beaufort's  Pippin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  greenish,  with  faint  streaks  in 
the  sun  of  pale  red.  Flesh  greenish  white,  crisp,  and  subacid.  Novenv 
ber,  December.     (Lind.) 

Duke  of  Devonshibe. 
An  English  dessert  Apple. 


THE    APPLE. 


151 


Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  lemon  yellow,  with  a  dull  red 
cheek.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  fine  aroma.  Feb- 
ruary to  May.     (Hogg.) 

Dulce  Doman. 
Sweet  Home. 

Introduced  by  E.  H.  Cocklin,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  of  upright 
growth,  moderately  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow  with  a  shade  of  red  in  the 
sun.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  mild  honeyed  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     Baking  and  stewing.     November,  February. 

Dumelow's  Seedling. 

Wellington.  Dumelow's  Crab. 

English,  rather  large,  roundish,  yellow,  with  a  blush.  Flesh  yellow, 
crisp,  brisk,  acid.     Good.     November  to  March. 

Dumpling. 
Crooked  Limb  Pippin.         French  Pippin  of  Indiana.  Watrous  Dumpling. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  light  yellow,  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  indifferent.     October,  December.     (Elliott.) 

Duncan. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  ribbed,   yellow,   with  rich 
deep  red  in  the  sun.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasantly  acid. 
November  to  January.     (Hogg.) 

Dusten. 

Of  unknown  origin,  but  grown  in  Weare,  N.  H. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  few  gray  dots.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     November. 

Dutch  Codlin. 

Chalmer's  Large. 

A  very  large  kitchen  Apple,  valued  only  for  cooking,  from  August 
to  September. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  irregularly  roundish,  or  rather  oblong, 
strongly  marked  by  ribs  extending  from  the  base  to  the  eye.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  becoming  orange  yellow  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white, 
subacid,  and  moderately  j  uicy.     Good. 

Dutch    Mignonne. 

Reinette  Dor  <  .  Pomme  de  Laak.  Grosser  Casselar  Reinette. 

Paternoster  Apfel.  Settin  Pippin.  Copmanthorpe  Crab. 

A  popular  Apple  from  Holland.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright, 
spreading,  young  wood  dark  brown,  downy,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic.  Skin  rather  rough, 
yellow,   shaded,  striped,  and  splashed   with    shades  of   Light  and  dark 


152  THE   APPLE. 

rich  red,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots.  Stalk 
medium,  slender.  Cavity  large,  often  russeted.  Calyx  partially  open. 
Segments  ei*ect.  Basin  large,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  a 
little  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  slightly  subacid.  Core  small.  Good  to 
very  good.     December  to  March. 

The  foregoing  is  not  the  Dutch  Mignonne  which  was  described  in 
the  first  edition  of  this  book.  That  variety  differs  in  being  a  more 
vigorous  grower,  forming  a  very  large  spreading  tree,  and  bearing  its 
fruit  singly  and  very  evenly  distributed  over  the  whole  of  the  branches 
We  are  uncertain  of  its  true  name.  Young  wood  very  stout,  dark  red 
dish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  often  very  large,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  dull  orange,  half 
covered  or  more  with  rich,  dull  red,  dotted  and  mottled  with  large  yel- 
low russet  specks.  Calyx  very  large.  Segments  divided  and  reflexed. 
Basin  very  broad,  large,  and  deep,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish, 
a  little  coarse,  breaking,  tender,  rich,  aromatic.  Very  good.  November 
to  February. 

DUZENBURY. 

This  valuable  new  Apple  originated  on  the  farm  of  Charles  Duzen- 
bury,  Phillipstown,  Putnam  Co.,  N.  Y.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower, 
forming  a  handsome  spreading  head,  producing  abundantly  a  medium- 
sized,  regular,  uniform  fruit,  which  keeps  and  retains  its  flavor  until  May. 
Young  wood,  dark  brownish  red. 

Fruit  medium ;  form  roundish  conical,  truncated ;  color  greenish 
yellow,  shaded  and  rather  obscurely  splashed  with  dull  red  over  nearly 
two-thirds  its  surface,  and  sprinkled  with  a  few  gray  and  light  dots. 
Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  rather  large  and  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Seg- 
ments medium,  erect  to  a  point.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  slightly  corru- 
gated. Flesh  whitish  yellow,  crisp,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  very  mild, 
and  pleasant  subacid,  almost  sweet.  Core  small.  Very  good.  Febi*uary 
to  May. 

Dyer,  or  Pomme  Royale. 

Golden  Spice.  Pinneo's  Favorite. 

White  Spice.  Woodstock. 

Smithfield  Spice.  Tompkins. 

Mygatt's  Bergamot.  Coe's  Spice. 

Beard  Burden.  Bullripe. 

A  popular  dessert  Apple,  very  sprightly,  tender,  and  excellent.  Tree 
a  moderate  grower.  Young  wood  grayish  brown.  It  is  supposed  to  be 
of  French  origin,  and  to  have  been  brought  to  Rhode  Island  more  than 
a  hundred  years  ago.  It  was  renamed  Dyer  by  the  Massachusetts 
Horticultural  Society,  who  supposed  it  to  be  a  seedling  of  Mr.  Dyer,  of 
Rhode  Island,  but  the  old  and  familiar  name  of  Pomme  Royale  should 
be  preferred. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  pretty  regularly  formed.  Skin 
smooth,  pale  greenish  yellow,  with  a  faint  blush  and  a  few  dark  specka 
on  one  side.  Stalk  about  half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  smooth,  round 
cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  plaited,  moderately  deep.  Core  round, 
hollow.     Flesh  white,  very   tender  and  juicy ;    flavor   very  mild   and 


THE    APPLE. 


153 


agreeable,  aromatic,  slightly  subacid.     Yery  good  to  best.     September 
October. 


Dyer,  or  Pomme  Royale. 


Early  Chandler. 


Fruit  medium  or  small,  roundish.  Color  mostly  shaded  and  striped 
with  fine  red  on  yellow  ground.  Stalk  short,  in  a  regular  cavity. 
Calyx  closed,  in  a  large  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  plea- 
sant subacid  flavor.  Fine  for  cooking,  too  acid  for  eating.  Good. 
August. 


Early  Harvest. 

Prince's  Harvest,  or  Early  French  Reinette,  of  Coxe. 
July  Pippin.  Tart  Bough. 

Yellow  Harvest.  Early  French  Reinette. 

Large  White  Juneating.  Sinclair's  Yellow. 

An  American  Apple ;  and  taking  into  account  its  beauty,  its  excel- 
lent qualities  for  the  dessert  and  for  cooking,  and  its  productiveness,  we 
think  it  the  finest  early  apple  yet  known.  It  begins  to  ripen  about  the 
iirst  of  July,  and  continues  in  use  all  that  month.  The  smallest  col- 
lection of  apples  should  comprise  this  and  the  Red  Astrachan.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  upright,  spreading.  Young  shoots  reddish  brown. 
Fruit  medium  size.  Form  roundish,  often  roundish  oblate,  medium 
size.  Skin  very  smooth,  with  a  few  faint  white  dots,  bright  straw-color 
when  fully  ripe.  Stalk  half  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  rather 
slender,  inserted  in  a  hollow  of  moderate  depth.     Calyx   set  in  a  sba' 


154 


THE   APPLE. 


low  basin.     Flesh  very  white,  tender,  and  juicy,  crisp,  with   a  nch 
sprightly  subacid  flavor     Very  good  to  best.     Core  small. 


Early  Harvest. 

Eaely  Joe. 


Origin,  orchard  of  Heman  Chapin,  Ontario  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  of  slo\* 
growth,  productive,  requires  high  culture  for  fair  fruit. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  very  slightly  conic,  smooth,  yellowish, 


Early  Joe. 


shaded  and  striped  with  red,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  greenish  spots 
Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity  surrounded  by  russet. 
Calyx  closed.     Basin  moderate.     Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  with  a 


THE    APPLE.  158 

very  agreeable  vinous  fla 'or.     Best.     Ripe  middle  of  August  to  middle 
of  September. 

there  is  a  Luce's  Early  Joe  which  is  distinct  from  this,  being  larger 
and  not  as  good  quality. 

Early  J u lien. 

This  Apple  is  of  Scotch  origin,  the  tree  healthy  and  hardy,  and  a 
good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  pale  yellow,  deepen- 
ing in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  brisk  subacid,  pleasant. 
August.     (Lind.) 

Early  Long  Stem. 
Early  Spice. 

Origin  unknown.  Specimens  received  from  Henry  Avery,  Burling- 
ton, Iowa. 

Fruit  small,  oblong  conical,  slightly  ribbed.  Skin  greenish  yellow. 
Stem  long,  slender,  in  a  large  cavity,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed. 
Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  slightly  aro- 
matic, subacid.     Good.     August. 

Early  Marrow. 

A  large  Scotch  Apple,  roundish  conical,  ribbed.  Skin  yellowish 
white,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  tender,  and  bakes  well ; 
productive.     Good.     September  and  October. 

Early  Nonpareil. 

Stagg's  Nonpareil.  New  Nonpareil.  Hick's  Fancy. 

Summer  Nonpareil.  Lacy's  Nonpareil. 

Originated  about  1780,  in  Norfolk,  England.  Tree  a  free  upright 
grower,  hardy,  early,  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dull  yellow  with  gray  russet,  and 
russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  rich,  aromatic. 
October,  November.     (Lind.) 

Early  Nonpareil. 

A  variety  grown  in  Illinois,  the  origin  of  which  we  cannot  learn.  It 
is  barely  possible  that  ishis  may  prove  identical  with  the  foregoing. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  strongly  ribbed,  whitish, 
thinly  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  red  gray  dots.  Flesh  white, 
sometimes  stained  next  the  skin,  very  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid. 
Good.     Core  large.     September. 

Early  Pennock. 

Shakers'  Yellow.  Indian  Queen. 

August  Apple.  New  Jersey  Red  Streak. 

Warren  Pennock.  Harmony. 

A  very  productive  and  favorite  variety  with  many  at  the  "West. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  ribbed,  light  yellow,  splashed,  mottled, 
and  shaded  with  light  red.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  -subacid. 
Good.     Core  large.     Last  of  August  and  September. 


156 


THE    APPLE. 


Tree  hardy,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  The  fruit,  however,  u 
only  showy,  and  salable  in  market  where  a  better  quality  of  fruit  is  T»n- 
known. 

Early  Queening. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  yellow,  striped  and  mingled  with 
red.  Flesh  whitish,  slightly  subacid.  August.  Tree  rather  spreading, 
with  light  brown  shoots. 

Early  Red   Margaret. 

Margaret,  or  Striped  Jun  eating.  Striped  June. 

Early  Red  Juneating.  Striped  Juneating. 

Red  Juneating.  Eve  Apple  of  the  Irish. 

Margaretha  Apfel  of  the  Germans. 

An  excellent  early  Apple,  ripening  about  the  middle  of  July,  or 
directly  after  the  Early  Harvest.  The  tree  while  young  is  rather  slen- 
der, with  reddisr   i/rown  upright  woolly  shoots.    It  is  a  moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  roundish  ovate,  tapering  towards  the  eye. 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  pretty  well  covered  by  stripes  of  dark  red.  Flesh 
white,  subacid,  and,  when  freshly  gathered  from  the  tree,  of  a  rich,  agree- 
able flavor.     Good. 

Early  Red  Streak. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish,  mostly  covered  with  red,  mar- 
bled and  splashed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  j  uicy,  crisp,  subacid.  August, 
September. 

There  are  a  number  of  distinct  apples  under  the  name  of  Early  Red, 
or  Early  Red  Streak,  and  we  have  been  unable  to  decide  perfectly  as 
to  which  the  name  truly  belongs.  None  of  them,  however,  are  more 
than  moderately  good.  One,  under  name  of  Philadelphia  Queen,  is  also 
similar  to  Early  Red,  and  may  be  the  same.  The  origin  is  variously 
claimed,  but  all  unknown. 

Fall  Stripe  may  also  prove  identical  with  one  of  the  above. 

Early  Red  Sweet. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  sweet.     Not  desirable. 

Early  Ripe. 

Supposed  Pennsylvania  origin,  but  unknown.  Tree  a  free  growei, 
and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  sprinkled  with  a  few 
gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  in  a  slightly  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  small, 
closed.     Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     August. 

There  is  also  another  apple  under  name  of  Early  Jiipe,  which  is 
small,  oblate.     Stalk  short.     Flesh  brisk  subacid. 

Early  Spice. 

An  English  culinary  Apple.  Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow, 
Flesh  whitt,,  marrowy,  poor.     August.     (Hogg.) 

There  is  also  an  Early  Spice  originated  in  Chatham,  N.  C,  which  is 


THE    APPLE. 


157 


(small,  round,  yellow.     Flesh  yellow,  dry,  .  igh  flavored.     Tree  produc 
tive.     Young  shoots  slender. 

Early  Strawberry. 
American  Red  Juneating.  Red  Juneating. 

A  beautiful  variety,  which  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the  neigh' 
borhood  of  New  York,  and  appears  in  the  markets  there  from  July  till 
September.  It  is  quite  distinct  from  the  Early  Red  Margaret,  which 
has  no  fragrance,  and  a  short  stem. 

Fruit  roundish,  narrowing  towards  the  eye.     Skin  smooth  and  fair, 


Early    Strawberry. 


finely  striped  and  stained  with  bright  and  dark  red,  on  a  yellowish  white 
ground.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  rather  slender  and  uneven,  in- 
serted in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  rather  small,  in  a  shallow,  narrow  basin. 
Flesh  white,  slightly  tinged  with  red  next  the  skin,  tender,  subacid, 
and  very  sprightly  and  brisk  in  flavor,  with  an  agreeable  aroma.  Very 
good. 

Early  Sweet. 

Originated  with  "W.  C.  Hampton,  Ohio.     Tree  upright,  productive. 
Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  whitish  yellow.     Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, moderately  juicy,  sweet      Good.     Axigust. 

Early  Tart. 

Supposed    seedling  of  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  light  shade  of 


158  THE    APPLE. 

crimson  m  sun.    Stalk  short.     Calyx  closed.     Flesh  white;  tender,  juicy 
brisk  subacid.     Good  for  cooking.     August. 

Early   Tart  Harvest. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  obscurely  ribbed,  waxen  white, 
sometimes  greenish,  rarely  a  blush  in  sun.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Very  good 
Core  medium.     Ripe  about  two  weeks  later  than  Early  Harvest. 

Early  Wax. 

Wax  Apple. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblong,  roundish,  somewhat  ribbed,  waxen 
yellow.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  soft,  sweet.     August.     (Hogg.) 

Early  Yellow  Reinette. 

Reinette   Jaune  Hatif. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  yellow  and  red.  Flesh  rich  and  juicy 
August. 

Easter  Pippin. 

Young's  Long  Keeping.         Ironstone  Pippin. 

Claremont  Pippin.  French  Crab.     Forsyth  (not  of  Coxe). 

Remarkable  for  keeping  sound  and  firm  two  years.  It  is  an  English 
variety. 

Fruit  of  medium  size.  Skin  deep  green,  with  a  pale  brown  blush. 
Flesh  very  firm,  and  though  not  juicy,  of  a  good  subacid  flavor. 

East  Grinstead. 

Ronalds  describes  this  as  a  Sussex  Apple  of  great  excellence  for 
table  or  kitchen. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  dull  greenish  yellow,  with  splashes 
of  dull  faint  red.     Flesh  white,  juicy,  acid.     March  to  May. 

Eaton. 

Origin  unknown,  found  a  grafted  tree  in  the  garden  of  J.  B.  Eaton, 
Buffalo,  N.  Y.,  and  described  in  the  Am.  Pom.  Soc.  Reprints,  1854. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conical,  dull  green,  striped  with  dull  red,  deeper 
when  exposed  to  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  slender.  Calyx  large.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  November,  Decem- 
ber. 

Edel  Konig. 

Ro.-Tres-Noble. 
A  German  culinary  Apple  of  first-rate  quality. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  truncated,   ribbed,  yellowish   green, 


THE   APPLE.  158 

deep  purplish  crimson  in  sun.     Flesh  white,  tinged  with  pink,  tender, 
juicy,  sugary,  raspberry  flavor.     October,  November.      (Hogg.) 

Edgar's. 

An    English  Apple,  which   Ronalds  describes  as    of   medium   size, 
roundish,  yellow  laced  with  bright  i*ed  striping.     A  beav  tiful  fruit,  ex 
cellent  for  the  dessert  or  kitchen.     November,  December. 

Edward's. 

Origin,  Chatham  Co.,  N.  C. 

Fruit  nearly  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  lightly  striped 
with  delicate  red.  Flesh  rich,  juicy,  firm.  One  of  best  keepers. 
(Con.  Gent.) 

Eggermont. 

Eggermont's  CalvUle. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate.  Skin  glossy,  lemon  yellow,  slight  bines  of 
russet.  Flesh, white,  firru,  juicy,  marrowy,  sugary,  vinous.  November. 
(Hogg.) 

Egg  Top. 

Eve.  Sheep  Nose.  Round  Top.  Wine  of  some. 

Fruit  medium,  elongated,  oblong,  conic  oval,  mostly  overspread,  and 
splashed  and  striped  with  shades  of  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  subacid.     Scarcely  good.     November,  December. 

Egyptian  Belle. 

From  J.  M.  Smith,  of  Greenville,  111. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  flattened,  yellowish  white,  striped,  stained,  and 
splashed  with  light  and  deep  carmine.  Flesh  juicy,  white,  fine-grained, 
subacid.     August.      (Gar.  Mon.) 

Egyptian  Russet. 
Bagby  Russet. 

From  Southern  Illinois,  origin  unknown.  This  Apple  is  much  es- 
teemed where  known  for  its  rich,  high  flavor,  and  as  a  good  keeper 
Some  think  it  the  best  of  all  the  russets.  The  tree  forms  an  upright, 
symmetrical,  round  head,  with  grayish  reddish  brown,  somewhat  downy 
young  shoots.     Productive. 

Fruit  medium.  Form  roundish,  approaching  conical,  slightly  ribbed. 
Color  golden  yellow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet  over  half  or  two- 
thirds  of  its  surface,  often  with  a  cheek  of  crimson  or  fawn  in  the  sun, 
and  moderately  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small.  Cavity 
medium  or  rather  broad.  Calyx  open  or  partially  closed.  Segments 
short.  Basin  medium.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  slightly 
aromatic,  pleasant  subacid.     Very  good.     December  to  March. 

Eldon  Pippin. 
Fruit  small,  rouad,  somewhat  oblate,  ribbed  near  the   calyx,  yellow 


160  THE    APPLE. 

shaded  or  covered  with  crimson  next  the  sun.     Flesh  yellowish,  very 
juicy,  sweet,  rich,  aromatic.     December  to  April.     (Hogg.) 

Elford  Pippin. 

Hogg  describes  this  as  a  dessert  Apple  of  first  quality.  Tree  a  health} 
vigorous  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  roundish,  ribbed  near  the  calyx,  yellowish  green,  with  mark- 
ings of  russet  in  the  shade,  red,  and  striped  with  darker  red  next  the 
sun.     Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  brisk,  sugary,  vinous.     October,  December. 

Elicke's  Winter  Sweet. 

Origin,  Lebanon  Co.,  Pa.     An  upright  grower  and  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  obliquely  depressed,  yellow,  striped  and  mot- 
tled with  crimson.  Flesh  yellowish,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  not  very 
juicy,  but  very  sweet,  and  excellent  for  apple  butter.  Good.  De- 
cember to  January. 

Ellijay. 

From  Clarksville,  Ga.  • 

Fruit  large,  oblique,  roundish  conic,  pale  yellow,  often  a  blush 
red  cheek  in  sun.'  Flesh  white,  rather  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Hardly 
good.  Core  large  and  hollow.  Most  valued  for  cooking.  November, 
December. 

Ellis. 

From  Connecticut.  Small,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  brown  cheek. 
Flesh  firm,  juicy,  pleasant,  a  long  keeper.     Good.     April,  May. 

Ellsworth 
Miller's  Seedling. 

Originated  in  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y.,  on  the  farm  of  John  C.  Miller. 

Tree  pretty  vigorous  growth,  erect,  young  wood,  much  like  Swaar  in 
color,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  fine  yellow,  sometimes  a  shade  of  crimson 
in  the  sun.  Nettings  of  russet  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender. 
Cavity  rather  large,  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  small,  short, 
erect.  Basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  firm,  tender, 
juicy,  rich,  sprightly  subacid.  Very  good  or  best.  Core  small.  Jan- 
uary to  March. 

Emperor. 

Described  by  Verry  Aldrich  in  the  Prairie  Farmer  as  follows  : — 
Fruit  medium,  roundish,  one-sided,  orange  striped  and  shaded  with 
red  on    the   sun   side,  covered    with   white  specks.     Stalk   short  and 
slender.     Cavity  deep.     Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  plea- 
Bant,  almost  swe«t. 

Ene's  Winter  Sweet. 
A  Southern  Apple,  introduced  by  J.  S.  Downer,  Elkton,  Ky. 


THE   APPLE.  16 1 

Fniit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  blushed  in  sun,    russeted, 
Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  sweet.     Good.     December. 


El  1 8  worth. 

Enfield  Pearmain. 

A.  moderate  grower  and  a  fair  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  nearly  globular,  deep  red,  sprinkled  with  mi- 
nute dots.  Stalk  long  and  slender,  in  a  large  cavity,  surrounded  by  thin 
russet.  Calyx  partially  closed,  in  a  broad,  shallow  basin.  Flesh  tender, 
fine-grained,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  mild,  rich  flavor,  resembling  Seek- 
■40-Further.     Good.     December  to  February. 

English  Beauty. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  yellow,  mostly  over 
spread,  striped,  shaded  and  splashed  with  crimson,  and  sprinkled  with 
Eght  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  mild 
subacid.     Almost  very  good.     December  to  March. 

English  Crab. 
Fruit  small,  oblate,  yellow  with  dark  red.     Flesh  deep  yellow,  mild 
subacid.     Good.     January. 

English  Gilliflower. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit    large,    roundish  oblate,    approaching   conic,  slightly  ribbed, 

11 


16: 


THE    APPLE. 


ligl.t  yellow,  splashed,  striped,  and  shaded  with  crimson  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  very  short.  Cavity  russeted.  Calyx 
nearly  closed.  Basin  abrupt.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  mild  sul»- 
acid.     Almost  very  good.     November,  December. 

English  Granat  Reinette. 
Pomme  Granate. 

Hogg  describes  this  as  a  first-rate  German  dessert  Apple.  Tree  a 
medium  grower  and  great  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  lemon  yellow,  two-thirds  over- 
washed  and  striped  with  crimson.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  very  fine, 
firm,  crisp,  juicy,  very  rich  vinous,  aromatic.     December  to  March. 

English  Reinette. 
Reinette  d'Angleterre. 

This  is  distinct  from  Grosse  Reinette  d'Angleterre,  or  from  English 
Golden  Pippin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  incLining  to  conical,  slightly  ribbed,  yellow 
shaded,  marbled,  and  indistinctly  splashed  on  the  sunny  side  with  light 
crimson.  Stalk  rather  long.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  juicy, 
with  a  rather  rich  brisk  subacid.     Very  good.     December,  January. 


English  Basset 


English  Russet. 

Poughkeepsie  Russet.  Po'keepsie  Russet. 

The  English  Russet  is  a  valuable,  long-keeping  variety,  extensively 
cultivated,  and  well  known  by  this  name,  but  which  we  have  not  been 
able  to  identify  with  any  English  sort.     It  is  not  fit  for  use  until  Feb- 


THE    APPLE.  163 

ruary,  and  may  be  kept  til]  July,  which,  togethei  "ith  its  great  produc- 
tiveness and  good  flavor,  renders  it  a  very  valuable  market  fruit. 

The  trees  grow  very  straight,  and  form  upright  heads,  and  the  wood 
is  smooth  and  of  a  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  and  very  regularly 
formed.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  about  two-thirds  covered  with  russet, 
which  is  thickest  near  the  stalk.  Calyx  small,  closed,  and  set  in  an 
even,  round  basin,  of  moderate  depth.  Stalk  rather  small,  projecting 
even  with  the  base,  and  pretty  deeply  inserted  in  a  narrow,  smooth 
cavity.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  with  a  pleasant,  mild,  slightly 
subacid  flavor.     Good.     January  to  May. 

The  English  liusset  described  by  Warder  is  entirely  distinct,  being, 
as  he  describes,  large,  globular,  flattened,  somewhat  one-sided.  Surface 
uneven,  green.     In  season  from  December  to  January. 

English   Sweet. 

Ramsdell's  Sweet.  Ramsdell's  Sweeting.       Hurlbut  Sweet  ? 

2*amsdelTs  Red  Pumpkin  Sweet.      Red  Pumpkin  Sweet.       Avery  Sweet. 
Randall's  Red  Winter. 

This  old  variety  is  esteemed  where  grown  for  the  large  crops  which  it 
bears,  and  as  a  showy  sweet  apple  for  market,  and  profitable  for  stock 
feeding,  as  well  as  superior  for  cooking. 

The  tree  is  very  vigorous,  grows  remarkably  straight  and  upright, 
comes  early  into  bearing,  and  yields  every  year  enormously.  Young 
shoots  clear  reddish  brown,  slightly  grayish. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium  size,  oblong,  regularly  shaped,  and  taper- 
ing slightly  towards  the  eye,  dark  red,  dotted  with  fawn-colored  specks, 
and  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  very  tender  and 
mellow,  unusually  sweet  and  rich.  Good  to  very  good.  In  weight  the 
apple  is  light.     October  to  February. 

Epsy. 

From  Yermont.  A  handsome  productive  fruit,  small,  elongated 
conic,  deep  red,  almost  crimson.  Flesh  whitish,  brisk  subacid.  Scarcely 
good.     December,  January. 

Eptings   Premium. 

Large,  greenish,  with  red  stripes.  Flesh  juicy  and  excellent. 
(Sumner's  MS.) 

Eptings   Red  Winter. 

Large,  beautiful  red,  resembling  Carolina  Red  June.  Flesh  yellow, 
with    rich    pine-apple   flavor.       Keeps  well    to    Christmas.     (Sumner's 

MS.) 

Ekie  Sweet. 

From  Erie,  Pa. 

Frxit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  whitish  yellow.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  sweet.     Good.     September,  October. 


164 


THE   APPLE. 


Essex  Pippin. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  tinge  of  red  in  the 
sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  brisk,  sugary.  October  to  February. 
(Hogg.) 

Esopus  Spitzenburgh. 

Esopus  Spitzenberg.  iEsopus  Spitzenburg. 

True  Spitzenburgh. 

The  Esopus  Spitzenburgh  is  a  handsome,  truly  delicious  Apple,  and 
is  generally  considered  by  all  good  judges  equal  to  the  Newtown  Pippin, 
and  unsurpassed  as  a  dessert  fruit  by  any  other  variety.  It  originated 
at  Esopus,  a  famous  apple  district,  originally  settled  by  the  Low  Dutch, 
on  the  Hudson.  But  throughout  the  whole  of  New  York  it  is  considered 
the  first  of  apples.  The  tree  has  rather  slender  shoots,  and  when  in 
bearing  has  long  and  hanging  limbs. 


Esopus  Spitzenburgh. 


Fruit  large,  oblong,  tapeiing  roundly  to  the  eye.  Skin  smooth, 
nearly  covered  with  rich,  lively  red,  dotted  with  distinct  yellowish  rus- 
set dots.  On  the  shaded  side  is  a  yellowish  ground  with  streaks  and 
broken  stripes  of  red.  Stalk  rather  long— three-fourths  of  an  inch — ■ 
and  slender,  projecting  beyond  the  base,  and  inserted  in  a  wide  cavity. 
Calyx  small,  and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  basin,  which  is  slightly  fur- 
rowed. Flesh  yellow,  rather  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a  delicious  rich. 
brisk  flavor.     Best.      Seeds  in  a  hollow  core.     December  to  February. 


THE   APPLE.  165 

ESTEN. 

Origin,  .Rhode  Island.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  ribbed,  smooth,  yellow,  sometimes 
with  a  blush.  Dots  large,  green  and  light.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy, 
slightly  aromatic,  mild  subacid.     Good.     November. 

Etoile. 
Calville  Etoille.  Reinette  Etoile. 

Uiigin  supposed  Holland.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  rich  red,  with  gray  shade,  and  many 
gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  veined  with  red,  tender,  sugary,  slightly  acid. 
November  to  February.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Eustis. 
Ben  Apple. 

Origin,  South  Reading,  Mass.     Moderate  grower,  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  striped  and 
shaded  with  fine  red,  and  sprinkled  with  greenish  dots.  Stalk  medium, 
inserted  in  a  deep  cavity,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  partially  open. 
Basin  narrow,  rather  deep.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  mild  subacid. 
Very  good.     November  to  January. 

Evening  Party. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  roundish,  upright  spread- 
ing, with  slender  branches.  Young  shoots  dark  grayish  brown,  many 
small  dots. 

The  fruit  hangs  well  to  the  tree,  and  the  foliage  remains  intil 
quite  late. 


Evening  Party. 


Fruit  small  or  medium,  oblate,  sides  often  unequal,  yellow,  chiefly 
■haded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  red,  becoming  dark  red  in  the  sun, 


166  THE   APPLE. 

pretty  thickly  studded  with  light  dots,  especially  near  the  calyx.  Stalk 
short,  inserted  in  a  round,  deep,  acute  cavity,  sometimes  russeted. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  rather  large  and  even.  Flesh  juicy,  whitish,  ten- 
der, crisp,  with  a  brisk  saccharine,  somewhat  vinous,  aromatic  flavor,  an 
excellent  dessert  fruit.     Very  good.     December  and  January. 

Ewalt. 
Bullock's  Pippin  of  some. 

Origin,  Bedford  Co.,  Pa.      Tree  very  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  approaching  conic,  obscurely  ribbed,  bright 
yellow,  shades  of  crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Cavity 
deep,  irregular.  Basin  abrupt,  deep,  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  tender 
brisk  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     November  to  March. 

Eyer's  Greening. 

Lindley  describes  this  fruit  as  of  middle  size,  somewhat  round,  pale 
green,  tinged  with  brown  in  the  sun.  Flesh  green,  sweetish  subacid. 
Culinary.     November  to  March. 

Excel. 

Origin,  Sharon,  Conn.     A  strong  grower  and  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  conic,  yellowish,  marbled,  splashed,  and  shaded 
with  red,  some  nettings  and  patches  of  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy, 
brisk,  subacid.    Core  large.    Good  to  very  good.    December  to  February. 

Exquisite. 

Origin,  orchard  of  A.  G.  Downing,  Canton,  111.  Growth  moderate, 
upright,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate.  Skin  yellow,  striped  and  marked  with 
red.  Stem  short  and  small,  surrounded  by  russet,  in  a  deep,  broad 
cavity.  Calyx  small,  partially  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  very  rich,  vinous  flavor,  almost  saccha- 
rine. Good  to  very  good.  A  delightful  apple  for  the  table.  Septem- 
ber to  November. 

FailMe-Never. 

Neverfail. 

A  Scottish  Apple  for  cooking  purposes.     Tree  hardy  and  productive. 
Fruit  above  medium,  oblate,  ribbed,  red,  becoming  deep  red  in  the 
Bun.     Flesh  white,  sugary.     Good.     November,  March.     (Lind.) 

FAIRBANKS. 

Origin,  Winthrop,  Maine. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  light  yellow,  striped  with  red,  and 
patched  with  russet.  Stem  long.  Cavity  broad  and  shallow.  Flesh 
yellowish,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  vinous  flavor.  Good.  September  to  Oe 
tober.     (Me.  P.  S.  B  ) 


the  applk  167 

Fairfield  Summer  Queen 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  obscurely  ribbed,  pale  yellow, 
Btriped,  splashed,  and  shaded  with  two  shades  of  red.  Stalk  long. 
Blender.  Cavity  large.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish, 
juicy,  tender,  brisk  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  Good.  Core 
small.     September. 

Fair  Maid. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  striped  with  carmine,  subacid. 
Inferior. 

Fair  Maid  of  Taunton. 

An  English  Apple. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  straw  color,  with  faint  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  November  to  February. 
(Hogg.) 

Fair's  Nonpareil. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow,  with  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
firm,  crisp,  juicy,  vinous.     November  to  February.       (Hogg.) 

Fallawater. 

Falwalder.  Pirn's  Beauty  of  the  West.  Winter  Blush 

Fornwalder.  Pound.  Green  Mountain  Pippin. 

Tulpehocken.  Mountain  Pippin.  Molly  Whopper. 

Pfarrer  Walter.  Fall  de  Walldes.  Falder. 

Baltimore,  erroneously.  Brubacker.  Fallawalder. 

Fallawalder. 

A  favorite  Apple  of  Pennsylvania,  of  which  State  it  is  a  native. 
Tree  a  strong  grower  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  very  large,  globular,  inclining  to  conic.  Skin  yellowish  green, 
shaded  with  dull  red,  and  sprinkled  with  large  gray  dots.  Stalk  very 
short,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  slightly 
plaited  basin.  Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy,  crisp,  rather  tender,  pleas- 
ant, stibacid  flavor.      Good.     November,  February. 

Fall  Butter. 

There  are  dozens  of  this  name.  Warder  describes  one  from  Indiana 
as: 

Fruit  large,  globular,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
juicy,  sweet.     December,  January. 

Fall  Greening. 

Tie-  original  tree  of  tliis  variety  was  found  on  the  grounds  of  S.  M. 
Van  Wyck,  Clav  >rack,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  moderately  vigorous 
grower,  round-headed,  almost  pendent,  very  productive,  valuable. 


168  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  tender,  pleasant,  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  December  to 
February.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  bearer,  and  sells  well  in  market. 

There  is  another  Fall  Greening,  which  is  more  oblate  in  form. 
Similar  color.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Sep- 
tember to  November.     The  tree  a  poor  grower. 

Fall  Harvey. 

A  fine  large  fall  fruit  from  Essex  Co.,  Mass.,  highly  esteemed  in  that 
neighborhood.     We  do  not  think  it  comparable  to  the  Fall  Pippin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  a  little  flattened,  obscurely  ribbed  or  irregu- 
lar about  the  stalk,  which  is  rather  slender,  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  wide, 
deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  small,  in  a  rather  shallow  corrugated  basin. 
Skin  pale  straw  yellow,  with  a  few  scattered  dots.  F'  h  white,  juicy, 
crisp,  with  a  rich,  good  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  October  and 
November. 

Fall  Jenneting. 
Summer  Jenneting'. 

Tree  vigorous,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  almost  ribbed,  pale  greenish  yel- 
low, with  a  blush.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good. 
September  and  October. 

Fall  Limbebtwig. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  pale  yellow,  shaded  and 
splashed  with  red.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good. 
November. 

Fall  Orange. 

Orange.  Holden.  Hogpen.  White  Graft  of  Wia 

Holden  Pippin.  Jones'  Pippin.      Red  Cheek.  Long  Island. 

Origin,  Holden,  Mass.  A  very  strong,  erect  grower,  good  bearei, 
and  hardy.     Young  shoots  smooth,  dark  brownish  red. 

Fruit  fair,  large,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  dull  red 
cheek  and  sprinkled  with  brownish  dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a 
deep,  narrow  cavity,  very  slightly  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  large, 
partially  closed,  basin  rather  deep,  narrow.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy, 
subacid.     Too  acid  for  a  dessert,  good  for  cooking.     October,  November. 

Fall  Pearmain. 

Tree  thrifty,  moderate  bearer.     From  Connecticut. 

Fruit  fair  and  handsome,  medium,  roundish  conic,  slightly  angular. 
Skin  yellow,  striped,  splashed,  and  shaded  with  crimson,  and  sprinkled 
with  gray  and  green  dots.  Stalk  medium,  in  a  deep,  slightly  russeted 
cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  rather  deep,  slightly  corrugated. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  rather  rich  flavor.  Good  to  very 
good.     September,  October. 


THE   APPLE. 

Fall  Pippin. 


169 


York  Pippin.  Episcopal.  Philadelphia  Pippin. 

Pound  Pippin.  Golden  Pippin,  erroneously.  Pound  Royal  of  some 

Cathead,  incorrectly. 

The  Fall  Pippin  is,  we  think,  decidedly  an  American  variety.     It  ia 
rory  probably  a  seedling  raised  in  this  country  from  the  White  Span' 


Fall  Pippin. 

ish  Reinette,  or  the  Holland  pippin,  both  of  which  it  so  much  resem- 
bles, and  from  which  it,  in  fact,  differs  most  strongly  in  the  season  of 
maturity.  The  Fall  Pippin  is  a  noble  fruit,  and  is  considered  the  first 
of  autumn  apples  in  the  Middle  States,  where  its  beauty,  large  size,  and 
its  delicious  flavor  for  the  table  or  for  cooking,  render  it  very  popular. 

The.   tree  is  a  very  vigorous,    strong    grower,    upright    spreading. 
Young  shoots  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  generally  a  little  flattened,  pretty  regular, 
sometimes  with  obscure  ribs  at  the  eye.  Stalk  rather  long,  three-fourths 
of  an  inch,  projecting  considerably  beyond  the  fruit  (which  distinguishes 
it  from  the  Holland  Pippin),  set  in  a  rather  small,  shallow,  round  cavity. 
Calyx  open,  not  very  large,  rather  deeply  sunk  in  a  round,  narrow  basin. 
Skin  smooth,  yellowish  green,  becoming  a  fine  yellow,  with  often  a 
tinge  of  brownish  blush  on  one  side,  and  with  a  few  scattered  dots 
Flesh  white,  very  tender  and  mellow,  with  a  rich,  aromatic  flavor 
Very  good  to  best.     October  to  December. 


Fall  Spitzenburgh. 
From  Yermont.     Tree  a  fair  grower  and  good  bearer. 


170 


THK   APPLE. 


Flesh  tender,  juicy, 


Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  red  striped, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Fall  Seek-no-Further. 
Winter  Seek-no-Further. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  much  the  nabit  of  the  Rhode  Island  Green 
ing,  thrifty  and  productive. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  shaded  with  red,  striped 
with  darker  red,  and  covered  with  numerous  grayish  dots.  Flesh  whit- 
ish, tender,  moderately  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  subacid  flavor.  Good. 
October  and  November. 

There  is  another  apple  under  name  of  Fall  Seek-no-Further  which 
we  have  received  froin  Iowa,  of  medium  size,  roundish,  greenish,  with 
slight  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  mild,  subacid.  Very 
good  and  keeps  till  March. 


Sweet  Wine. 
Ohio  Wine. 


Fall  Wine. 

Sharpe's  Spice. 
Uncle  Sam's  best. 


Musk  Spice. 
Hower  or  House. 


Origin  unknown,  probably  an  old  Eastern  fruit  called  "  Wine  "  or 
"  Sweet  Wine,"  but  not  now  much  cultivated  on  account  of  the  fruit  being 
defective.  In  the  rich  AVestern  soils  it  thrives  admirably,  producing 
fine  fruit,  yet  in  a  few  localities  they  complain  of  its  being  knurly.  Tree 
healthy,  but  of  rather  slender  growth,  bearing  modei"ate  crops  annually. 


Fall  Wine. 


Fruit  above  medium.  Stem  rather  long,  slender,  in  a  broad,  deep 
cavity,  surrounded  by  clear  waxen  yellow.  Calyx  partially  closed 
in  a  broad,  deep,  corrugated  basin.     Skin  striped  and  shaded  with  red, 


THE   APPLE.  17 1 

on  a  light  ground,  with  numerous  russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy, 
tender,  with  a  rich,  aromatic,  very  mild,  subacid  flavor,  almost  sweet 
Very  good  to  best.     September,  November. 

Fall  Winesap. 

A  Western  variety,  the  origin  of  wlxich  is  unknown. 

Tree  a  free  clean  grower,  moderately  spreading,  somewhat  drooping 
as  the  tree  acquires  age,  productive  and  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  sometimes  slightly  conical,  yellowish  green, 
with  considerable  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender, 
juicy,  subacid.     Good.     October,  December. 

Fama  Gusta. 

An  old  English  sort.     Tree  vigorous,  straggling  in  habit. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblong  conical,  deep  yellow,  faint 
red  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  sweet.  Good  for  cooking.  No- 
vember, December. 

Fameuse. 

Pomme  de  Neige.  Sanguineus.  Snow  Chimney.  Snow. 

A  very  celebrated  Canada  fruit  (probably  an  old  French  variety), which 
has  its  name  from  the  snow-white  color  of  its  flesh,  or,  as  some  say,  from 
the  village  from  whence  it  was  first  taken  to  England.    It  is  an  excellent, 


Fameuse. 


Eroductive,    autumn     apple,    and   is    especially    valuable    in    north -in 
ititudes. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  round-headed,  hardy.     Young  shoots  red- 
dish brown. 

Fruit   of  medium  size,  roundish,  somewhat  flattened.     Skin  with  a 


i  72  THE   APPLE. 

groand  of  pale  greenish  yellow,  mixed  with  faint  streaks  of  pale  red  on 
the  shady  side,  but  marked  with  blotches  and  short  stripes  of  darker  red, 
and  becoming  a  fine  deep  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  quite  slender,  half  an 
inch  long,  planted  in  a  narrow  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Calyx  small,  and 
set  in  a  shallow,  rather  narrow  basin.  Flesh  remarkably  white,  very 
tender,  juicy,  and  with  a  slight  perfume.  Very  good,  almost  best.  Ripe 
in  October  and  November.  A  regular  bearer  and  a  handsome  dessert 
fruit. 

There  is  a  variety  under  name  of  Striped  Fameuse,  claimed  to  be 
distinct,  the  fruit  being  more  striped  and  less  highly  colored. 

Family. 

McLoud's  Family. 

A  native  of  Georgia.     Tree  a  fine  regular  grower  and  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate  conical,  yellowish,  shaded,  striped,  and  splash  td 


Family. 


with  dull  red  over  half  or  more  of  its  surface,  thickly  sprinkled  with 
large  light  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small.  Cavity  pretty  large,  slightly 
russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  medium,  partially  recurved.  Basin 
medium,  a  little  wrinkled.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant, 
Bubacid.     Very  good.     August,  September. 

Fancher. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  globular,  regular.  Surface  smooth,  yellow, 
blushed.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained  breaking,  juicy,  very  sweet.  Good 
to  very  good.    Baking.    September,  October.     (Warder.) 


the  apple.  173 

Fanny. 

Originated  near  Strasburgh,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.,  on  the  farm  formerly 
owned  by  Jacob  Beam.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  very  productive. 
Young  wood  dark  grayish  purple,  two  shades  darker  than  Red  A  strachan, 
and  grayish. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  deep  rich  crin\sou  red, 


Fanny. 

moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  small.  Cavity 
large,  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  short.  Flesh  white,  a  little 
stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Very  good.  Core 
small.     August.     A  new  Apple  of  great  promise  as  a  market  sort. 

Farleigh  Pippin. 
Farley  Pippin. 

Originated  at  Farleigh  in  Kent,  England.  Tree  strong,  vigorous, 
upright,  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  ribbed,  yellowish,  brownish  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  greenish,  firm,  rich,  and  sugary.  January  to  April. 
(Lind.) 

Farley's  Red. 

A  native  of  Oldham,  Ky.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  hardy  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  roundish,  inclining  to  conic.  Skin  yellowish,  shaded  and 
striped  with  deep  crimson,  and  specked  with  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish, 
very  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  vinous  flavor.  Good.  January, 
April. 


174  the  apple. 

Father. 

A  seedling  originated  about  1795  by  General  Amoa  Hall,  in  West 
Bloomfield,  Ontario  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  thrifty,  upright  grower,  forming 
a  handsome  head,  a  good  and  constant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  oblate,  more  or  less  ribbed,  greenish  yellow. 
Flesh  whitish,  very  tender  and  iuicy,  subacid.  Good.  November,  De- 
cember. 

Faust 
Faust's  Winter.  Foust. 

Origin,  North  Carolina. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  sometimes  faintly  shaded  with  red 
in  the  sun,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  stout. 
Calyx  nearly  closed.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     Good,  almost  very  good.     November,  December. 

Favorite. 

From  Kentucky. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow,  striped  and  splashed  with  red.  Flesh 
yellow,  juicy,  miid  subacid.     Good.     November,  January.     (Elliott.) 

Fay's  Russet. 

Origin,  Bennington,  Yt.,  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Fay.  Tree  moderate 
grower  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium  size,  oblate  conic.  Color  light  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  russet,  having  a  crimson  cheek  obscurely  striped. 
Stalk  short  and  small,  inserted  in  a  moderate  acute  cavity.  Calyx  par- 
tially closed.  Segments  long,  in  a  shallow  somewhat  furrowed  basin. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  sprightly,  pleasantly  subacid.  Yery  good.  April, 
June.     Core  small. 

Fearns  Pippin. 

Clifton  Nonsuch.  Ferris  Pippin.  Florence  Pippin. 

An  English  variety,  not  as  desirable  here  as  there.  Tree  upright, 
vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  becoming  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  pleasant.  No- 
vember, March.     (Lind.) 

Federal  Pearmain. 

An  old  English  soi-t,  once  prized  for  the  dessert. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  yellowish,  with  red  and  streaks  of 
rea  in  the  sun,  patches  and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh  fine,  delicate,  very 
riicy,  rich  sugary,  viuous.     December  to  March.      (Hogg.) 

Fell's  "Winter  Sweet. 

A  variety  received  from  F.  K.  Phoenix,  of  Illinois.  Origin  unknown,. 
Tree  a  great  bearer. 


THE   APPLE.  175 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  cheek  of  brown 
crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  mild,  rich,  sweet.  Good.  Valua- 
ble for  cooking  and  keeping  only. 

Fenley. 
Finley.  Findley.  Horse,  erroneously. 

This  Apple  originated  in  Kentucky,  and  was  first  brought  into 
notice  by  the  gentleman  after  whose  name  it  has  been  called.  It  is 
grown  to  considerable  extent  South  and  West,  and  counted  valuable, 
especially  for  kitchen  use.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  and  productive. 
Young  wood  dark  reddish,  grayish,  downy. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  pale  yellow  or  yellowish,  sprinkled 
with  a  few  brown  clots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  broad,  russeted.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  pretty  large.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  sub- 
acid.    Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Fenouillet  Gris. 

Fruit  small,  roundish.  Skin  light  russet  on  yellow  ground.  Flesh 
firm,  with  a  saccharine,  perfumed  flavor.    Good.    December  to  February. 

Fenouillet  Jaune. 

Embroidered  Pippin.  Drap  d'Or.  Pomme  de  Caractere. 

A  French  fruit,  which  has  not  proved  of  much  value  here. 
Fruit  small,   roundish,  yellow  gray  russet  network.     Flesh  white, 
firm,  aromatic  flavor.     Good.     October  to  March. 

Fenouillet  Rouge. 

Bardin.  Court-pendu  Gris. 

Fruit  small,  roundish.  Skin  rough,  grayish,  with  dark  brownish 
red.     Flesh  firm,  sugary.     Good.     October,  January. 

Ferdinand. 

A  seedling  of  Pomaria,  S.  C.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  deep  orange  yellow,  moderately  sprinkled  with 
large  brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large,  closed.  Flesh  yellow, 
moderately  juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  November 
to  March. 

Ferris. 
Rhode  Island  Seek  no  Further.  Westchester  Seek  no  Further. 

An  old  variety  of  unknown  origin,  brought  into  Westchester  Co., 
N.  Y.,  about  sixty  years  ago,  where  it  is  quite  extensively  grown  and 
considered  a  profitable  market  apple.  The  tree  makes  an  upright,  round, 
rather  open  head,  a  great  bearer  every  other  year,  and  moderate  bearer 
in  alternate  years. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  whitish  green,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  over  most  of   the  surface   with  shades  of  crimson.     Fleah 


176  THE   APPLE. 

white,   tender,   juicy,    refreshing,  vinous,    mild    subacid.     Very  good. 
November,  December. 

Ferris. 

Origin,  Wilmington,  Del.,  where  its  value  is  mainly  for  its  keeping 
qualities  and  productiveness. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  whitish,  shaded 
and  indistinctly  splashed  with  dark  red.  Flesh  greenish  white,  rather 
firm,  juicy,  subacid,  good.     March,  April. 

Fett. 
Fat  Apple. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  oblate,  red  shaded  and  striped 
with  crimson.  Stem  slender.  Cavity  almost  closed,  or  appearing  as  if 
full.  Flesh  white,  sometimes  stained  under  the  skin,  crisp,  subacid. 
Good.     January. 

Field. 

Originated  in  York  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  an  upright  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  whitish  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with 
crimson.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid,  half  spicy 
quince-like  flavor.     Good.     November,  January. 

Fink. 
Fink's  Seedling. 

Origin,  farm  of  Joseph  Fink,  Somerset,  0.  Tree  a  strong,  vigorous, 
upright  grower  and  a  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  with  a  crimson  cheek  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  whitish,  fine-grained,  compact,  moderately  pleasant,  aromatic,  sub- 
acid. Good  to  very  good.  A  long  keeper,  often  the  fruit  of  two  years' 
growth  being  shown  at  the  same  time. 

First  and  Last. 

An  English  culinary  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  narrowing  toward  each  end,  yellow  with 
crimson  in  the  sun,  and  brown  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  sweet, 
brisk,  spicy  aroma.     September  to  May.     (Hogg.) 

Fishkill  Beauty. 

Origin,  Fishkill,  N.  Y.    Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  blush  m 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Sep- 
tember, October.     Apt  to  decay  on  the  tree. 

Fish's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Keene,  New  Hampshire.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive, 
highly  esteemed  in  its  locality 


THE    APPLE.  177 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  oblique,  deep  red  on  the  sunny  side,  indistinct 
\y  striped  with  darker  red  and  yellow,  and  sprinkled  with  yellow  dots. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  melting,  vinous,  saccharine  flavor.  Good. 
October,  November. 

Fiske. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree   productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  shaded,  and  faintly  splashed 
with  shades  of  crimson.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  sub- 
acid.    Good  to  very  good.     December  to  March. 

Flake's  Fall. 

Originated  with  the  late  Col.  Flake,  of  Mercer,  Pa.,  where  it  is 
esteemed  a  valuable  and  profitable  apple,  either  for  market  or  the  table. 
Tree  a  moderate  grower,  rather  upright,  a  good  bearer. 


Flake's  Fall 

Fruit  large,  form  oblate,  slightly  conic.  Color  yellowish,  over- 
spread, shaded,  striped,  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  crimson, 
becoming  very  dark  in  the  sun,  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  and  russet 
dots,  some  with  dark  centre.  St  ilk  very  short,  and  rather  stout. 
Cavity  large,  deep,  russeted,  the  splashes  and  nettings  extending  out- 
side. Calyx  open,  or  partially  closed.  Segments  large,  to  a  point,  and 
rather  separated.  Basin  medium,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  peculiarly  aromatic.  Core  small.  Very 
good.     October,  November. 

Flanders  Pipput. 
From  Berkshire,  England. 

12 


178  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  dull  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Cooking.  October,  Novem- 
ber.     (Hogg.) 

Flanders  Beinette. 
Reinette  de  Flandre. 
Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  with  grayish  red  in  the  sun  and 
near  the  stalk.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  sugary.  December  to 
January.      (Alb.  Pom.) 

Flat  Pippin. 

Needles. 

Origin,  Ohio. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  ribbed,  greenish  white,  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun 
Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     November,  December. 

Flat  Sweet. 

An  old  Eastern  fruit,  and  much  valued  where  known. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  sometimes  with  sunny 
cheek,  and  slight  russet.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  fine,  rich, 
saccharine  flavor.     Good.    Valued  for  baking.     October  to  March. 

Flat  Sweet. 

From  Illinois. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  yellow,  splashed,  striped,  and  shaded 
with  light  and  dark  crimson  over  all,  few  large  light  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Flesh  white,  stained  next  the  skin,  firm,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  scarcely 
uweet.     Good.     September. 

Fleet's  Nonpareil. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  pale  yellow  or  whitish.  Flesh 
white,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Good  for  cooking.     September. 

Fleiner. 

Of  German  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive.  Wood  dull 
reddish  bi'own,  slightly  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  crimson 
in  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  sharp  subacid.  Good.  Oc- 
tober, November. 

Flora. 

A  Southern  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and  mottled 
with  crimson.     Flesh  whitish,  mild  subacid.     Hardly  good.     August. 


the  apple.  179 

Floky. 
Flory's  Bellflower.  Sheep  Shire. 

Origin,  Montgomery  Co.,  Ohio.  A  new  variety,  highly  regarded  in 
the  vicinity  of  its  origin.     Tree  upright  grower,  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  rich  yellow,  with  small  patches  of 
russet  and  minute  raised  russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  moder- 
ately juicy,  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Flower  of  Kent. 

A  large  anil  handsome  English  Apple,  chiefly  valued  for  baking  and 
kitchen  use. 

Fruit  quite  large,  roundish  conic,  tawny  yellow,  washed  with  dull 
red,  with  occasionally  a  few  stripes  of  brighter  red.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  abounding  with  a  lively  subacid  j  uice.  Good  cooking.  Octo- 
ber to  January. 

Flushing  Spitzenburgh. 

This  variety  has  been  confounded  with  the  Esopus  Spitzenburgh, 
but  is  really  qiiite  distinct.  The  tree  makes  strong  reddish  brown 
shoots,  different  from  the  slender  yellowish  ones  of  that  sort. 

The  fruit  is  roundish  conical.  Stalk  set  in  a  narrow  cavity  projecting 
beyond  the  fruit.  Skin  nearly  covered  with  red,  on  a  greenish  yellow 
ground,  dotted  with  large  fawn  spots,  and  coated  with  a  slight  bloom. 
Calyx  small,  in  an  even  basin.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  crisp,  nearly  sweet, 
and  of  pleasant  flavor,  but  without  the  brisk  richness  or  yellow  color 
of  the  Esopus  Spitzenburgh.     Good.     October  to  February. 

FOCHT. 

A  seedling  of  Lebanon  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  forms  a  low  open  head, 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  pale  yellow,  sometimes  with  a 
blush.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  good,  subacid.  October,  December. 
Excellent  for  culinary  purposes. 

Foote's  Nonpareil. 

Origin,  farm  of  Jonathan  Foote,  Lee,  Mass.  Tree  thrifty,  vigorous, 
spreading,  an  annual  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  oblong  conic  truncated,  yellow  shaded  and  indistinctly 
Hplashed  with  crimson.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  aromatic  subacid. 
V  ery  good.     Core  large.     November. 

FORANGE. 

Origin,  Fairfield  Co.,  Ohio.  Tree  good  grower,  round  head,  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  large,  pale  yellow.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  rich  sweet 
Good.     September. 

Ford  Apple. 

Origin,  farm  of  David  Ford,  Canaan,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y. 


180  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical.  Color  rich  yellow.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  solid,  moderately  tender,  with  a  high,  rich,  rather  acid 
flavor.     Good.     October,  January. 

Forest. 
Red  Codlin. 

This  variety  we  received  from  J.  S.  Foster,  New  Hartford,  N.  Y., 
who  does  not  claim  it  as  original,  but  that  it  is  probably  a  foreigner. 
We  have  not  been  able  to  identify  it  with  any  known  sort.  Tree  of  up- 
right growth,  very  hardy,  and  an  annual  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblong  conical,  often  ribbed,  yellow, 
mostly  overspread,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  faint  reddish 
crimson,  and  many  large  light  dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  deep, 
irregular.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  small,  abrupt,  furrowed.  Flesh 
yellow,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  pleasant,  slightly  aromatic,  subacid, 
almost  sweet.     Core  small.     Very  good.     December  to  March. 

Forest  Styre. 

Styre.  Iltire. 

A  cider  fruit,  from  Gloucestershire,  England.  Tree  upright,  willow- 
like in  growth.  Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  blush  in  sun. 
Flesh  firm,  brisk  acid.     (Lind.) 

Forge. 

Origin,  Sussex  Co.,  England.  Tree  strong,  stocky,  short-jointed, 
forming  a  spreading  open  head,  productive. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  oblate,  obscurely  ribbed,  whitish 
yellow,  overspread,  shaded,  splashed,  striped,  and  mottled  with  red. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  subacid.  Very  good. 
October,  December. 

Forman's  Crew. 

An  old  dessert  Apple,  originated  in  Glamorganshire,  England.  Tree 
healthy,  upright.     Young  wood  reddish  chestnut,  downy. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate  conic,  yellowish  green,  brownish  in  sun. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  rich  subacid.  November,  February.    (Lind.) 

Fort  Miami. 

Origin  near  Fort  Miami,  Ohio.  Tree  thrifty,  healthy,  productive, 
but  not  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conic,  truncated,  pale  yellow  with 
a  brownish  tinge,  considerably  russeted  in  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  short. 
Cavity  medium,  acute,  deep.  Calyx  open.  Basin  abrupt,  corrugated. 
Flesh  yellowish,  fine,  crisp,  juicy,  rather  rich  subacid,  aromatic.  Very 
good.     March  to  May. 

Foster  Sweet. 
Origin  unknown.     Tntioduced  by  J.  W.  Foster,  Dorchester,  Masa 


THE   APPLE.  18  * 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  obscurely  ribbed,  whit- 
ish yellow,  shaded  with  dark  red  and  stripes  and  splashes  in  the  sun,  few 
light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  rather 
deep.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet.  Good 
to  very  good.     Core  medium.     September. 

FOULDON    PeARMAIN. 
Horrex's  Pearmain. 

Origin,  Norfolk,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  brisk,  sharp  subacid.  November  to  March. 
(land.) 

FoU>TDLING. 

Shirley.  Groton. 

Origin,  Groton,  Mass.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  produo 
tive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic.  Color 
yellowish  green,  striped  and  shaded  with  deep  rich  red.  Stalk  short, 
slender,  in  a  large,  somewhat  furrowed  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
small,  furrowed.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  rich 
vinous  aroma.     Very  good.     August,  September. 

Fourth  of  July. 

Siberian  August.  Tetofsky,  erroneously.         McAdow's  June. 

Stewart's  Nonpareil  ?  August  Apple. 

A  German  Apple,  introduced  by  C.  F.  Jaeger,  of  Columbus,  Ohio. 


Fourth  of  J  uly. 


Valuable  mainly  for  its  hardiness  and  early  maturity  as  a  cooking  or 
market  variety.  Tree  a  strong  upright  grower,  forming  a  fine  head. 
Young  shoots  long  dark  reddish  brown. 


182  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate  conical,  slightl j  ril  bedj 
whitish  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin  whitish  bloom,  and  striped  and 
splashed  with  bright  red,  large  light  dots.  '  Stalk  rather  short  anu 
slender,  often  with  bracts.  Cavity  medium,  regular.  Calyx  closed. 
Segments  rather  long,  generally  recurved.  Basin  small,  slightly  uneven. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  sprightly,  brisk  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  July. 
In  fruit  this  closely  resembles  the  Tetofsky,  but  the  color  of  the  wood, 
habit  of  growth,  and  foliage  of  old  trees  render  its  distinctiveness  plain. 

Fox-Whelp. 

An  old  English  cider  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  ribbed  at  crown,  yellow  and  red  mixed, 
and  streaked.     Flesh  firm.     October,  November.      (Lind.) 

Fraise. 

Of  French  origin.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  mostly  overspread,  and  washed 
with  bright  red.     Flesh  fine-grained,  tender,  subacid.     (Soc.  V.  M.) 

Framboise. 
Framboos.  Calville  Rouge  d'Automne,  incorrectly. 

Of  German  origin. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblong,  truncated,  somewhat 
ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  spotted  and  striped  with  shades  of  bright  and 
deep  red,  much  red  in  sun.  Flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  mellow,  juicy, 
•sugary.     September.     (An.    Pom.) 

Franohot. 

Originated  in  Otsego  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  shaded  and  splashed  with 
red.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  crisp,  pleasant,  aromatic.  Good.  October 
to  January. 

Franklin's  Golden  Pippin. 
Sudlow's  Fall  Pippin. 

Dr.  Hogg  says :  This  is  an  American  Apple,  and  was  introduced 
into  England  by  John  Sudlow. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  very  regular  in  shape, 
rather  broadest  at  the  base,  deep  yellow,  freckled  with  numerous  dark 
spots.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  rich  subacid.  Good  to  very 
good.      The  tree  grows  freely,  and  forms  an  upright  head.      October. 

Under  the  name  of  Franklin  Gohhn  Pippin  we  have  received  an 
apple  from  Illinois,  and  now  somewhat  grown  there,  which  is  quite  dis- 
tinct from  the  above.  It  was  introduced  West  from  Pennsylvania, 
under  name  of  Golden  Pippin,  but  in  its  new  locality  has  had  attached, 
by  whom  we  know  ntffc,  the,  prefix  of  Franklin.  There  are  so  many 
Golden  Pippins  that  it  is  difficult  to  decide  which  shall  be  entitled  tc 
priority  of  name. 


THE    ArPLE.  183 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  slightly  ribbed,  pale  le  non  yellow 
moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender 
Cavity  deep.  Calyx  firmly  closed.  Basin  corrugated.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish, tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Very  good.  November 
December. 

Freeman. 

Origin,  New  Jersey.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  truncated  conical,  mottled  and  splashed  with 
red.  Flesh  white,  often  stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  slightly  subacid, 
nearly  sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     Valued  mainly  as  a  late  keeper. 

Freeze  and  Thaw. 

Of  Pennsylvania  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  light  yellow,  with  shades  and 
splashes  of  red.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  firm,  subacid.  Poor.  Novem- 
ber to  February. 

Fremont  Pippin. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  James  Armitage,  Soleberry,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  ribbed,  lemon  yellow,  slightly  shaded 
with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  long.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  small,  closed. 
Basin  small.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Very  good. 
Core  medium.     January,  February. 

French. 

An  old  New  England  variety,  origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  yellow,  striped  and 
splashed  with  red.       Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  rich  acid.     Good.     November. 

French  Bellflower. 

Bellefleur  de  France.  Double  Bellefleur. 

Dobbel  Bellefleur. 

A  French  Apple,  described  in  the  Annals  of  Pomology  as : — 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  yellowish,  with  camiine 

red  cheek  in  the  sun.      Flesh   yellowish  white,  half  tender,   melting, 

sweet,  subacid. 

French  Crab. 

Ronalds  describes  this  as  follows :  Tree  very  hardy,  somewhat 
pendent  in  its  growth,  and  bears  well.     A  long  keeper. 

Fruit  above  medium,  globulai',  green,  becoming  yellow  at  maturity. 
Flesh  firm,  pleasant,  brisk. 

French  Nonpareil. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sides  unequal,  greenish  yellow, 
shaded,  splashed,  and  marbled  with  red.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  juicy, 
pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  October, 
November. 


184  the  apple. 

French  Pippin. 

Of  unknown  origin.  Tree  hardy  and  vigorous j  with  dark  reddish 
brown  shoots. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  faint  dull 
cheek,  thinly  sprinkled  with  large  brown  dots,  and  traces  of  russet. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  pleasant,  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  October, 
January. 

Quite  distinct  from  Newark  or  French  Pippin,  which  has  slender 
branches.  There  are  several  apples  under  name  of  French  Pippin,  and 
it  is  difficult  to  decide  which  has  priority  to  the  name,  except  as  con- 
nected with  the  oldest  description. 

French  Reinette. 

Reinette  Franche.  Reinette  Blanche.       Weisse  Reinette. 

Reinette  Blanche,  dite  Prime.      Franz  Rennette.         Franzosische  Edelreinette. 
Reinette  de  Normandy. 

An  old  French  Apple  described  by  various  authors,  valued  mainly 
as  a  long  keeper.  Coxe  says  the  tree  is  handsome,  of  vigorous  growth 
and  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conical,  truncated,  yellow,  with  some 
russet,  and  red  in  sun.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  rich  and  sprightly 
subacid. 

French  Russet. 

French  Pippin. 

This  old  Apple  is  described  in  Ronalds  as  a  sauce  or  cooking  fruit  of 
medium  size,  globular,  yellowish,  with  faint  red  in  the  sun,  considerably 
russeted.     Flesh  white,  tender,  subacid.     November,  January. 

French's  Sweet. 

Origin,  farm  of  B.  V.  French,  Braintree,  Mass.  Tree  very  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  a  shade  of  brown 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  moderately  juicy,  compact,  rich, 
sweet.     Valued  for  cooking.     October,  November. 

Friar. 

An  English  cider  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  of  good  size,  some- 
what conical,  greenish,  with  dull  red  in  the  sun.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive 

Frisland  Reinette. 
Reinette  de  Frisland. 

Of  German  origin,  described  in  the  Album  of  Pomology.  Tree 
vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conical,  bright  yellow,  brownish  red  in 
the  sun,  reddish  gray  near  the  stalk.  Flesh  white,  firm,  agreeable,  suo- 
acid.     December  to  January. 


the  apple.  18& 

Fronclin. 

Originated  in  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.,  where  the  original  tree  is  supposed 
to  be  over  one  hundred  years  old.  It  is  a  rapid  grower,  bearing  pro- 
fusely even  when  young,  but  the  fruit  is  rather  too  acid  to  please  manj 
tastes. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  whitish,  shaded  and  splashed  with  rich 
red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  sharp  subacid.  Good.  Sep- 
tember, November. 

Front  Door. 

From  Michigan,  origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  yellow,  striped  and  splashed  with 
red.     Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     September. 

Fullerton  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown,  found  in  the  orchard  of  William  Fullerton,  Orange 
Co.,  N.  Y.     It  much  resembles  the  Autumn  Sweet  Bough. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow,  with  a  few 
brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  tender,  honeyed  sweet.  Very  good. 
Core  small.     October,  November. 

Fulton. 

A  Western  fruit,  originated  in  the  orchard  or  nursery  of  A.  G. 
Downing,  Canton,  Fulton  Co.,  111.,  a  vigorous  grower,  hardy,  regular  in 
form,  an  annual  and  productive  bearer.  Young  shoots  slender,  clear  light 
reddish  brown. 

Size  about  medium,  oblate,  light  yellow,  spi-inkled  with  green  or 
gray  dots,  having  a  blush  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an 
inch,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  broad  deep  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open. 
Segments  small,  recurved,  in  a  pretty  large  basin.  Flesh  yellowish, 
juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  Core 
Bmall.     November  to  February. 

Fulton  Strawberry. 

Origin  same  as  the  Fulton.  Tree  vigorous,  stout,  spreading  grower, 
hardy,  does  not  come  early  into  bearing.  Young  wood  grayish  brown, 
slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish,  mostly  overspread,  striped,  splashed, 
and  mottled  with  shades  of  red.  Flesh  whitish,  tinged  with  pink,  juicy, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     September. 

Fulwood. 
Green  Fulwood. 

Lindley  and  Hogg  both  describe  this  culinary  Apple  as  large,  round- 
ish, ribbed,  green,  with  broken  stripes  of  dull  red  in  sun.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  firm,  crisp,  brisk  acid.     November  to  March. 

There  is  also  a  White  Fulwood  described  which  is  probably  identical 
with  the  above. 


186  the  apple. 

Gabriel. 
Ladies'  Blush. 

Tree  of  rather  slender  growth,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  whitish  green,  Bhaded  and  splashed 
with  crimson,  and  spi-iukled  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  medium,  inserted  in 
a  cavity  of  moderate  depth.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a  moderate 
uneven  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid.  Core  small. 
Good  to  very  good.     October  and  November. 

Gaesdonker  Gold  Reinette. 

A  German  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  golden  yellow,  reddish  cheek  in  sun, 
and  some  russet.  Calyx  partially  closed,  with  long,  pointed  segments. 
Flesh  yellowish,  fine,  firm,  juicy,  rich  aromatic  subacid.  December  to 
March.      (Hogg.) 

Ganges. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  oblong,  green,  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yel 
lowish,  subacid.     Cooking.     (Lind.) 

Garden. 

Originated  with  Hezekiah  Ellis,  in  Spottsylvania  Co.,  Va. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  two 
shades  of  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  moderately  sprinkled  with 
light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  medium,  thinly  russet- 
sd.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  rather  long,  partially  recurved.  Basin 
abrupt,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  a  little  stained  next  the  skin, 
ci-isp,  juicy,  mild  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.      November,  December. 

Warder,  in  his  American  Pomolog}7,  page  435,  describes  a  Garden 
Apple,  and  gives  at  the  same  time  Garden  Jxoyal  as  a  synonym,  which 
latter  must  be  erroneous,  as  there  is  a  distinct  fruit  under  that  name. 
Warder's  description  is  as  follows : 

Fruit  pretty  large,  roundish  flat,  regular.  Surface  smooth,  yellow- 
ish green,  slightly  shaded  red,  scattered  stripes  carmine,  dots  minute 
black.  Basin  wide,  regular,  small,  closed.  Cavity  deep,  acute,  regu- 
lar, green.  Stem  short  to  medium,  sometimes  knobby.  Core  wide, 
closed  or  open,  regular,  clasping  the  eye.  Flesh  pale  yellow  or  whitish, 
tender,  fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic,  saccharine,  agreeable. 
August  to  October. 

Garden. 
Comstock's  Garden. 
Origin  uncertain.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate.      Skin  whitish,  nearly  covered 
with  narrow  stripes  of  light  and  dark   red,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
conspicuous  light  dots.     Stalk  short  and  slender.     Calyx  nearly  closed. 
Basin  medium,   slightly  furrowed.     Flesh  white   tinged  with  red,  not 
very  tender,  but  valuable  as  a  cooking  fruit.     September,  October. 

Garden  Royal. 
Originated  on  the  farm  of Bowker,  Sudbury,  Mass.     Tree  of 


THE    APPLE.  187 

moderate,  very  upright  growth,  forming  a  beautiful  roundish,  regular 
even  head,  very  productive.  Young  shoots  dark  dull  reddish  brown, 
slightly  grayish  or  imperfect  downy. 


Garden   Eoyal. 

Fruit  medium  or  below.  Form  roundish  oblate,  very  slightly  conic. 
Color  greenish  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  and  splashed  with  rich  red,  a  lit- 
tle dull  or  grayish  toward  the  stalk.  Sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots. 
Stalk  medium,  slender.  Cavity  deep,  acute.  Calyx  open  or  partially 
closed.  Segments  sometimes  a  little  recurved.  Basin  shallow,  slightly 
uneven.  Flesh  yellow,  very  tender,  juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid,  aromatic. 
Best.      Core  small.     Last  of  August,  September. 

Garden  Stripe. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  and  drooping. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  broadly  striped, 
splashed  and  shaded  with  shades  of  deep  red.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sub- 
acid.    Good.     September. 

Garden  Sweet. 

A  New  England  Apple.,  Tree  hardy,  thrifty,  and  productive. 
Young  shoots  strong,  light  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblor.g  conic.  Color  yellow,  shaded  and 
splashed  with  crimson  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  many  light  and  gray 
dots.  Stalk  rather  short  and  small.  Cavity  acute.  Calyx  closed.  Seg- 
ments partially  recurved.  Basin  large,  abrupt,  corrugated.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  sweet.  Very  good.  Core  medium. 
September  and  October.  A  valuable  vaiiety  for  cooking  or  stock  feed- 
ing, continuing  a  long  time  in  use. 


188  the  apple. 

Gardner  Sweet. 

Gardner  Sweeting. 

Kenrick  says:  Tree  grows  slow,  but  is  very  productive. 
Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  pale  color,  covered  with,  small  specks, 
bright  blush  next  the  sun.     Flesh  firm,  sweet.     December  to  March. 

Gardner's  Sweet  Pearmain. 

An  old  Long  Island  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and 
striped  with  light  and  dark  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and 
pleasant.     Good.     Core  small.     September. 

Garrettson's  Early. 
Somerset  Harvest. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Jno.  Garrettson,  Somerset,  N.  J.  Tree 
vigorous,  upright  spreading,  productive.  Young  wood  brown,  slightly 
downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellowish,  thickly  covered  with  light 
specks.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  acute.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  small, 
abrupt,  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid. 
Good,  valuable  for  cooking.     September. 

Garter. 

A  cider  fruit  of  England.  Fruit  medium,  oblong,  pale  yellow  and 
red. 

Gault's  Bellflower. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  pale  yellow.  Flesh  white,  coarse.  October, 
December.     (Elliott.) 

Gaumont. 

Supposed  French  origin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  oblate,  ribbed,  golden  yellow  with 
a  few  light  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  open.  Basin  very  deep. 
Flesh  yellow,  compact,  juicy,  rich  subacid.     October,  November. 

General  Haskell. 

Origin  said  to  be  Graves  Co. ,  Ky .     Tree  a  good  grower  and  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  red,  esteemed  for  its  fine  appearance  and  being  a 
long  keeper. 

Genesee  Chief. 

Origin  unknown.      Tree  a  strong,  vigorous  grower. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  uneven  or  ribbed,  whitish,  almost 
waxen,  shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  few  faint  dots.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     Core  large.     September.     Ccoking 


the  apple.  189 

Geneva  Pippin. 

Winter  Pippin  of  Geneva. 

An  Apple  bearing  the  above  local  name  was  found  growing  ii.  the 
garden  of  Mrs.  Crittendon,  Geneva,  and  is  deserving  of  notice.  The 
appearance  of  the  tree  and  fruit  is  strikingly  like  that  of  the  Fall  Pip- 
pin, but  is  a  late  keeper,  continuing  in  perfection  until  May.  Young 
wood  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 


Geneva  Pippin. 


Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  fine  yellow,  with  rarely  a  bronzed 
cheek,  sparsely  covered  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small,  inserted 
in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long.  Basin  open.  Flesh 
yellow,  tender,  juicy,  vinous.     Very  good  or  best.     January  to  May. 

Gentle's  Large  Red. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  sides  unequal,  yellow,  shad- 
ed, splashed,  and  striped  with  dull  red,  many  light  and  brown  dots. 
Stalk  long  and  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender, 
mild,  pleasant  subacid.     November.     Good. 

George. 

Origin,  Muskingum  Co.,  Ohio.  Tree  healthy,  spreading,  an  abun- 
dant bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  considerable  russet 
specks  and  markings.  Calyx  large,  oper..  Flesh  whitish,  firm,  juicy, 
mild  acid.     Good.     July. 


190  the  apple. 

Gesteeifter  Sommee  Zimmetapfel. 
La  Ganelle. 

An  excellent  little  German  dessert  Apple  described  by  Hogg 
Tree  a  good  grower  and  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  lemon  yellow,  with  crimson  stripes  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine,  juicy,  very  aromatic,  cinmv 
mony.     August  and  September.     (Hogg.) 

Gewiss  Good. 
Gewiss  Guth.  Indeed  Good. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.      Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  often  conic,  light  yellow,  slightly 
shaded  with  carmine.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  deep,  narrow,  sblghtly 
russeted  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  deep,  slightly  corru- 
gated. Flesh  juicy,  tender,  crisp,  with  a  somewhat  spicy,  subacid  fla- 
vor.    Good.     December,  February. 

Giant. 

A  Pennsylvania  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  dull  red,  striped.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  tender.     Poor. 

Giles. 

Elliott  describes  this  as  from  Wallingford,  Conn. 
Fruit  medium,  conical,  dark  red.     Flesh  tender,  juicy.     Very  good, 
October,  November. 


Gilpin. 


THE   APPLE.  l91 


Gilpin. 


Carthouse.  Small  Romanite.  Gray  Roinanite- 

Roman  Knight.  Romanite  of  the  West.  Little  Romanite. 

A  handsome  cider  fruit,  from  Virginia,  which  is  also  a  good  table 
fruit  from  February  to  May.     A  very  hardy,  vigorous,  and  fruitful  tree. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblong.  Skin  very  smooth  and  hand- 
some, richly  streaked  with  deep  red  and  yellow.  Stalk  short,  deeply  in 
serted.  Calyx  in  a  round,  rather  deep  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy 
and  rich,  becoming  tender  and  sprightly  in  the  spring.     Good. 

Gipson's  Kentucky. 
Gipson's  Kentucky  Seedling. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  A.  Gipson,  Calhoun  Co.,  Ky. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  sides  unequal,  greenish,  with  dark 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  January 
to  April. 

Gladney's  Red. 

Originated  in  Mississippi. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish,  shaded,  mottled,  and  obscurely 
striped  with  light  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  and  covered  with  a 
thin  bloom.  Stalk  long  and  slender.  Calyx  closed,  with  long  renexed 
segments.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  slightly  aro- 
matic, subacid.      Core  small.     Good.     January,  February. 

Glanz  Reinette. 
Tyroler  Glanz-reinette. 
A  beautiful  waxen-like  Apple  of  German  origin. 
Tree  a  strong  grower,  forming  a  round  head,  very  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  waxy  lemon  yellow,  blush  of  red  in 
the  sun.      Stalk  long.      Cavity  russeted.     Basin  furrowed.     Flesh  snow 
white,  fine,  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  vinous.     December.     (Hogg.) 

Gleason  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  shaded  and  splashed  with 
crimson  over  most  of  the  surface.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  scarcely 
sweet.      Good.     Core  small.     November. 

Glendale. 

Warder  says :  "  Believed  to  have  originated  near  Glendale,  Hamil- 
ton Co.,  Ohio."     Tree  vigorous,  thrifty,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  somewhat  conical,  yellow,  striped  and  clouded 
with  bright  red,  dots  small,  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  mild,  subacid, 
jdmost  saccharine.     Good.     September,  October. 

Gloria  Mundi. 

Monstrous  Pippin.  Belle  Josephine.  Baltimore  of  some. 

Glazemvood  Gloria  Mundi.  Baltimore  Pippin.  New  York  Gloria  Munch. 

American  Mammoth.  Mississippi?  Ox  Apple. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous.     Not  productive  or  profitable. 


192  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh 
coarse,  tender,  with  a  pleasant  acid  flavor.     Good.     October  to  January. 

Glory  of  England. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  ribbed,  yellow,  with  streaks  and  dots  of  crimson, 
whitish  specks  and  some  russet.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  tender,  soft, 
juicy,  sprightly  acid.     Cooking.      (Hogg.) 

Glory  of  the  West. 

Tree  a  strong  vigorous  grower  and  great  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  ribbed,  yellow,  red  in  the  sun,  minute  russet 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy,  brisk,  slightly  perfumed,  acid. 
Cctober,  December.     (Hogg.) 

Gloucester  White. 

Origin,  Gloucester  Co.,  Ya.     Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive. 
Fruit  medium,   roundish  oblate,  fine  yellow.      Flesh  yellow,  juicy, 
crisp,  pleasant,  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Goble  Russet. 

Sweet  Seek-no-Further. 

Origin  unknown.  Elliott  describes  the  fruit  as  medium  to  large, 
oblong  flattened,  yellow  russet,  marbled  with  red.  Flesh  whitish  yel- 
low, dry,  sweet.     October  to  December. 

Gogar  Pippin. 

Stone  Pippin. 

A  variety  from  Edinburgh,  Scotland, 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  obscurely  ribbed,  greenish,  with  brownish 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy,  brisk  acid.  January,  Feb- 
ruary. 

Golay. 

Originated  near  Yevay,  Indiana. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  somewhat  conic,  truncated,  yellow,  mixed, 
striped  with  purplish  red,  dots  minute,  gray,  scattered,  indented.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  breaking  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid.  Good  to  best, 
January  to  May.      (Warder.) 

Golden. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  ribbed,  light  yellow.  Flesh  yellowish, 
acid.     July.     (Elliott.) 

Golden  Ball. 

Origin,  Conn.       Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  but  only  a  moderate  bearer. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  somewhat  ribbed,  golden  yellow,  with  a  few 
dots.     Flesh  crisp,  tender,  subacid.     Good.     December,  March. 


the  apple.  195 

Golden  Burr. 
Burr  Knot. 

Ronalds  describes  this  as  a  variety  easily  grown  from  cuttings,  be« 
cause  of  the  knots  or  joints  on  the  shoots. 

A  large  apple,  roundish,  yellow,  with  flush  of  faint  red  in  the  sun. 
Useful  for  kitchen.     November,  December. 

Golden  Goss. 

Received  from  Western  New  York.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  conical,  slightly  ribbed,  golden  yellow, 
faintly  shaded  in  the  sun  with  red.  Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid.    Good  to  very  good.     November,  December. 

Golden  Harvey. 
Brandy  Apple. 

An  excellent,  high-flavored  little  dessert  Apple  from  England,  of  slen- 
der growth. 

Fruit  small,  irregularly  round.  Skin  rather  rough,  dull  russet  over 
a  yellow  ground,  with  a  russety  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  of  fine  tex- 
ture, with  a  spicy,  rich,  subacid  flavor.  The  fruit  is  apt  to  shrivel. 
December  to  April. 

Golden   Knob. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  golden  yellow,  some  russet  and  tinge 
of  red  in  sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  sweet.  Decem- 
ber to  March. 

Golden  Lustre. 

A  culinary  Apple  from  England. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  yellow,  with  patches  and  stripes  of  bright  red 
in  the  sun.      Flesh  pale  yellow,  firm,  subacid.     November  to  April. 

Golden  Monday. 
Monstow's  Pepping. 

Hogg  describes  this  as  from  the  Berkshire  orchards,  as  a  dessert  Ap- 
ple of  first-rate  quality. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  golden  yellow,  with  crimson  dots 
in  the  sun.  Nettings  and  lines  of  thin  brown  russet.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  crisp,  sugary,  brisk,  perfumed.     October,  December. 

Golden   Noble. 

An  old  English  variety,  valiiable  for  cooking.  Lindley  describes  it 
as  pretty  large,  roundish  conical,  bright  yellow  with  a  few  small  reddish 
spots  and  patches  of  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  pleasant,  subacid. 
November,  December. 

13 


194  the  apple. 

Golden  Nonpareil. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  golden  yellow,  with  russet  and  blush  red  in 
the  sun.     Flesh  crisp,  sharp  acid.     October,  December. 

Golden  Pearmain. 
Dutch  Pearmain.         Ruckman's  Pearrnain.         Red  Russet  of  some. 

An  old  English  Apple.     Tree  upright,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  orange  in  sun.  Patches 
and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  sweet.  Very 
good.     November. 

Ronalds  describes  an  entirely  different  Apple  under  this  name,  as 
follows  : 

Fruit  small,  oblong  roundish  conical,  yellow,  with  some  slight  rus- 
set and  a  good  deal  of  red  striping.  Flesh  firm,  rich,  and  high-flavored. 
December,  January. 

Golden    Pippin. 

Golden  Pippin.  London  G  olden  Pippin. 

Old  Golden  Pippin.  Warter's  Golden  Pippin. 

Balgone  Pippin.  Bayfordbury  Golden  Pippin. 

Milton  Golden  Pippin.  Pepin  d'Or. 

Russet  Golden  Pippin.  Pomme  d'Or. 

Herefordshire  Golden  Pippin.  Koening's  Pippelin. 

Reinette  d'Angleterre. 

The  Golden  Pippin  of  the  English  is  the  queen  of  all  dessert  Apples, 
in  the  estimation  of  the  English  connoisseurs,  as  it  unites  the  qualities 
of  small  size,  fine  form,  and  color,  with  high  flavor  and  durability.  It 
is  a  very  old  variety,  being  mentioned  by  Evelyn  in  1660,  but  it  still 
thrives  well  in  many  parts  of  England. 

Fruit  small,  round,  and  regularly  formed,  gold  color,  dotted  with 
gray  russety  dots,  with  also  obscure  white  specks  imbedded  under  the 
skin.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  rather  acid,  but  with  a  rich,  brisk,  high 
flavor.  "Very  good.  A  great  bearer,  but  requires  a  strong,  deep,  sandy 
luain.     November  to  March.     Does  not  succeed  well  here. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  English  Golden  Pippin,  differing  but 
little  in  general  appearance  and  size,  and  very  little  in  flavor,  from  the 
old  sort,  but  of  rather  more  thrifty  growth ;  the  best  of  these  are 
Hughes',  and  ICirke's  new  Cluster  Golden  Pippins. 

Golden  Pippin. 
Pittstown  Pippin. 

This  is  an  old  Apple,  grown  many  years  ago  in  Adams,  Mass.,  from 
whence  it  was  brought  to  Pittstown,  and  has  been  recently  christened 
after  that  place.  The  tree  is  an  upright  vigorous  grower,  with  large 
strong  blanches.      Shoots  dull  brownish  red.  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  conic,  and  sides  un- 
equal, greenish  yellow  with  a  blush  in  sun  exposure.  Flesh  yellowish, 
tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Core  rather  large.  Good  for  cooking 
September  and  October. 


the  apple.  195 

Golden  Pippin. 

Pound  Royal  of  some.  York  Pippin. 

Butter  Pippin.  Large  Golden  Pippin. 

Mammoth. 

This  Apple  is  considerably  grown  in  the  New  England  States  and 
Western  New  York,  and  is  one  of  the  largest  of  its  class,  specimens 
Bornetimes  weighing  20  ounces.  Tree  very  vigorous  and  very  productive 
on  deep  rich  soils ;  on  light  soils  it  is  often  a  shy  bearer,  the  fruit  much 
smaller. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  becoming  quite 
yellow  at  full  maturity,  slight  blush  of  brown  crimson  in  sun-exposed 
specimens.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid.  Core 
small.     Good  to  very  good.     November,  December. 

There  is  another  Golden  Pippin  sometimes  known  as  Porter  in  Mich- 
igan, which  is  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  mild 
subacid.     Ripe  in  September  and  October. 

There  are  also  several  other  Apples  under  this  popular  name,  many 
of  which  doubtless  will  be  found  identical  with  named  sorts. 

Golden  Red. 

From  Long  Island.     Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  mottled  nearly  over  the  whole  surface.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  moder- 
ately juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Core  small.  December,  January.  Fruit 
liable  to  rot  on  the  tree,  not  profitable. 

Golden  Reinette. 

Reinette,  Golden.  Wyker  Pippin. 

Aurore.  Elizabet. 

Kirke's  Golden  Reinette.  Wygers. 

Yellow  German  Reinette.  Megginch  Favorite. 

Reinette  d'Aix.  Dundee. 

English  Pippin.  Reinette  Giden. 

Court  pendu  Dore.  Princesse  Noble,  of  the  French. 

The  Golden  Reinette  is  a  very  popular  dessert  fruit  in  England  aLd 
on  the  Continent,  combining  beauty  and  high  flavor. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  very  regularly  formed,  roundish,  a  little 
flattened.  Skin  smooth,  golden  yellow,  washed  and  striped  with  fine 
soft  red  on  the  sunny  side,  mingled  with  scattered  russet  dots.  Flesh 
yellow,  crisp,  with  a  rich,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     October  to  January. 

Golden  Reinette  op   Vanderlaans. 
Reinette  dor ee  de  Van  der  Laans. 

Originated  with  Van  der  Laans  of  Rynland,  in  Holland.  j.ree  strong, 
stout  branches. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish,  with  indistinct  grayish 
brown  spots.  Calyx  large,  half  open.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep.  Flesh 
greenish  white,  fine,  firm,  perfumed,  subacid.  October  to  December 
(Verg.) 


196  THE   APPLE. 

Tlie  German  Golden  Reinette  may  possibly  prove  identical  with  the 

above. 

Golden  Russet. 
English  Golden  Russet.         English  Golden.         Russet  Golden. 

This  is  an  old  English  Apple  described  by  Ronalds  and  Lindley  as  Gol- 
den Russet,  and  as  that  is  its  commonly  accepted  name  in  this  country  we 
have  followed  it.  It  is  one  of  the  popular  Apples,  succeeding  in  nearly 
all  sections,  and  especially  in  rich  Western  soils.  The  tree  is  thrifty, 
vigorous,  spreading,  rather  irregular,  forming  a  bushy  head.  Young 
shoots  slender,  dull  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy,  with  numerous  small 
white  dots.     An  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  or  roundish  oblate.  Skin  rough. 
Color  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  dull  russet,  and  having  a  bronzed 
cheek  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short,  small.  Cavity  medium,  or  rather  deep. 
Calyx  closed.  Segments  rather  long,  often  a  little  recurved.  Basin 
broad,  rather  large,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine- 
grained, rather  compact,  sprightly,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good. 
December  to  March. 

Golden  Russet,  of  Massachusetts. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright,  and  productive.  Young  shoots  clear  reddish 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  conic.  Skin  golden  russet,  with  a 
sunny  cheek.  Stalk  small  and  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx 
nearly  closed.  Segments  small,  recurved.  Basin  deep,  round,  and 
open.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  rich,  mild,  sweet  subacid.  Very 
good.     January,  April. 

There  are  many  Golden  Russets  about  the  country,  and  it  is  difficult 
to  identify  them.  This  is  from  Massachusetts,  and  distinct  from  those 
grown  in  New  York,  and  West. 

Golden   Seedling. 

Supposed  origin,  Missouri. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
yellowish,  juicy,  sharp  subacid.     February  to  May. 

Golden  Streak. 

A  cider  Apple  from  Somerset shire,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  clear  yellow,  with  stripes  of  red. 
Flesh  yellow,  brisk,  pleasant  acid.     (Hogg.) 

Golden  Sweet. 
Orange  Sweeting.  Early  Golden  Sweet. 

A  celebrated  Connecticut  fruit.  Tree  very  vigorous,  spreading, 
forming  a  tree  of  moderate  size,  hardy  and  very  productive.  Young 
shoots  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  above  the  medium  size,  roundish,  scarcely  flattened,  fair,  and 
well  formed  ;  when  fully  ripe,  pale  yellow  or  straw  color.     Stalk  about 


THE   APPLE.  197 

an  inch  long,  slender  at  its  junction  with  the  fruit.  Calyx  closed,  and 
set  in  a  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  tender,  sweet,  rich,  and  excel- 
lent. Good  to  very  good.  August  and  September.  A  valuable  sort 
for  cooking,  market,  or  stock  feeding. 


Golden  Sweet. 


Golden  Wilding. 


Origin,  near  Fayetteville,  N.  C.     Tree  thrifty,  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  oblique,  golden  yellow,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short  and  small.  Cavity 
deep,  russeted.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  brisk  subacid. 
Core  smaLL     Good.     November  to  March. 

Golden  Worcester. 

A  small  dessert  Apple  described  by  Ronalds  as  perfectly  round,  rich 
golden,  slightly  tinged  with  red.     Flesh  firm,  yellow.     January. 

Gold  Reinette  von  Bordeaux. 
Bordeauer  Gold  Reinette. 

Hogg  describes  this  as  a  valuable  and  beautiful  sort.  We  do  not 
know  of  its  having  fruited  in  this  country. 

Fruit  very  large,  obtuse  pearmain  shaped,  greenish,  becoming  rich 
yellow  and  washed  with  bright  red  in  the  sun,  traces  of  russet,  and  gray 
russet  dots.  Stalk  short,  fleshy.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish  whiter 
fine,  tender,  juicy,  rich  aromatic.     December  to  March. 


198  the  apple. 

Goodyear. 

Goodyear's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  a  fine  grower,  and  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish,  fine  red.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  subacid.   Good 
December  to  April. 

Gooseberry. 

An  English  cooking  Apple.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  slight  tinge 
of  red  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  j  uicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good  to 
very  good  for  cooking.     Core  large.     December,  February. 

Gooseberry  Pippin. 

A  handsome  little  English  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow,  with  splashes  and  marblings  of  red. 
Flesh  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  sweet  subacid.  November  to 
February. 

Gould's  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  First  brought  to  notice  from  Mercer  Co.,  Pa. 
Tree  of  rather  slow  spreading  growth,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  yellow,  deep  orange  in  the 
sun,  brown  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  mild,  rich, 
sweet.  Core  rather  small.  A  good  cooking  fruit.  December  to 
March. 

Governor. 

American.  Large,  yellowish,  tinged  with  red,  juicy,  acid,  cooking. 
October,  January.     (Elbiott.) 

Governor    Charter. 
Governor  Charter's  Seedling. 

A  variety  described  in  the  Prairie  Farmer  as  a  valuable  market 
Apple.     Tree  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  obscurely  ribbed,  light  yellow,  with 
blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant,  scarcely  acid, 
slightly  aromatic.     Core  small.     October. 

Gracey. 

Origin,  Greenville,  111. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conical,  light  green,  with  greenish 
white  specks.  Flesh  greenish  white,  coarse,  mild  subacid.  August 
(Gar.  Mon.) 

Grange. 

Origin,  Herefordshire,  England.     Tree  hardy  and  productive. 
Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellow.     Flesh  yellow,  firm,  srisp 
brisk.     October,  November.     (Ron.) 


the  apple.  199 

Grange's  Pearmain. 
Grange's  Pippin. 

An  Euglish  culinary  Apple.     Tree  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  with  broken  stripes  of  red 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  pleasant  acid.  November, 
February.     (Hogg.) 

Graniwinkle. 

Originated  in  one  of  the  eastern  counties  of  New  Jersey.  Tree  vig- 
orous, upright,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  }rellowish,  shaded  with 
light  red,  and  striped  aud  splashed  with  a  deeper  shade.  Flesh  white, 
fine-grained,  juicy,  moderately  tender,  rich  pleasant  honeyed  sweet. 
Core  small.  Very  good.  Valuable  for  stock,  cider,  or  for  cooking. 
October  to  December. 

Granite  Beauty. 
Aunt  Dorcas.  Grandmother's  Apple.  Clothes-yard  Apple. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Z.  Breed,  Weare,  N.  H.  Tree  hardy,  vigor- 
ous, upright,  spreading.  An  annual  bearer.  Young  wood  light  reddish 
brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblong,  largest  at  the  centre,  and 
narrowing  toward  stalk  and  calyx,  uneven  surface,  or  obscurely  ribbed. 
Skin  somewhat  oily.  Color  pale  yellow,  mostly  overspread,  striped, 
splashed,  and  mottled  with  two  shades  of  red,  brown  dots.  Stalk  short, 
slender.  Cavity  uneven,  or  ribbed,  acute.  Calyx  closed.  Segments 
short,  erect.  Basin  medium,  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy, 
mild  pleasant  subacid.  Core  large,  open.  Good  to  very  good.  Decem- 
ber to  February. 

Granny  Earle. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oval,  green,  striped  and  splashed  with  red. 
Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender.  Very  good.  November,  January.  (Hov. 
Mag.) 

Gravenstein. 
Grave  Slije. 

A  stipero-iooKing  Uerman  Apple,  which  originated  at  Gravenstein  in 
Holstein,  and  is  thought  one  of  the  finest  apples  of  the  North  of  Eu- 
rope. Jt  fully  sustains  its  reputation  here,  and  is,  unquestionably,  a 
fruit  of  first-rate  quality.  Tree  very  vigorous,  spreading,  forming  a 
large,  broad  head.  Very  productive.  An  early  bearer.  Young  wood 
reddish  brown. 

Fruit  Large,  rather  flattened,  and  a  little  one-sided  or  angular,  broad- 
est at  the  base.     Stalk  quite  short  and  strong,  deeply  set.     Calyx  large, 
closed,  in  a  wide,  deep,  rather  irregular  basin.     Segments  long,  ii 
lar,  recurved,      skin   greenish   ydlou- at  first,  but  becoming  1 
low,  and  beautifully  dashed   and   pencilled,  and  marbled  with  light  and 


200  THE    APPLE. 

deep  red  and  orange.  Flesh  tender  and  crisp,  with  a  high- flavored, 
somewhat  aromatic  taste.  Very  good.  September  and  October.  A 
valuable  apple  for  market  or  cooking,  succeeding  admirably  wherevei 
grown. 


Gravenstein. 


Great  Unknown. 


Origin  unknown.  Found  in  the  orchard  of  S.  McDowell  Ma« 
con,  Ga. 

Fruit  large,  regular,  oblate  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow  sha- 
ded and  marbled  with  carmine.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  open.  >lesh 
yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Very  good.     December.     (White.) 


Green  Cheem. 


the  apple.  201 

Green  Cheese. 

Green  Crank.  Yellow  Crank.  Southern  Gieeung. 

Southern  Golden  Pippin.  Winter  Greening.  Carolina  Greening. 

Green  Skin.  "Winter  Cheese.  Turner's  Cheese. 

Greening. 

An  old  variety,  grown  largely  in  Kentucky  and  other  Southwestern 
Slates.  It  has  been  extensively  propagated  by  suckers,  but  the  exact 
[dace  of  the  original  tree  is  unknown.  Although  not  best  in  quality,  it 
has  so  many  good  properties  adapting  it  to  the  South  and  Southwest, 
that  it  is  widely  disseminated  under  the  various  synonyms  given  above. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  and  has  the  habit  of  blooming 
late,  which  gives  it  a  special  value.  A  good  bearer  and  long  keeper. 
Young  shoots  slender,  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  occasionally  oblique,  pale  greenish  yellow, 
moderately  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Cavity 
large,  deep,  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  slightly  recurved. 
Basin  broad,  deep,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  crisp,  juicy, 
rich,  sprightly  subacid.  Core  small,  compact.  Very  good.  Novem 
ber  to  March. 

Green's  Choice. 

Origin,  Chester  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  striped  with  red.  Flesh 
tender,  juicy,  very  mild  subacid,  or  almost  sweet.  Good.  Ripe  last  of 
August  and  first  of  September. 

Green  Domine. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  washed  or  obscurely  striped 
with  dull  red.  Flesh  whitish,  firm,  with  a  pleasant,  peculiar  flavor. 
Good.     December,  February. 

Green  Mountain  Pippin. 

From  Georgia,  and  much  grown  there  as  a  market  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  flattened  at  base  and 
crown,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  sub 
acid.     Good.     November,  February. 

Green  Newtown  Pippin. 

Hunt's  Fine  Green  Pippin.      Newtown  Pippin.  American  Newtown  Pippin. 

Brooke's  Pippin  ?  Green  "Winter  Pippin.   Petersburgh  Pippin. 

Hunt's  Green  Newtown  Pippin  ? 

The  Newtown  Pippin  stands  at  the  head  of  all  Apples,  and  is,  when 
in  perfection,  acknowledged  to  be  unrivalled  in  all  the  qualities  which 
constitute  a  high-flavored  dessert  apple,  to  which  it  combines  the  quality 
of  long  keeping  without  the  least  shrivelling,  retaining  its  high  flavor  to 
the  last.  It  commands  the  highest  price  in  Covent  Garden  Market,  Lon- 
don. This  variety  is  a  native  of  Newtown,  Long  Island,  and  it  requires 
a  pretty  strong,  deep,  warm  soil  to  attain  its  full  perfection,  and  in  the 
orchard  it  should  be  well  manured  every  two  or  three  year?      The  tree 


202 


THE    APPLi,. 


is  of  rather   slender  and  slow  growth,  and  even  while  young  is  always 
remarkable  for  its  rough  bark. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  irregular  rn  its  outline,  caused 
by  two  or  three  obscure  ribs  on  the  sides — and  broadest  at  the  base,  next 
the  stalk  ;  about  three  inches  in  diameter,  and  two  and  a  half  deep.  Color 
dull  green,  becoming  olive  green  when  ripe,  with  a  faint,  dull  brownish 
blush  on  one  side,  dotted  with  small  gray  specks,  and  with  delicate  rus- 
set rays  around  the  stalk.  Calyx  quite  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  narrow 
and  shallow  basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  deeply  sunk 
in  a  wide,  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very  juicy,  crisp, 
with  a  fine  aroma,  and  an  exceedingly  high  and  delicious  flavor.  Best. 
When  the  fruit  is  not  grown  on  healthy  trees,  it  is  liable  to  be  spotted 


Green  Newtown  Pippin. 


with  black  spots.     This  is  one  of  the  finest  keeping  apples,  and  is  in  eat 
ing  from  December  to  May,  but  is  in  the  finest  perfection  in  March. 
This  is  entirely  distinct  from  Yellow  Newtown  Pippin. 


Green  Reinette. 


Reinette  Verte. 
Groene  Renet. 


Groene  Franse  Renette. 
Grime  Reinette. 


Tree  vigorous  and  healthy,  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened  at  base,  ribbed  at  apex,  yellowish 
green  with  a  tinge  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  aroma 
tic      December  to  May.     (Hogg.) 


Green  Seek-no-Further. 
White  Seek-no-Further.    Flushing  Seek-no-Further.     Seek-no-Further  of  Coxe 
Origin  in  the  garden  of  the  late  Wm.  Prince,  Flushing,  L.  I. 


THE    APPLE.  -'U.'S 

Tree  wliile  young  very  slow  in  its  growth,  but  makes  a  compact,  well- 
formed  head  in  the  orchard. 

Fruit  apt  to  be  knotty  and  unfair.  Rather  large,  roundish  conical, 
yellowish  green,  sprinkled  with  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  short, 
in  a  moderate  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  rather  deep  basin.  Flesh 
white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Very  good.  Octo- 
ber, January. 

Green  Tiffin. 
Mage's  Johnny. 

From  Lancashire,  England.     Tree  a  fair  grower  and  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  round  conical,  yellowish  green  with  a  few  russet  and 
red  dots.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  acid.  September,  December. 
(Hogg.) 

Green  Sweet. 

Honey   Greening. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  somewhat  conic.  Skin  green,  some- 
times becoming  a  little  yellow  at  maturity,  covered  with  greenish  or 
light  russet  dots.  Stalk  of  medium  length.  Cavity  rather  deep,  cover- 
ed with  russet.  Basin  shallow  and  abrupt,  somewhat  furrowed.  Flesh 
whitish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Green  Sweet  of  Indiana. 

This  Apple  is  somewhat  grown  in  Indiana,  and  we  have  not  met  with 
it  elsewhere. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with  brown 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet  and  pleasant.  Good.  Sep- 
tember. 

Greenup's   Pippin. 
Greenus'a  Pippin. 

This  English  Apple  is  described  by  Hogg  as  popular  and  highly 
esteemed,  the  tree  being  hardy  and  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  with  on  one  side  a  prominent  rib, 
pale  straw  color,  bright  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  pale  yellowish  white, 
tender,  juicy,  sweet,  brisk.     October  to  December. 

Green  Woodcock. 

Origin,  Sussex,  England  ;  described  by  Hogg  as  follows  : 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  yellowish,  mottled  and  striped  with 
red  in  the  sun.     Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk.     October,  December 

Greist's  Fine  Winter. 

From  York,  Pa.     Tree  a  strong  grower,  regular,  moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  rather  large  oblate  ot  roundish  obLato,  yellow,  splashed  and 
shaded  in  sun  with  lighl  red.  Flesh  yellow,  compact,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk 
subacid.     Good.     December,  February. 


204  the  apple. 

Grey  Canada  Reinette. 
Canada  Reinette  Gris. 
Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  yellow,  covered  with  yellow  russet,  and  moder 
ately  sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  brisk  subacid.  N(* 
vember,  December. 

Grey  French  Reinette. 

Reinette  Grise.  Reinette  Franche  Grauwe. 

Reinette  Grise  Fran9aise. 

There  are  a  number  of  varieties  of  Reinette  Grise,  or  Gray  Reinette. 
The  one  here,  however,  is  considered  by  Liudley  as  distinct,  and  among 
the  most  valuable  of  its  class.  It  is  of  French  origin.  Tree  a  mod- 
erate grower  and  good  bearer.     Young  wood  of  a  chestnut  color. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  broadest  at  base,  covered  with 
brownish  gray  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  moderately  juicy,  rich  subacid. 
November,  December. 

Greyhouse. 
Hoopes.  Hopaoy. 

Origin,  supposed  New  Jersey.  Has  been  long  grown  and  highly 
valued  for  cider-making.     Tree  strong,  erect  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  nearly  globular,  dull  red,  with  faint  stripes. 
Flesh  firm  and  dry,  poor  in  quality.     A  long  keeper. 

Grey  Leadington. 
Leadington's  Grauer  Pippin.  Grey  Leadington  Pippin. 

A  favorite  Scottish  Apple.     Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with  cinna- 
mon russet  and  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  firm,  tender,  very  juicy, 
aromatic.     October,  December.     (Lind.) 

Grey  Reinette. 

Reinette  Grise  Extra.  Reinette  Grise.  Belle  Fille. 

Reinette  Grise  d'Hiver.  Prager. 

An  old  French  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish  green,  with  brownish  red  in  sun. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  brisk  subacid.    November,  February.    (Hogg.) 

Griffith. 
Sweet  Maiden's  Blush. 

Raised  by  Caleb  Mendenhall,  West  Milton,  near  Dayton,  O.  Tree 
hardy,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  clear  pale  yellow,  with  light  blush 
red  cheek  in  the  sui..  Stalk  short.  Cavity  rather  large.  Basin  small. 
Flesh  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  a  little  tart.  September.  (L.  & 
Mote's  MSS.) 


the  apple.  206 

Grimes'  Golden  Pippin. 

Grimes  Golden. 

This  valuable  Apple  originated  many  years  since,  on  the  farm  of 
Thomas  Grimes,  Brooke  Co.,  Va.  In  its  native  locality  it  is  highly 
prized  for  the  peculiar  hardihood  of  the  tree,  withstanding  uninjured  the 
most  severe  winters,  and  never  breaking  in  its  limbs.  Also  for  its  uni- 
form regular  annual  productiveness. 


Grimes'  Golden  Pippin. 

Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  upright  spreading,  very  productive,  branches 
with  peculiar  knobs  at  the  base  of  each,  connecting  it  with  the  main 
limbs.     Young  wood  dark  dull  red  brown,  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical.  Skin  uneven. 
Color  rich  golden  yellow,  sprinkled  moderately  with  small  gray  and 
bight  dots.  Stalk  rather  short  and  slender.  Cavity  rather  deep,  some- 
times slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed,  or  partially  open.  Basin  abrupt, 
uneven.  Flesh  yellow,  compact,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  sprightly, 
spicy  subacid,  peculiar  aroma.  Core  rather  small.  Very  good  to  best. 
December  to  March. 

Gros  Faros. 

Faros. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  roundish,  yellow,  with  considerable  red  in  the 
sun,     Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy,  sweet  subacid.       December,  January. 


Grosh. 

Originated    in   Snufftown,   Lancaster  Co.,  Pa. 
stout  brown  shoots  ;  an  annual  bearer. 


Tree  upright,   with 


206  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblate,  oblique,  greenish  white,  striped  with  light 
and  dark  red.  Flesh  white,  loose,  soft  texture,  juicy,  acid.  September, 
Good.     Cooking.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Grouzier. 

Received  from  New  Jersey.     Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish,  partially  striped  and 
splashed  with  light  red.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
Good.     November,  December. 

Grooveland  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  a  Little  oblique,  sides 
unequal,  yellow,  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  mild,  pleasant,  sweet.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Gruver's  Early. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of Mayer,  Springfield,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  whitish  yellow,  with  stripes  and  splashes 
of  red.     Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.     Good.     August. 

Guernsey  Pippin. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  brown  russet  on  yellow,  bronzed  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk  sweet.     December,  January. 

Gullett. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with  dull  stripes.  Flesh 
juicy.     February. 

Gully. 


Fruit  small,  white  blush  in  the  sun.       Flesh  white,  juicy.     August. 

Habersham's  Pearmain. 

Tree  of  upright  growth. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  form,  bright  crimson.  Stalk  short,  slender. 
Calyx  medium.  Flesh  white,  rather  dry,  firm,  subacid.  September. 
(White.) 

Hagloe  Crab. 

irtiij  is  a  celebrated  old  English  cider  fruit. 

Fruit  small,  ill-shaped,  something  between  an  apple  and  a  crab, 
more  long  than  broad,  wide  at  the  base  and  narrow  at  the  crown,  which 
is  a  little  sunk,  and  the  eye  flat,  pale  yellow,  a  little  marbled  in  different 
directions,  with  a  russet  gray,  and  having  a  few  red  specks  or  streaks  on 
the  sunny  side. 


the  apple.  207 

Hague  Pippin. 

Originated  in  1816,  by  Samuel  Hague,  Centreville,  Ind.  Tree 
hardy,  vigorous  grower,  and  productive.  Younsc  shoots  strong,  light 
reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow,  mcstly  cohered, 
shaded,  splashed  and  striped  with  red,  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  dots. 
Stalk  short.  Flesh  rather  coarse,  yellowish,  crisp,  moderately  juicy, 
mild  subacid.     Core  large.     Good.     January,  February. 

Hain. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.     A  vigorous  grower  and  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  inclining  to  oblong,  yellow,  striped,  marbled, 
and  mottled  with  red.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  tender,  rich  sweet.  Good 
November,  March. 


Hall. 

Hall. 

Hall's  Seedling.  Hall's  Red.  Jenny  Seedling. 

Origin,  on  the  grounds  of  Mr.  Hall,  Franklin  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  of 
moderate  growth,  hardy,  upright,  with  long,  slender,  reddish  brown, 
grayish  branches,  and  remarkably  firm  wood.  The  tree  never  attains  a 
very  large  size  ;  is  very  productive,  and  is  considered  in  North  Carolina 
the  best  long-keeping  desserl  apple  they  cultivate. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  slightly  conic.  Skin  smooth,  thick,  mostly 
shaded  with  crimson,  and  covered  with  various  colored  dots.  Stalk  of 
medium  length,  slender,  curved,  inserted  in  a  round,  deep,  open  cavity. 
Calyx  closed,  generally  in  a  small  uneven  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine- 
grained, juicy,  with  a  very  rich,  vinous,  saccharine,  aromatic  flavor. 
Very  good.     December  to  April. 

Hall  Door. 
An  English  Apple  described  by  Ronalds  as  desirable  for  cooking. 


208  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  greenish,  with  few  red  stripes.  Flesh  white, 
coarse,  subacid.     December,  January. 

Hall's  Sweet. 

Of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  and  splashed 
with  red,  many  light  dots.  Flesh  sometimes  a  little  stained,  not  very 
juicy,  rich,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Hambledon  Deux  Ans. 

Origin,  Hampshire,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  overspread  and  in- 
distinctly splashed  with  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid. 
Good.     November. 

Hamilton. 
Wonder? 

Origin  unknown.     Came  from  the  South. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  irregular,  somewhat  ribbed,  red  on  yellow, 
splashed  with  purple.  Dots  large,  yellow.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  yel- 
low, breaking,  rather  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  September,  October. 
(Am.  Hort.  An.) 

Hammond. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  green.  Flesh  juicy.  November,  and  keeps 
to  March  (Sumner,  MS.) 

Hampton  Bellflower. 

A  seedling  from  the  Bellflower,  grown  by  "W.  C.  Hampton,  Mt.  Vic- 
tory, Ohio. 

Fruit  large,  light  yellow  ground,  speckled  and  splashed  with  carmine, 
red  in  the  sun,  few  russet  gray  dots  and  marblings.  Stalk  medium. 
Calyx  partially  open.  Segments  recurved  and  with  fine  points.  Basin 
open,  slightly  uneven  at  base.  Flesh  white,  tender,  breaking,  rather 
coarse,  mild  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  November  and 
December. 

Hampton's  Fall  Sweet. 

Origin,  W.  C.  Hampton,  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  striped  with  red.  Flesh  tender, 
sweet,  rather  dry.     Good.     October. 

Hampton's  Honey  Sweet. 

Origin,  W.  C.  Hampton,  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium,  elongated  truncate  conic,  yellow,  faintly  striped 
with  red.     Flesh  white,  tender,  sweet.     Good.     December  to  April. 


the  apple.  809 

Hampton's  Late  Sweet. 
Sweet  Jersey. 

Origin,  W.  0.  Hampton,  Ohio.  Tree  vigorous,  with  slender  branch- 
es,  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  whitish,  splashed,  striped,  and  shaded 
with  red.  Flesh  white,  stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Hampton's  Russet. 

Origin,  W.  C.  Hampton,  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium  to  small,  roundish  conical,  yellowish,  thinly  covered 
with  light  russet,  splashes  and  stripes  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender, 
juicy,  lively  subacid.     Good.     November,  January. 

Hancock. 

Originated  in  Chester  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  a  strong  upright  grower,  not 
an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  yellowish  green,  shaded  and  rather  indistinctly 
splashed  with  light  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  moderately  juicy, 
■coarse,  pleasant  subacid.     Core  small.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Hannah. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit   medium   to  large,  roundish,  pale   yellow,  with    stripes    and 

splashes  of  dull  red.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  breaking,  subacid.     Hardly 

good.     Cooking  only.  October,  November. 

Hanwell  Souring. 

Origin,  Oxfordshire,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  greenish  yellow,  faint  blush  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  crisp,  fine,  brisk  acid.  Good.  Cooking.  December  to 
April. 

Hare. 

Watermelon. 

We  received  this  desirable  Apple  from  New  Jersey,  but  have  been 
onable  to  learn  its  history.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright.  "Wood 
grayish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  greenish,  sprinkled  with 
a  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh 
white,  very  tender,  juicy,  mild  pleasant  sweet.  Very  good.  Core 
rather  large.     October,  November. 

Harbord's  Pippin. 

Colored  Harbord's  Pippin. 

Origin,  Norfolk,  England. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellowish  green,  partially  russeted 
Flesh  white,  soft,  juicy,  brisk,  acid.     November  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

14 


210  the  apple. 

Hargreave's  Green  Sweet.. 

An  English  variety,  somewhat  valued  there. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  ridged  at  apex,  yellow,  with  fajit  streaks  of 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  September, 
October. 

Harnish. 

From  Pennsylvania,  said  to  have  originated  in  Lancaster  Co. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  mostly  shaded  with  dark  red,  and 
sprinkled  with  grayish  dots.  Flesh  compact,  tender,  not  juicy,  almost 
sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     September  to  October. 

Harris. 
Ben  Harris. 

Originated  with  Marston  Harris,  Rockingham  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, erect,  productive,  popular  in  its  native  locality.  Young  wood 
grayish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  bright  straw  color,  occasionally  with  a 
pink  blush.  Stalk  very  short  and  stout.  Cavity  deep.  Basin  large 
and  deep.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  pleasant  subacid,  continues  a  long  time, 
valuable  for  market  and  culinary  purposes.  Good.  September  to  No- 
vember. 

Harrison. 

New  Jersey. is  the  most  celebrated  cider-making  district  in  America, 
and  this  Apple,  which  originated  in  Essex  County  of  that  State,  has 
long  enjoyed  the  highest  reputation  as  a  cider  fruit.  Ten  bushels  of  the 
Apples  make  a  barrel  of  cider.  The  tree  grows  thriftily  and  bears  very 
large  crops. 

Fruit  medium  size,  ovate  or  roundish  oblong.  Skin  yellow,  with 
roughish,  distinct  black  specks.  Stalk  one  inch  or  more  long.  Flesh 
yellow,  rather  dry  and  tough,  but  with  a  rich  flavor,  producing  a  high- 
colored  cider,  of  great  body.  The  fruit  is  very  free  from  rot,  falls  easily 
from  the  tree  about  the  first  of  November,  and  keeps  well. 

Harry  Sweet. 

Originated  in  Mercer  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  of  slow,  upright  growth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic.  Sides  sometimes  un- 
equal. Skin  thick,  greenish  yellow,  dull  blush  in  the  sun,  and  nettings 
of  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  mild 
sweet.     Good.     December  to  April. 

Hartford  Sweet. 

TSpencer  Sweeting.  Keney's  Sweet. 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  Spencer,  near  Hartford,  and  introduced  by  Dr. 
E.  W.  Bull.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  slightly  flattened.     Skin  smooth  and 


THE    AITLE.  2il 

fair,  almost  covered  and  striped  with  fine  red  over  a  yellowish  green 
ground,  and  sprinkled  with  small  gray  dots.  Stalk  nearly  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  rather  shallow,  round  cavity. 
Calyx  broad,  closed,  with  few  segments,  set  in  a  slightly  uneven  basin 
which  is  but  little  sunk.  Flesh  yellowish,  very  juicy,  tender,  rich  sac 
charine.  Good.  December  to  May  or  June.  A  valuable  market 
apple. 

Harvest  Red  Streak. 
Early  Red  Streak.  Striped  Harvest. 

An  old  variety,  origin  unknown.  Tree  a  free  grower,  upright,  spread- 
ing, productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish,  striped  and  splashed  with  two  shadea 
of  red.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Valuable  for 
cooking.     August  and  September. 

Harvey. 

Doctor  Harvey. 

One  of  the  oldest  of  English  Apples. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  greenish  yellow,  with  russet  tracings. 
Flesh  whitish,  firm,  brisk  subacid.  Good  for  cooking.  October  to 
January.     (Lind.) 

Harvey's  Pippin. 
Dredge's  Beauty  of  Wilts. 

Of  English  origin.  Hogg  says  : — "  Tree  a  free  grower  and  excellent 
bearer." 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  washed  with  fine  red,  and  marked 
with  crimson  dots.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  rich.  December  to  Feb- 
ruary. 

Harvey's  Wiltshire  Defiance. 

This  Apple  is  described  by  Hogg  as  very  handsome  and  of  iirst-rate 
quality. 

Fruit  very  large,  conical,  distinctly  five-ribbed,  yellow,  with  many 
minute  russety  dots,  and  some  patches  of  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm, 
crisp,  juicy,  sugary,  vinous.     Core  very  small.     October  to  January. 

Haskell  Sweet. 
Sassafras  Sweet. 

Origin,  farm  of  Deacon  Haskell,  Ipswich,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous,  up- 
right, spreading  and  productive.      Young  wood  light  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblate.     Color  greenish  yellow,  sometimes 
with   a  blush.     Stalk   short,   inserted   in  a  rather  broad,  d<    p  <-avity. 
Calyx  closed.     Basin  broad  and  large,  of  medium  depth,      i"  ,vl>  yellow- 
ish, tender,  juicy,  very  sweet,  rich,  aromatic       Very  good  1" 
tember,  October. 


212  the  apple. 

Haute  Bonte. 
Reiaette  grise  haute  bontS.  Blandilalie. 

An  old  French  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  ribbed,  yellow,  with  faint  tinge  of  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Decern 
ber  to  February. 


Haskell  Sweet. 


Hawley. 


Origin,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous,  and  bears  annually. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conic.  Skin  fine  yellow,  somewhat 
waxen  or  oily,  and  considerably  dotted.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a 
rather  deep  cavity.  Calyx  small,  nearly  closed,  in  a  moderate,  some- 
what furrowed  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  very  tender,  juicy,  rich,  mild 
subacid.     Ripe  September. 

A  fruit  of  very  good  quality,  but  as  it  soon  decays,  its  value  is  thereby 
much  depreciated. 

Hawthornden. 
White  Hawthornden. 

A  celebrated  Scotch  Apple,  which  originated  at  Hawthornden,  the 
birthplace  of  the  poet  Drummond.  It  resembles,  somewhat,  our 
Maiden's  Blush,  but  is  inferior  to  that  fruit  in  flavor.  An  excellent 
bearer,  a  handsome  fruit,  and  good  for  cooking  or  drying,  and  exceed- 
ingly profitable  for  market. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading,  and,  when  in  bearing,  somewhat 
pendulous.  Young  shoots  very  short-jointed,  dull  reddish  brown.  Buds 
prominent. 


THE   APPLE.  213 

Fruit  rather  above  the  medium  size,  pretty  regularly  formed,  round- 
ish, rather  flattened.  Skin  very  smooth,  pale  light  yellow,  nearly 
white  in  the  shade,  with  a  fine  blush  where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  of  a  simple,  pleasant  flavor.     Good.     September. 

There  is  a  JN'ew,  or  winter  Hawthomden,  the  wood  of  which  is 
brownish  red,  tree  more  robust,  the  fruit  larger,  and  a  longer  keeper 
than  the  above. 

Hay  Boys. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  pale  yellow.  Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     August.     (Warder.) 

Hector. 

A  seedling  of  Chester  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  conical,  striped  and  mottled  with  red  on  a 
yellow  ground.  Flesh  yellowish,  breaking,  subacid,  pleasant.  Good. 
December  to  March. 

Helen's   Favorite. 

From  Troy,  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  dark  red  shades.  Flesh  white,  streaked 
with  red,  tender,  juicy.     January,  February.     (Elliott.) 

Hemphill. 

From  Person  Co.,  N.  C.  An  erect,  vigorous  grower,  and  bean 
profusely. 

Fruit  oblate,  slightly  conic,  whitish  yellow,  very  much  shaded  with 
red,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  grayish  dots.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
compact,  mild  subacid.     Good.     November,  May. 

Henry  Apple. 

A  strong,  vigorous  grower,  and  productive,  from  Vermont. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conic,  yellow,  with  a  slightly  bronzed  cheek,  and 
many  small,  grayish  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  not  very  juicy,  pleas- 
ant.    Good.     October,  January. 

Henwood. 

Originated  in  Indiana.  Tree  in  growth  and  appearance  much  re- 
sembling Yellow  Belleflower. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conical,  clear  smooth  yellow,  with  rarely  a  blush 
in  the  sun.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  small.  Basin  corrugated. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sharp  subacid.  Very  good 
January  to  April. 

Hepler. 
Raised  by  Mr.  Hepler,  of  Reading,  Pa. 


214  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Color  light  yellow,  shaded  with  dull  red, 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December  to  April. 

Herefordshire  Pearmain. 

Royal  Pearmain,  of  some.  Parmin  Royal.  Old  Pearmain. 

Royale  d'Angleterre.  Parmin. 

An  old  and  popular  English  Apple,  about  which,  as  connected  with 
other  Pearmains,  there  is  much  confusion.  The  variety  we  have  re- 
ceived, and  grown  for  many  years,  is  of  a  strong,  vigorous,  spreading 
growth.  Young  shoots  dull  grayish  brown,  slightly  downy,  moderately 
strong. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical.  Color  yellow,  shaded,  splashed 
and  marbled  with  dark  red,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  conspicuous 
light  areole  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  medium,  slight  russet.  Calyx 
partially  open.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish, crisp,  juicy,  rich,  slightly  aromatic,  subacid.  Very  good.  Novem- 
ber to  February. 

Herman. 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  Herman,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous 
and  spreading,  quite  prolific. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conic,  red  striped  on  green  ground.  Flesh 
greenish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     November  to  February. 

There  is  also  another  Hermann,  which  originated  at  Hermann,  Mo., 
from  seed  of  Rawles  Janet.  Tree  a  fine  grower,  upright,  and  very 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  blight  red,  with  gray  dots.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     December  to  May. 

Hess. 

Origin,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  form  variable,  sometimes  roundish,  often  conical, 
red,  in  stripes  of  different  hues.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender.  Good. 
December,  February. 

Hetterich. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania.     Tree  an  irregular  grower. 
Fruit  medium    to  large,  roundish    oblate,  yellow.     Flesh    whitish, 
tender,  acid.     Good.     November,  January. 

Hewe's  Virginia  Crab. 

Hughe's  Virginia  Crab. 

The  Virginia  Crab  makes  a  very  high-tiavored  dry  cider,  which,  by 
connoisseurs,  is  thought  unsurpassed  in  flavor  by  any  other,  and  retains 
its  soundness  a  long  time.  It  is  a  prodigious  bearer,  and  the  tree  iv 
very  hardy,  though  of  small  size. 


THE    APPLE.  215 

Fruit  quite  small,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  nearly  iound 
Skin  dull  red,  dotted  with  white  specks,  and  obscurely  streaked  with 
greenish  yellow.  Stalk  long  and  slender.  Flesh  fibrous,  with  an  acid, 
rough,  and  astringent  flavor,  and,  when  ground,  runs  clear  and  limpid 
from  the  press,  and  ferments  very  slowly.  The  Virginia  Crab  is  often 
mixed  with  rich  pulpy  apples,  to  which  it  imparts  a  good  deal  of  its  fino 
quality. 

The  Roane's  White  Crab  is  a  sub-variety  of  the  foregoing,  about  the 
same  size,  with  a  yellow  skin.  It  makes  a  rich,  strong,  bright  Liquor, 
and  keeps  throughout  the  summer,  in  a  well-bunged  cask,  perfectly 
sweet. 

Hewitt's  Sweet. 

Large,  oblate,  yellow,  splashed  with  red.  Flesh  whitish,  sweet,  ten- 
der and  pleasant.     Good.     October,  November.     Productive. 

Hick's. 
Buckram. 

Originated  with  Isaac  Hicks,  North  Hempstead,  L.  I.  Tree  an  up- 
right, strong  grower,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  shoots  stout, 
very  short-jointed,  dark  brown,  fine  downy.  Buds  broad,  flat,  prominent, 
especially  at  ends. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  color  pale  greenish  yellow,  some- 
what striped  and  splashed  with  crimson,  thinly  sprinkled  with  light  and 
gray  dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  deep,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx 
closed.  Segments  short,  often  a  little  recurved.  Basin  rather  large  and 
uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  slightly 
aromatic.  Core  rather  large.  Very  good.  August.  A  new  Apple,  of 
good  promise. 

Hiester. 

Heaster.  Heister.  Baer. 

Stehly.  Miller. 

Originated  in  Reading,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  large,  vigorous,  spread- 
ing, productive.     Young  shoots  very  dark  blackish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded  and  indistinctly 
splashed  and  mottled  with  two  shades  of  red,  few  light  gray  dots.  Flesh 
white,  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  November  to 
March. 

Higby  Sweet. 
Lady  Cheek  Sweet.  Ladies'  Blush. 

Originated  in  Trumbull  Co.,  O.  This  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  of 
eweet  Apples,  valuable  either  for  the  table  or  market.  Tree  a  thrifty, 
apright  grower,  an  early  and  good  bearer.  Young  shoots  very  short- 
jointed,  moderately  stout,  dark  rich  reddish  brown,  with  very  few  light 
specks. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  sometimes  oblique.     Colot 


216  THE   APPLE. 

light  waxen  yellow,  shaded  with  fine  clear  rich  red  in  the  sun,  thinly 
sprinkled  with  gray  and  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  acute,  rather 
deep,  sometimes  a  little  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  short,  erect. 
Basin  narrow,  deep,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  sweet, 
excellent.     Core  small.     Very  good  to  best.     November  to  January. 


Higby  Sweet. 

Highlander. 

Origin,  Sudbury,  Vermont.     Tree  a  good  grower,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  approaching  conic,  greenish,  mottled,  and 
striped  with  red.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  tender,  with  a  pleasant  vinous 
flavor.     Good.     September,  October. 

Hightop. 

Supposed  origin,  Wayne  Co.,  Ind. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  flat,  roundish,  regular.  Surface  smooth, 
mixed  dull  red,  striped  carmine,  dots  scattered,  minute.  Flesh  pale 
yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic.  December,  Janu- 
ary.    (Warder.) 

Hightop  Sweet. 
Summer  Sweet.  Sweet  June. 

Origin,  Plymouth,  Mass.  An  old  variety,  highly  prized  at  the  West. 
Growth  upright,  vigorous.  Tree  hardy,  very  productive,  bight  reddish 
brown  shoots. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  regular.  Skin  very  smooth.  Color 
light  yellow,  partially  covered  with  green  dots.  Stalk  medium,  inserted 
in  a  deep   narrow    cavity,  surrounded   by  thin   russet.     Calyx   small 


THE    APPLE.  217 

closed.     Basin  shallow,  slightly  furrowed.     Flesh  yellowish,  very  sweet, 
not  very  juicy,  but  pleasant  and  rich.     Very  good.     August. 


Hightop  Sweet. 


Hill's   Favorite. 


Origin,  Leominster,  Mass.  A  thrifty  grower,  and  very  productive, 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  mostly  shaded 
and  striped  with  red,  covered  with  thin  bloom  and  numerous  whitish 
dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  medium,  uneven.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small, 
shallow.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  slightly 
subacid,  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good.  Middle  of  September,  and  in 
use  for  a  month. 

Hill's  Sweet. 

Of  unknown  origin.    Tree  a  strong,  upright  grower,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with 
two  shades  of  red,  many  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  deep. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  large,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good  to  very  good.  Core 
small.     January  to  April. 

Hilton. 

Origin,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  yellowish  green.    Flesh  tender,  juicy,  subacid, 
excellent  for  culinary  purposes.     Good.     September  to  October. 

Hinnersley. 

Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish  oblong  conical,  greenish,  thickly  sprink- 


218  THE   APPLE. 

led  -with  light  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  greenish  white,  fine-grained, 
rather  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good.  December  to 
March. 

Hoary  Mouning. 

Dianty  Apple.  Downy.  Sam.  Rawlings. 

An  English  fruit  for  culinary  purposes,  large,  oblate  conic,  yellow, 
splashed  and  striped  with  red,  and  covered  with  a  bloom.  Flesh  white, 
firm,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     October,  December. 

Hobbs'  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Samuel  Hobbs,  Randolph,  Pa.  Tree  hardy, 
vigorous,  with  a  round  head,  productive,  valuable  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  tender,  sweet. 
October,  November.     (Hobb's  MS.) 

Hockett's   Sweet. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.  Tree  a  good  bearer,  and  the  fruit  profitable 
for  stock  feeding. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped 
with  deep  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  moderately  juicy,  crisp,  rather 
rich,  sweet.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Hodge's  Limber  Twig. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  whitish,  thinly  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  rather  firm,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Very 
good.     October,  December. 

Hog  Island  Sweet. 
Canada  Sweet.  Sweet  Pippin.  English  Sweet,  erroneously. 

Origin,  Hog  Island,  adjoining  Long  Island.  Tree  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive. Wood  dark  brown,  slightly  downy,  short-jointed,  valuable  for 
family  use  and  stock  feeding. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblate,  yellow,  striped  with  i-ed,  with  a  bright 
crimson  cheek.  Stalk  rather  short,  slender,  inserted  in  a  deep,  abrupt 
cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  broad  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh 
yellow,  juicy,  crisp,  tender,  slightly  aromatic,  with  a  very  sweet,  rich, 
excellent  flavor.     Good  to  very  good.     September,  October. 

Holbert's  Victoria. 

An  English  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  small,  ovate,  yellow,  with 
pale  gray  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  vinoufi,  aromatic.  De- 
cern) >er  to  May. 

Holcomb. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  shaded  and  obscurely  splashed  with 


THE    APPLE.  21$ 

red  in  the  sun.     Flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant, 
almost  sweet.     Good.     December  to  March. 

HOLLADY. 

Raised  by  John  Hollady,  Spottsylvania  Co.,  "Va.  A  very  thrifty,  up 
right  grower,  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate.  Color  yellow,  with  a  faint  blush,  and  sprinkled 
with  gray  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  tender,  aromatic.  Good. 
November  to  March. 

HOLLANDBURY. 

HolUngbury.  Hawberry  Pippin.  Horsley  Pippin. 

Beau  Rouge.  Bonne  Rouge.  Howburry  Pippin. 

Kirke's  Scarlet  Admirable. 

An  old  English  culinary  Apple.     Tree  strong,  -vigorous  grower. 
Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  flattened,  ribbed,  yellow,  much  red  in  the 
gun.     Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     October,  December. 

Holland  Pippin. 
Reinette  d'Hollande.  Summer  Pippin.  Pie  Apple. 

This  and  the  Fall.  Pippin  are  frequently  confounded  together.  They 
are  indeed  of  the  same  origin.  One  of  the  strongest  points  of  differ- 
ence lies  in  their  time  of  ripening. 

The  Holland  Pippin  begins  to  fall  from  the  tree  and  is  fit  for  pies 
about  the  middle  of  August,  and  from  that  time  to  the  first  of  Novem- 
ber is  one  of  the  very  best  kitchen  apples. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  a  little  more  square  in  outline  than  the 
Fall  Pippin,  and  not  so  much  flattened,  though  a  good  deal  like  it,  a 
little  narrowed  next  the  eye.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  thick,  deeply 
sunk.  Calyx  small,  closed,  moderately  sunk  in  a  slight  plaited  basin. 
Skin  greenish  yellow  or  pale  green,  becoming  pale  yellow  when  fully 
ripe,  washed  on  one  side  with  a  little  dull  red  or  pale  brown,  with  a  few 
scattered,  large,  greenish  dots.     Good. 

Holland  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium,  conic,  green,  with  stripes  of  dull  red.  Flesh  firm, 
gweet,  and  valuable  for  long  keeping  and  culinary  uses.  Good.  Jan- 
uary to  May. 

Hollow  Core. 

There  are  two  varieties  under  this  name.  One  grown  in  New  Jer- 
sey, of  medium  siy.e,  roundish  oblong,  yellow,  with  shade  of  light,  red. 
Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  Bprightly  subacid.  Good.  Core  very 
large  and  hollow.     December,  January. 

The  other,  described  by  Hogg,  is  medium  size,  conical,  ribbed,  green* 
ish,  with  pale  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  brisk,  pleasant* 
('ore  very  large,  with  open  cells.     September. 


220  the  apple. 

Hollow  Crown. 
Hartford.  Tyler.  Kelsey 

An  old  New  England  Apple,  commonly  grown  there,  origin  un. 
known.     Tree  a  strong,  upright  grower. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  splashed,  striped,  and 
marbled  with  red,  thinly  sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Flesh  yellowish, 
somewhat  coarse,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  brisk  subacid.  Good. 
November,  December.     Valuable  for  cooking  or  market. 

Hollow  Crown  Pippin. 

Hollow-Eyed  Pippin. 

An  English  culinary  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  with  a  blush  cheek  in  the 
gun.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  subacid.     October,  November. 

Holly. 

Hardskin.  Northern  Hardskin. 

Persimmon .  Simmon . 

Origin,  Georgia.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  healthy,  and 
an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  red,  on  a  yellow  ground, 
somewhat  striped.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  sweet, 
aromatic.     Good.     November  to  March. 

Holmes. 

This  is  an  old  variety,  first  described  in  Thatcher's  Treatise  on  Or- 
charding, and  yet  considerably  grown  in  Massachusetts.  The  tree .  is 
vigorous  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  bright 
blush  in  the  sun,  and  many  large  russet  specks.  Stalk  short,  slender. 
Cavity  shallow.  Calyx  large,  partially  open.  Basin  ribbed.  Flesh 
yellowish,  tender,  fine,  juicy,  sweet  subacid.     December,  January. 

Holmes's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Niagara  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young 
shoots  dark  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  waxy  yellow,  red  cheek  in  the 
sun.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow. 
Flesh  yellow,  tender,  rather  juicy,  spicy,  sweet  subacid.  Very  good. 
November  and  February. 

Holsten  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  round,  greenish  yellow,  bronzy.  Flesh 
whitish  yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  very  sweet,  aromatic,  rich 
December,  February.     (Warder.) 


the  apple.  221 

Honey  Greening. 
Poppy  Greening.  Honey  Sweet,  incorrectly. 

Origin  uncertain.  Tree  vigorous,  of  rather  a  straggling,  spreading 
habit,  very  productive.  Young  shoots  light  clear  reddish  yellowiah 
brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  a  slight 
blush  in  the  sun,  few  light  and  g:  ay  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  slender 
Cavity  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  corrugated.  Flesh  white, 
fine-grained,  very  tender,  moderately  juicy,  with  a  heneyed  sweet.  Very 
good.     Core  small.     November,  February. 

Honey  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  There  are  a  number  of  sorts  under  name  of 
Honey  Sweet,  it  being  a  popular  application  for  every  good  sweet 
apple.  The  one  we  now  describe,  however,  we  have  found  more  gener- 
ally grown  than  any  other,  and  therefore  our  application  of  the  name 
to  it. 

Tree  very  upright,  vigorous.     Young  shoots  light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow, 
bronzed,  crimson  in  the  sun,  with  a  few  green  and  gray  dots.  Stalk 
rather  long.  Cavity  large,  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  corrugated. 
Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  rather  compact,  honeyed  sweet.  Good. 
Valuable  for  baking  or  stock.     August. 

Hood. 

Hood's  Seedling. 

A  nice  and  handsome  little  fruit,  oblong  conical  in  form,  yellow, 
mottled,  marbled,  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  red.  Flesh  whitish, 
firm,  pleasant,  sweet.     November,  December. 

Hooker. 

Origin,  Windsor,  Conn.     Growth  upright,  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  conic,  slightly  oblique,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with 
dull  crimson,  striped  with  red,  and  sprinkled  with  large  russet  dots. 
Flesh  greenish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  November  to 
January. 

Hoover. 
Wattaugah. 

Originated  in  South  Carolina.  It  is  pretty  extensively  disseminated 
and  much  favored  where  grown.  The  trees  are  quite  distinct,  having 
large  foliage  and  retaining  it  until  quite  late  into  winter.  It  forms  a 
beautiful  upright  spreading  tree.  Young  shoots  clear  reddish  brown, 
Brightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  sometimes  roundish  oblate,  slightly  oblique, 
yellowish,  mostly  overspread,  splashed,  and  striped  with  two  shades  of 
red,  some  conspicuous  light  dots,  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  rather 
long.     Cavity  large,  thinly  russeted.     Calyx  open.     Basin  slightly  fur 


222  THE   APPLE. 

rowed.     Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid.     Core 
small.     Very  good.     November  to  February. 


Hoover. 


Hopkins. 


Supposed  origin,  Maryland.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  not  an  early 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  with  unequal 
Bides,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red. 
Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx  small.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 

Hopper. 

From  South  Carolina. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened,  sides  unequal,  greenish  yellow,  with 
a  brown  orange  cheek  in  the  sun,  and  a  little  russet  about  the  stem. 
Flesh  white,  firni,  moderately  juicy,  subacid.     Good. 

HORMEAD    PEARMAIN. 
Arundel  Pearmain.  Hormead  Pippin. 

An  English  variety,  yet  but  little  grown  in  this  country. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  or  nearly  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow, 
moderately  sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  medium,  slender.  Cavity 
russeted.  Calyx  nearly  closed.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh 
white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Novem 
ber,  December. 


the  apple.  223 

Horn. 
Leech's  Red  Winter. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  with  stout  diverging  branches. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  whitish  yellow, 
shaded  and  obscurely  striped  with  light  red,  many  small  light  dots. 
Flesh  yellowish  wliite,  half  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
Good.     December  to  March. 

Horse  Apple. 

Haas.  Yellow  Hoss. 

Summer  Horse.  Trippe's  Horse. 

Origin  supposed  to  be  North  Carolina.  Tree  vigorous,  an  annual, 
early  and  abundant  bearer,  valuable  for  drying  and  culinary  purposes. 
Young  wood  light  reddish  brown. 


Horse. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  yellow,  sometimes  tinged  with  red,  and  small 
patches  of  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  rather  firm  and  coarse,  tender,  pleasant 
lubacid.     Good.     Last  of  July  and  first  of  August. 

There  is  said  to  be  another  Horse  Apple,  ripening  a  month  or  more 
later ;  we  have  not  examined  it. 

Horsham  Russet. 

Origin,  Norwich,  England.     Tree  hardy  and  productive. 
Fruit   small,  roundish,  warm  yellowish   gray  russet,  bronzed  in  suu 
Flesh  white,  firm,  crisp,  brisk  subacid.     November,  December. 


324  THE   APPLX. 

HoSKREIGER. 

Heidelocher. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  yellowish  green,  with  streak?  of  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  brisk  subacid.     November,  March.     (Hogg.) 

Housum's  Red. 

Originated  in  Berks  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  yellow,  shaded  and  obscurely 
splashed  with  red,  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  rather  compact,  crisp,  mod- 
erately tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good. 
Core  small.     December,  February. 

Howard's  Edgemont. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  partially  splashed  and 
striped  with  red,  light  gray  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  tonder,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid.     Good.     November,  December. 

Hubbard. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblong  conic,  yellow,  with  a  few  brown 
dots.     Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     October. 

Hubbard's  Pearmain. 
Hubbard's  Russet  Pearmain.  Golden  Vining. 

This  little  English  fruit  is  described  by  Lindley  as  one  of  the  richest 
of  dessert  Apples.  Tree  healthy,  with  slender  young  wood  of  a  pale 
grayish  brown  color. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  regular,  yellow,  sometimes  covered 
with  pale  brown  russet,  mottled  red,  bronzed  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow, 
firm,  very  rich,  sugary,  aromatic.     November  to  March. 

Hubbard's  Sugar. 

Origin,  Guilford  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  upright,  moderately  vigorous. 
Young  shoots,  light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  striped  with  red.  Flesh 
rich,  juicy,  and  fine.     September. 

HUBBARDSTON   NONSUCH. 
John  May.  Old  Town  Pippin.  Hubbardston. 

A  fine,  large,  early  winter  fruit,  which  originated  in  the  town  of 
Hubbardston,  Mass.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower,  forming  a  handsome 
branching  head,  and  bears  very  large  crops.  Young  shoots  dull  grayish 
brown,  slightly  downy.     It  is  worthy  of  extensive  orchard  culture. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  much  narrower  near  the  eye.  Skin 
smooth,  striped  with  splashes,  and  irregular  broken  stripes  of  pale  and 
bright  red,  which  nearly  cover  a  yellowish  ground.  The  calyx  open, 
and  the  stalk  short,  in  a  russeted  hollow.     Fl«sh  yellow,  juicy,  and  ten- 


THE   APPLE.  220 

dear,  with  an  agreeable  mingling  of  sweetness  and  acidity  in  its  flavor 
Very  good  to  best.     October  to  January. 


Hubbardston  Nonsuch. 


HUBBARDTON    PlPPIN. 


Origin  uncertain.  Tree  thrifty,  spreading,  irregular,  strong  grower, 
and  productive.     Young  shoots  clear  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large  or  veiy  large,  variable  in  form,  globular,  inclining  to 
conic,  slightly  oblique,  yellow,  shaded  and  striped  with  red.  Stalk 
short,  inserted  in  a  moderate  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small,  cor- 
rugated. Flesh  tender,  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid, 
slightly  aromatic.  Core  large  and  open.  Very  good.  November  to 
March. 

Hughes. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  upright,  spreading,  vigorous,  said  to  be 
an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  blush,  and  numerous 
gray  dots.  Flesh  fine,  tender,  juicy,  agreeable,  saccharine  without  being 
sweet.     Good.     March,  April. 

Hughes'  Golden  Pippin. 

Ae  English  Apple,  described  by  Bonalds  as  an  excellent  table  sort. 
Tree  hardy,  with  long  slender  shoots,  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  some  russet 
patches  and  dots.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  rich,  brisk,  spicy  aro- 
matic.    December,  January. 

15 


226  the  apple. 

Hull  Blossom. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  pale  yellow,  much  shaded, 
splashed  and  striped  with  red,  many  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant,  sweet.     Good.     October. 

Hull  Sweet. 

Of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  mostly  overspread  with  shades  of 
light  and  dark  red,  few  large  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender, 
rich,  pleasant,  sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

HuNGE. 
Hunger 

Origin  uncertain,  popular,  and  long  cultivated  in  North  Carolina. 
Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  green,  with  a  blush.  Flesh  soft,  subacid, 
pleasant,  valuable  for  drying  and  culinary  uses.  Good.  September, 
October. 

Hunt. 

Supposed  origin,  Eastern  Indiana. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mixed,  striped,  bright  red, 
numerous  yellow  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid,  aro- 
matic.    December,  January.     (Warder.) 

Hunthouse. 

A  Yorkshire  English  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roimdish  oblate  conical,  yellow,  tinged  with  red  in 
the  sun,  and  crimson  dots  and  faint  streaks.  Flesh  white,  firm,  coarse, 
acid.     December.     (Hogg.) 

Hunt's  Connecticut. 
Guttry.  Baldwin,  erroneously. 

An  old  variety.     Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  round  oblate,  yellow,  marbled  and  shaded  with  dull 
red,  gray  specks.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  often  russeted.  Calyx  large. 
Basin  quite  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  dry,  breaking,  subacid. 
Good.     November  to  March. 

Hunt's  Deux  Ans. 

An  English  dessert  Apple,  which  has  the  character  of  keeping  two 
years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  russeted,  with  gray  and 
large  brown  russet  dots  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy 
aromatic. 


the  apple.  227 

Hunt's  Duke  of  Gloucester. 
Hunt's  Nonpareil  ? 

This  variety  is  claimed  by  Hogg  as  distinct  from  Hunt's  Nonpareil, 
which  is  a  synonym  given  it  by  Lindley.     We  have  not  examined  them. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  greenish,  almost  covered  with  thin 
russet,  reddish  brown  in  sun.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  high  flavored 
December  January. 

Hunt's  Russet. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  with  the  Hunt  family,  of  Concord, 
Mass.,  many  years  since.  Tree  hardy,  moderate  grower,  upright, 
spreading  when  in  bearing,  an  annual  and  good  bearer.  Young  shoots 
light  reddish  brown,  slightly  grayish. 


Hunt's  Russet. 


Fruit  medium,  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic.  Colo:  yel- 
low, mostly  covered  with  thin  dull  russet,  with  a  blush  of  bright  rich 
red  in  the  sun,  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  varying  in  length.  Cavity  large, 
deep,  acute.  Calyx  partially  open.  Segments  medium,  a  little  reflexed. 
Basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine-grained, 
tender,  juicy,  rich,  brisk  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good  or  best. 
Core  compact.     January  to  April. 

HUKLBUT. 
Hurlbut  Stripe. 

Origin,  farm  of  General  Hurlbut,  Winchester,  Conn.  Tree  very 
vigorous,  and  great  bearer.  Young  wood  dark  brownish  red,  slightly 
downy.      Bin  Is  prominent. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  angular.     Skin  yellow,  shaded 


228  THE   APPLE. 

with  red  stripes,  and  splashed  with  darker  red,  and  thinly  sprinkled 
with  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  broad  deep 
cavity,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  rather  shallow. 
Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  sprightly  subacid.  Good  to 
very  good.     Core  small.     October,  December. 

Hutcheson. 

Origin,  supposed  Logan  Co.,  Ky.  Tree  of  rather  slow  growth, 
healthy  and  productive.  Esteemed,  where  known,  for  its  fine  appearance 
and  long  keeping. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  overspread  with 
rich  red,  large  light  dots.  Stalk  shoi-t.  Cavity  narrow.  Calyx  closed. 
Basin  abrupt,  deep.  Flesh  white,  firm,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
almost  sweet.     Core  small.     Good  to  very  good.    December  to  April. 

Hutton  Square. 

A  coarse  culinary  Apple,  from  England. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  sides  unequal,  yellowish,  with  dull  red  in  the 
sun.     Flesh  white,  coarse,  brisk,  sweet.     Good.     November,  December. 

Imperial^ 
Magnifique.  Maltranche. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red,  deepest  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short. 
Caly..  closed.  Flesh  wbite,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  refreshing  subacid. 
Good,     October,  November.     (Warder.) 

Indiana  Beauty. 

Origin,  Indiana. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblong,  unequal,  yellow,  partially  covered 
mixed  scarlet,  splashed  carmine.  Flesh  yellowish,  breaking,  juicy,  sub- 
acid.    Good.     September,  November. 

Indiana  Favorite. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  on  the  farm  of  Peter  Morrits,  Fayette 
Co.,  Indiana.     Growth  healthy,  spreading,  and  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  large,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  ends,  slightly  one- 
sided, yellowish,  shaded  and  streaked  with  red,  and  covered  with  russet 
specks.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  vinous,  almost  sweet,  and  very 
pleasant.     Good.    January  to  April. 

Indian  Prince. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  deep  red,  sprinkled  with  whitish  dots, 
Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  aromatic  flavor 
Hardly  good.     September,  October. 


the  apple.  229 

Ingram. 

A  new  variety,  grown  from  seed  of  llawls  Janet,  by  Martin  Ingram, 
of  Greene  Co.,  Mo.  Tree  productive,  and  the  fruit  especially  valued  foi 
its  long  keeping. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  orange  yellow,  mostly 
overspread  with  broken  stripes  of  rich  warm  red,  gray  russet  dots,  and 
slight  marblings.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  small.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
moderately  juicy,  crisp,  mild  subacid.  Core  above  medium.  Seeds 
dark  brown.     February  to  June.     (Hort.) 

Irish  Peach  Apple. 

Early  Croftou. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  round  or  a  little  flattened,  yellowish  green, 
with  small  dots  in  the  shade,  washed  and  streaked  with  brownish  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  and  pretty  well  flavored.  Hardlv 
good.     August. 

Irish  Reinette. 

An  English  culinary  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  ribbed,  yellowish  green,  dull  brown- 
ish in  the  sun,  and  with  patches  of  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp, 
juicy,  brisk  sharp  acid.     Hardly  good.     November  to  February. 

Island  Beauty. 

Chicago  ? 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  with  a  shade  of  brown  in  the 
sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  indistinct  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish, 
tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Good.    Core  rather  large.     September. 

Isle  of  Wight  Pippin. 
Isle  of  Wight  Orange.  Orange  Pippin.  Pomme  d' Orange. 

A  very  old  Apple,  described  in  Ronalds  as  fine  for  dessert. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow,  bright  orange  in  sun,  with  sometimes 
a  brownish  cheek.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  rich,  aromatic,  acid.  January, 
February. 

Isleworth  Crab. 

Brentford   Crab. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  brownish  tinge  in  sun. 
Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy.     Poor.     October. 

Italian  Rose. 

Weisse  Italianische  RosmarinapfeL 

An  Italian  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conical,  yellow,  with  pale  red,  som» 


230  THE    APPLE. 

what  striped  in  the  sun.     Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  sugary,  vinous, 
December.     (Diel.) 

J  ABE. 

Originated  in  Boxford,  Mass.  Tree  thrifty,  hardy,  and  a  regular, 
abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  light  straw  color,  beautiful  blush  cheek,  and 
crimson  spots  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine-grained,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     September,  November.     (Me.  Rep.) 

Jabez  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  premises  of  Jabez  Barnes,  near  Middletown, 
Conn.     Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  with  a  few  dark  specks. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  Decem- 
ber, February. 

Jackson. 

Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  upright  grower.  Young  wood  dark 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  many  dark 
green  blotches  and  gray  dots,  a  very  few  faint  stripes,  and  warm  mot- 
tled brown  cheek.  Flesh  greenish,  fine  texture,  tender,  juicy.  Good  to 
very  good.      October,  February. 

Jacques  Lebel. 

An  English  fruit  of  much  beauty,  but  ordinary  quality. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  lemon  yellow,  shaded  with  red  in  the 
Bun,  many  gray  dots.  Stalk  large.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  half  closed. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  mild  subacid.     January.      (Alb.  Pom.) 

Jane. 

Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  I'.;.  Tree  of  medium  upi-ight  growth,  an  annual 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish,  shaded  with  deep  red  in  the  sun, 
lighter  in  the  shade,  some  obscure  splashes  and  stripes,  few  light  and 
gray  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  compact,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  almost 
sweet.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Jarmixite. 

Origin,  Highland  Co.,  Ohio.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  roundish,  green,  partially  covered  with  mixed 
and  striped  dull  red.  Flesh  breaking,  firm,  mild  subacid,  almost 
Bweet.     December  to  March.     (Warder.) 

Jefferis. 
Origin,  Chester  Co.,  Pa.    Growth  moderate,  very  productive.     A  fab 


THE    APPLE.  -31 

and  handsome  fruit  of  excellent  quality,  in  use  all  of  September.     Young 
wood  light  reddish  brown,  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  oblato,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  shaded  and  splashed 
with  crimson,  and  thickly  covered  with  large  whitish  dots.  Stalk  very 
short,  inserted  in  a  rather  large  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  round 
open  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  mild,  subacid  fla- 
vor.    Very  good.     September. 

Jefferson  County. 

Origin,  Jefferson  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  spreading,  an 
early  and  great  bearer.      Young  wood  dull  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  splashed  and 
shaded  with  fine  red,  minute  light  dots  and  some  blotches  of  russet. 
Flesh  whitish  yellow,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very 
good.     Core  small.     October,  November. 

Jenkins. 

Originated  with  John  M.  Jenkins,  Montgomery  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  ovate,  red,  interspersed  with  numerous  large 
white  dots  on  yellowish  ground.  Flesh  white,  tender,  fine  texture, 
juicy,  agreeably  saccharine.     Good.     January  to  March. 

There  is  another  Jenkins  apple  which  ripens  in  summer.  It  is  small, 
roundish,  yellow,  striped  with  red. 

Jennings  Sweet. 

Originated  at  Marietta,  Ohio.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  striped  with  bright  red.     Flesh 
whitish,  sweet,  fine  for  baking  or  stock.     Good.     October,  November. 

Jersey  Pippin. 

Foreign. 

Fruit  medium,  round  oblong  conical,  yellowish  green,  stripes  of  red 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  vinous,  subacid.  Good. 
November,  February.     (Elliott.) 

Jersey  Sweeting. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  forming  a  handsome 
round  head,  productive.     Young  wood  dark  reddish  brown,  downy. 

A  very  popular  Apple  in  the  Middle  States,  where  it  is  not  only 
highly  valu  sd  for  the  dessert,  but,  owing  to  its  saccharine  quality,  it  i3 
planl  sd  largely  for  the  fattening  of  swine. 
Fruit  m  idium  size,  roundish  ovate,  tapering  to  the  eye.  The  calyx 
hs  small,  closed,  very  slightly  sunk,  in  a  small  plaited  ba  ■  '■■■■. 
an  in  :h  Ion,',  in  a  rather  narrow  cavity.  Skin  thin,  greenish  yellow, 
washed  an  I.  and  often  entirely  covered  with  stripes  of  pale  and 

dull   vn].       Flesh    white,    fine-grained,  and  exceedingly   juicy,  tender, 
.  and   sprightly.     Good  to  very  good.      Young  wood   stout,  and 
short-join  ted.       This    apple    commences    maturing    about    the    last    of 
August,  and  continues  ripening  till  frost. 


232 


THE   APPLE. 


Jewett's  Best. 

Origin,  farm  of  S.  W.  Jewett,  Weybridge,  Vt.  Same  habit  as  Rhode 
Island  Greening. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  or  nearly  globular,  yellowish  green,  mostly 
shaded  with  deep  red.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx 
closed,  set  in  a  very  small  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  almost 
melting,  pleasant,  rich  subacid.     Veiy  good.     December  to  February. 

Jewett's  Fine  Red. 
Nodhead. 

Origin,  Hollins,  New  Hampshire.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  and 
productive,  requires  high  culture  to  produce  fair  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  white,  striped,  splashed,  and 
shaded  with  crimson,  having  a  dull  grayish  bloom.  Stalk  short,  in- 
serted in  a  broad,  deep  cavity.  Calyx  firmly  closed,  in  an  exceedingly 
small  basin.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  very  pleasant,  sprightly,  almost  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     November  to  February. 

Joel. 

Of  Pennsylvania  origin. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  greenish  yellow  with  patches  of  russet  and  rus« 
*_t  dots.     "Flesh  greenish  yellow,  dry,  and  poor. 


King  Philip. 


Philip  Rick. 


The  Jonathan  is  a  very  beautiful  dessert  Apple,  and  its  great  beauty, 
good  flavor,  and  productiveness  in  all  soils,  unite  to  recommend  it  to 


THE    AI.VLE.  233 

orchard  planters.  The  original  tree  of  this  variety  is  growing  on  the 
farm  of  Mr.  Philip  Rick,  of  Kingston,  New  York.  It  was  first  described 
by  the  late  Judge  Buel,  and  named  by  him,  in  compliment  to  Jonathan 
Hasbrouck,  Esq.,  of  the  same  place,  who  made  irnown  the  fruit  to  him. 
It  succeeds  wherever  grown,  and  proves  one  of  the  best  in  quality,  and 
most  profitable  either  for  table  or  market.  The  tree  is  hardy,  moder- 
ately vigorous,  forming  an  upright  spreading,  round  head.  Young  shoota 
rather  slender,  slightly  pendulous,  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  regularly  formed,  roundish  conical,  or  taperiug 
to  the  eye.  Skin  thin  and  smooth,  the  ground  clear  light  yellow,  nearly 
covered  by  lively  red  stripes,  and  deepening  into  brilliant  or  dark  red 
in  the  sun.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  inserted 
in  a  deep,  regular  cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  deep,  rather  broad  basin. 
Flesh  white,  rarely  a  little  pinkish,  very  tender  and  juicy,  with  a  mild, 
sprightly,  vinous  flavor.  This  fruit  evidently  belongs  to  the  Spitzen 
burgh  class.     Best.     November  to  March. 

John  Carter. 

Origin  uncertain,  grown  in  Connecticut.  Tree  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  marbled,  striped,  and  splashed 
with  crimson.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  mild  subacid  flavor. 
Good.     September. 

Johnson. 

Origin,  Brookfield,  Conn.  A  strong,  upright  grower,  and  a  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conic,  smooth,  striped  with  red  on  a 
yellow  ground,  dark  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  remarkably  tender,  crisp,  and 
juicy,  with  a  brisk,  sweet  flavor,  very  soon  becomes  mealy  after  ripen- 
ing.    Good.     Middle  of  August  to  middle  of  September. 

There  is  another  Johnson  Apple  which  is  said  to  have  originated  in 
Massac  Co.,  111.,  and  described  in  the  Chicago  Republican.  We  have  not 
seen  it. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  flattened,  greenish  yellow,  almost 
entirely  covered  with  rich  dark  red.  Flesh  yellow,  subacid.  December 
to  March. 

Johnson  Russet. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  a  crooked  grower,  moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  roundish  conical,  light  golden  russet,  few 
light  and  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  dry,  poor,  mealy.  December, 
February. 

John's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Lyndsboro,  New  Hampshire.  Tree  a  good  grower,  somewhat 
straggling,  a  prolific  bearer.     Young  shoots,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  whitish  yellow,  sprinkled,  striped,  and 
splashed  with  red.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity,  surrounded 
by  russet.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  an  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  juicy,  tender, 
sweet.     Good.     January  to  May 


234  the  apple. 

Jolly  Beggar. 

Hogg  describes  this  as  a  first-rate  early  cooking  Apple.  Tree  a  pro 
digious  and  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  becoming  orange  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  brisk  subacid.     August  to  October 

Jubilee  Pippin. 

From  Norwich,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish,  with  gray  and  brownish  specks 
Flesh  white,  crisp,  mild,  almost  sweet.  Core  large,  open.  October 
December.     (Lindley.) 

Judge  Andrews. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow.  Flesh  tender,  aromatic. 
Good.     August. 

Juicy  Bite. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  mostly  over- 
spread, shaded  and  splashed  with  red.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  lively 
subacid.     Good.     September. 

Julian. 

Juling.  Julien. 

An  Apple  of  Southern  origin.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  very  pro 
ductive.  Young  shoots  light  reddish  brown,  somewhat  grayish,  many 
white  dots. 


Julian. 


Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic.     Sides  unequal. 
Color  waxen  whitish,  striped,  splashed,  and   mottled   with   rich   red, 


THE    APPLE.  235 

mode  rat  el}-  sprinkled  with  light  dots,  some  having  dark  centres.  Stalk 
short,  small.  Cavity  deep,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed. 
Segments  long,  slender,  slightly  recurved.  Basin  deep,  slightly  corru- 
gated. Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to 
very  good.     July  and  August. 

JuNALUSKEE. 
Junaliska  Journal  askia. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading.  Young 
shoots  dark  brownish,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  lightly  shaded  on 
the  sunny  side,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  large,  a  Little  green  russet.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  abrupt, 
nearly  smooth.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  compact,  moderately  juicy,  rich 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     November  to  March. 

Kaighn's  Spitzenbukgh. 

Red  Pearmain.  Long  John. 

Red  Spitzenburg.  Red  Pippin. 

Red  Winter  Pearmain,  erroneously.  Red  Phoenix. 

Long  Pearmain.  Sheepnose  of  some. 

Lady  Finger,  erroneously.  Russam. 

Scarlet  Pearmain.  erroneously.  Hudson  Red  Streak. 

Origin,  Gloucester  Co.,  N.  J.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading  or  straggling 
habit,  productive,  and  valued  only  because  of  its  showy  fruit. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  oval,  approaching  conic,  whitish  yellow, 
mostly  shaded  and  striped  with  red,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  minute 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good. 
November  to  January. 

Kane. 
Cane.  Cain. 

Origin,  Kent  Co.,  Delaware.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright. 
A  beautiful  little  Apple,  of  pleasant  flavor. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  regular,  whitish  yellow,  waxen, 
beautifully  shaded  and  lightly  striped  with  fine  crimson.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  crisp,  with  a  pleasant  flavor.     Good.     October,  November. 

Keddleston  Pippin. 

An  English  dessert  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds. 
Fruit  small,  conical,  straw  color,  slightly  russeted.     Flesh  yellowish, 
juicy,  sugary,  aromatic.     October  to  January. 

Keeping  PcED  Streak. 

An  English  culinary  sort. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  mostly  striped  with  two 
shades  of  red,  some  russet  and  gray  dots.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  firm, 
Drisk  subacid.     December,  February.     (Hogg.) 


336  LilE    APPLE. 

Keeping  Russet. 

This  is  a  dessert  Apple  described  by  Hogg  as  of  first  quality. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.,  pale  yellowish  brown  russet,  with  a  red 
cheek  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  rich  mellow  flavor.  Oo 
tober,  January. 

Keim. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  shoota 
reddish  brown. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  oblate.  Color  light  waxen  yellow,  thieklj 
sprinkled  with  light  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  in  a  broad,  shallow 
cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow  and  uneven.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
crisp,  fine,  brisk,  delicate  aromatic  subacid.  Very  good.  December  to 
March. 

Keisek. 
Red  Seek-no-Further. 

An  old  variety,  much  grown  in  Jefferson  Co.,  Ohio,  and  highly 
prized  ;  growth  of  tree  like  Bambo. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  oblique,  angular.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  shaded  with  red,  indistinctly  striped  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
large,  grayish  dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx 
small,  closed,  in  a  broad,  shallow,  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  yellowish, 
not  very  juicy,  but  mild  subacid.     Good.     November  to  February. 

Kelsey. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.,  on  the  premises  of  John  Kelsey. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  inclining  to  conical, 
greenish  yellow,  with  occasionally  a  faint  blush,  and  numerous  gray  dots. 
Flesh  tender,  fine  texture,  greenish  white,  mild  subacid.    Good.    March. 

Kelsey  Sweet. 

Origin,  Connecticut.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  brown  in 
the  sun,  green  and  gray  dots.  Flesh  greenish  white,  moderately  tender, 
juicy,  sweet.     Good.     October,  November. 

Kennebec  Russet. 

From  Maine.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  partially  netted  with  russet, 
and  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Flesh  moderately  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good.  No- 
vember, December. 

Kennedy's  Red  Winter. 

Originated  in  Pennsylvania.  Tree  an  upright  grower  and  regular 
bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped 


THE   APPLE.  237 

with  light  and  dark  red,  large  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed 
Flesh  whitish,  moderately  juicy,  a  little  coarse,  pleasant  subacid.  Good 
December,  February. 

Kenney. 

From  Connecticut. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
and  splashed  with  red,  large  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  rather  tender 
moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  December  tc 
March. 

Kenrick. 
Kenrick's  Autumn,  Kenrick's  Red  Autumn. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Kenrick,  Newton,  Mass.  Tree  mod' 
erately  vigorous,  compact,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  pale  yellowish  green,  striped  and  stained  with 
bright  red.  Flesh  white,  a  little  stained  with  red,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly 
acid.     Good.     September. 

Kentish  Broading. 

A  fine  showy  old  English  Apple.    Tree  a  free  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  broken  stripes  or  splashes- 
of  clear  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  a  little  coarse,  subacid.  Good.  No 
vember,  December. 

Kent. 

Originated  on  the  premises  of  Walker  Kent,  near  Plymouth,  Mich. 
Tree  a  strong  grower,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  pale  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  a  slight  blush 
cheek,  few  greenish  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  subacid.  Core  rather  large.  Good  to  ver* 
good.     October. 

Kentish  Fill-Basket. 
Potter's  Large  Seedling.  Lady  de  Grey's. 

An  immense  English  fruit,  properly  named,  and  much  admired  by 
those  who  like  great  size  and  beauty  of  appearance.  The  flavor  is  tol- 
erable, and  it  is  an  excellent  cooking  Apple.  The  tree  grows  strongly, 
and  bears  well. 

Fruit  very  large —frequently  four  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter— round- 
ish, slightly  ribbed  or  irregular.  Color  yellowish  green  in  the  shade, 
but  pale  yellow  in  the  sun,  with  a  brownish  red  blush  on  the  sunny  side, 
slightly  streaked  or  spotted  with  darker  red.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with 
a  subacid,  sprightly  flavor.     Good.     October  to  January. 

Kentish  Pippin. 

Red  Kentish  Pippin.  Vaun's  Pippin. 

An  old  English  Apple  esteemed  abroad  for  cooking,  but  is  here  quit* 
good  for  dessert.     Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  a  good  bearer. 


238  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sides  often  unequal,  greenish  yel- 
low, with  a  slight  blush  next  the  sun,  small  gray  dots.  Stalk  short, 
small.  Cavity  deep,  large,  and  with  thin  russet  extending  out  upon  the 
fruit.  Calyx  partly  open.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
rich,  brisk  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  December  to  May.  Valua- 
ble as  a  late  keeper. 

Kentucky. 

Of  unknown  origin,  and  probably  a  local  name.  An  early  and  abundant 
bearer. 

Fruit  large  and  very  uniform,  rouudish,  slightly  conical.  Color  yel- 
lowish, marbled  and  mottled,  with  dull  red  in  the  sun,  with  irregular 
greenish  splashes  or  specks.  Cavity  narrow,  acuminate.  Calyx  large, 
in  a  narrow  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  not  very  fine,  but  juicy,  very  tender, 
agreeable  subacid.      Good.     October. 

Kentucky  Cream. 

Originated  in  Todd  Co.,  Ky.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  an 
early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  largest  at  the  crown  or  apex,  and 
tapering  slightly  toward  the  stalk,  yellowish  mostly  overspread  with 
rich  clear  red,  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  areole  dots,  and  some  gray- 
ish marblings  next  the  stalk.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  narrow,  acute. 
Calyx  large.  Segments  partially  closed,  divided.  Basin  broad,  deep, 
somewhat  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  breaking,  not  very  juicy,  rich, 
mild  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  March. 

Kentucky  King. 

From  Kentucky. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  mixed  and  striped  with  car- 
mine. Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.     December,  February.     (Warder.) 

Kentucky  Red  Streak. 
Winter  Red  Streak  ?  Bradford's  Best.  Selma  ? 

Origin  obscure,  supposed  Tennessee.  Tree  upright,  vigorous,  and 
productive  annually. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  inclining  to  conic,  greenish  yellow, 
shaded  with  dull  purplish  red,  and  indistinctly  splashed  and  striped, 
thickly  sprinkled  with  large  light  dots,  having  gray  centres,  sometimes 
the  number  of  dots  give  appearance  almost  as  if  mottled.  Stalk  medi- 
um. Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Core 
small.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  March. 

Kentucky  Sweet. 

A  Southern  Apple  of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  conic,  regular,  deep  red,  stripes  obscured  and  scarcely 
visible.  Dots  scattered,  large,  yellow.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  fine- 
grained, juicy,  very  sweet,  rich,  slightly  perfumed.  November,  January, 
( Wai-der.) 


THE    APPLE. 


239 


pale  yellow. 
Good.     Ripens  in 


Kerry  Pippin. 
Edmonton's  Aromatic  Pippin. 
An  Irish  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  middle  size,  oval,  a  little  flattened  at  the  eye 
Flesh  yellow,  tender,   crisp,  with   a  sugary  flavor. 
September  and  October. 

Keswick  Codlin. 

A  noted  English  cooking  Apple,  which  may  be  gathered  for  tarts  as 
early  as  the  month  of  August,  and  continues  in  use  till  November.  It  is 
an  early  and  a  great  bearer  and  a  vigorous  tree,  and  is  one  of  the  most 
profitable  of  orchard  sorts  for  cooking  or  market.  Tree  very  hardy, 
forming  a  large,  regular,  upright,  spreading,  round  head. 


Keswick  Codlin. 


Fruit  a  little  above  the  middle  size,  rather  conical,  with  a  few  obscure 
ribs.  Stalk  short  and  deeply  set.  Calyx  rather  large.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  washed  with  a  faint  blush  on  one  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
juicy,  with  a  pleasant  acid  flavor. 

Ketchum's  Favorite. 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  Ketchum,  in  Sudbury,  Vt.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  light  waxen  yellow,  slightly  shaded 


uo 


THE    APPLE. 


with  rosy  blush,  irregularly  sprinkled  with  carmine  dots.     Flesh  whitej 
mild,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     September  to  January 

Kikita. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with 
dull  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild 
Bweet.     Good.     November,  December. 

Kilham  Hill. 

A  native  of  Essex  Co.,  Mass.,  raised  by  Daniel  Kilham. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  roundish,  ribbed,  narrowing  to  the  eye,  pale  yeh 
low,  slightly  splashed  with  red  in  the  shade,  deep  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
of  sprightly,  rather  high  flavor,  but  is  apt  to  become  dry  and  mealy. 
Good.     September. 

KlNELLAN. 

From  Ross-shire,  Scotland. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellowish  green,  some  red  in  the  sum 
Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant.     Good.     December,  January. 


King  of  Tompkins  County. 

King  of  the  Pippins. 

Hampshire  Yellow. 

Ar\  English  fruit  of  poor  quality,  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  pale 
yellow,  washed  and  striped  with  red.  Flesh  very  firm,  sharp  subacid. 
Good.     October,  November. 


THE   APPLE.  241 

King  of  Tompkins  County. 
King  Apple.  Toms  Red.  Tommy  Red- 

Origin  uncertain  ;  said  to  have  originated  with  Thomas  Thacher, 
Warren  Co.,  N.  J.  A  valuable  market  fruit.  Tree  very  vigorous, 
■spreading,  an  abundant  bearer  annually.  Young  rihoots  very  dark  red- 
dish brown,  quite  downy,  especially  toward  the  ends. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  inclining  to  conic,  sometimes  oblate,  angular. 
Color  yellowish,  mostly  shaded  with  red,  striped  and  splashed  with 
crimson.  Stalk  rather  stout  and  short,  inserted  in  a  large,  somewhat 
irregular  cavity.  Calyx  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  medium,  slightly  cor- 
rugated basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  tender,  with  an 
exceedingly  agreeable,  rich,  vinous  flavor,  delightfully  aromatic.  Very 
good  to  best.     December  to  March. 

KlNGSLEY. 

Origin,  Monroe  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  an  erect  moderate  grower,  an  early 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish,  striped  and  splashed  with  red. 
Flesh  fine-grained,  juicy,  melting,  subacid.  Very  good.  November, 
February. 

Kingston  Black. 

A  small  English  cider  fruit  of  little  value. 

Fruit  roundish,  pale  yellow,  striped  with  red.  Flesh  white,  stained 
with  red,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.     November,  December. 

King  Tom. 

From  North  Carolina.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  crooked,  twisting, 
tangled  grower,  forming  a  low  head,  witb  stout,  distinct,  blunt  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  orange  yellow.  Flesh  yellow,  rather  tough, 
spicy.     August.     (Ga.  Hort.  S.  Rep.) 

Kinney. 

A  Southern  variety,  little  known. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  greenish  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  gray  dots  and  some  russet.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  No- 
vember, December. 

Kirkbridge  White. 

Tree  of  rather  slow  upright  growth,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblong  ovate,  very  irregular,  ribbed,  yellowish 
white.  Stalk  short  and  small,  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  small  and 
closed.  Segments  long,  reflexed.  Basin  narrow.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  subacid.     Core  rather  large.     Good.     August  and  September. 

Kirtland. 
Kirtland's  Seedling. 

Tree  vigorous,  and  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  deep  rich  yellow  at  maturity.  Flesh  yellowish, 
tender,  spicy,  subacid.     Mid  autumn.     (Am.  Hort.  An.) 

16 


242  the  applb. 

Kirk's  Lord  Nelson. 

English. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  light  yellov,-,  striped  and  mottled  with  bright 
red.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  but  not  rich.     October,  November. 

KlTTAGESKEE. 

A  Southern  Apple  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
spreading.     Young  shoots  short-jointed,  grayish. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  fine  yellow,  with  a  tinge 
of  brown  in  the  sun,  few  dark  or  brown  gray  dots.  Stalk  rather  short 
and  slender.  Cavity  broad,  sometimes  a  little  russeted.  Calyx  partially 
closed.  Basin  broad,  shallow,  furrowed.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  tender, 
brisk,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Core  small.  Good  to  very  good. 
November  to  March. 

Klaproth. 

This  beautiful  Apple,  a  native  of  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.  (on  the  farm 
of  Mr.  Brennaman),  was  brought  into  notice  by  Dr.  J.  K.  Eshleman,  of 
Downington,  Pa.,  and  promises  to  be  an  excellent  fruit,  especially  for 
market  purposes.     It  bears  carriage  remarkably  well,  a  most  prolific 


Klaproth. 

bearer  and  vigorous  grower.  We  give  the  Dr.'s  description.  Young  wood 
very  grayish  dull  reddish  brown.  Size  medium,  form  oblate.  Skin 
greenish  yellow,  streaked  and  stained  with  red,  deepened  on  the  sunny 
side,  dotted  all  over  with  bight  specks,  and  occasional  russet  spots  near 
the  stalk,  which  is  short  and  inserted  in  a  smooth  dee})  cavity.  Calyx 
small  and  closed.  Segments  reflexed,  set  in  a  wide,  regular,  and  well- 
formed  basin.  Flesh  white,  very  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  and  pleasant  su)>- 
acid  flavor,  and  until  quite  ripe  acid  predominates.  Very  good.  August 
zo  October. 


the  applk.  243 

Knickerbocker. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  ov  above,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  spiinkled 
with  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  large,  deep,  uneven.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  broad,  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  crisp, 
brisk  subacid,  pleasant  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good.  Sejjteniber, 
October. 

Knobby  Russet. 

Knobbed  Russet.  Old  Maid's.  Winter  Russet. 

A  dessert  Apple  from  Sussex,  England,  which  Lindley  describes  as  of 
medium  size,  roundish  oval,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  russety  knobg 
or  warts.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  not  juicy,  but  sweet  and  high  flavored. 
December  to  March. 

Knowles'  Early. 
Oat  Harvest  ¥ 

Introduced  by  John  Knowles,  near  Philadelphia.  Tree  of  moderate 
growth,  forming  a  round  head,  an  early,  annual,  and  abundant  bearer, 
and  the  fruit  continues  in  use  a  long  time. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  smooth,  pale  greenish  yellow,  partially 
striped  and  splashed  with  dull  crimson.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  very  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
Good  to  very  good.      August. 

Knox  Russet. 

Found  in  the  orchard  of  J.  Knox,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Origin  unknown. 
Tree  spreading,  productive,  shoots  slender. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  globular,  somewhat  conic,  yellow  green, 
blushed,  covered  with  light  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  mild 
subacid,  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     December,  January. 

Kohl. 

From  Germany.  Tree  thrifty,  forming  a  regular  top,  a  good  and 
regular  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  crisp,  juicy.     Good  keeper.     (A.  Pom.  Rep.) 

Konig's   Reinette. 

Reinette  Doree.  Reinette  du  Roi. 

Poyale.  "Winter  Citronenapfel. 

This  is  said  to  be  a  beautiful  long-keeping  dessert  Apple,  of  Ger- 
man origin. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  lemon  yellow,  with  a 
rich  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  very  fine,  firm,  and  juicy,  rich 
subacid.     December  to  March.     (Did.) 

Krauser. 

Krowser.  Krouser. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  a  handsome  gfower  and  an 
abundant  uud  regular  bearer.     Young  wood  dark  reddish  brown. 


244  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic.  Color  whitish  yellow,  striped  and 
splashed  with  bright  red.  Stalk  rather  short,  inserted  in  a  medium 
cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small  and  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, mild  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     December,  March. 

Keauter  Reinette. 

A  German  Apple,  highly  praised  in  its  own  home. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow.  Stalk  long.  Cavitj 
russeted.  Flesh  white,  very  fine,  juicy,  highly  aromatic.  December  fro 
March. 

Labute. 

Of  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  sides  unequal,  yellow,  mostly  shadedv 
and  somewhat  splashed  with  rich  red.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity 
deep.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  crisp, 
rather  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     Core  large.     October. 

Lacker. 
Laquier. 

Origin,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sides  sometimes  unequal,  pale  red,  striped 
and  splashed  with  crimson.  Stalk  short,  slender,  inserted  in  a  narrow 
russeted  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  wide,  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  ci'isp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  November  tc 
March. 

Lady  Apple. 

Api.  Api  Petit.  Pomme  Rose. 

Pomme  d'Api  Rouge.  Petit  Api  Rouge.  Gros  Api  Rouge. 

An  exquisite  little  dessert  fruit,  the  pretty  size  and  beautiful  color 
of  which  render  it  a  universal  favorite ;  as  it  is  a  great  bearer,  it  is  also 
a  profitable  sort  for  the  orchardist,  bringing  the  highest  price  of  any 


Lady  Apple. 


fancy  apple  in  the  market.  It  is  an  old  French  variety,  and  is  nearly 
always  known  abroad  by  the  name  of  Api  /  but  the  name  of  Lady 
Apple  has  become  too  universal  here  to  chauge  it  now.  No  amateur's 
oolleotion  should  be  without  it. 


TIIE   APPLE.  240 

Fruit  quite  small,  but  regularly  formed  and  flat.  Skin  smooth  and 
glossy,  with  a  brilliant  deep  red  cheek,  contrasting  with  a  lively  lemon 
yellow  ground.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  and  deeply  inserted.  Calyx 
small,  sunk  in  a  basin  with  small  plaits.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  teuder,  and 
juicy,  with  a  pleasant  flavor.  The  tree  has  upright,  almost  black  shoots, 
with  small  leaves ;  forms  a  very  upright,  small  head,  and  bears  its  fruit 
in  bunches.  The  latter  is  very  hardy,  and  may  be  left  on  the  tree  till 
severe  frosts.     The  Lady  Apple  is  in  use  from  December  to  May. 

Tha  A  pi  Noir,  ov  Black  Lady  Apple,  diners  from  the  foregoing  sort 
only  in  the  color,  which  is  nearly  black.  In  shape,  size,  season,  and 
flavor,  it  is  nearly  the  same.  It  is,  from  its  unusually  dark  hue,  a  sin- 
gular and  interesting  fruit — poor  flavor. 

The  true  Api  Etoile,  or  /Star  Lady  Apple,  figured  and  described  by 
Poiteau,  in  the  Pomologie  francaise,  is  another  very  distinct  variety ; 
the  fruit  is  of  the  same  general  character,  but  having  five  prominent  an- 
gles, which  give  it  the  form  of  a  star.  This  variety  is  rather  scarce,  the 
common  Lady  Apple  being  frequently  sent  out  for  it  by  French  nursery- 
men. It  keeps  until  quite  late  in  the  spring,  when  its  flavor  becomes 
excellent,  though  in  winter  it  is  rather  day.  The  growth  of  the  tree  re 
sembles  that  of  the  other  Apis. 

The  Api  Gros,  or  Large  Lady  Apple,  is  of  a  similar  habit  in  growth 
of  the  tree  to  the  true  Lady  Apple,  the  fruit  a  trifle  larger,  more  round 
ish,  less  brightly  colored,  and  quite  inferior  in  quality. 

The  Api  Gros  Pomme  de  Pose,  or  Rose-colored  Lady  Apple,  is  also 
another  variety,  with  fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  washed 
with  bright  rosy  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine-grained,  juicy,  crisp, 
aromatic. 

Lady  Blush. 

Received  from  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  whitish  yellow,  shaded  in  the  sun  with 
bright  red,  many  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  deep. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid,  slightly  aromatic.     Good.     November,  December. 

Elliott  describes  a  Lady  or  Lady's  Blush  as  medium,  yellow,  with  red 
blush.     Flesh  dry. 

Lady  Finger. 

Under  this  name  Hogg  describes  an  Apple  as : 

Fruit  below  medium,  pyramidal,  rounded  at  base,  dull  greenish  yel 
low,  with  minute  gray  russety  dots,  dull  blush  and  spots  of  lively  red 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  pleasantly  acid.  November  to 
March. 

Coxe  describes  an  apple  as  Lady  Finger  or  Long  Pippin,  as  remarka- 
bly long,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  pleasant,  early  winter,  but  does  not 
keep  well. 

Elliott  describes  under  name  of  Lady  Finger,  synonym  Sheep  Nose, 
in  apple  as  medium  size,  oblong,  pale  yellow,  faint  blush.  Flesh  firm, 
watery.     November,  December. 

We  have  also  received  an  apple  from  Maryland  under  this  name  which 
is  of  medium  size,  roundish  conical,  yellowish,  shaded  ovei  the  whole 
surface    with    deep  crimson,  thinly  sprinkled    with    light  dots.     Stalk 


246 


THE   APPLE. 


short.  Cavity  rather  deop.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  large,  dee\\  corrn» 
gated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good 
to  very  good.     Core  small.     August. 

Lady  Haley's  Nonsuch. 

An  Eastern  variety,  of  unknown  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive-. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  light  waxen  yellow,  shade  of 
red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short  and  stout.  Cavity  large.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
medium,  corrugated.  Flesh  rather  firm,  pleasant,  slightly  aromatic. 
Good.     Cooking.     September. 

Lady  of  the  Wemyss. 

A  large  and  handsome  Scotch  Apple. 

Fruit  roundish,  pale  green,  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  juicy, 
subacid.     October,  December. 

Lady's  Delight. 

An  English  culinary  Apple,  the  habit  of  the  tree  like  that  of  the 
Weeping  Willow. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  with  red 
next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  aromatic.  October,  De- 
cember.    (Hogg.) 

Lady's  Fancy. 
King  of  some. 

Origin  unknown.  Much  grown  in  Vermont,  Northern  New  York, 
and  Canada. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  conical,  whitish  yellow,  splashed, 
shaded,  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red,  light  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  narrow.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  agree- 
able, subacid.     Core  large.     Good.     November  to  February. 

Lady's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Delaware  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright, 
spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  blush  cheek.  Flesh 
whitish,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     October. 

Lady's  Sweet. 
Ponimeroy.  Lady's  Sweeting.  Roa  Yon.  Ladies'  Sweet. 

We  consider  this  one  of  the  finest  winter  sweet  Apples  for  the  des- 
sert yet  known  or  cultivated  in  this  country. 

Its  handsome  appearance,  delightful  perfume,  sprightly  flavor,  and 
the  long  time  which  it  remains  in  perfection,  render  it  universally  ad- 
mired wherever  it  is  known,  and  no  garden  should  be  without  it.  It  is 
a  native  of  this  neighborhood.  The  wood  is  not  very  strong,  but  it 
grows  thriftily,  and  bears  very  abundantly,  making  a  round  spreading 
head.     Young  shoots  reddish  brown,  downy.     Buds  small. 


THE   APPLE.  247 

Fruit  large,  roundish  ovate,  narrowing  pretty  rapidly  to  the  eye. 
Skin  very  smooth,  nearly  covered  with  red  in  the  sun, but  pale  yellowish 
green  in  the  shade,  with  broken  stripes  of  pale  red.  The  red  is  sprin- 
kled with  well-marked  yellowish  gray  dots,  and  covered,  when  firsi  gath- 
ered, with  a  thin  white  bloom.  There  is  also  generally  a  faint  mar- 
bling of  cloudy  white  over  the  red,  on  the  shady  side  of  the  fruit,  and 


Lady's  Sweet 

rays  of  the  same  around  the  stalk.  Calyx  quite  small,  set  in  a  narro  .v, 
shallow,  plaited  basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  in  a  shallow  cavity. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  exceedingly  tender,  juicy,  and  crisp,  with  a  deli- 
cious, sprightly,  agreeably  perfumed  flavor.  Very  good  or  best.  Keeps 
without  shrivelling,  or  losing  its  flavor,  till  May. 

Lady's  White. 

Origin,  Franklin  Co.,  O.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  bearer. 
Fruit   medium  or  below,  roundish,  whitish,  very  smooth  and  fair. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     December  to  February. 

Lafayette. 

Originated  in  Chester,  N.  H.,  on  the  farm  of  "William  Jenney,  and 
first  fruited  in  1824,  the  year  of  General  Lafayette's  visit  to  this  coun- 
try, hence  its  name.  It  is  much  esteemed  in  its  native  locality,  but  has 
been  little  disseminated.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  an  annual  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  whitish  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  mar- 
oled  with  crimson,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots.     Stalk  rather 


248  THE  APPLE. 

long,  slender.  Cavity  medium.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  rather  short 
to  a  point.  Basin  abrupt,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  tender 
pleasant,  mild  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  February. 

Lake. 

Origin,  D.  C.  Richmond,  Sandusky,  O.  Tree  of  strong  upright 
growth,  productive.  Young  shoots  stout,  short-jointed,  dull  reddish 
brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  yellow,  striped,  splashed,, 
and  shaded  with  deep  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  pleasant 
subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  Ripe  September  and  Oc 
tober. 

Lamb  Abbey  Pearmain. 
Laneb  Abbey  Pearmain. 

An  old  variety,  from  Kent,  England.     Tree  not  healthy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with 
two  shades  of  red.  Flesh  whitish,  compact,  juicy,  subacid.  Good- 
November. 

Lancaster  Greening. 
Lancaster  Pippin. 

Origin,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  spreading.  Young 
wood  smooth,  reddish  brown.     Buds  prominent,  flattened. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  approaching  conic.  Color  greenish, 
but  when  fully  mature  quite  yellow,  occasionally  a  blush  of  crimson  in 
the  sun,  and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  and  crimson  dots  and 
patches  of  russet.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  deep,  sometimes  russeted. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  very  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish, 
compact,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Very  good.  De- 
cember to  May.     Much  valued  as  a  long  keeper. 

Lancaster  Sweet. 

Origin,  probably  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  whitish,  splashed  and  marbled  with 
red.  Flesh  whitish,  not  very  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  September, 
October. 

Landon. 

Origin  uncertain,  found  on  the  farm  of  Buel  Landon,  Grand  Isle, 
Vt.,  and  by  him  introduced  to  notice.  Tree  vigorous,  with  low  spread- 
ing branches,  and  bears  moderately  every  year. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic.  Color  yellow,  mottled 
and  shaded  with  red  or  deep  crimson,  and  covered  with  numerous  gray 
ish  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  open, 
basin  corrugated  and  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  with 
a  rich,  mild  subacid  flavor,  aromatic.     Very  good.     February  to  May. 


THE   APPLE. 


249 


Lane's  Red  Streak 

Origin,  orchard  of  Mr.  Lane,  Edgar  Co.,  Illinois.  Tree  of  moderat* 
growth. 

Fruit  large,  round  conical,  regular.  Color  yellow,  with  very  fine 
short  stripes,  and  specks  of  bright  red,  beautiful.  Flesh  white,  fine,  ten- 
der, pleasant  subacid,  of  fair  quality.     Good.     October. 

Lane's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Boylston,  Mass.  Tree  a  good  grower  and  productive. 
Young  shoots  smooth,  light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped 
with  red,  moderately  sprinkled  with  large  light  dots.  Stalk  medium, 
slender.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  coiTugated.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant  sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

There  is  another  Lane's  Sweet  which  originated  in  Hingham,  Mass. 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  shoots  dark  reddish  brown, 
slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic.  Color  fine  yellow,  with  a  sunny 
cheek.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  russeted.  Calyx  closed,  basin  small, 
open.  Flesh  yellowish,  not  very  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  aromatic.  Novem- 
ber to  March. 

Lansingburgh. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  upright,  spreading,  vigorous,  moderately 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  largely  overspread  with  gray- 


Lanre  Yellow  Bouph. 


250  THE   APPLK. 

ish  red.     Flesh  firm,  mild   subacid.     Good.     Valuable  mainly  be  :atsa 
of  its  long  keeping  qualities. 

Large  Yellow  Bough. 

Early  Sweet  Bough.  Sweet  Harvest.  Bough. 

August  Sweet.  Washington,  incorrectly.         Sweet  Bough. 

A  native  Apple,  ripening  in  harvest  time,  and  one  of  the  first  qua- 
lity, only  second  as  a  dessert  fruit  to  the  Early  Harvest.  It  is  not  so 
much  esteemed  for  the  kitchen  as  the  latter,  as  it  is  too  sweet  for  pies 
and  sauce,  but  it  is  generally  much  admired  for  the  table,  and  is  worthy 
of  a  place  in  every  collection. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  and  oblong  ovate  in  form.  Skin  smooth, 
pale  greenish  yellow.  Stalk  rather  long,  and  the  eye  narrow  and  deep. 
Flesh  white,  very  tender  and  crisp  when  fully  ripe,  and  with  a  rich, 
sweet,  sprightly  flavor.  Ripens  from  the  middle  of  July  to  the  tenth 
of  August.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  bears  abundantly,  and  forms  a 
round  head.     Young  shoots  grayish  brown,  very  slightly  downy. 

Larue's  Big  Green. 

Origin,  Hardin  Co.,  Ky. 

Fruit  very  large,  yellow.  Flesh  vinous,  sprightly  subacid.  Feb- 
rnarv,  March.     Superior  for  cooking.     (Ky.  Hort.  Soc.  Trans.) 


Late  Strawberry. 

Late  Strawberry. 
Autumn  Strawberry. 


Origin,  Aurora,  N.  Y.,  on  lands  formerly  owned  by  Judge  Phelps. 
Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading,  hardy.  Young  wood  smooth,  reddish 
brown,  a  regular  and  early  bearer. 


THE   APPLE.  251 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  sometimes  obscurely  rib. 
bed.  Color  whitish,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red.  and 
often  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  rather  long,  slender,  curved 
Cavity  large,  deep,  slightly  russeted.  Basin  abrupt,  corrugated.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  vinous,  subacid.  Very  good 
October,  December. 

Late  Sweet. 

A  variety  somewhat  grown  in  Connecticut,  origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  mostly  shaded,  splashed,  and  mar 
bled  with  red,  light  and  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  compact,  not  juicy 
sweet.    December,  March.     A  long  keeper  and  good  for  cooking. 

Late  Wine. 

A  very  excellent  Apple,  the  origin  of  which  we  have  been  unable  to 
trace,  nor  can  we  identify  it  with  any  known  sort.  Tree  upright,  vigor- 
ous, an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  shoots  smooth,  light  red- 
dish brown,  with  buds  large,  round,  and  prominent. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  roundish  conical.  Sides  unequal. 
Color  mostly  shades  of  light  and  dark  crimson,  sometimes  almost  pur- 
ple, a  thin  light  bloom  and  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Cavity 
acute,  slightly  russeted,  sometimes  hues  or  traces  of  iiisset  outwards. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  very  ten- 
der, juicy,  mild,  pleasant   subacid.     Very  good.     October,  November. 

Latiiam. 

Origin,  Sag  Harbor,  Long  Island,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  good  grower,  very 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  sides  unequal,  yellow,  almost  entirely 
overspread  with  Light  and  dark  red,  small  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.     Good.     November,  December. 

Lauren's  Greening. 

Origin,  Laurens  Co.,  Ga. 

Fruit  large  or  above  medium,  oblate,  greenish,  with  tinge  of  red  in 
the  sun.     Flesh  white,  crisp,  acid,  pleasant.     Good.     September. 

Lawver. 

Origin  uncertain.  Introduced  by  George  S.  Park,  of  Farkville, 
Mo.,  and  said  to  have  been  found  in  an  old  Indian  orchard  in  Kansas. 
Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  an  early  and  annual  bearer,  a  beautiful  fruit, 
and  a  loner  keeper. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Color  dark  bright  red,  covered  with 
umall  dots.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  deep,  regular.  Calyx  small,  closed. 
Basin  medium,  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  firm,  crisp,  sprightly,  aromatic, 
mild  subacid.     January  to  May.     (Prairie  Farmer.) 

Leaver. 

Received  from  South  Carolina.  Tree  remarkably  vigorous  and  a 
good  bearer. 


252 


THE   APPLE. 


Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  yellow,  shaded  anS  ob> 
Bourely  striped  and  splashed  with  red.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  nearly 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  rich,  slightly  aromatic  sub- 
acid.    Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     November  to  March. 

Ledge  Sweet. 
Portsmouth  Sweet. 

Origin,  Portsmouth,  N.  H.    Tree  vigorous,  productive,  regular  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  thinly  shaded  with  red, 
Bplashed  and  striped  with  dark  red,  thinly  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray 
dots.  Stalk  very  short,  stout.  Cavity  broad,  not  deep.  Calyx  closed. 
Segments  short.  Basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish, 
a  little  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  half  sweet,  pleasant.  Core  small. 
Good  or  very  good.     December  to  March. 

Leicester  Sweet. 

Potter  Sweet. 

Origin,  Leicester,  Mass.     Tree  vigorous,  not  very  productive. 
Fruit   rather  large,  flattish,  greeuish  yellow  and  dull  red.     Flesh 
tender,  rich,  excellent,  fine  for  dessert  or  baking.     Winter. 

Leithemer  Streifling. 

Of  German  origin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  lemon  yellow,  overspread,  shaded,  and 
striped  and  splashed  with  varying  shades  of  red.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
ribbed.     Flesh  white,  tinged  with  red,  firm,  aromatic,  sweet.     December. 

Leland  Spice. 

Leland  Pippin.  New  York  Spice. 

Origin,  Sherburne,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  large,  roundish.  Color  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  bright  red. 
Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  smaD,  closed.  Basin 
shallow.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  tender,  juicy,  with  a  very  rich  aromatic 
subacid  flavor,  excellent  for  dessert  or  kitchen.  Good  to  very  good. 
September,  October. 

Lemon  Pippin. 

Kirke's  Lemon  Pippin.  Pepin  Limon  de  Galles  ? 

An  English  variety,  of  medium  size,  oval.  Skin  lemon  yellow. 
Flesh  firm,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     October. 

Lesher. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  whitish,  shaded  in  the 
sun  with  light  purplish  crimson,  few  small  gray  and  light  dots.  Flesh 
white,  crisp,  moderately  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  December 
to  February. 


the  apple.  253 

Lewis. 

Origin,  Putnam  Co.,  Ind.     A  good  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  yellowish,  striped  with  crimson,  and 
partially  covered  with  thin  cinnamon  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  gra;v 
and  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed 
or  nearly  so,  in  a  moderate  basiu.  Fiesh  yellow,  compact,  with  a  rich 
subacid  tfnvor,  not  very  juicy.     Good.     November,  February. 

It  is  claimed  by  some  that  there  is  another  Lewis,  but  our  experience 
in  fruiting  them  does  not  enable  us  to  so  decide. 

Lewis's  Incomparable. 

An  English  sort,  mostly  valued  for  cooking.  Tree  vigorous,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  streaks  and 
shades  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  brisk  subacid.  De- 
cember. 

Liberty. 

Originated  in  Delaware  Co.,  O.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  and  pro- 
ductive.    Young  shoots  smooth,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  oblate,  oblique,  conical,  yellowish, 
shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  shades  of  dull  red.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish, rather  firm,  mild  subacid.  Core  small.  Good.  Valued  mainly  for 
its  keeping  qualities.     December  to  May. 

Ligoz. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with 
shades  of  red.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  crisp,  pleasant  sub- 
acid.    Good.     Core  small.     December,  January. 

Limber  Twig. 
James  River.  Red  Limber  Twig  ? 

An  Apple  much  cultivated  South  and  West.  Origin,  supposed  North 
Carolina.  Tree  hardy  and  productive,  roundish,  spreading,  somewhat 
drooping. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish 
yellow,  shaded  and  striped  with  dull  crimson,  and  sprinkled  with  light 
dots.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  broad,  deep  cavity,  sxir- 
rounded  by  thin,  green  russet.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  small,  uneven 
basin.  Flesh  whitish,  not  very  tender,  juicy,  with  a  brisk,  subacid 
flavor.     Good.     January,  April. 

Lincolnshire  Holland  Pippin. 

Striped  Holland  Pippin. 

A  second-rate  cooking  Apple. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  yellow,  stripes  of 
red  in  the  sun.     Flesh  white,  subacid.     November,  January. 


264  THE   APPLE. 


LlNDENWALD. 


Origin,  orchard  of  J.  G.  Sickles,  Stuyvesant,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  surface  oily,  yellow,  light  shades  of 
red  in  the  sun,  few  indistinct  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  often 
russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  deep,  slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  yehow- 
ish,  ci'isp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.      September. 

Lindley's  Nonpareil. 

Origin,  Chatham,  N.  C.  Tree  delicate,  slender,  poor  grower,  greal 
bearer. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  yellow,  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  rich, 
crisp,  aromatic,  nearly  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  August,  Septem- 
ber. 

Lippincott  Sweet. 

Origin,  New  Jersey. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow,  thin  shade  of  crimson 
in  the  sun,  many  brown  and  russet  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  pleasant  mild  sweet.  Good.  Core  small.  December  to 
March. 

Litchfield  Pippin. 

Raised  by  Win.  Hutchins,  of  Litchfield,  Me. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oval,  yellow,  with  red  in  sun.  Flesh  white, 
mild  subacid.      (Me.  Rep.) 

Little  Beauty. 

This  little  Apple,  says  Ronalds,  has  the  property  of  holding  firmly 
to  the  branches,  so  as  not  easily  to  be  dislodged.  Tree  upright,  and  a 
great  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  yellow  bronzed  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, rich,  but  rather  dry.     December,  February. 

Loan's  Pearmain. 

An  old  variety.     Tree  a  poor  grower. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblong,  greenish,  with  stripes  of  dark  red 
Flesh  firm,  j  uicy,  crisp.     Good.     September  to  November. 

Locy. 

Fruit  globular,  sometimes  inclining  to  oblate,  and  sometimes  oblong 
or  conic,  greenish,  shaded-  and  striped  with  dull  red.  Flesh  greenish^ 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  j ileasant.     Hardly  good.     November,  February. 

LODGEMOKE    NONPAREIL. 
Clissold's  Seedling. 
An  English  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  deep  yellow,  with  blush  in  sun.  Flesh 
yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  aromatic.     February,  March.     (Hogg.) 


THE   APPLE.  2ftft 

London  Pippin. 
Five- Crowned  Pippin.         New  London  Pippin.         Royal  Somerset 

A  very  old  English  Apple,  mostly  valued  for  cooking  or  drying 
Tree  a  moderate  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  flattened  at  base,  yellow,  with 
a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  white,  rather 
firm,  subacid.     Good.     November  to  February. 

London  Sweet. 

Heicke's  Winter  Sweet.  Mrs.  Weavers  Sweet  ? 

Clark's  Seedling.  London  Winter  Sweet. 

Origin  supposed  near  Dayton,  O.  Tree  vigorous,  productive,  valu- 
able in  rich  deep  soils.     Young  wood,  dull  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  very  slight 
indications  of  russet,  a  little  green  russet  around  the  stalk,  and  sparsely 
covered  with  brown  specks.  Stalk  short,  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx 
closed,  set  in  an  abrupt,  open,  slightly  uneven  basin.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  tender,  fine,  delicate,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.  Good  to  very 
good.     November  to  February. 

Long  Island  Pearmain. 
Hollow  Crown  Pearmain. 

An  old  variety,  described  by  Coxe,  and  while  it  is  somewhat  exten- 
sively grown,  has  been  sometimes  confounded  with  Winter  Pearmain, 
which  is  an  entirely  different  fruit. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obloug,  having  a  large  hollow  basin  or  crown, 
yellow,  splashed  and  streaked  with  red,  and  some  faint  russet  spots. 
Flesh  coarse,  tender,  somewhat  dry,  aromatic.  Good.  October  to 
February. 

Long  Island  Pippin. 

Origin  unknown.     Specimens  from  T.  T.  Lyon,  Plymouth,  Mich. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened,  yellowish  green.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  breaking,  fine-grained,  juicy  subacid.  Almost  best.  January. 
(Warder.) 

Long  Island  Russet. 

An  old  Apple,  much  grown  in  New  Jersey  and  Long  Island,  and 
valued  highly  for  cider  purposes.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  mostly  overspread  with  dull 
russet,  black  spots  or  blotches  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  yellowish,  tough, 
rather  dry,  almost  sweet.     October  to  February. 

Long  John. 

Of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  rather 
dry,  subacid,  valuable  only  for  its  size  and  long  keeping  quality.  March 
to  May. 


266  the  apple. 

Long's  Red  "Winter. 

H.  R.  Robey,  of  Fredericksburg,  says  this  was  found  in  the  forest 
about  fifteen  miles  from  that  place. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  striped  and  splashed 
with  bright  red,  sprinkled  with  a  few  brown  dots.  Flesh  yellowish, 
tender,  juicy,  crisp,  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  December  to  Feb 
cuary. 

Long  Start. 
Westmoreland  Longstart. 

An  English  culinary  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  mostly  overspread  and  streaked 
with  red.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  October,  De- 
cember. 

Long  Stem. 

There  are  four  distinct  Apples  under  this  name,  easily  distinguished 
by  the  wood  of  the  young  shoots. 

The  Long  Stem  of  Connecticut  is,  perhaps,  the  oldest  variety.  The 
young  shoots  are  dull  reddish  brown,  somewhat  downy,  with  prominent 
rounded,  flattened  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  greenish  clots,  and 
small  patches  of  russet.  Calyx  small,  in  a  small  basin.  Flesh  yellow, 
fine-grained,  somewhat  spicy,  sweet,  and  rich.  Good.  September  to 
January. 

The  Long  Stem  of  Massachusetts  has  rather  slender  young  shoots  of 
reddish  brown,  somewhat  grayish,  and  slightly  downy,  with  small  clear 
red  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  a  slight  blush  in  the 
sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots.  Calyx  medium, 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  aromatic. 
Good.     October,  February. 

The  Long  Stem  of  Pennsylvania  has  young  shoots,  of  a  yellowish 
brown,  with  very  small  short  buds. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  truncated, 
yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  red  mostly  over  the  whole 
surface,  many  small  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved, 
with  bracts.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  a  little  recurved.  Basin  corru- 
gated. Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.     November  to  February. 

The  Long  Stem  of  Kentucky  has  reddish  grayish  brown  young 
wood,  slightly  downy,  with  short,  round,  flattened  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  shaded,  mottled,  and 
rather  indistinctly  splashed  and  striped  over  all  with  dull  dark  red,  and 
with  many  large  light  gray  dots.  Flesh  greenish  white,  rather  compact, 
mild,  almost  sweet,  subacid.  Core  small.  Good  to  very  good.  Decem- 
ber to  March. 

Longville's  Kernel. 
Sam's  Crab. 
English.     Fruit  rather  below  medium  size,  oval,  rather   flattened, 


THE  APPLE.  257 

greenish  yellow,  streaked  with  pale  brownish  red,  with  a  few  streaks  of 
bright  red.  Flesh  firm,  yellow,  slightly  perfumed,  subacid.  Good 
August  and  September. 

Lord  Burleigh. 
Lord  Burghley. 

A  new  celebrated  English  dessert  Apple,  as  yet  untested  here. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slight  ly  oblate,  and  ribbed,  yellow,  with  a 
bright  crimson  cheek,  and  many  russet  specks.  Flesh  yellowish,  ten- 
der, juicy,  sweet  pine-apple  flavor.     January  to  May.     (Hogg.) 

Lord  Suffield. 

A  valuable  English  kitchen  Apple,  described  as  an  improvement  on 
Keswick  Codlin.     The  tree  hardy,  and  a  great  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  firm,  tender,  brisk  subacid.  August  and  Sep- 
tember. 

Lorick  Cluster. 

Said  to  have  originated  in  Georgia.  Tree  a  poor  grower,  but  a 
great  bearer  and  keeper. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  pale  green,  with  a  brown  tinge  in  the 
Bun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Core 
small.     January  to  April. 

Loring  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with  red,  and  sprin- 
kled with  brown  specks.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich.  Good. 
November  to  June. 

Loudon  Pippin. 
White's  Loudon  Pippin.  Lady  Washington  ? 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  White,  Loudon  Co.,  Ya.,  and  much  cultivated 
and  valued  in  that  section.     Tree  very  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  approaching  conic,  light  yellow,  sometimes  blush 
of  red  in  the  sun,  sprinkled  with  a  few  grayish  dots.  Stalk  short,  in- 
serted in  a  large  cavity,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  large,  open.  Ba- 
sin smooth  and  even,  rather  deep.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  tender, 
juicy,  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  February. 

Louise  Rexard. 

Originated  in  Belgium. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  conical,  yellow,  shaded  with 
bright  red  in  the  sun,  small  reddish  gray  spots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity 
deep,  irregular.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  very  white,  tender,  subacid,  aro- 
matic.    (An.  Pom.) 

17 


258 


the  apple. 

Lovett's  Sweet. 


Origin,  Beverly,  Mass. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic.       Skin  yellow.     Flesh  yellow, 
moderately  juicy,  sw§et  and  pleasant.     Good.     October  to  February. 


Queen  Anne. 
Orange. 


Lowell. 

Michigan  Golden. 
Tallow  Apple. 


Greasy  Pippin. 
Golden  Pippin  of  some. 


Young 


Origin  unknown.    Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  spreading,  productive, 
wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval  or  conic,  bright  waxen  yellow,  oily. 
Stalk  of  medium  length.  Cavity  deep,  uneven.  Basin  deep,  abrupt, 
and  furrowed.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  with  a  brisk,  rich, 
rather  acid  flavor.     Good  to  very  good.     September,  October. 


Lowre  Queen. 
Loure  Qneen. 

Origin  unknown,  somewhat  extensively  grown  in  Central  Ohio. 
Trees  upright,  early  bearers. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened,  yellow,  striped  and  splashed  with 
dull  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy.  "Very  good.  Novem- 
ber, February.      (Elliott.) 


the  applk.  959 

Luce's  Early  Joe. 
Early  Joe,  incorrectly. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit,  medium,  roundish  oblate,  whitish,  with  a  blush  in  the  sun,  few 
brown  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  sub- 
acid.    Good.     September. 

Lucombe's  Pine-Apple. 

Pine-Apple.  Pine-Apple  Pippin. 

An  English  Apple,  rather  below  medium  size,  ovate  conical,  ob- 
scurely ribbed,  pale  yellow,  bronzed  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
tender,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic.     Good.     October,  December. 

Lucombe's  Seedling. 

English.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  angular,  whitish,  striped  and 
splashed  with  red.  Flesh  iirm,  juicy,  good  for  cooking.  October, 
November. 

Ludwig. 
Haas. 

Originated  on  the  land  of Ludwig,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.,  and  consid- 
erably grown  in  its  native  locality. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  whitish,  splashed,  mottled, 
and  shaded  with  light  red,  many  dots,  with  dark  centres.  Stalk  short, 
slender.  Cavity  rather  large,  a  little  greenish  russet.  Calyx  closed. 
Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  sometimes  a  little  stained  next 
the  skin,  fine-grained,  jxiicy,  mild  subacid.  Core  rather  small.  Good  to 
very  good.     November  to  March. 

Lyman's  Large  Summer. 
Large  Yellow  Summer. 

A  large  and  handsome  American  fruit,  introduced  to  notice  by  Mr. 
S.  Lyman,  of  Manchester,  Conn.  The  bearing  trees  are  easily  recognized 
by  their  long  and  drooping  branches,  which  are  almost  wholly  without 
fruit-spurs,  but  bear  in  clusters  at  their  extremities.  They  bear  poorly 
until  the  tree  attains  considerable  size,  when  it  yields  excellent  crops. 

Fruit  quite  large,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  ends.  Skin  smooth, 
pale  yellow.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  subacid,  and  good  for  the  table  or 
for  cooking.     Last  of  August. 

Lyon's  Sweet. 

Originated  in  Connecticut.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  great  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  shaded,  striped, 
and  splashed  with  red,  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  wldtish,  rather  compact,  juicy,  tender,  sweet.     Good.     December. 

Lyscom. 

Osgood's  Favorite.  Matthew  Stripe. 

Origin,  Massachusetts.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading.  Young 
jshoots  dark  brown,  downy 


260  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  few  broken  stripes  or 
splashes  of  red.     Stalk  short,  planted  in  a  deep,  round,  even  cavity. 

Calyx  large,  in  a  broad,  plaited  basin.  Flesh  fine-grained,  and  exceed- 
ingly mild  and  agreeable  in  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  September  tc 
November. 

McAfee's  Nonsuch. 
McAfee's  Red. 

Originated  at  McAfee's  old  Fort  in  Kentucky.  Good  grower,  very 
productive.     Young  shoots  smooth  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  inclining  to  oblate.  Skin  yellowish  green, 
shaded  and  striped  with  crirnson  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk 
short,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  small  basin. 
Flesh  whitish,  solid,  crisp,  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  December  to 
March. 

McCoy's  Pippin. 

Origin,  Loudon,  Mercer  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  of  medium  upright  growth, 
productive,  valued  as  a  showy  market  sort,  and  also  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  a  little  oblicpie,  greenish  white,  a  shade  of  dull 
red  in  the  sun,  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
pleasant,  mild  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     October,  December. 

McDaniel. 

Origin,  Green  Co.,  Ohio. 

Fruit  full  medium,  regular,  oblate,  yellow,  covered  with  rich  crim- 
son, indistinct  stripes.  Dots  light  gray.  Flesh  yellow,  solid,  juicy,  sub- 
acid, rich,  piquant.     October,  November.     (Warder.) 

McDowell's  Sweet. 

Origin,  North  Carolina. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  fine  yellow,  mostly  over- 
spread, shaded,  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red,  almost  purplish  in 
the  sun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  narrow,  corrugated. 
Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  refreshing,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good. 
October,  December. 

McHenky. 

Origin,  Elizabethtown,  Indiana.  Growth  upright  and  free,  mode- 
rately productive.  Color  and  quality  similar  to  American  Summer 
^earmain.     September  to  December. 

Mackay  Sweet. 

Origin,  Massachusetts.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellow,  slight  tinge  of  red  irj 
the  sun.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  tendei,  juicy,  mild,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good.  Core 
small.     December  to  March. 


the  apple.  261 

McKim's  Vandervere. 

Origin,  on  the  grounds  of  Robert  McKim,  Centre  Co.,  Pa.  Tree 
vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  deep  yellow,  splashed,  striped,  and 
mottled  with  shades  of  red,  light  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, not  very  juicy,  acid.     Good.     September,  November. 

McKinley. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  flattened,  slightly  conic,  dull  red  on  green- 
ish yellow.  Stripes  indistinct.  Flesh  breaking,  fine-grained,  juicy,  sub- 
acid.    Good.     December,  January. 

Maclean's  Favorite. 

An  English  Apple  of  little  value. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow.  Flesh  crisp,  acid.  November  to 
February. 

McLellan. 

Martin. 

Origin,  Woodstock,  Conn.  Tree  thrifty,  upright,  very  produo- 
tive,  annual  bearer,  and  handsome.  Young  shoots,  dull  grayish  red 
dish  brown,  slightly  downy. 


McLellan. 


Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  very  re- 
gular, and  fair.  Color  yellow,  mostly  striped,  marbled,  and  splashed 
with  red.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Calyx  small, 
nearly  closed.  Basin  moderate,  slightly  uneven.  Flesh  white,  very  ten- 
der, juicy,  with  a  fine  vinous  flavor,  almost  saccharine.  Very  good. 
December  to  March. 


262  THE    APPLE. 


Macomber. 


Origin,  Guilford,  Maine.     Tree  a  good  annual  bearer. 

Fruit  full  medium,  oblate,  angular,  yellowish,  shaded  and  striped 
with  red.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  large  and  re- 
gular. Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  subacid.  Good.  Core  small. 
December,  January. 

Magnolia. 

Origin,  Bolton,  Mass.     Growth  moderate,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellow,  beautifully  striped 
and  mottled  with  crimson.  Stalk  short,  in  a  broad,  uneven  cavity. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  small.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  aromatic, 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

We  have  also  received  from  J.  W.  Dodge,  Tennessee,  an  apple  undei 
this  name,  the  origin  of  which  cannot  be  well  traced.  It  is  large, 
roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  irregular,  yellow,  striped,  mottled, 
and  splashed  with  red.  Flesh  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant, 
slightly  aromatic.     Very  good.     December,  January. 

Maiden's  Blush. 

A  remarkably  beautiful  Apple,  a  native  of  New  Jersey,  and  first  de- 
scribed by  Coxe.  It  begins  to  ripen  about  the  20th  of  August,  and  con- 
tinues until  the  last  of  October.  It  has  all  the  beauty  of  color  of  the 
pretty  little  Lady  Apple,  and  is  much  cultivated  and  admired,  both 
for  the  table  and  for  cooking.  It  is  also  very  highly  esteemed  for 
drying. 


Maiden's  Blush. 


This  variety  forms  a  handsome,  rapid-growing  tree,  with  a  fine 
spreading  head,  and  bears  large  crops,  It  is  very  valuable  as  a  profita- 
ble market  sort. 


THE   APPLE.  263 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  very  regularly  shaped,  and  a  little  narrower  to- 
wards the  eye.  Skin  smooth,  with  a  delicate  waxen  appearance,  pale 
lemon  yellow  in  the  shade,  with  a  brilliant  crimson  cheek  next  the  sun,, 
the  two  colors  often  joining  in  brilliant  red.  Stalk  short,  planted  in  a 
rather  wide  deep  hollow.  Basin  moderately  depressed.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  sprightly,  pleasant  subacid.     Good. 

Maiden's  Favorite. 
Maiden's  Apple. 

Origin,  farm  of  J.  G.  Sickles,  Stuyvesant,  N.  Y.  Its  delicacy  and 
beauty  will  make  it  desirable  for  the  amateur.  Tree  of  rather  slow 
growth,  upright  slender  branches,  an  annual  and  good  bearer.  Young 
shoots  smooth,  clear  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  sometimes  slightly  conic,  gene- 
rally cylindric,  but  often  very  obscurely  ribbed,  whitish  or  pale 
waxen  yellow,  shaded  and  sometimes  slightly  mottled  with  crimson,  and 
sparsely  sprinkled  with  minute  dots.  Stalk  short,  small,  surrounded  by 
thin  russet,  in  a  deep,  uniform  cavity.  Calyx  firmly  closed.  Basin 
slightly  corrugated,  deep,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  crisp,  with  a 
pleasant,  very  delicate,  vinous  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core 
small.      October  to  January. 

Major. 

Originated  with  Major  Samuel  McMahon,  Northumberland  Co., 
Pa.  This  is  a  show}-  market  Apple  of  really  excellent  quality.  The 
tree  is  a  rapid  and  vigorous  grower,  with  rather  irregular,  upi-ight, 
spreading  shoots,  reddish  brown,  slightly  grayish. 

Fruit  large.  Form  roundish,  often  oblate,  slightly  inclining  to  conic. 
Sides  sometimes  unequal.  Color  greenish,  shaded  and  rather  obscurely 
striped  and  splashed  with  deep  red,  many  light  russet  gray  dots.  Stalk 
short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  large,  with  stiff,  short  segments.  Basin  large, 
broad,  and  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  rich 
subacid.     Core  small.     Very  good.     November  to  April. 

Mala  Carle. 

Pomme  Finale.  Charles  Apple. 

Mela  di  Carlo.  Mela  Carla. 

Pomme  de  Charles. 

The  Male  Carle  is  the  most  celebrated  of  all  Apples  in  Italy  and  the 
South  of  Europe,  whence  it  comes.  Here  or  in  New  England  it  does 
not  always  attain  perfection,  but  south  of  New  York  it  becomes  beauti- 
ful and  fine,  as  it  needs  a  warm  and  dry  soil. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  very  regularly  shaped,  a  little  narrow  to- 
wards the  eye.  Skin  smooth,  with  a  delicate  waxen  appearance,  pale 
lemon  yellow  in  the  shade,  with  a  brilliant  crimson  cheek  next  the  sun, 
the  two  colors  often  joining  in  strong  contrast.  Flesh  white,  not  very 
juicy,  but  tender,  and  with  a  delicate,  slightly  rose-perfumed  flavor. 
Good.     September  to  January. 

Mamma. 

A  Southern  Apple  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  a  very  thrifty,  compacl 
grower.     Young  wood  reddish. 


264  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate,  crimson  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  rich,  aitv 
matic  subacid.     October,  November. 

Mammoth  June. 

Origin,  Christian  Co.,  Ky.  Tree  an  upright,  moderate  grower ;  not 
an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  whitish  yellow,  striped  and 
splashed  with  shades  of  red,  light  dots.  Flesh  very  white,  tender,  not 
very  juicy,  mild  subacid.     Good.     July,  August. 

Manaen. 

This  variety  was  grown  from  seed  of  the  Talman  Sweet,  by  F.  B* 
Miller,  Sugar  Grove,  Warren  Co.,  Pa.,  and  first  fruited  in  1867.  Tbg 
tree  is  said  to  be  a  thrifty,  upright  grower.  Young  wood  dark  reddish 
brown,  with  a  few  white  raised  dots,  and  slightly  downy.  Leaf  broad 
roundish  oval,  coarsely  serrated. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate  conical,  irregular,  or  partialb 
ribbed,  pale  whitish  yellow,  with  deep  carmine  dots  and  marblings  in 
sun,  russet  lines  radiating  from  the  stalk,  scattering  minute,  raised,  gray, 
or  russet  dots  in  the  shade.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  deep,  broad,  open, 
russeted.  Calyx  partially  closed,  with  erect  recurved,  divided  segments. 
Basin  rather  deep,  abrupt,  generally  irregular  in  form,  usually  clean  and 
Bmootb,  but  occasionally  with  russeted  broken  lines.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  granulated,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  sweet,  aromatic.     Very 


Mangiim. 


good.  Core  small.  Seeds  dark  rich  brown,  oblong,  pointed.  Season, 
last  of  August  and  September.  A  new  variety  of  fine  promise  as  an 
amateur's  fruit.     (Rural  New  Yorker.) 


the  apple.  265 

Mangum. 

Fall  Cheese  of  Va.  Cheese.  Seago. 

Gully.  Carter  of  Ala.  Maxfield. 

Carter's  Winter.  Patton.  Johnston's  Favorite. 

Alabama  Pearmain  ?  Sam  Wingard.  lilakely. 

A.  Southern  variety  of  uncertain  origin.  It  is  extensively  cultivated 
♦South,  where  it  is  counted  as  one  of  the  most  desirable  and  reliable 
apples.  Tree  a  good,  fair  grower,  with  young  shoots  of  a  grayish  brown, 
very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellowish,  striped  and  mostly 
shaded  with  red,  thickly  sprinkled  with  whitish  and  bronze  dots.  Stalk 
short  and  small,  inserted  in  a  broad  cavity  surrounded  by  russet.  Ca- 
lyx partially  closed.  Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellow,  very  ten* 
der,  juicy,  mild  subacid.     Very  good  to  best.     October,  November. 

Mank's  Codlin. 

Irish  Pitcher.  Frith  Pitcher.  Irish  Codlin. 

Eve  of  Scotland.  Frith  Pippin. 

An  old  English  culinary  Apple,  long  cultivated  and  esteemed  here  as 
well  as  abroad  for  its  productiveness,  hardiness  of  tree,  and  early  bear- 
ing habit. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conical,  one  side  of  apex  end  higher 
than  the  other,  clear  pale  yellow,  with  a  bronzed  cheek  in  sun.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  fine  crisp,  brisk  subacid.  Good.  August  to  Novem- 
ber. 

Mannington's  Pearmain. 

Origin,  Sussex,  England.  A  dessert  fruit  of  considerable  esteem 
abroad,  and  here  fully  sustains  its  foreign  character.  Tree  hardy,  and 
early  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  truncated,  yellow,  partially 
russeted,  shaded  and  splashed  with  red,  prominent,  rough,  light  gray 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  tender,  brisk  subacid.  Very  Good.  Core 
medium.     October,  December. 

Makomet. 
Horse  Block.  Manomet  Sweet. 

Origin,  Plymouth,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young 
shoots  dark  reddish  brown.  This  is  one  of  the  finest  of  sweet  apples, 
esteemed  highly  wherever  grown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  fine  yellow,  with  a  richly  shaded  cheek. 
Stalk  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity,  slightly  surrounded  by 
russet.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  tender,  juicy, 
f  weet,  and  rich.     Very  good.     Core  small.      August,  September. 

Mansfield  Russet. 

Brought  into  notice  by  Dr.  Joseph  Mansfield,  of  Groton,  Mass, 
Trpp  vigorous,  upright,  and  very  productive. 


266  THE     APPLE. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblong,  inclining  to  conic,  cinnamon  russet 
Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  deep  furrowed  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed, 
set  in  an  open  basin.  Flesh  not  very  juicy,  rich,  aromatic,  saccharine, 
vinous.     Good  to  very  good.     Keeps  till  April  or  May. 


Marble  Sweet. 

VirgLiia  Sweet.  Mclntire's  Sweeting. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  ovate,  marbled  dull  red  and  yellow, 
Flesh  sweet,  dry.     November,  February.     (Elliott.) 

March's  Red  Winter. 
March's  Red  Seedling. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  George  B.  March,  near  Chillicothe,  Ohio. 
Tree  a  moderate  grower. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  yellow,  overspread  and  shaded 
with  rich  bright  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  pleas- 
ant subacid.     Good.     November  to  January. 

Margil. 
Neverfail.  Munche's  Pippin. 

An  old  English  dessert  Apple,  of  slender  growth. 
Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  striped  with  red.     Flesh  yel 
iOW,  firm,  aromatic.     Good.     October,  November. 

Maria  Bush. 
Origin,  Lancaster,  Co.,  Pa.     A  healthy  grower  and  good  bearor. 


THE    APPLE.  207 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  ai.d  splashed 
with  red,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stem  slender  Cavity 
large.  Basin  abrupt  and  open.  Flesh  white,  very  tender, juicy,  subacid 
Good.     October,  November. 

Marks. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.,  on  the  lands  of  Mr.  Klinger.  Tree  vigorous, 
upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  tapering  slightly  to  the  crown,  yellow- 
ish white,  with  a  few  russet  dots,  and  nearly  covered  with  a  faint  orange 
blush.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  brisk  subacid.  Good.  January  to  March. 
The  fruit  drops  badly. 

Marmalade  Pippin. 
Althorp  Pippin.  Welsh  Pippin. 

This  is  an  English  Apple,  from  Derbyshire.  Tree  hardy,  and  profuse 
beaver. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblong,  truncated,  yellowish, 
bronzed  in  the  sun,  numerous  dots  and  some  pearly  white  specks.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy,  sweet.  October  to  February  There  is 
another  apple  under  this  name,  which  is  striped  with  red  and  ripens  in 
August. 

Marshall. 

Largely  grown  in  some  parts  of  New  Hampshire,  as  a  profitable 
market  Apple,  on  account  of  its  productiveness  and  very  late  keeping. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  a  little  flattened,  deep  green,  mostly 
overlaid  with  a  fine  thick  sprinkling  of  whitish  green  specks,  a  little 
blush  and  crimson  specks  next  the  sun.     April,  May.     (Me.  Rep.) 

Marshall's  Sweet. 

Originated  with  S.  B.  Marshall,  Ohio.  Tree  a  moderate  stocky 
grower,  forming  a  round  head. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate  conic,  sides  unequal,  yellow, 
splashed  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red.  Flesh  white,  a  little 
stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant,  sweet.  Good. 
November,  December. 

Marston's  Bed  Winter. 

Origin,  Greenland,  N.  II.  Tree  hardy,  of  moderate  growth.  Young 
Bhoots  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy.  Great  hearer,  and  keeps  as  well 
as  Baldwin. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  roun  lisli  conic.  Stalk  rather  slender,  in  a 
narrow,  deep,  compressed,  slightl  ■<  d  cavity^sometimes  with  a 

lip.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  long,  in  a  deep  corrugated  basin. 
Color  whitish  yellow,  shaded  and  striped  with  bright  red  and  crimson, 
thickly  sprinkle.!  with    i  h  wliitish   yellow,  very  juicy. 

'y  subaei  I.     '  December  to  March. 


268  the  apple. 

Martin. 

Origin,  supposed  Oiaio.  Tree  thrifty,  rigorous,  spreading,  prodtvo 
tive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow  mixed  and  striped 
red.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  light  yellow,  rather  tender,  juicy,  subacid, 
agreeable.     Almost  good.     August,  September.     (Am.  Hort.  An.) 

Martin  Nonpareil. 

An  English  Apple.  The  tree  a  vigorous  grower,  hardy,  and  a  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  or  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  many  traces 
and  patches  of  russet,  and  small  gray  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  yellow, 
compact,  juicy,  brisk,  rich  subacid.  Very  good.  Core  small.  Novem- 
ber to  March.     Too  small  for  profit. 

Mary. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  overspread  with  light  red, 
striped  and  splashed  with  crimson,  few  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  small. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  firm,  crisp,  tolerably  juicy, 
mild  subacid,  almost  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  January 
to  March. 

Maryland  Beauty. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish  shaded,  splashed  and  marbled  with 
light  and  dark  red,  Light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  tender,  juicy, 
brisk  subacid.     Good.     Core  large.     October,  November. 

Masten. 
Masten's  Seedling. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  R.  C.  Masten,  Pleasant  Valley,  Dutchess 
Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  with  a  broad,  spreading,  well-formed  head, 
productive.     Young  shoots  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  oily,  yellow,  brownish 
or  faint  blush  in  the  sun,  brown  and  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  small. 
Cavity  narrow.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish, 
fine-grained,  rather  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  December  to 
March. 

Master's. 

Master's  Seedling. 

An  old  Kentish,  England,  Apple.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  yellowish  green,  red  cheek  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  firm,  acid.     November,  January. 


THH    APPLE. 


269 


Matlock's  Summer. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  white,  sometimes  with  a  blush  or  indistinct 
splashes  and  stripes.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  almost  sweet.  Good 
A  ugust. 

Matson. 
Fruit  large,  red  streaked,  showy,  acid,  cooking.     (A.  Pom.  S.) 


Mattamuskeet. 


Young 


Origin,  Eastern  North  Carolina.    Tree  vigorous,  productive, 
wood  dull  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellow,  shaded  and  splashed 
with  Light  and  dark  red.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  crisp,  brisk  subacid. 
Good.  December  to  March.  Valued  principally  for  its  keeping  quali- 
ties. 

Mauck. 

A  Pennsylvania  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  greenish  yellow,  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  tender, 
pleasant.     Good.     Core  large,  hollow.     October,  November. 


MATvnck'i  BwMt. 

Maverack's  Sweet. 


Raised  by  Dr.  Maverack,  Pendleton  District,  S.  C.  Tree  vigorous 
upright,  spreading,  sometimes  irregular,  an  early  and  good  bearer 
Young  shoots  reddish  grayish  brown,    lightly  downy. 


270  THE   APPLE. 

•  Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  shaded  with  rich  deep 
red,  and  sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  hi  an  open  ca  vity. 
Calyx  open,  set  in  a  deep  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather 
coarse-grained,  breaking,  tender,  rich,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  Corp 
small.  November  to  February.  A  valuable  sweet  apple  for  market  or 
cooking. 

Maxey. 

This  variety  we  received  from  A.  L.  Woodson,  Hart  Co.,  Ky#> 
by  whom  the  tree  is  described  as  a  good  grower,  an  annual  but  not  earlv 
bearer,  producing  fair,  even-sized  fruit,  that  keeps  well  into  May  and 
June. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  approaching  conical,  light  greenish 
ground,  with  broken  red  stripes  and  splashes,  from  the  stem  end,  of 
pinkish  red,  light  dots  and  indistinct  dark  specks.  Stalk  medium  length 
and  size.  Cavity  regular,  round,  smooth,  lightly  russeted.  Calyx  large, 
open,  with  divided  recurved  segments.  Basin  shallow,  broad,  regular. 
Flesh  whitish,  not  very  juicy  or  tender,  subacid.  Good.  Core  small. 
May  to  July. 

May. 

May  Apple.  PillMn.  Plymouth  Greening. 

Rhenish  May.  Winter  May.         May  of  Myers. 

May  Seek -no -further  of  some. 

An  old  Apple,  considerably  grown  at  the  West.  Origin  unknown. 
Its  only  value  is  because  of  its  long  keeping  quality.  Tree  a  poor 
grower,  but  a  good  bearer.  Young  shoots  dark  reddish  brown,  downy 
somewhat  towards  the  end. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  pale  greenish  yellow,  slight  brown- 
ish in  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  fine-grained,  compact,  not  very  juicy,  mild 
subacid.     Core  rather  large,  and  open.     Good.     February  to  June. 

May  Seek-no-Farther. 
Lop-sided  Pearmain.  Pilliken.  May,  erroneously. 

Origin  unknown.  Considerably  grown  in  some  parts  of  the  West, 
aDd  valued  only  because  of  its  productiveness  and  long  keeping. 

Tree  spreading,  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  oblique,  dull  greenish,  mostly  overspread  and 
bhadnd  with  obscure  stripes  and  marblings  of  dull  dingy  red.  Flesh  firm, 
dry,  subacid.     Good.     February  to  May. 

Meach. 

From  J.  M.  Ketchum,  Brandon,  Vt. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  greenish  yellow,  striped  and 
mottled  with  light  red,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Flesh  yellowish, 
rather  tine,  juicy,  mild  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Meadow  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  gray  and  light 
Jots.  Flesh  whitish,  moderately  tender  and  juicy,  rathor  rich,  sweet. 
Core  small.     Good.     November,  February. 


the  apple.  271 

Meak's  Sweet. 
Mear's  Seedling. 

Origin,  near  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roxindish  oblate,  greenish  yello  iv,  brownish  in 
the  sun.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender, 
mild,  sweet  subacid.     Core  small.     Good.     January  to  March. 

Meister. 

From  Berks  Co.,  Pa. 

Size  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  striped  with 
red,  with  numerous  white  spots,  and  russet  dots.  Flesh  tender,  pleasant 
subacid.     Good.     October. 

Melon. 

Norton's  Melon.  Watermelon. 

Origin,  East  Bloomfield,  N.  Y.  Tree  of  rather  slow  growth  while 
young,  a  good  bearer.  Young  shoots  dull  grayish  1  eddish  brown.  One 
of  the  best  and  most  valuable  sorts  for  the  dessert ;  a  little  too  tender  for 
shipping  long  distances. 

Fruit  medium  or  above.  Form  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  ob- 
scure ribs  towards  apex.     Color  pale  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  bight 


Melon. 


crimson,  splashed,  striped,  and  mottled  with  carmine,  some  traces  of 
russet,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  me- 
dium, slender.  Cavity  large,  deep,  regular,  often  considerably  russeted. 
Calyx  partially  closed.     Segments   medium,  erect,  sometimes  a  little  re 


272  THE   APPLE. 

curved  Basin  rather  abrupt,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  very 
tender,  juicy,  refreshing,  lively  vinous  subacid.  Core  snail.  Best 
November  to  March 

Melrose. 
White  Melrose. 

An  old  Scotch  Apple  little  known.  Tree  a  strong,  healthy  grower 
and  a  free  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conical,  much  ribbed  toward  the  apex, 
pale  yellow,  becoming  deeper  in  the  sun,  and  at  times  many  crimson 
spots.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  sweet  subacid.  October,  De- 
cember. 

Melt  in  the  Mouth. 

Origin,  Chester  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading, 
Young  shoots  long,  slender,  dark  reddish  brown,  downy  at  ends. 

Fruit  medium  or  rather  below,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  deep  red, 
splashed  and  marbled  on  a  yellow  ground,  with  a  few  small  white  dots. 
Stalk  long,  very  slender,  curved,  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a 
rather  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  mild, 
rather  rich,  pleasant  subacid,  somewhat  resembling  Summer  Bearmain. 
Very  good.     September  to  November. 

Melvix  Sweet. 

Origin,  Concord,  Mass.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 
Fruit  medium,   roundish,  yellowish   green,  striped  with  pale    red- 
Flesh  rich  and  sugary.     November  to  February.     (Ho v.  Mag.) 

Menagere. 

We  received  this  fruit  from  Mr.  Manning,  who,  we  believe,  had  it 
from  Germany ;  it  is  only  fit  for  cooking. 

Fruit  very  large,  regularly  formed,  but  very  much  flattened,  pale 
yellow,  with  sometimes  a  little  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  tolerably  juicy, 
Good.     September  to  January 

Menonisten  Beinette. 
Reinette  des  Menonites. 

A  German  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  some  russet,  and  a  flush  of 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  fine,  firm,  juicy,  aromatic,  brisk  subacid.  No- 
vember, February. 

Mexsfeld  Calville. 

Calville  d'Hiver  de  Mensfeld.  Mensfelder  Gulderling. 

Mensf  elder  Winter  Calville. 

Originated  in  Mensfeld,  in  the  Duchy  of  Warsaw.  Tree  a  strong,  vig- 
orous grower,  with  long  jointed  branches. 


THE   APPLE.  27S 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  slightly  ribbed,  yellowish  green,  with 
distinct  small  brown  dots.  Calyx  large.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  half  firm, 
rather  tender,  sugary,  vinous.  Good  for  table  or  cooking.  December 
to  February.     (Ver.) 

Mercer. 

Origin  unknown.     Specimens  received  from  Western  New  York. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  sprinkled  with  a  few 
gray  dots.  Stalk  rather  shoi*t.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  crisp,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     October. 

Mere  de  Menage. 

Fruit  very  large,  conical,  yellow,  overspread,  shaded,  and  striped  with 
red.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  brisk,  juicy,  subacid.  October,  December.  A 
very  showy  market  Apple,  and  good  for  cooking. 

Merrill's. 
Merrill's  Apple. 

Origin,  Smyrna,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  with  a  bright  red  cheek.  Flesh  yel- 
low, rather  firm,  rich,  spicy,  subacid.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Merritt's  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  blush.  Flesh  com- 
pact, very  sweet,  good  for  culinary  use  and  stock  feeding.  Good. 
Last  of  August.     Productive. 

Merwin. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  faintly  striped, 
splashed,  and  shaded  with  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  compact,  mod- 
erately juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Methodist. 

From  Connecticut.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive,  medium  size, 
oblong  oval,  greenish,  marbled  and  striped  with  red.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, mild  subacid,  not  rich.     Good.     November 

Metoiree. 
French  Crab. 

An  old  variety,  of  litle  value.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  holding  its 
fruit  quite  late  in  autumn. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  yellow,  shaded  over  with  red.  Flesh  juicy. 
Good  flavor  for  baking. 

Mexico. 

Origin,  Canterbury,  Conn.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  productive, 
hardy.     Young  shoots  dull  grayish  brown,  downy. 


274  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  crimson,  striped,  splashed,  and  shaded 
with  very  dark  red,  a  little  yellow  in  the  shade,  with  a  few  large  light 
dots.  Stalk  medium  length.  Cavity  broad,  shallow,  russeted.  Calyx. 
closed  in  a  narrow  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  stained  with  red,  tender, 
rather  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  Sep- 
tember, October. 


Mexico. 

Michael  Henry  Pippin. 

Rariton  Sweet. 

A  New  Jersey  fruit,  a  native  of  Monmouth  County,  first  described  by 
Coxe.  The  tree  forms  a  very  upright  head,  with  pretty  strong  shoots. 
Very  productive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblong  ovate,  narrowing  to  the  eye, 
when  ripe,  of  a  lively  yellowish  green.  Stalk  short  and  rather  thick. 
Calyx  set  in  a  narrow  basin.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very  tender,  juicy, 
mild  tame  sweet.     Good.     November  to  March. 

Middle. 

Mittel. 

Origin,  Herkimer,  N.  Y.  A  moderate  grower,  not  very  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblong,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish 
yellow.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  mild  subacid.  Good.  De- 
cember, February. 

Middlebourg  Reinette. 
Reinette  de  Middlebourg. 

A  new  variety,  originating  in  Holland.     Tree  upright,  productive, 


THE   APPLE.  275 

Fruit  medium,  rouudisb  oblong,  greenish,  yellow,  with  many  grayish 
spots.  Calyx  small,  half  closed.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  hne> 
firm,  rather  dry,  subacid.     December  to  March.     (Ver.) 

Mifflin  Kino. 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  Koffman,  Mifflin  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  whitish  with  a  slight  blush  and  a  few  gray  dots. 
Stalk  short,  small.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant,  lively  subacid.     Good.     November  and  December. 

MlGNONNE   D'HlVER. 

A  new  variety,  probably  of  French  origin. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate  depressed,  slightly  conic,  greenish 
yellow,  with  shade  of  rich  bright  red  in  the  sun,  few  light  and  gray 
dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  nearly  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  firm, 
moderately  juicy,  mild,  pleasant,  almost  sweet.     December,  February. 

Milam. 

Harrigan.  Winter  Pearmain  of  some.  Blair. 

Thomas.  Rusty  Coat  Milam  ? 

Origin  uncertain,  much  grown  in  some  sections  at  the  West,  very 
productive,  and  keeps  well. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  greenish,  shaded  and  striped  with 
red.  Flesh  rather  firm,  pleasant,  subacid,  not  rich.  Good.  December, 
March. 

Milch. 

Braunschweiger  Milch.  Milch  ApfeL 

An  extremely  beautiful  German  Apple,  recently  introduced. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  waxy  white,  with  crimson  stripes 
and  dots  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  tender,  crisp,  subacid. 
August. 

Miller. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  very  productive. 
Young  shoots  grayish  dull  reddish  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate, whitish  yellow,  shaded,  splash- 
ed, and  striped  with  shades  of  red.  Flesh  white,  sometimes  stained  with 
•red  next  the  skin,  juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Core  larg»>. 
September,  November. 

Miller. 

Introduced  by  James  O.  Miller,  Montgomery,  Orange  Co.,  N.  Y 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  wood  smooth,  light  reddish 
brown. 

Fiuit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yp.llmv,  shaded, 
■striped,  and  splashed  with  rich  red, large lighl  or  areoledots-. 


276  THE   APPLE. 

Cavity  deep.  Calyx  large,  partially  clceed.  Basin  deep,  furrowed 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  crisp,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very  good 
October,  November. 

Minghall  Crab. 

Minshul  Crab.  Mincham's  Crab. 

Lancashire  Crab.  Lancaster  Crab. 

An  English  Apple,  valued  mainly  for  cooking.  Tree  hardy,  and 
abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  with  traces  of  rus- 
set, and  shades  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk  acid. 
November,  February.     (Ron.) 

Minier's  Dumpling. 

An  English  cooking  Apple.     Tree  a  strong  grower  and  good  bearer. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  ribbed,  greenish,  with  dull  red  in  the 
sun.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  subacid.     November,  February.     (Lind.) 

Minister. 

A  New  England  variety,  introduced  to  notice  by  the  late  R.  Man- 
ning. It  originated  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Saunders,  Rowley,  Mass.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  very  productive.  Young 
shoots  dark  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  tapering  to  the  eye,  around  which  are  a  few  fur- 
rows— and  resembling  the  Yellow  Belle-Fleur  in  outline.  Skin  striped 
and  splashed  near  the  stalk,  with  bright  red  on  a  greenish  yellow  ground. 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender,  curved  to  one  side,  and  pretty  deeply  in- 
serted. Calyx  small,  closed,  inserted  in  a  very  narrow  plaited  or  fur- 
rowed basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  very  tender,  with  a  somewhat 
acid,  but  very  agreeable  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  large  and 
open.     October  to  February. 

Minkler. 
Brandywine  ? 

This  is  an  old  variety  which  was  first  exhibited  before  the  Illinois 
Horticultural  Society,  and  because  it  could  not  be  identified,  received, 
for  the  time  being,  the  name  of  its  exhibitor.  At  some  future  time  it 
will  probably  be  found  identical  with  some  variety  long  since  named 
and  described.     Tree  an  irregular  grower,  good  bearer  and  keeper. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  pale  greenish  yellow, 
striped  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,' 
moderately  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  January 
to  March. 

Mishler's    Sweet. 

From  Pennsylvania.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous  and  produ^ 
tive.     Young  shoots  light  reddish  brown,  somewhat  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  ovate,  greenish  yellow  few  giay  dots. 


THE  APPLE.  277 

Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  sweet.      Good.     Core  larger 
October. 

MlTCHELSON. 
Mitchelson's  Seedling. 

An  English  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  beautiful,  and  suitable  for 
dessert  or  cooking. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conical,  deep  yellow,  slight  patches 
and  traces  of  russet,  with  a  reddish  cheek  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish, 
firm,  crisp,  brisk  rich  subacid.     December,  February. 

Molasses. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  upright,  vigorous,  and  hardy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate.  Skin  thick,  rough,  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
with  dull  red,  thickly  covered  with  large  crimson  or  lilac  dots,  and  dull 
lilac  bloom.     Flesh  yellow  and  exceedingly  sweet.     January  to  April. 

There  are,  besides  the  above,  three  or  four  distinct  apples  under  this 
name.     One  is  claimed  to  have  originated  in  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  tinge  of  crimson  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellow,  compact,  not  very  juicy,  sweet.  Tree  a  slow  grower. 
October,  November. 

Elliott  describes  a  Molasses,  giving  as  synonyms,  Priest's  Sweet, 
Sutter,  Slue  Sweet. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  red.     Flesh  dry,  sweet.     October. 

Another  we  have  met  is  roundish  conical,  yellow,  mostly  shaded, 
splashed,  and  marbled  with  dark  red.  Flesh  rich,  sweet.  Fine  for 
cooking.  None  of  this  class  are  valued,  except  for  the  purpose  of 
cooking  and  feeding  stock. 

Monarch. 
Monarch  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  a  good  and  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  regular.  Skin  light  red,  splashed 
md  striped  with  dark  red,  and  numerous  light  dots.  Flesh  juicy,  not 
very  tender,  but  rich,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     September,  October. 

Monkland  Pippin. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  greenish  white,  soft 
ooarse.     Poor.     November. 

Monk's  Favorite. 

Origin,  Indiana.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  yellowish,  striped  and  splashed  with  red.    Flesh 
yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     November,  December. 

MONKTON. 

A  ciier  Apple  from  Somersetshire,  England. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  slightly  ribbed,  clear  red,  with  stripes  of 
crimson.     Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  brisk  acid.     ^Hojjg.) 


278  THE  APPLE. 

MONMOTTTFT  PTPPIN. 
Red  Cheek  Pippin. 

A  native  of  Monmouth  Co.,  N.  J.,  of  moderate  upright  growth,  and 
productive.     Young  shoots  dark  olive. 


Monmouth  Pippin. 


Fruit  large,  oblate,  a  little  inclining  to  conic,  obscurely  five-angled, 
Blightly  flattened  at  base  and  crown.  Color  pale  yellow,  with  a  beautiful 
warm  cheek,  and  numerous  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  inserted  in 
a  large,  slightly  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  deep, 
abrupt,  and  corrugated.  Flesh  juicy,  fine,  brisk,  aromatic  subacid.  Very 
good  to  best.     November  to  March. 

Monstrous  Bellflower. 

An  old  variety,  little  grown.  Tree  a  strong,  irregular,  vigorous 
grower,  not  profitable. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  ribbed,  pale  yellow  blush  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  whitish,  brisk,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Core  large.  October,  No- 
vember. 

MONTALIVET. 

Of  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  deep  yellow,  with  small  risset 
dots.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  January, 
February.     Core  small. 


the  apple.  279 

Moore. 
Moore's  Seedling 

A  good  culinary  Apple, 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with  broken 
streaks  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  pleasantly  sweet.  October 
December.     (Hogg.) 

Moore's  Extra. 

Origin,  Ohio.     Tree  vigorous,  not  an  early  but  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  flattened  at  base. 
Color  yellow,  shaded,  sj  dashed,  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red, 
large  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  small.  Cavity  narrow,  deep.  Calyx 
open.  Segments  short,  erect,  separated.  Basin  large,  deep,  irregular. 
Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid.  Core  small. 
Very  good.     December,  March. 

Moore's  Greening. 

Raised  by  R.  Moore,  of  Southington,  Conn.     Very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  globular,  inclining  to  oblong  or  conic,  greenish  yel- 
low, sometimes  with  a  slight  blush.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  tender,  with  a 
brisk,  vinous  flavor.     Good.     December,  March. 

Moore's  Sweet. 

Sweet  Pippin.  Polhemus. 

Red  Sweet  Pippin.  Pound  Sweet  of  some. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  very  productive.  Although  not  a  first- 
class  Apple,  it  is  a  very  profitable  and  valuable  one  for  all  cooking  or 
stock-feeding  purposes. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dark  dull  red,  with  a  slight  bloom, 
small  light-colored  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  rich,  pleasant  sweet.  Good. 
Core  small.     November  to  May. 

Moorhen   Pippin. 

An  English  dessert  Apple,  below  medium  size,  roundish  oblate, 
greenish,  with  splashes  of  red  and  russet  in  sun.  Flesh  firm,  rich,  pleas- 
ant.    January  to  April.     (Ron.) 


Moreland. 

•mery  Co., 
yellow,  wi 
cooking.     October. 


Origin,  Montgomery  Co.,  Pa.       Tree  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek,  pleasant  acid.     Good  for 


Morgan  "White. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  somewhat  flattened,  irregularly  ribbed,  uneven, 
greenish,  marked  with  gray  stripes,  rarely  a  faint  blush.  Dots  white, 
large.  Flesh  greenish  white,  breaking,  tender,  juicy,  acid  to  subacid. 
Good.     September  to  January.     (Warder.) 


280  the  apple. 

Morrison's  Red. 

Origin,  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Medfield,  Mass.,  on  the  farm  of 
Mr.  Fisher.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  shoots  dull  grayish 
brownish  red,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  light  yellow,  shaded  and  obscurely 
striped  with  deep  red.  Stalk  very  short,  stout.  Cavity  small.  Calyx 
closed,  in  a  very  small  basin.  Flesh  tender,  crisp,  with  a  very  mild, 
pleasant  subacid.     Very  good.     November  to  March. 

Morrison  Sweet. 

Origin,  Clinton  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  small,  hardy,  round  regular  head 
good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  with  slight  blush  in  sun. 
Flesh  white,  rather  dry,  sweet.     Poor.     October,  November. 

Morris's  Court  of  Wick. 

A  variety  esteemed  in  England,  too  small  for  Americans. 
Fruit  small,  oblate,  greenish,  with  light  red  in  the  sun.     Flesh  firm, 
tender,  juicy,  rich,  vinous.     October,  January. 

Morris's  Russet. 

Origin,  Brentford,  England. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  brownish  russet,  becoming  ruddy  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  firm,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  aromatic,  subacid.  October, 
February.     (Hogg.) 

Morton. 
Morton's  Seedling. 

Origin,  supposed  Clermont  Co.,  Ohio.  Tree  vigorous,  upright 
spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  reddish 
blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  sweet  subacid. 
Good.     November,  December. 

Moses  Wood. 

Origin,  Winthrop,  Maine.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  striped  with  red.  Cavity  and  basin 
Bhallow.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 

Moss's  Incomparable. 

Originated  in  England.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  golden  yellow,  washed  with  pale  red, 
and  splashed  with  bright  red  in  the  sun,  many  small  dark  brown  specks. 

Stalk  slender.  Cavity  large.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  soft, 
aromatic  subacid.     January  to  February. 

An  apple  of  good  promise.     (An.  Pom.) 


the  apple.  281 

Mote's  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  property  of  L.  S.  Mote,  Miami  Co.,  Ohio.  A  valua- 
ble, but  as  yet  comparatively  new  Apple.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  spread- 
ing, productive.     Young  shoots  light  reddish  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  large.  Form  roundish,  somewhat  roundish  oblate  conic.  Color 
pale  whitish  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  moderately 
sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  medium,  slender.  Cavity  large,  deep. 
Calyx  closed  or  partially  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  medium, 
uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  rich  honeyed  sweet. 
Very  good.     Core  small.     September,  October. 

Mother. 
Queen  Anne.  Gardener's  Apple. 

Origin,  Bolton,  Mass.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  and  pro- 
ductive. Young  shoots  grayish  brown,  downy.  One  of  the  best  of 
Apples  for  the  dessert,  rather  too  tender  for  shipment. 


Mother. 


Fruit  medium.  Form  roundish,  slightly  conical.  Color  yellow, 
almost  entirely  overspread  with  light,  clear,  rich  red,  splashed  and  mar- 
bled with  many  deeper  shades,  many  minute  light  dots.  Stalk  short, 
pmall.  Cavity  acute,  often  a  Little  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small, 
corrugated.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  aromatic  subacid.  Best. 
No  rember,  February. 


282  the  apple. 

Mother  Davis. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  whitish  yellow,  shaded  ana  or* 
scurely  splashed  with  light  red,  many  small  and  large  light  dots. 
Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  fine,  yellowish,  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  rather  small. 
November,  December. 

Mountain  Belle. 

A  native  of  Habersham  Co.,  Ga. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate  conical,  orange  ground,  shaded  and 
striped  with  red.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  medium.  Flesh 
white,  hard,  juicy,  tough,  subacid.     Good.  November  to  May.   (White.) 

Mountain  Sweet. 
Mountaineer. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  light  yellow.  Dots  minute.  Calyx  small,  closed 
Stalk  short,  slender.  Flesh  white,  breaking,  very  tender,  fine-grained, 
juicy,  sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     December.     (Warder.) 

Mouse  Apple. 
Moose  Apple. 

Origin,  Ulster  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit,  in  weight,  light ;  in  size,  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  pale 
greenish  yellow,  with  a  brownish  blush  on  one  side,  and  a  few  scattered, 
russety  gray  dots.  Flesh  very  white  and  fine-grained,  moderately  j  uicy, 
delicate,  faintly  perfumed,  mild  subacid.  Good.  October,  Novem- 
ber. 

Munson  Sweet. 
Orange  Sweet.  Ray  Apple.  Meachem  Sweet. 

Origin  uncertain,  probably  Massachusetts.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading, 
an  annual  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  pale  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  blush.  Stem 
short.  Cavity  large.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small.  Flesh  yellowish, 
juicy,  sweet.     Good.     September  to  February. 

Murphy. 

Raised  by  Mr.  D.  Murphy,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Tree  moderate  grower, 
spreading,  tolerably  productive. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  roundish,  pale  red,  streaked  with  darker  red,  and 
marked  with  blotches  of  the  same  color.  Flesh  white,  tender,  with  an 
agreeable  flavor.     Good.     November  to  February. 

Muscat  Reinette. 
Reinette  Musquee. 
A  new  German  A.pple,  said  to  be  superior. 


THE   APPLE.  283 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  much  striped  with  red. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  rich,  aromatic,  subacid.  Novembei  tc 
March.     (Hogg.) 

Muster. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  mixed  red  and  splashes  of 
crimson.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic 
Best.     Core  small.     August  and  September.     (Warder.) 

Naigle's  Winter. 

Origin,  Missouri.  Tree  upright  while  young,  becoming  drooping 
wnen  in  fruit ;  very  productive.  , 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened  at  ends.  Color  a  bright  yellow, 
covered  with  two  shades  of  red,  many  large  yellow  gray  dots,  light  blue 
bloom.  Calyx  closed.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
mild  subacid.      Core  small.    Very  good.    December,  February.    (Hort.) 

Nanny. 

An  English  Apple,  which  Hogg  describes  as  of  excellent  quality. 
Tree  a  moderate  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  striped  and  sphished  with  shades 
of  deep  red,  russet  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  rather  soft,  juicy,  subacid.  Oc- 
tober. t 

Nantahalee. 
Maiden's  Bosom. 

Originated  in  Macon  Co.,  Ala.  Tree  a  rapid  grower,  of  rather  a 
straggling,  drooping  habit.     Young  shoots  dull  grayish  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  broad  oblate  conic,  often  contracted  near  the  apex, 
ribbed,  pale  yellowish  green,  sprinkled  with  a  few  gray  dots.  Stall: 
medium.  Cavity  large,  uneven.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  rather  long 
a  little  recurved.  Basin  small,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy 
sprightly  acid.     Good.     Core  large.     July,  August. 

Nectar. 

Origin,  near  Raleigh,  N.  C. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  green.  Calyx  closed.  Stalk  short.  Flesl 
yellowish,  juicy,  rich,  saccharine.     August.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Ned. 
Saylor.  Libhart. 

Originated  at  Marietta,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  rather  straggling,  with 
slender  shoots,  dark  reddish  brown,  slightly  grayish,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  shaded, 
striped,  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  dark  rich  red,  and  sprinkled 
with  large  Light  conspicuous  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  large. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid.  Core  small.  Good 
to  very  good.     December  to  February. 


384  THE    Al'PLX. 

Needle. 

Supposed  an  old  English  Apple,  not  yet  identified. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  tfnaD 
brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  mild, 
pleasant  subacid.     Core  small.     Good.     December,  January. 

Neisley  Bellflower. 
Neasley  Bellflower. 

From  Salem,  Columbiana  Co.,  O.     Tree  rather  upright,  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red,  few  bight  and  gray  dots. 
Stalk  short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  mild 
subacid.     Good.     Core  small  and  close.     December  to  March. 

Nelson. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  oblate,  regular.  Color  dull 
green,  becoming  yellow,  sometimes  bronzed  with  dull  brown.  Stalk 
rather  long,  slender.  Cavity  medium,  acute,  regular,  green.  Calyx  me- 
dium, closed.  Segments  reflexed.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  firm,  fine-grained,  juicy,  sweet.  Core  medium.  Good.  May  to 
July.     (Am.  Jour,  of  Hort.) 

Nelson's  Codlin. 
Backhouse's  Lord  Nelson. 

A  culinary  English  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  light  yellow,  deepening  in  the  sun  and 
with  russet  specks  and  traces.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  brisk, 
sharp  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Nequassa. 
Nequassa  Sweet. 

Origin,  Franklin,  Macon  Co.,  N.  C.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  large,  oblate.  Color  yellow,  striped  with  red.  Stalk  of  moderate 
length,  inserted  in  a  large,  open  cavity.  Basin  smooth  and  open.  Flesh 
white  and  very  sweet.     Good.     November  to  January. 

Neversink. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  beautiful  waxen  orange- 
yellow  color,  with  a  few  russet  dots,  and  a  delicately  striped  and  richly 
.nottled  carmine  cheek.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  narrow,  acuminate,  shallow. 
Oalyx  large.  Basin  deep,  rather  wide,  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish,  some- 
what tough,  moderately  juicy,  subacid,  quince-like.  Good.  December 
to  March. 

Newark  King. 
Hinckman. 
Origin,  New  Jersey.      The  tree  is  spreading,  and  bears  well. 


THE   APPLE.  285 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  smooth,  red,  with  a  few  yellow 
streaks  and  dots  on  a  greenish  ground.  Calyx  set  in  a  narrow  basin. 
Flesh  tender,  with  a  rather  rich,  pleasant  flavor.  Good.  November  tr 
February. 

Newark  Pippin. 
French  Pippin.  Yellow  Pippin. 

A  handsome  and  excellent  early  winter  variety,  easily  known  by  tk» 
crooked,  irregular  growth  of  the  tree,  and  the  drooping  habit  of  the 
branches.  Not  profitable.  Young  shoots  slender,  dull  brownish  red, 
smooth. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblong,  regularly  formed,  greenish 
yellow,  becoming  a  fine  yellow  when  fully  ripe,  with  clusters  of  small 
black  dots,  and  rarely  a  very  faint  blush.  Calyx  in  a  regular  and  rather 
deep  basin.  Stalk  moderately  long,  and  deeply  inserted.  Flesh  yellow, 
tender,  very  rich,  juicy,  and  high  flavored.  Very  good.  November  to 
February. 

Newbury. 
Cat's  Head. 
Origin  uncertain. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conic,  greenish,  with  a  brownish  cheek  in  the 
sun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small.  Flesh  greenish,  coarse.  Core  large. 
Poor.     December,  February. 

New  Late  Reinette. 

Reinette  Tardive  Nouvelle. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  striped,  splashed,  and  veined 

with  reddish  brown  and  shaded  with  gray.     Calyx  half  closed.     Flesh 

yellowish,   fine,   tender,  juicy,  agreeable,   aromatic,  subacid.     April  to 

June.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

New  Rock  Pippin. 

From  England. 

Fruit  below  medium,  dull  green,  becoming  brownish  in  the  sun, 
slight  tinge  of  red  and  considerable  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  rich, 
Bweet.     Good.     November  to  February. 

New  Small  Lemon  Pippin. 

An  old  English  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds.  Tree  hardy  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblong,  clear  yellow,  with  many 
small  red  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good. 
November,  December. 

Newtown  Spitzenburoii. 

Vandevere  of  New  York  Spitzenburgh. 

Ox  Eye.  Burlington. 

Matihless.  Kountz. 

Joe  Berry.  Barrett's  Spitzenburgh. 

Spiced  Ox  Eye.  Wine,  erroneously. 

This  old  and  valuable  Apple  has  been  long  known  in  New  York  as 
the  Vandevere,  but  as  it  was  first  described  by  Coxe  as  Newtown  Spit- 


286 


THE   APPLE. 


senburgh,  we  continue  that  name.  It  had  its  origin  in  Newtown,  Long 
Island.  Tree  moderate,  vigorous,  spreading,  and  productive  in  rich,  light 
soil,  of  most  excellent  fruit,  which  is  suited  to  more  tastes  than  any  other 
Apple  of  its  season. 


Newtown  Spltzenbnigh. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  fine  yellow,  washed  with  light 
red,  striped  and  splashed  with  deeper  red,  and  richly  shaded  with  car- 
mine on  the  sunny  side,  covered  with  a  light  bloom,  and  sprinkled  with 
peculiar  gray  specks.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  wide  cavity.  Calyx 
small,  closed,  set  in  a  regular  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  yellow, 
crisp,  tender,  with  a  rich,  sprightly,  vinous  flavor,  scarcely  subacid. 
Best.     October  to  February. 

Nichols  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  shaded  and  faintly 
Bplashed  with  red,  few  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  compact,  moderately 
juicy,  sweet.     Good  cooking.     Core  small.     December,  January. 


Alleghany. 

Chaltram  Pippin. 

Gowden. 

Graham's  Red  Warrior, 

Walb. 

Winter  Horse. 

Missouri  Pippin. 

Missouri  Red. 

Leanham. 

Winter  Horse. 

Jackson  Red. 

World's  Wonder. 

This  Apple  is  \ery  widely  disseminated  in  sections  of  the  South  and 


NlCKAJACK. 

Caroline. 

Aberdeen. 

Berry. 

Trenham 

Summerour. 

Big  Hill. 

Accidental. 

Carolina  Spice. 

Red  Pippin. 

Cheatan  Pippin. 

Howard. 

Chatham  Pippin. 

Hubbard. 

Winter  Rose. 

Mobbs. 

Red  Hazel. 

Cheataw. 

Wander. 

Edward  Shantee. 

Red  Warrior,  erroneously 

Pound. 

Forsythe's  Seedling. 

Wall. 

Ruckman's  Red. 

THE  APPLE.  287 

Southwest,  it  having  as  it  were  the  habit  of  reproducing  itself  from  seed, 
or  at  least  so  nearly  identical  as  to  be  impossible  to  distinguish  the  seed- 
ling from  the  parent,  hence  one  cause  of  so  many  synonyms.  The  first 
disse  mi  nation  of  it  known  was  by  a  Colonel  Summerour,  of  Lincoln 
Couuty,  N.  C,  under  the  name  of  Winter  Hose  ;  but  as  it  was  found  on 
Nickajack  Creek,  it  soon  took  that  name,  and  is  now  best  known  there- 
by. The  habit  of  the  tree  is  upright  spreading,  forming  a  very  large 
head.  On  branches  two,  three,  or  four  years  old,  there  are  woody  knobs 
or  warts  of  various  sizes,  which,  when  cut  from  the  branch,  are  found  to 
contain  kernels  entirely  detached  from  the  regular  grain  of  the  wood. 
The  great  value  of  the  variety  consists  in  the  hardihood  and  productive- 
ness of  the  tree  rather  than  the  character  of  the  fruit,  which  is  not  more 
than  good  in  quality.     Young  shoots  bright  clear  dark  reddish. 


Nickajack. 

Fruit  large.  Form  roundish  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  some- 
times oblique.  Color  yellowish,  strip  <1.  shaded,  and  splashed  with  two 
Bhades  of  red,  and  with  a  grayish  appearance,  as  if  covered  with  a  thin 
bloom,  many  large  areole  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  medium 
depth.  Calyx  partially  open.  Basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated. 
Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  moderately  tender  and  juicy,  negative  subacid. 
Good.      Core  small,  closed.     December  to  April. 

Nieman's  Red   Kkinette. 
Nieman's  Rothe  Reinette.  Reinette  Rouge  de  Nieman. 

Originated  at  Hanover,  Germany.     Tree  a  strong,  rigorous  grower. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  mostly  overspread  and 
■plashed  with  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  vinous,  subacid.     November,  February.      (Vrrg.) 


488  THE   APPLE. 

Nix  Green. 
Queen  Apple,  erroneously. 

Origin,  Habersham  Co.,  Ga.     Tree  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  many  light 
dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  white,  firm,  tender, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good.     November,  February. 

Noblesse  de  Gand. 

An  English  sauce  Apple,  described  by  Ronald  as  large,  roundish, 
slightly  conical,  straw-colored.  Flesh  firm,  heavy,  brisk  subacid.  Jan- 
uary, February. 

Nonpareil. 

English  Nonpareil.  Old  Nonpareil.  Original  Nonpareil. 

Hunt's  Nonpareil.  Loveden's  Pippin.  Reinette  Nonpareil. 

Nonpareil  d'Angleterre.         Due  d'Arsel.  Grune  Reinette. 

An  old  English  variety.      Tree  free  upright  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellowish  green,  with  patches  of 
dull  russet,  and  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy,  vinous,  aromatic, 
mild  acid.      Good.     December,  March. 

Nonpareil  Russet.* 

Of  English  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  conical,  greenish  yellow,  cover©  I  with 
thin  dull  russet.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Good. 
January  to  May. 

NONSOCH. 
Nonsuch. 

An  old  English  sort,  valuable  as  a  sauce  Apple ;  productive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  regular  form,  flat,  greenish  yellow,  striped  and 
spotted  with  dull  brick  red.  Flesh  white,  soft,  with  a  plentiful  subacid 
juice.     Good.     September,  November. 

Norfolk. 

From  Massachusetts. 

Fruit  small,  flat,  yellow,  pleasant.     August.     (Cole.) 

Norfolk  Beaufin. 

Read's  Baker.  Catshead  Beaufin.  Norfolk  Beefing. 

A  large  English  fruit,  only  fit  for  cooking  purposes,  dull  red,  on 
greenish  ground.     Flesh  firm,  subacid.     Good.     January  to  May. 

Norfolk  Paradise. 

An  English  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  ruedrim,  oblong,  greenish  yellow,  brownish  red  in  sun,  with 


THE    APPLE. 


389 


■tripes.     Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  rich  subacid.     October  to  February 
(Lindle}\) 


Stone  Pippin. 


Norfolk  Stone  Pippin. 
White  Stone  Pippin. 


White  Pippin. 


A  valuable  long-keeping  cooking  fmit.  Tree  a  free  grower  and 
abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellowish  green,  slight  tinge  of  red 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  firm,  brisk,  rich,  sweet.  November  to 
March. 

Norfolk  Storing. 

An  English  Apple,  valuable  for  market  or  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  with  yellow  red  cheek 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  crisp,  brisk  subacid.  Novem- 
ber, January. 


Northern  Spy. 


Northern  Spy. 

This  beautiful  American  fruit  is  one  of  the  most  delicious,  fragrant, 
and  sprightly  of  all  late  dessert  apples.  It  ripens  in  January,  keeps  till 
June,  and  always  commands  the  highest  market  price.  The  tree  is  of 
rapid,  upright  growth,  and  bears  moderate  crops.     It  originated  on  th« 

10 


290  THE   APPLE. 

fanr  of  Heman  Chapin,  of  East  Bloomfield,  near  Rochester,  N.  Y.  The 
trees  require  high  culture,  and  open  heads  to  let  in  the  sun,  otherwise 
the  fruit  is  wanting  in  flavor,  and  apt  to  be  imperfect  and  knotty.  Young 
shoots  dark  reddish  brown.  The  tree  blooms  late,  often  escaping  vernal 
frosts. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conical.  Skin  thin,  smooth,  in  the 
shade  greenish  or  pale  yellow,  in  the  sun  covered  with  light  and  dark 
stripes  of  purplish  red,  marked  with  a  few  pale  dots,  and  a  thin  white 
bloom.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  planted  in  a 
very  wide,  deep  cavity,  sometimes  marked  with  russet.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Basin  narrow,  abrupt,  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained, 
tender,  slightly  subacid,  with  a  peculiarly  fresh  and  delicious  flavor. 
Core  large  and  open.     Yery  good  to  best.     December  to  June. 

Northern  Sweet. 
Northern  Golden  Sweet.  Golden  Sweet. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Nathan  Lockwood,  of  St.  George, 
Chittenden  Co.,  Vt.  Tree  healthy,  spreading,  and  productive,  but  needs 
high  culture  for  the  perfect  development  of  the  whole  crop.  Young 
wood  reddish,  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  blush. 
Stalk  rather  long,  in  a  moderate  cavity.  Calyx  small  and  closed,  in  a 
narrow,  abrupt,  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet, 
rich,  and  excellent.  Core  medium.  September,  October.  Not  profit- 
able. 

NORTHFIELD    BEAUTY. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower.  Young  shoots  rich  red- 
dish brown,  with  few  prominent  dots. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Sides  unequal,  whitish  yellow,  with 
stripes,  shades,  and  splashes  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  bris1!  sub- 
acid.    Core  small.     Good  for  cooking.     August,  September. 

Nottingham  Pippin. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  slight  markings  of  rus- 
set. Flesh  white,  marrowy,  sugary,  vinous.  November  to  February. 
(Hogg.) 

Nursery. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish  yellow, 
slight  blush  or  brown  in  the  sun,  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Ca- 
lyx closed.  Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  mod- 
era  telv  juicy,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet.  Core  small.  Good.  Decem- 
ber to  February. 

Oakes. 

From  Danvers,  Mass.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  strong,  vigorous 
grower,  and  fair  bearer.     Young  shoots  clear  reddish,  smooth. 


THE   APPLE.  291 

F  uit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  shade  of 
red  in  the  sun,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Core  small.  Good  te 
November,  January. 

There  is  an  English  culinary  Apple  of  this  name  described  by  Lindley, 
which  is  medium,  roundish,  with  ribs,  pale  green,  with  broken  streaks 
of  pale  brown,  and  russety  specks.  Flesh  soft,  greenish  white,  slightly 
sweet.     November,  December. 

Oconee  Greening. 

Origin,  banks  of  the  Oconee  river,  a  little  below  Athens,  Ga.  Tree 
vigorous  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  flattened,  yellow,  a  little  brownish  in  the  sun, 
russet  about  the  stem,  with  a  few  scattered  russet  dots.  Calyx  open, 
in  a  shallow,  slightly  furrowed  basin.  Stalk  very  short,  in  a  rather 
regular,  deep  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained,  crisp,  abounding 
in  a  delightful  aromatic,  lively,  subacid  juice.  Good  to  very  good. 
October,  November. 

Ofine. 

Of  English  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conical.  Skin  oily.  Color  lemon  yel- 
low, washed  and  splashed  with  red  in  the  sun,  many  large  reddish  gray 
spots.  Stalk  large,  short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  firm,  tender, 
sweet  subacid,  aromatic.     November.     (An  Pom.) 

Ogdensburgh. 

Originated  with  A.  B.  James,  Ogdensburgh,  N,  Y. 

Fnut  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  whitish  yellow,  brownish  red 
in  sun,  few  light  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  tender,  very 
mild  subacid.  Very  good.  Core  medium.  New.  November,  Decem- 
ber.    (Elliott's  Notes.) 

Ogleby. 

From  Spottsylvania  Co.,  Va.     Tree  a  rapid  grower. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  sometimes  a  slight 
blush  in  sun,  with  gray  and  green  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  crisp, 
juicy  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Ohio  Nonpareil. 

Myer'S  Nonpareil.  Cattell  Apple. 

Western  Beauty,  erroneously.  Rusty  Core. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  autumn  Apples,  whether  for  mar- 
ket or  table  use.     Its  origin  is  in  doubt,  the  first  known  trees  of  it  being 

in  the  orchard  of Bowman,  Massillon,  Ohio.     The  young  trees  are 

very  vigorous,  with  stout,  straight  shoots,  while  the  orchard  trees  are 
very  wide,  regular,  open,  spreading,  requiring  little  or  no  thinning,  and 
bearing  the  fruit  evenly  over  the  whole  tree,  and  all  fair  sized,  smooth 
fruit.     Young  shoots  smooth,  rich,  dark  reddish  brown 


292  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium  to  large.  Form  roundish  oblate.  Coloi  yellow,  shaded, 
marbled,  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  rich  red,  thinly  sprinkled  with 
light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  medium,  rather  slender.  Canity  large,  deep, 
regular.  Calyx  rather  large,  partially  open.  Segments  rather  short 
Basin  medium.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  rich, 
slightly  aromatic  subacid.  Core  small.  Very  good.  October,  Novem 
ber. 


Ohio  Nonpareil. 

Ohio  Pippin. 
Ernst's  Pippin.  Shannon. 

Origin  in  doubt.  Supposed  Dayton,  Ohio.  It  was  first  disseminated 
by  the  late  A.  H.  Ernst,  of  Cincinnati.  Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  spread- 
ing, moderately  productive.  Young  shoots  strong,  dull  reddish  brown, 
quite  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  mottled  red  in  the  sum 
Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant,  sharp  subacid.  Good.  Core 
small.     November,  January. 

Ohio  Red  Streak. 

Originated  with  James  Mansfield,  Jefferson  Co.,  O.  Growth  vigor 
Otis,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with 
red.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large,  russeted.  Calyx  large,  closed.  Basin 
shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  rather  compact,  juicy,  rich  subacid.  Good, 
January  to  April. 


thx  apple.  295 

Ohlinger. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania,  Berks  County. 

Fruit  below  medium,  yellow,  with  a  brownish  cheek,  with  many  are- 
ole  specks.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  subacid.     Good.     October. 

Old  English  Codlin. 
English  Codlin.  Trenton  Early  ? 

The  trees  are  very  vigorous  and  fruitful.  A  large  and  fair  cooking 
Apple,  in  use  from  July  to  November. 

Fruit  generally  above  medium  size,  oblong  or  conical,  and  a  little 
irregular,  clear  lemon  yellow,  with  a  faint  blush  next  the  sun.  Stalk 
stout  and  short.  Flesh  white,  tender,  and  of  a  rather  pleasant  subacid. 
Much  esteemed  for  cooking,  ripens  gradually  upon  the  tree. 

Old  Field. 

Origin,  Connecticut.     A  good  grower,  bears  well,  an  old  variety. 
Fruit  medium,   oblate  conic,  yellow,  with  a  slight  blush.      Flesh 
yellowish,  tender,  Dleasant,  mild  subacid.      Good.     January  to  April. 

Old  House. 

Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  ob.-conic,  yellow,  with  a  blush. 
Flesh  tender,  fine  texture,  juicy,  flavor  agreeable,  aromatic.  Good. 
December. 

Old  Hundred. 

Origin  unknown.  Specimens  received  from  J.  W.  Manning,  Read- 
ing, Mass.     Tree  upright  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellowish,  striped,  splashed, 
and  marbled  with  shades  of  red.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid.     Good.     November  to  February. 

Old  Royal  Russet. 
Leather  Coat  Russet. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  gray  russet  on  green.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  sharp  subacid.     November,  February.     (Elliott.) 

Old  Town  Crab. 

Spice  Apple  of  some 

Fruit  small,  greenish  yellow,  with  brown  specks.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy, 
■weet.     December,  March. 

Old  Town  Pippin. 

Of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  light  yellow,  shaded  and 
■plashed  with  red,  few  brown  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  not  very 
juicy,  pieasant  subacid.     Good.     Cooking.     January  to  March. 


394  the  apple. 

Oline. 

Troe  rigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  yellow,  washed  with  red.  Flesh  tender, 
fine,  subacid.     Very  good.     November,  December.     (Soc.  V.  M.) 

Olive. 

Origin,  Wake  Co.,  N.  C.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  grower. 

Fruit  medium,  slightly  conical,  crimson,  with  gray  dots.  Calyx 
open.  Stalk  long,  stout.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy,  subacid.  October,  No- 
vember. 

There  is  another  Olive  Apple,  from  Vermont,  which  is  medium,  ob- 
late, inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with 
shades  of  red,  few  areole  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.    November  to  January.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Omar  Pasha. 

An  English  cooking  Apple. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  deep  yellow,  dotted  with  rus- 
set. Calyx  open.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  white,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  pleas- 
ant acid.     December  to  March. 

Orange. 

There  are  several  Apples  under  this  name ;  but  as  it  is  almost  im- 
possible to  decide  which  has  prior  right  to  the  name,  we  enumerate  and 
describe  in  the  order  they  are  known  to  us. 

The  Orange  of  New  Jersey  origin  is  a  vigorous  grower,  and  mode- 
rately productive.  Young  shoots  clear,  reddish  brown,  buds  1  eddish, 
prominent. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  orange  yellow,  with  a 
few  gray  dots,  and  sometimes  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  short,  in  a  large 
cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  moderate.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  subacid, 
pleasant.     Very  good.     September,  October. 

The  Orange  of  Reading,  Pa.,  has  fruit  roundish,  slightly  oblate, 
faintly  ribbed,  of  a  warm  yellow  orange  color.  Flesh  yellowish, 
sprightly.     Good. 

The  Orange  of  France,  received  from  A.  Leroy,  Angers,  is  of  me- 
dium size,  roundish,  fine  yellow,  shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  mode- 
rately sprinkled  with  gray  and  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Flesh  wliite,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid.  Good. 
October,  November. 

Orange  Pippin. 
Marigold  Pippin.  Isle  of  Wight  Orange. 

An  old  Apple,  originated  in  Normandy,  and  valued  mainly  as  a  cider 
fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  rich  orange  yellow.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  plea- 
sant acid.      October  to  January. 

There  is  also  an  Orange  Pippin  grown  in  New  Jersey  differing  from 
this,  but  we  have  been  unable  to  obtain  its  history  or  description. 


the  apple  296 

Orange  Sweit. 

There  are  several  varieties  under  this  name,  but  we  have  been  un 
able  to  examine  and  compare  them  closely.  The  one  we  have  most 
known  came  from  Ohio,  and  has  young  shoots  of  a  light  reddish  brown, 
smooth,  the  fruit  large,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  traces  of 
russet,  few  gray  and  green  dots.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  whitish, 
tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  sweet.  Good.  Valuable  for  baking.  October, 
November. 

Another  we  have  from  Massachusetts,  is  a  good  grower  and  bearer. 
Young  shoots  smooth,  very  dark  reddish  brown.     Buds  very  small. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow.  Calyx  small.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  rather  coarse,  but  rich,  sweet.  Good  for  cooking.  Au- 
gust and  September. 

Another  Orange  Sweeting,  grown  in  Maine,  is  described  as  a  tree  of 
upright  habit,  healthy,  thrifty,  and  productive.  Young  shoots  dark 
brownish  red. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate,  bright  yellow,  with  a  blush  cheek  in 
the  sun,  small  greenish  dots  in  shade,  and  crimson  dots  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  sweet,  and  rich.     September,  October. 

Warder,  in  his  American  Pomology,  describes  an  Orange  Sweet  or 
Russet  as  large,  round,  greenish  yellow,  bronzy  orange  russet.  Flesh 
green,  rather  tough,  fine-grained,  sweet.     Good  for  baking.     December. 

Ord. 
Orel's  Apple.  Simpson's  Pippin.  Simpson's  Seedling. 

An  English  Apple,  grown  from  a  seed  of  the  Newtown  Pippin. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  somewhat  ribbed,  dull  green,  washed 
and  splashed  with  dull  red,  and  many  star-like  russet  specks.  Flesh 
greenish  white,  tender,  crisp,  brisk  subacid.     December  to  Apri] 

Orleans  Reinette. 

Reinette  d'Orleans. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  deep  yellow,  with  stripes  of  bright  red 
in  the  sun.     Flesh  yellowish,  fine,  juicy,  brisk  acid.     December. 

Orndorf. 

Origin,  Muskingum  Co.,  O.  Tree  a  vigorous,  spreading,  upright 
grower,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  and  splashed 
with  two  shades  of  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh 
whitish,  tender,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  October,  Novem- 
ber. 

Orne's  Early. 

Origin  unknown,  supposed  foi'eign.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spread 

kg- 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.     Color  whitish,!  tickly  sprinkled  with  graj 

and  light  dots.     Stalk  long  and  slender.     Calyx  small,  closed.     Flesh 

white,   tender,  fine-grained,  moderately  juicj,   pleasant,  sprightly   sub 

acid.     Good.     Core  small.      August,  September. 


296 


THE   APPLE. 


Ortley  Pippin. 
Woolman's  Long. 
Greasy  Pippin. 
White  Bellefleur. 
Van  Dyne. 
Melting-  Pippin. 
Yellow  Pippin. 
Woodward's  Pippin. 
Davis  White  Bellflower. 


Ortley. 

White  Bellflower. 
White  Detroit. 
Hollow  Cored  Pippin. 
Green  Bellflower. 
Jersey  Greening. 
Crane's  Pippin. 
Inman. 

Tom  Woodward  Pippin. 
Marrow  Pippin. 


Ohio  Favorite. 

Willow  Leaf  Pippin. 

White  Pippin. 

Detroit. 

Davis. 

Warren  Pippin. 

Golden  Pippin. 

White  Seek-no-Furthet 

Tod's  Golden  Pippin. 


Origin,  orchard  of  Michael  Ortley,  South.  Jersey.  It  grows  pretty 
strongly,  with  upright  slender  shoots,  and  bears  abundantly. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblong  conic,  greenish  yellow,  be- 
coming fine  yellow  at  maturity,  sometimes  with  a  sunny  cheek.  Stalk 
slender,  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  deep,  acute  cavity,  surrounded 
by  russet.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  an  abrupt,  somewhat  corrugated  basin. 
Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy  subacid,  very  pleasant.  Good 
to  very  good.     Core  large.     November  to  February. 


Osceola. 


Young 


Origin,  Putnam  Co.,  Ind.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading, 
shoots  dark  reddish  brown,  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  sides  unequal,  pale  yellow, 
shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  red,  large  light  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  deep,  uneven.  Flesh 
whitish,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Janu- 
ary to  March. 

OSKALOOSA. 
Jack  Apple. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  forming  a  handsome  head, 
an  early  but  not  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  somewhat  flattened,  yellow.  Flesh  juicy,  mild 
subacid.     November.     (Gard.  Month.) 


Oslin. 


White  Oslin. 


Arbroath  Pippin. 


An  excellent  Scotch  Apple.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium  size.  Form  oblate.  Skin  rather  tough,  clear 
lemon  yello  v  when  quite  ripe,  and  sprinkled  with  a  few  grayish  green 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  spicy  aromatic.  Good.  Sep- 
tember. 


OSNABEUCKER  REINETTE. 

Reinette  d'Osnabruck.  Gran  Osnabrucker  Reinette. 

A  foreign  variety,  not  apparently  of  much  value. 
Fruit  small,  roundish,  rich  yellow  ground,  somewhat  russeted,  with 
a  red  cheek  in  sun.     Stalk  long,  slender.     Calyx  large.     Flesh  white, 


fine,  juicy,  perfumed.     Very  good.     December,  Februar- 


r.) 


THE  APPLE.  297 

OSTERLEY. 
Osterley  Pippin. 

A  seedling  of  the  Pdbston  Pippin,  from  Middlesex,  England,  de- 
ocribed  by  Ronalds  as  a  free  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dull  green,  with  tnin  russet 
and  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  iirm,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  aro- 
matic, sharp  subacid.     November  to  February. 

OSTOGATE. 

Supposed  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  many  gray  russet  dots. 
Stalk  slender.  Cavity  narrow,  deep.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish  yel- 
low, fine,  aromatic,  sweet  subacid.     November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Overman's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Illinois.     Tree  hardy,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  yellowish,  shaded,  mottled, 
and  splashed  with  red,  many  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  not  very  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild,  sweet. 
Core  small.     Good.     November,  March. 

Oviatt. 

Origin,  Warren  Co.,  O. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conic,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with  red 
in  the  sun,  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whit- 
ish, a  little  coarse,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     September. 

Ox. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  large  roundish  conical,  whitish,  slightly  bronzed  in  the  sun,  few 
gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  November  to 
January. 

OXNEAD    PEARMAIN. 
Earl  of  Yarmouth's  Pearmain. 

From  England.  Tree  hardy,  with  slender  drooping  branches,  pro 
ductive. 

Fruit  small,  conical,  greenish,  with  a  thin  russet,  brownish  in  the 
sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  firm,  crisp,  rich,  acid.  November,  Feb- 
ruary. 

Ox  Sweet. 

From  Massachusetts.     Tree  very  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  sometimes  a  little 
bronzed  in  the  sun,  many  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  tender,  sweet,  and  pleasant.  Good, 
Core  rather  large.     October,  November. 


298  THE  APPLE. 

Padley's  Pippix. 
Compote.  Padley's  Royal  George  Pippin. 

An  old  English  Apple,  of  moderate  growth,  but  quite  productive 
Young  shoots  grayish  chestnut  red. 

Fruit  medium,  or  small,  roundish  oblate,  dull  greenish  yellow,  yel 
low  in  the   sun,  with  some  russet.     Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  rich,  brisk 
acid.     December,  January. 

Panden  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  some 
gray  and  red  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  white, 
compact,  crisp,  sweet.     Good.     Cooking.     November. 

Park  Spice. 
Park  Apple. 

Origin,  Westchester  Co.,  IS".  Y.  Tree  thrifty,  upright  spreading, 
■  very  productive.     Young  shoots  pretty  smooth,  dark  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblique,  whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  red, 
obscurely  splashed  and  striped,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and 
brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish, rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Core 
medium.     Very  good.     December  to  March. 

Parmentier  Eeinette. 

Of  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  golden  yellow,  dotted  with  reddish  gray,  and 
striped  with  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  sharp 
subacid,  aromatic.     March  to  May.     (S.  V.  M.) 

Parrot  Eeinette. 

Supposed  of  German  origin. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  lightly  splashed, 
shaded,  and  marbled  with  light  red,  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium, 
rather  slender.  Cavity  broad,  deep.  Calyx  closed,  or  partially  open. 
Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good.  Core  large  and 
open.     New,  promises  valuable  for  market  or  cooking. 

Parry's  Pearmain. 

An  English  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblong,  truncated,  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
and  striped  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     January  to  March. 

Passe  Pomme  d'Automne. 

Passe  Pomme  Rouge  d'Automne.  Generale. 

Pomme  d'Outre  Passe.  Passe  Pomme  Cotellee. 

Herbststrich  Apfel.  Rother  HerbststriohaDfel. 

Of  German  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblatj,  ribbed,  yellowish,  shaded 


ind  str  t 
tender,  juicy, 


THE    APPLE.  299 

riped  with  rich  red  in  the  sun.     Flesh  very  white,  tinged  with  red, 
,  juicy,  vinous,  excellent  for  cooking.     September.     (Hogg.) 


Passe  Pomme  Rouge. 
Rother  August  Apf  eL  Rothe  Sommerpasspomm. 

Tree  slender  grower,  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  entirely  overspread  and  shaded 
with  red.  Flesh  white,  tinged  with  red  next  the  skin,  crisp,  juicy,  soon 
decays.     Poor.     August. 

Patch's  Russet. 

Of  English  origin. 

Fruit  below  medium,  nnindish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  thin 
gray  russet.  Calyx  small.  Stalk  long.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp, 
brisk  aromatic.     Good.     November,  December.     (Lind.) 

Paterson's  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Considerably  grown  in  Western  New  York,  and 
esteemed  valuable  for  its  season.     Tree  upright,  thrifty,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  covered  and  indis- 
tinctly splashed  and  striped  with  dark  rich  red,  many  conspicuous  light 
dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good. 
September,  October. 

Pawpaw. 

Western  Baldwin.  Rubicon.  Ball  Apple. 

Origin,  Pawpaw,  Mich.  Tree  hardy,  a  good  and  regular  bearer. 
Young  shoots  dull  grayish  reddish  brown. 

A  new  Apple,  esteemed  in  its  place  of  origin  for  its  productiveness 
and  beauty  of  appearance. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  slightly  oblique,  yellow,  shaded 
and  mostly  overspread  with  bright  rich  red,  faintly  splashed  and  mot- 
tled, moderately  sprinkled  with  areole  dots.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity 
deep,  narrow.  Calyx  partially  open.  Segments  a  little  recurved. 
Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  firm,  rich,  brisk  subacid.  Very  good.  Decem- 
ber to  June. 

Pawsan. 

An  English  cider  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  dull  green,  with  network  of  russet.  Flesh 
6rm,  juicy,  acid.     October. 

Peach. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  moderate  grower. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  with 
blush  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Stalk 
short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  lively  bri.sk 
subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  December  to  April.  A 
good  keeper. 


300  the  apple. 

Peach-Pond  Sweet. 

This  is  a  most  excellent  autumn  variety,  from  a  small  village  of  this 
name  in  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y.  It  appears  well  worthy  of  a  more  gen- 
eral dissemination.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading.  Young  shoots  dull  gray- 
ish brown. 


Peach-Pond  Sweet 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  rather  flat,  striped  light  red.  Stalk  .  ong  and 
Blender.  Flesh  tender  or  very  mellow,  moderately  juicy,  "very  rich, 
sweet,  and  agreeable.     Very  good.     September  to  November. 

Peak. 
Pear-Apple. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblong,  pale  yellow,  -with  a  blush 
in  the  sun,  few  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid. 
Good.     Core  small.     December,  February. 

Pearsall's  Sweet. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  in  Queens  Co.,  Long  Island.  Tree  up 
right  spreading,  quite  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  sometimes  oblique,  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  mottled  with  light  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
yellowish,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  Core  large 
and  open.  November,  January.  A  good  keeper,  and  valuable  for 
baking. 

Pearson's  Earlt. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  pale  yellow.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  sharp  subacid.     August,  September.     (Elliott.) 


THE    APPLE. 


301 


Pearson's  Plate. 

A  variety  from  England,  which  has  a  very  high  replication. 

Fruit  small,  about  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter,  regularly 
formed,  flat,  greenish  yellow,  becoming  yellow,  with  a  little  red  in  the 
sun.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  sprightly  subacid.  Good.  February, 
March.     Core  small. 

Peck's  Pleasant. 

Waltz  Apple. 

A  first-rate  fruit  in  all  respects,  belonging  to  the  Newtown  Pippin 
class.  It  has  long  been  cultivated  in  Rhode  Island,  where,  we  think,  it 
originated,  and  in  the  northern  part  of  Connecticut,  and  deserves  ex- 
tensive dissemination.  It  considerably  resembles  the  Yellow  Newtown 
Pippin,  with  more  tender  flesh,  and  is  scarcely  inferior  to  it  in  flavor 


Peck's  Pleasant. 


The  tree  is  a  moderate,  upright  spreading  grower,  but  bears  regu- 
larly and  well,  and  the  fruit  commands  a  high  price  in  the  market.  The 
apples  on  the  lower  branches  of  old  trees  are  flat,  while  those  on  the 
upper  branches  are  nearly  conical.  Young  shoots  reddish  brown,  slightly 

downy. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  ribbed,  and  slightly  flat- 
tened, with  an  indistinct  furrow  on  one  side.  Skin  smooth,  and  when 
first  gathered,  green,  with  a  little  dark  red ;  but  when  ripe  a  beautiful 
clear  yullow,  with  bright  blush  on  the  sunny  side  ;ind  near  the  stalk, 
marked  with  scattered  gray  dots.  The  stalk  is  peculiarly  fleshy  and 
flattened,  short,  and  sunk  in  a  wide,  rather  wavy  cavity.  Calyx  woolly, 
sunk  in  a  narrow,  abruptly,  and  pretty  deeply  sunk  basin.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, fine-grained,  juicy,  crisp  and  tender,  with  a  delicious,  high  aro 
matic  sprightly  subacid.  '  Very  good  or  best.     November  to  March. 


302  the  apple. 

Pelham  Sweet. 
Green  Sweet. 

From  Massachusetts.     Tree  a  fair  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  oblate  conic,  greenish,  sometimes 
shaded  with  red  in  sun,  splashes  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  tender,  sweet.  Good.  Cora 
small.     December  to  March. 

Pennington's  Seedling. 

An  English  fruit  of  medium  size,  nearly  flat,  a  little  angular,  mostly 
covered   with   rough  yellow  russet,  with  a  little  pale  brown  in  the  sun. 
Flesh    yellowish,   firm,    crisp,  with  a  brisk   acid  juice.      Hardly  good 
November  to  March. 

Pennock:. 

Pomme  Roye.  Big  Romanite.  Red  Pennock 

Large  Romanite.  Neisley's  Winter  Penick.  Pennock's  Red  Winter. 

Prolific  Beauty .  Pelican  Gay's  Romanite . 

Roman  Knight.  Red  Ox. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania.  Tree  a  strong,  vigorous,  upright  spreading 
grower,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  quite  large,  oblique,  generally  flat,  but  occasionally  roundish 
oblong,  fine  deep  red,  with  faint,  indistinct  streaks  of  yellow.  Flesh 
yellow,  tender,  and  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  half  sweet  flavor.  Good. 
November  to  March. 

Pennsylvania  Sweet. 

Pennsylvania  Sweeting. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  tender,  fine-grained, 
very  sweet.     Good.     Early  winter.     (Warder.) 

Pennsylvania  Wine  Sap. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  conical  oblate,  truncated,  yellow,  blushed,  very  little 
splashed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Da 
cember,  January.     (Warder.) 

People's  Choice. 
Melt-in-the-Mouth  of  some. 

A  Pennsylvania  fruit.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright.  Young 
shoots  grayish  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic.  Color  red,  sometimes 
obscurely  striped,  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  whitish  dots  of  jieculiar 
appearance.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  brisk,  rich  subacid.  Good. 
December  to  March. 


THE   APPLE.  303 


Pepin  Russe. 


Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  -with  reddish  gray  dots, 
bright  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  fine,  half  firm,  yellowish  white,  subacid. 
December,  January.     (S.  V.  M.) 

Perry  Russet. 
Golden  Russet. 

The  origin  of  this  is  in  obscurity.  It  was,  many  years  since,  car- 
ried from  Perry,  Wyoming  Co.,  N.  Y.,  to  the  West,  under  the  name 
of  Golden  Riisset,  but  as  it  was  entirely  distinct  from  the  true  Golden 
Russet,  it  soon  became  known  as  the  Perry  Russet,  which  name  we  con- 
tinue. It  is  of  "  good"  quality  for  table  or  kitchen,  but  does  not  keep 
late,  and  sometimes  drops  its  fruit  from  the  tree  early.  Tree  a  moderate, 
upright  spreading  grower,  hardy,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young 
shoots  light  brownish  red. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  sometimes  a  little  oblique,  pale 
yellow,  netted  with  russet  on  the  sunny  side,  and  sometimes  brownish. 
Stalk  short,  cavity  narrow,  sometimes  with  a  Up.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
abrupt.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good. 
November,  December. 

Petit  Jean. 

From  Jersey,  England.     Tree  an  abundant  bearer. 
Fruit  small,  roundish  oval  oblate,  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  striped 
with  red.     Flesh  white,  tender.     Good.     November,  February. 

Petworth  Nonpareil. 
Green  Nonpareil. 

Ronalds  describes  this  English  fruit  as  larger  than  the  old  Nonpa- 
reil,  of  the  same  shape,  green.     Flesh  crisp,  juicy.     February,  March. 

Phillippi. 

Origin,  supposed  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  shoots 
reddish  brown,  slightly  down}-. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with  numerous 
blotches  and  gray  dots,  and  a  blush  on  the  exposed  side.  Stalk  short 
and  slender,  inserted  in  a  wide,  deep  cavixv,  Calyx  small,  closed,  set 
in  a  narrow  superficial  basin.  Flesh  tender,  fine  texture,  juicy.  Good 
to  very  good.     October  to  January. 

Phillips'  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  George  Phillips,  Coshocton  Co.,  Ohio. 
Tree  thrifty,  upright,  very  productive.  Young  wood  smooth,  light, 
clear  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  whitish 
eellow,  shaded  with   light  red,  and    striped    and  splashed  with   dark, 


304  THE   APPLE. 

large  light  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  closed. 
Segments  short.  Basin  abrupt,  deep.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
rich,  pleasant,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  December, 
March. 

Phcenix. 

From  Illinois.     Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  light  yellow,  faintly  shaded, 
splashed,  and  striped  with  rich  red,  few  brown  and  light  dots.  Flesh 
yellowish,  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     December,  March. 

Pickard's  Reserve. 

Origin,  Parke  Co.,  Ind.     Tree  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  yellow,  shaded  with  red  in 
the  sun,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large.  Calyx  closed. 
Basin  large,  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  rather  tender, 
juicy,  slightly  aromatic  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small. 
December,  January. 

Pickman. 
Pickman  Pippin. 

Origin,  Massachusetts.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  shoots  dull  brown, 
downy.     Buds  knobby  at  base. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  with  scattered  shades  of 
russet,  and  small  russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  medium.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  verv 
good.     January,  April. 

Pifer. 
Pfeifer. 

Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  rapid  grower,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  sparsely  streaked  with  red  on  a  yel- 
lowish green  ground,  fawn-colored  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
Bubacid.     Good.     January  to  July. 

Pigeon. 

Jerusalem.  Cceur  de  Pigeon.  Pigeon  Rouge. 

Gros  Coeur  de  Pigeon.         Passe  Pomme.  Duif  Apfel. 

Pother  Taubenapfel.  Arabian  Apple. 

This  old  Apple  is  described  by  Ponalds  as  a  free  but  not  robust 
grower. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  straw  color,  flushed  with  red  in  the 
sun.  Flesh  white,  delicate,  crisp,  pleasant  subacid.  December  to 
February. 

PiGEONETTE. 

Pigeonet  Blanc.  Pigeonette  Blanc  d'£te. 

Pigeonette  Gros  de  Rouen.  Museau  de  Levre. 

American  Peach.  Taubenf arbige  Apfel. 

This  is  described  by  Hogg  as  of  only  second  quality,  and  here  pro- 
bably "of  little  value. 


THE  APPLE.  305 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate  roundisb,  yellow,  striped  and  rayed  with 
red.     Flesh  white,  delicate,  agreeable  acid.     August,  September 

PlGEONETTE    DE    ROUEN. 

This  is  described  in  the  Annals  of  Pomology,  by  M.  Bivort,  as  tree 
very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conical,  truncated,  pale  yellow,  spotted  with  gray, 
washed  and  blotched  with  bright  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  subacid 
Good.     December  to  March. 

Piketon  Russet. 

Origin,  near  Piketon,  Ohio. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  reddish  green,  and  russety.  February  to  April. 
(O.  P.  S.  Rep.) 

Piles  Russet. 
Pyles  Russet. 

An  old  English  Apple.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dull  green,  covered  with  russet,  be- 
coming dull  brown  or  orange  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish,  breaking, 
brisk,  slightly  aromatic  subacid.     November  to  April.     (Lindley.) 

Pine  Apple  Russet. 
Hardingham's  Russet. 

Tree  of  moderate  growth,  fruit  not  fair  or  very  valuable. 

Fruit  medium,  conic,  angular.  Skin  whitish  yellow,  faintly  striped. 
Stalk  rather  long  and  slender.  Cavity  uneven,  and  slightly  russeted. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender, 
subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good.  Last  of  September  and  Oo- 
tober. 

Pine  Creek  Sweet. 
Hamilton. 

Origin,  Pine  Creek,  Clinton  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  very  vigorous,  upright 
spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  pale  whitish  yellow,  sprinkled  with  a  few 
brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  large,  uneven.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Basin  abrupt,  deep,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  rich  honeyed  sweet.     Very  good.     Core  small.     October. 

Pine  Strawberry. 

Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  conical,  pale  yellow,  blushed  and  splashed, 
light  carmine.  Dots  large,  yellow.  Calyx  open.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  yel- 
low, tough,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     Winter.     (Am.  Hort.  An.) 

Pink  Sweeting. 

Originated  with  William  Keller,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigor- 
ous, spreading,  producing  enormous  crops. 

20 


306  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  small,  greenish,  nearly  covered  with  bright  red,  perfect  in  formt 
rich,  pleasant,  sweet.     Good.     September,  October. 

Pinner 

Carrell's  Seedling.  Pinner  Seedling. 

Origin,  Middlesex,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  ribbed  slightly,  yellowish  brown  russet,  be- 
coming reddish  brown  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  tender,  brisk 
subacid.     December,  February. 

Pioneer. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellow,  shaded  with  light  red, 
and  splashed  and  striped  with  dark  red,  many  small  light  and  gray  dots. 
Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Good.  Core  small.  October,  No- 
vember. 

Pitmaston   Golden   Pippin. 

Fi-uit  small,  round,  rough,  pale  yellowish  brown  russet.  Flesh  deep 
yellow,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.     December.     (Hogg.) 

Pitmaston  Nonpareil. 
St.  J  ohn's  Nonpareil.  Pitmaston.  Russet  Nonpareil 

Origin,  near  Worcester,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dull  green,  with  russet  antt  taint  red 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  firm,  rich,  aromatic  subacid.  No- 
vember, December.     (Lind.) 

Pitmaston  Pine-Apple. 

Fruit  small,  conical,  yellowish  brown  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm^ 
crisp,  sugary.     December,  January.     (Hogg.) 

Pittsburgh  Pippin. 

Flat  Pippin.  Swiss  Pippin.  Swiss  Apple. 

Father  Apple.  William  Tell.  Schwitzer  Apple. 

Greasy  Back.  Pippin.  Wythe. 

Origin,  supposed  to  be  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  An  irregular  grower,  some- 
what drooping  in  habit,  and  generally  a  good  bearer.  Young  shoots 
dull  reddish  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  huge,  oblate,  obscurely  ribbed,  pale  yellow,  rarely  with  a  blush, 
sparsely  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small,  in  a  large 
cavity,  sometimes  a  little  russeted.  Calyx  nearly  closed.  Basin  broad 
and  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  sprightly  subacid.  Good 
to  very  good.     November  to  April. 

Platt's  Sweet. 
Origin,  Addison  Co.,  "Vt.     Tree  a  strong  grower,  and  productive. 


THE   APPLE.  307 

Fruit  mciium,  roundish  conical,  sides  unequal,  greenish  yellow, 
fihaded  and  striped  with  dull  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  peculiar, 
sweet.     Good.     Core  small.     January  to  March. 

Pleasant  Valley  Pippin. 

Of  unknown  origin.  Received  from  New  Jersey.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish  yellow,  with 
brown  or  gray  dots.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender, 
juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     October,  Novembei 

Plum. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  upright,  moderately  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid. 
Very  good.     Core  small.     August. 

Polish. 
Red  Polish. 

Originated  in  the  neighborhood  of  Boston,  Mass.  Tree  very  produc- 
tive, moderately  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped 
with  dark  rich  red,  light  gray  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  slender.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  sometimes  stained  next  the  skin,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 

Polly  Bright. 

Origin  supposed  to  be  Virginia.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  elongated  conic.  Skin  light  yellow,  shaded  with  carmine,  ob- 
scurely striped.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  in  an  acute  cavity,  russeted. 
Calyx  in  a  small  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant 
subacid  flavor.     Good.     September,  October. 

Pomeroy. 
Taunton. 

There  are  two  Pomeroy  Apples  from  England — one  from  Somerset- 
shire and  one  from  Lancashire ;  neither  of  them  proves  of  much  value 
here.  The  first  is  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with 
stripes  of  red  and  russet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  sugary. 
October,  December. 

The  second  is  medium,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed  a1  apex,  pale  yellow, 
shaded  cheek  of  red  in  the  sun,  russet  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  tender, 
brisk  subacid.     September,  October. 

There  is  another  Pomeroy  from  Massachusetts,  which  is  of  medium 
size,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  marbled  in  sun  with 
light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender 
moderately  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  or  very  good.  October 
November. 


808  THE   APPLE. 

POMME    GRISE.' 

Pomme  de  Cuix.  Grise. 

Gray  Apple.  Leather  Apple  of  Turio. 

A  small  gray  Apple,  from  Canada,  probably  of  Swiss  or  French 
origin,  and  undoubtedly  one  of  the  finest  dessert  Apples  for  a  northern 
climate.  It  is  not  a  strong  grower,  but  is  a  good  early  bearer,  and  has 
an  excellent  flavor.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 


Pomme  Grise. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  oblate  roundish.  Skin  greenish  gray  or 
cinnamon  russet,  with  a  little  red  towards  the  sun.  Calyx  small,  set  in 
a  round  basin.  Flesh  tender,  rich,  and  high-flavored.  Very  good  to 
best.     December  to  February. 

There  is  an  Apple  under  name  of  Pomme  Gris  d'Or  which  is  claimed 
as  of  more  upright  growth.  The  fruit  more  oblong  and  quite  distinct. 
We  have  been  unable  to  so  decide. 

Pomme  Water. 
Pomme  Water  Sweet. 

An  old  Apple,  described  in  Kenrick,  Hogg,  and  others.  It  haa 
travelled  considerably,  but  is  not  generally  known,  nor  very  highly 
appreciated.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  greenish  yellow, 
shaded  and  splashed  with  red  or  crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  short. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  breaking,  juicy,  pleasant,  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     Fine  for  baking.     October,  December. 

Ponto  Pippin. 

An  English  variety,  described  by  Hogg  as  of  medium  size,  roundish, 
slightly  conical,  greenish  yellow,  red  in  the  sun,  with  spots  of  dark  russet. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  crisp,  tender,  brisk  subacid.  November  to  Feb 
ruary. 


THE    APPLE.  $09 

POORHOUSE. 

A  new  variety,  received  from  A.  L.  Woodson,  of  Kentucky,  by  him 
obtained  from  Tennessee. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellowish  green,  with  russet  dots 
Stalk  short.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
Very  good.     December.     Promises  a  good  keeper. 

Pope. 
Pope's  Apple. 

This  is  described  by  Hogg  as  originating  in  Kent,  England,  and 
there  highly  esteemed.     The  tree  an  early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conical,  clear  yellow,  with  patches  of 
green,  dark  dots  and  streaks  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  sugary, 
juicy,  rich,  and  excellent.     November  to  March. 

Porter. 

A  first-rate  New  England  fruit,  raised  by  the  Rev.  S.  Porter,  of  Sher- 
burne, Mass.,  and  wherever  grown  a  decided  favorite.  The  tree  is  hardy, 
a  moderately  vigorous  grower,  forming  a  low,  round,  spreading  head,,  and 


Porter. 


producing  abundantly,  if  in  good  soil,  a  fruit  uniformly  fair  and  even  in 
size  and  form.  It  is  a  valuable  market  fruit,  and  continues  a  long  time 
in  use. 


310  THE  APPLK. 

Fruit  rather  large,  regular,  oblong,  narrowing  to  the  eye.  Color 
clear  glossy  bright  yellow,  and,  when  exposed,  with  a  dull  blush  next 
the  sun.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  irregular,  set  in  a  narrow  and  deep 
basin.  Stalk  rather  slender,  not  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long.  Flesh 
fine  grained,  and  abounding  with  juice,  sprightly,  agreeable  aromatic 
subacid.  Very  good  to  best.  Ripens  in  Sejjtember,  and  deserves  general 
cultivation. 

Porter  Spitzenburgh. 

Origin  uncertain.  A  free  grower  and  very  productive.  Tree  mod- 
erately vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  slightly  inclining  to  conic,  red,  shaded  with 
deep  crimson.  Stalk  very  short,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity,  surrounded 
by  thin  russet.  Calyx  small,  closed,  set  in  an  open  basin.  Flesh  white, 
much  stained,  very  compact,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant,  brisk  subacid.  Good 
to  very  good.     November  to  March. 

Portugal  Gray  Reinette. 

Reinette  Grise  de  Portugal.  Graue  Portugiesische  Reinette. 

Origin  unknown.  A  very  singular-colored  fruit,  small  to  medium, 
green,  covered  with  a  peculiar  dirty  reddish  brown.  Calyx  large,  closed. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.     January,  February. 

Posey's  Red. 
Posey's  Red  Winter  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  red.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet. 
Good.     Core  small.     November  to  April. 

Posteley. 
Posteley's  Seedling. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  a  fair  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
in  the  sun  with  dull  red,  many  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good  to 
very  good.     Core  medium.     December  to  March. 

Potter's  Large. 
Potter's  Large  Apple.  Potter's  Large  Seedling. 

A  very  large  English  sauce  Apple,  roundish  oblong  conical,  obscurely 
ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  blush  red  in  the  sun,  and  many  red  and 
gray  dots.     Flesh  white,  subacid.     October  to  December. 

POTTINGER. 
Big  Red. 
Origin  and  distinctiveness  uncertain.    Tree  vigorous,  large.  Branches 
upright.     Shoots  purple,  warty.     Buds  long,  pointed. 


THE   APPLE.  311 

Fruit  large,  regular,  oblate,  dull  red,  shaded  and  striped,  covering 
the  yellow  ground.  Dots  small,  prominent,  with  some  roughness.  Flesb 
yellow,  breaking,  granular,  juicy,  subacid,  aromatic.  Only  good  for  kitchen 
and  drying.     December,  January.     (Warder.) 

Pound  Cake. 
Royal  Pearmain  ? 

A  Southern  Apple,  not  much  known. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  incliuing  to  conic,  golden  yellow,  mot- 
tled and  shaded  with  red,  netted  and  patched  with  russet.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish, rather  crisp,  tender,  a  little  granular,  vinous,  pleasant.  Good  to 
very  good.     November,  December. 

Pound  Royal. 
Winter  Pound  Royal. 

Probably  of  French  origin.  Fruit  apt  to  be  unfair,  unless  with  high 
culture.  Tree  spreading,  with  long  slender  branches.  Young  shoots 
Light  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conical,  with  a  slightly  uneven  surface, 
pale  yellowish  white,  rarely  with  a  faint  blush,  and  marked  when  ripe 
with  a  few  large  ruddy  or  dark  specks.  Flesh  very  tender,  breaking, 
fine-grained,  with  a  mild,  agreeable,  aromatic  subacid.  Good.  In  use 
fi'om  December  to  April. 

Pound's  July.        ' 

Origin,  Kentucky.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading.  Young  shoots 
Light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  sides  unequal,  greenish  white,  with  a 
dull  blush,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  very  short. 
Cavity  deep,  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small,  narrow.  Flesh 
white,  fine-grained,  tender,  not  very  juicy,  rich,  pleasant,  sweet.  Good 
to  very  good.     July,  August. 

Pound  Sweet. 

There  are  several  sorts  under  this  popular  name,  as  applied  to  anj 
large  sweet  apple.  One  is  large,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with 
slight  red  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  sweet.  Sep- 
tember, October.  Another  is  large,  roundish,  red.  Flesh  whitish,  mod- 
erately juicy,  aromatic,  sweet. 

Poveshon. 

An  old  New  Jersey  Apple,  valued  mainly  for  making  early  cider. 
Fruit  small,  oblate,  deep  red.    Flesh  yellow,  dry,  sweet.     Good.    Sep- 
tember, October. 

Powell's  Russet. 

A  little  English  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as  roundish  oblate, 
ight  b:  own  russet.  Flesh  white,  firm,  brisk  subacid.  December,  Jan- 
uary. 


512  the  apple. 

Powers. 
Miller's  Apple. 

Origin,  Perrysburgh,  Ohio. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  waxy  yellow  ground,  shaded  w  ith  red, 
and  splashed  with  carmine.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  acute.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  abrupt,  somewhat  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained, 
juicy,  mild,  aromatic  subacid.  Very  good.  October,  November. 
(O.  P.  S.  Trans.) 

There  is  another  Powers,  or  Powers  Seedling,  which  originated  on 
the  farm  of  C.  W.  Powers,  Amenia,  Dutchess  Co.,  1ST.  Y. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  whitish,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  red,  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  a  little  stained  next  the 
skin,  crisp,  juicy  subacid.     Good.     November. 

POWNAL    SPITZENBURGH. 

Origin,  Vermont.  A  n  old  variety,  not  much  esteemed.  Tree  a  rapid 
grower,  but  late  coming  into  bearing. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  inclining  to  conic, 
yellow,  marbled  and  striped  with  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  not  very  tender, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Prairie  Calville. 
Calville  des  Prairies.  Renetten.  Wilden  ApfeL 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  light  yellow,  overspread  and  blotched 
with  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  November,  December. 
(An.  Pom.) 

Pratt's  Sweet. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Daniel  Pratt,  Richland,  Oswego  Co.,  N.  Y. 
Tree  vigorous,  with  an  open  spreading  head,  an  annual  bearer,  and  pro- 
ductive.    Young  shoots  dark  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  with  broad  yet  slight  ribs.  Color  rich 
pale  yellow  ground,  marbled,  striped,  and  shaded  over  two-thirds  the 
surface,  with  two  shades  of  clear  bright  pinkish  red,  and  dotted  with 
inconspicuous  light  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  slender.  Cavity  deep, 
broad,  and  open.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  moderately  deep,  round, 
and  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  breaking,  tender, 
rather  fine-grained  and  juicy,  mild,  pleasant,  rich,  sweet.  Very  good. 
Core  medium.    December  to  March. 

President. 

Origin,  farm  of  Capt.  John  White,  Salem,  N.  H.  Tree  vigorous, 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the 
sun,  few  gray  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Septem- 
ber, October. 

The  original  tree  of  the  President  is  said  to  have  been  in  bearing  at 
ihe  inauguration  of  Washington  as  President,  and  to  be  yet  in  a  healthy 
condition. 


the  apple.  313 

President  De  Fay's  Dumonceau. 

Origin,  Belgium.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  A  new  variety,  of 
good  promise. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblate,  broadly  ribbed,  rich  yellow,  splashed  and 
marbled  with  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  small,  closed. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  sugary,  acid.  November,  February. 
(Am.  Pom.) 

Press. 

Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  upright,  vigorous. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate.  Skin  whitish  yellow,  striped  and 
splashed  with  red.  Flesh  juicy,  tender,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good. 
March. 

Press  Ewing. 

Originated  in  Christian  Co.,  Ky.,  and  introduced  to  notice  by  J.  S. 
Downer.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  irregular,  spreading.  Young  shoots 
dark  brown,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  shaded  and  obscurely  splashed  with 
crimson,  and  thickly  covered  with  dots,  having  a  dark  centre.  Stalk 
medium,  inserted  in  a  broad,  deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  an  un- 
even, deep,  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  crisp,  tender, 
mild,  agreeable  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     February  till  April. 

Priestly. 
Priestley's  American. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  smooth,  dull  red,  with  small  streaks  of 
yellowish  green.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  with  a  spicy,  agreeable 
flavor.     Hardly  good.     December  to  March. 

Priest's  Sweet. 
Blue  Sweet.  Molasses  Sweet 

Origin,  Leominster,  Mass.    Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  globular  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  chiefly  covered 
with  dull  red  stripes  and  numerous  red  dots.  Stalk  short,  set  in  a  rather 
deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small.  Flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  and 
pleasant,  not  very  juicy,  a  late  keeper.     Good.     January  to  May. 

Primate. 

Rough  and  Ready.  Early  Tart  Harvest. 

Sour  Harvest.  Zour  Bough. 

July  Apple.  Powers. 

Scott .  North  American  Best. 

The  true  origin  of  this  delicious  amateur's  Apple  is  unknown.  It  ap 
pears  to  have  been  long  known  and  grown  in  various  sections  of  out 
States  under  different  names.     The  tree  is  hardy,  a  strong  and  stocky 


314  THE   APPLE. 

grower,  and  forms  a  beautiful  head,  very  productive.     Young  shoot* 
short-jointed,  reddish  brown,  quite  downy.     Buds  rather  prominent. 


Primate. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  greenish  white,  with  a  crimson 
blush  on  the  exposed  side.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  rather 
large,  deep,  irregular  cavity.  Calyx  closed  in  an  abrupt,  open,  somewhat 
corrugated  basin.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  sprightly,  refreshing,  mild 
subacid.  Very  good  or  best.  An  excellent  dessert  Apple,  ripening  the 
last  of  August,  and  continuing  in  use  till  October. 

Princely. 

Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sometimes  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  shaded, 
marbled,  and  indistinctly  splashed  with  red,  small  light  dots.  Stalk 
Bhort.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild 
almost  sweet  subacid.  Core  small.  Good  to  very  good.  October, 
January. 

Prince  of  Orange. 

Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblong,  ribbed,  pale  yellow,  with 
blotches  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  soft,  subacid.  Good. 
October.  November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Princesse  Noble. 

Grosser  Edler  Prinzessinapfel. 

An  excellent  Dutch  Apple.     Tree  a  good  grower,  an  early  and  good 
bearer. 


THE    APPLE. 


315 


Fruit  medium,  roundish,  somewhat  conical,  yellowish,  with  many 
oroken  stripes  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant,  vi- 
nous.    November.     (Hogg.) 

Princesse  Noble  des  Chartreaux. 

Origin  unknown.  .    . 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  bright  green,  with  many  indistinct  spots, 
greenish  brown  around  the  stalk.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  firm,  sugary,  agreeable  acid.  January,  February. 
(Verg.) 

Prinz. 

Of  German  origin.  New.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  a  good  grower, 
and  productive.     Young  shoots  reddish  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  obscurely  ribbed,  yellow,  shaded  with 
pale  red  in  the  sun,  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  tender,  breaking,  mild,  pleasant  subacid.  Good 
to  very  good.     October,  November. 

Progress. 
"Esquire  Miller's  Best  Sort." 

A  native  of  Middlefield,  Conn.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  and  forms 
a  handsome  head,  bears  early,  and  very  productive.  The  original  tree 
stands  on  the  land  ot  Enoch  Coe,  formerly  of  Isaac  Miller  Esq.,  and  for 
some  time  was  called  "  Esquire  Miller's  best  Sort." 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  rouna 
cavity,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  large,  partially  closed,  set  in  an 
open  basin.  Skin  smooth,  yellow,  with  a  sunny  cheek,  sometimes  with 
a  few  scattered  gray  dots.  Flesh  solid,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  refreshing, 
subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     Ripe,  October  to  April. 

Proliferous  Eeinette. 

An  English  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  : 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  obscurely  ribbed,  dull  yellow  with  broken 
Btripes  of  crimson,  small  russety  specks.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy, 
rich  brisk  flavor.     October,  December. 

Prolific  Beauty. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  with  dull  stripes  of  red. 
Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tender,  acid.     Poor.     September,  December. 

Prolific  Sweet. 

From  Connecticut.       Tree  a  good  grower,  veiy  productive,  fine  for 

cooking.  . 

Fruit  roundish  conic.  Skin  greenish.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  with 
a  pleasant,  sweet,  spicy  flavor.     November  to  February. 


916  THE  APPLE. 

Prop. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  oblique,  pale  yellow,  with  a  few  large  6plashes 
and  stripes  of  light  red,  few  large  brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid.  Good. 
Gore  small.     December. 

Pryor's  Red. 

Pitzer  Hill.  Big  Hill.  Prior's  Red. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  upright,  spreading,  not  very  vigorous,  nor 
an  early  bearer,  requires  a  deep,  rich  soil,  and  a  warm  season  or  a  south- 
ern climate  for  the  full  development  of  its  excellence.  Young  wood 
and  buds  clear  reddish  brown,  many  large  conspicuous  gray  dots. 


Pryor's  Red. 

Fruit  medium,  somewhat  globular  oblate,  obliquely  depressed.  Color 
greenish  yellow,  shaded  with  red,  striped  with  dark  crimson,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  greenish  gray  dots,  and  some  seasons  much  covered  with 
russet.  Stalk  short  and  thick,  inserted  in  a  small  acute  cavity,  sur- 
rounded by  traces  of  russet,  which  sometimes  considerably  overspread 
the  fruit.  Calyx  firmly  closed,  set  in  a  small  basin.  Flesh  yellowish, 
tender,  juicy,  very  rich,  pleasant  subacid.  Very  good.  January  to 
March. 

There  is  an  apple  under  name  of  Pryor's  Blue,  which  may  be  distinct 
from  the  above,  and  may  prove  identical. 

Pucker  End. 

From  Long  Island.  Tree  thrifty  and  productive.  Fruit  large, 
roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  often  shaded  with  crimson  in 


THE   APPLE.  31? 

the  sun,  few  dark  gray  dots.     Stalk  short,  stout.     Calyx  closed.     Flesh 
yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     Core  large.     October. 

Pumpkin  Russet. 

Sweet  Russet.  Pumpkin  Sweet.  Flint  Russet. 

York  Russet 

Origin  unknown.     Trees  large  and  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Flesh  pale  yellowish  green,  slightly  covered 
with  russet.  Stalk  long,  set  in  a  wide,  shallow  cavity.  Eye  narrow, 
slightly  sunk.  Flesh  exceedingly  rich  and  sweet.  Good.  September 
to  January. 

Pumpkin  Sweet. 
Vermont  Pumpkin  Sweet.         Lyman's  Pumpkin  Sweet.         Pound  Sweet 

A  very  large  sweet  Apple,  which  we  received  from  Mr.  S.  Lyman, 
of  Manchester,  Conn.  It  is,  perhaps,  inferior  to  the  Jersey  Sweet  or 
the  Summer  Sweet  Paradise  for  the  table,  but  is  a  very  valuable  apple 
for  baking,  and  deserves  a  place  on  this  account  in  every  orchard.  Tree 
upright,  spreading.     Young  wood  brown. 

Fruit  veiy  large,  roundish,  more  or  less  fun-owed  or  ribbed,  espe- 
cially near  the  stalk.  Color  pale  green,  with  obscure  whitish  streaks 
near  the  stalk,  and  numerous  white  dots  near  the  eye,  sometimes  becom- 
ing a  Little  yellow  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  very  sweet,  but  not  very 
juicy.     Good.     September  to  December. 

There  is  also  in  Connecticut  and  Massachusetts  another  Pumpkin 
Sweet,  the  tree  of  which  is  a  strong,  upright  grower,  and  very  produc- 
tive.    Young  wood  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  rich  yellow,  frequently  with  consider- 
able russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  breaking,  rich,  sugary,  sweet,  ripen- 
ing in  September  and  October.  Very  valuable  for  baking  or  stock  feed- 
ing. 

There  are  also  several  other  Apples  under  the  name  of  Pumpkin 
Sweet,  but  we  consider  the  two  above  described  as  the  best  we  hav» 
known. 

,  Pushmataha. 

Sloan's  Seedling. 

Originated  near  Tuscaloosa,  Ala.  Tree  stout,  upright,  moderately 
spreading  head,  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  shoots  grayish, 
downy  at  end. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yel- 
low, shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  rich  red,  few  brown  dots.  Stalk 
medium,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  mild, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     November  to  January. 

Putnam  Harvey. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  with  patches  of 
russet.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  August,  September, 
(Elliott.) 


318  the  apple. 

Putnam  Keeper. 

From  Kentucky.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading. 

Fruit  lai'ge,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded  and  splashed  vith  red.  Stalk 
rather  long.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  sub- 
acid.    Good.     Core  small.     December  to  March. 

Putnam  Sweet. 

Originated  near  Marietta,  Ohio. 

Fruit  large,  flat,  regular,  surface  smooth,  mixed,  splashed,  and 
striped  deep  red.  Dots  numerous,  large.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Stalk 
short.  Flesh  tender,  sweet,  very  good.  Kitchen,  stock.  August,  Sep 
tember      (Warder.) 

Putneyite. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish;,  ugut  vellow/  coarse,  dry,  acid.  December, 
•J  anuary .      ( Elliott. ) 

Quaker. 

An  old  Apple.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  an  early 
and  great  bearer,  regarded  by  some  as  a  valuable  market  sort. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  splashed  and 
striped  with  rich  red,  light  dots.  Stalk  medium,  slender.  Cavity 
large.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant,  slightly  aro- 
matic subacid.     Good.     November,  February. 

Quaker  Pippin. 

Fruit  medium,  greenish  yellow.  Yery  acid.  Poor.  October. 
(Elliott.) 

Queen  Charlotte. 

An  old  German  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as : 
Fruit  small,  conical,  greenish,  with  a  facing  of  brown  in  sun.     Flesh 
brisk,  pleasant.     March,  April. 

Queen  of  Sauce. 

A  culinary  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as : 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  striped  and  flushed  with  red, 
patches  and  specks  of  russet.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp, 
juicy,  sugary,  brisk,  pleasant.     Good.     November,  January. 

Queen  of  the  Pippins. 

Heine  des  Reinettea. 

Origin  unknown.     Foreign. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  truncated,  line  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  marbled  with  red,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx 
open.  Basin  large.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  slightly  aro- 
matic.    Good  to  very  good.     November,  December. 


the  apple.  s19 

Queen  of  the  Valley. 

Origin  unknown.  Received  from  Connecticut.  Tree  vigorous,  up- 
right spreading.     Young  shoots  brownish,  slightly  grayish. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  mostly  shaded,  striped, 
and  splashed  with  rich  red,  many  whitish  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very 
good.     November,  December. 

Quince. 
Seneca  Spice  ?  Pear  Apple. 

Origin  uncertain  ;  first  described  by  Coxe.  In  appearance  this  Apple 
is  much  like  a  large  yellow  Newtown  Pippin  ;  grown  at  the  West  it  ia 
larger  than  in  New  England,  of  a  rich  high  flavor,  and  by  some  es- 
teemed very  highly.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  and 
productive.  Young  shoots  dull  reddish  brown.  Buds  small,  reddish, 
pointed. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  rarely  with  a  Hush, 
somewhat  broadly  ribbed.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  broad,  open,  deep. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  large,  rather  deep,  furrowed  or  uneven.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  crisp,  tender,  a  little  coarse,  with  a  brisk,  pleasant 
subacid  quince  aroma.  Core  rather  large.  Very  good.  October,  De- 
cember. 

There  is  another  Quince,  or  Coles  Quince,  which  is  claimed  to  have 
originated  in  Cornish,  Maine.  The  fruit  of  the  two  is  very  similar, 
and  we  have  at  times  questioned  its  identity.  The  young  wood  is, 
however,  different  in  shade  of  color,  being  clear  rich  reddish  brown, 
with  buds  short,  abrupt,  prominent. 

Rabine. 

This  English  Apple  is  described  by  Hogg  as  valuable  for  culinary 
or  dessert  purposes. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  mot- 
tled, splashed,  and  striped  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  ten- 
der, crisp,  sugary,  brisk,  pleasant  acid.     October,  December. 

Ragan. 
Ragan's  Red. 

Originated  with  Reuben  Ragan,  Putnam  Co.,  Ind.  Tree  hardy, 
vigorous,  and  fruitful.     Young  wood  dull  reddish  brown,  grayish. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conic.  Color  marbled  and  striped 
with  red  on  a  green  ground.  Stalk  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  very 
deep,  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  small,  closed,  set  in  a  deep,  abrupt  basin. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  pleasant,  rather  rich,  spicy,  subacid. 
Good  to  very  good.     October  to  November. 

1 1  YMBO, 

Fall  Romanite.  Romanite.  Trumpington  ? 

Gray  Romanite.  Seek-no- Further.  Large  Rambo? 

Striped  Rambo.  Bread-and-Cheese  Apple.  Terry's  Redstreak 

Delaware.  RambouiJlet. 

Tire  Rambo   is  one  of  the  mos'    popular  autumn  or   early  winter 


320  THE   APPLE. 

fruits.  It  is  a  highly  valuable  Apple  for  the  table  or  kitchen,  and  the 
tree  thrives  well  on  light  sandy  soil,  being  a  native  of  the  banks  of 
the  Delaware.  The  tree  is  of  a  vigorous,  rather  spreading  habit,  quite 
productive. 


Fruit  of  medium  size,  flat,  smooth,  yellowish  white  in  the  shade, 
streaked  and  marbled  with  pale  yellow  and  red  in  the  sun,  and  speckled 
with  large  rough  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  curved  to  one  side, 
and  deeply  planted  in  a  smooth  funnel-like  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set 
in  a  broad  basin,  which  is  slightly  plaited  around  it.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  very  tender,  rich,  mild  subacid.  Very  good.  October  to  De- 
cember. 

There  is  claimed  to  be  a  distinct  or  sub-variety  of  this,  called  Hed 
Mambo,  the  fruit  of  which  is  more  red,  otherwise  there  is  no  percepti- 
ble difference. 

Rambour  Gros. 

An  old  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as  : 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conical,  slight  projecting  ribs,  yellow, 
marbled  and  faintly  striped  with  rich  warm  red.  Flesh  white,  crisp, 
juicy,  sharp  subacid.     Good.     December,  January. 

Rambour  Papeleu. 
Rambourg  Papeleu. 

Of  Russian  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conical,  deep  rich  yellow,  spotted, 
etriped,  and  splashed  with  shades  of  rich  red,  small  light  russet  dots. 
Stalk  medium.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  rather  coarse, 
breaking,  sharp  subacid.  Good.  November,  January.  An  Apple  of 
good  promise  for  market. 


the  apple.  321 

Rambour  Rose. 
Bambour  Eouge  La  More  des  Pommes.  Kool-appeL 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  large  strong  branches.  Very  pro 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  truncated,  rich  yellow,  mostly  over- 
spread, splashed,  and  shaded  with  rich  red,  traces  of  fawn  russet. 
Stalk  large,  short.  Flesh  greenish  white,  half  crisp,  sugary  acid,  agree- 
able.    Good  for  cooking.     October,  November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Ram's  Horns. 

A  large  dark  red  Apple,  imperfectly  described  by  Cole.  Poor.  Out 
of  use. 

Randel's  Best. 
Randel  Best. 
Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  greenish  yellow,  mostly 
striped  and  overspread  with  dark  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  sweet.     Novembei*,  February.     (Elliott.) 

Rasche. 

Originated  with  W.  Rasche,  near  Hermann,  Mo.  A  new  variety,  of 
good  promise.  Tree  a  strong  grower,  productive,  and  hardy.  Young 
wood  dark  brown  red,  with  prominent  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  obscure  ribs.  Color  greenish  yellow, 
with  small  irregularly  scattered  gray  dots,  a  shade  of  deeper  green  suf- 
fused, faint  traces  of  russet  at  the  stem  end.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Yery  good.  December  to 
March. 

Rattle-Box. 
Hollow  Core. 
Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  thinly  striped  and 
splashed  with  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  jucy,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Core 
large.     August. 

Ravelston  Pippin. 
itevelstone  Pippin. 
An  Apple  from  Scotland. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  irregularly  ribbed,  greenish  yellow, 
with  stripes  of  red,  and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     August. 

Rawle's  Janet. 

Missouri  Janet  ?  Rock  Remain.  Jennett. 

Red  Xeverfail  ?  Rock  Rimmon.  Neverfail. 

Rnwle's  Jannet.  Yellow  Janett.  Indiana  Jannetting. 

Raule's  Jannetting.  Winter  Jannetting.  Raul's  Gennetting. 

Bawle's  Genet.  Jeniton. 

Originated  in  Amherst  Co.,  Ya.,  on  the  farm  of  Caleb  Rawle.     Tree 


.322  THE    APPLE. 

hardy,  vigorous,  spreading;  it  puts  forth  its  leaves  and  blossons  much 
later  than  other  varieties  in  the  spring,  and  consequently  avoids  injury 
by  late  frost ;  it  is,  therefore,  particularly  valuable  for  the  South  and 
Southwest,  where  it  is  much  cultivated.  Young  wood  clear  reddish 
brown. 

Fruit   rather   large,  oblate    conic,  yellowish,  shaded  with  red  and 
striped  with  crimson.     Stalk  short  and  thick,  inserted  in  a  broad  open 


Raw] as  Janet. 

cavity.  Calyx  partially  open,  set  in  a  rather  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
whitish  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very  good. 
February  to  June.     So  far  has  not  succeeded  well  at  the  North. 

Rawling's  Red  Streak. 

Rawling's  Fine  Red  Streak.  Red  Streaked  Rawling. 

An  old  English  sauce  Apple,  described  in  Ronalds. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  yellow,  striped  with  red.     Flesh  yellowish, 
tender,  juicy,  sweet.     Good  for  cooking.     December  to  March. 

Rebecca. 
Daddy. 

An  old  variety,  originating  with  a  family  by  name  of  Stidham,  in 
Delaware.  Tree  upright  spreading.  Young  shoots  dull  grayish  brown. 
Terminal  bud  large,  blunt.     Productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  crimson 
cheek.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  deep,  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  closed. 
Basin  broad  and  deep.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to 
very  good      August,  September. 


the  apple.  s3s 

Red  and  Green  Sweet. 

Red  Pound  Sweet.  Bedford  Sweet. 

Wheelock  Sweet.  Largo  Early  Red. 

Prince's  Large  Red  and  Green  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  good  grower,  upright  spreading,  a  moderate 
annual  bearer. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong  conic,  ribbed,  greenish  white,  with  stripea 
of  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  sweet ;  a  good  fruit  for  baking  and  stock 
feeding.     Middle  of  August  to  middle  of  September. 

Red  Apple. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  striped  and  marbled  with 
bright  red.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  large.  Flesh  whitish,  slightly 
stained  with  red,  tender.     Good.     January  to  March.    (Am.  P.  S.  Rep.) 

Red  Astrachan. 

Deterding's  Early.  Vermilion  d'Ete. 

Astrachan  Rouge.  Abe  Lincoln. 

Rother  Astrakan. 

A  fruit  of  extraordinary  beauty,  first  imported  into  England,  with 
the  White  Astrachan,  from  Sweden,  in  1816.  It  bears  abundantly 
with  us,  and  its  singular  richness  of  color  is  heightened  by  an  exquisite 
bloom  on  the  surface  of  the  fruit,  like  that  of  a  plum.     It  is  one  of  the 


Red  Astrachan. 


handsomest  dessert  fruits,  and  its  quality  is  good,  but  if  not  taken  from 
the  tree  as  soon  as  ripe  it  is  liable  to  become  mealy.     Tree  a  vigorous 


324  THE   APPLE. 

grower,  upright   spreading.      An   early  and  abundant  bearer.     Young 
shoots  clear  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  rather  above  the  middle  size,  and  very  smooth 
and  fair,  roundish,  a  little  narrowed  towards  the  eye.  Skin  almost  en- 
tirely covered  with  deep  crimson,  with  sometimes  a  little  greenish  yellow 
in  the  shade,  and  occasionally  a  little  russet  near  the  stalk,  and  covered 
with  a  pale  white  bloom.  Stalk  rather  short  and  deeply  inserted.  Ca- 
lyx partially  closed,  set  in  a  slight  basin,  which  is  sometimes  a  little 
irregular.  Flesh  quite  white,  crisp,  moderately  juicy,  with  an  agreeable, 
rich,  acid  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripens  from  last  of  July  to  mid- 
dle of  August. 

Red  Autumn  Calville. 

Calville  Rouge  d'Automne.  Calville  Rouge. 

Calville  d'Automne.  Pomme  Violette. 

Erd  Beere,  or  Strawberry  of  Switzerland.     Rosseau,  incorrectly. 

An  old  French  Apple  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Young  wood  dark  reddish  brown. 

Frmt  large,  roundish  conical,  deeply  ribbed,  pale  yellowish,  washed 
and  overspread  with  shades  of  rich  dark,  or  very  dark  red.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  juicy,  often  stained  with  red,  sprightly  aromatic,  subacid.  Good. 
September  to  December.     An  unprofitable  variety. 

Red  Belle-Fleur. 

Belle-Fleur.        Striped  Belle-Fleur.       Belle-Fleur  Rouge.       Wigwam. 

A  French  variety,  scarcely  worth  cultivation. 

Fruit  large,  regular,  oblong  conical,  pale  greenish  yellow,  but  nearly 
covered  with  red,  striped  with  dark  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  of  tol- 
erably mild  flavor,  apr,  to  become  mealy.  Poor.  November  to  Jan- 
ttiry. 

Red   Canada. 

Old  Nonsuch,  of  Mass.  Poland.  Richfield  Nonsuch. 

Steele's  Red  Winter. 

An  old  fruit,  formerly  much  grown  in  Connecticut  and  Massachu- 
setts, but  is  not  now  much  planted,  on  account  of  its  small  size  and  poor 
fruit ;  succeeds  well  in  Western  New  York,  Ohio,  and  Michigan.  Tree 
thrifty,  but  of  slender  growth  ;  very  productive.  Young  wood  brown- 
ish olive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic.  Skin  yellow,  mostly 
shaded  with  deep  red  or  crimson,  somewhat  striped  or  splashed  on  the 
sunny  side,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  gray,  and  sometimes  greenish 
dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  broad,  deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed. 
Segments  long,  in  a  small,  narrow,  somewhat  irregular  basin.  Core 
small,  close.  Flesh  white,  tender,  crisp,  abounding  with  a  brisk,  refresh- 
ing juice,  and  retaining  its  fine,  delicate  flavor  to  the  last.  Very  good 
to  best.     January  to  May 

Red  Cathead. 
Cathead  of  some. 
Tree  upright,  vigorous,  and  productive,  extensively  grown  in   the 


THE   APPLE.  326 

eastern  and  southwestern  counties  of  Virginia.     Young  wood  duD  red- 
dish brown,  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  partially  shaded  with  dull  red, 
and  sometimes  deeper  red  in  the  shade,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
whitish  dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  open, 
set  in  a  large  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid. 
Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 


Red  Canada. 


Red  Cedar. 


Origin  unknown.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 
Fruit  medium,  dark  rich  red.     Flesh  yellow,  mild  subacid.     Valued 
for  its  long  keeping  quality. 

Red  Cheek. 

There  are  claimed  to  be  three  distinct  Apples  under  this  name.     One 

is  said  to  have  originated  on  the  farm  of ■  Hull,  Sharon,  Conn. ; 

the  tree  forming  a  small  branching  head,  a  great  bearer,  and  the  fruit  a 
long  keeper. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  whitish,  shaded  in  the  sun  with 
bight  red.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
mild  subacid.     Core  medium.     December  to  February. 

Another  Red  Cheek  is  said  to  have  originated  near  Dracut,  Mass. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  whitish,  shaded  with  crimson  in  the 
sun,  few  gray  dots.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     Core  rather  large.     November,  December. 

Another  comes  from  New  Jersey. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  oval,  inclining  to  conic,  whitish  yel- 
low, shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  gray  and  light  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  partially  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Core  rather 
small.     December,  January. 


329  the  apple. 

Red  Favorite. 

Origin  near  Carlisle,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  juicy,  subacid.     (A.  Pom.  S.  Rep.) 

Red  G/lliflower. 
Red  Seek-no-Farther.  Harkness  New  Favorite. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  fine  red.  Flesh  white,  mild,  rich  sub> 
acid.     November  to  January.     Tree  a  poor  bearer.     (Elliott.) 

Red  Horse. 

Received  from  Kentucky.     Tree  of  upright  growth. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  with  broad  ribs,  mostly  covered  with  dark 
red,  and  obscure  splashes  and  stripes,  and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled  with 
light  gray  dots,  and  nettings  of  russet.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large, 
irregular.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid, aromatic.     Very  good.    October,  January. 

We  have  had  but  little  opportunity  of  comparing  this  with  other 
varieties,  and  it  may  prove  a  variety  known  by  another  name. 

Redick. 

An  old  Connecticut  Apple.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and 
striped  with  dark  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant.  Good. 
Core  small.     November,  December. 

Red  Ingestrie. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Knight.  This  is  greatly  admired  as  a  dessert  Apple 
in  England,  but  not  here. 

Fruit  small,  oblong  or  ovate,  with  a  wide  basin  at  the  eye,  and  a 
short  and  slender  stalk.  Bright  yellow,  tinged  and  mottled  with  red  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  very  firm,  juicy,  and  high  flavored.  Good. 
Ripens  in  September  and  October. 

Red  Jewell. 

Originated  in  Todd  Co.,  Ky.  Tree  a  good  and  handsome  grower, 
an  early  bearer,  and  uniformly  productive.     A  new  promising  sort. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate.  Sides  often  unequal.  Color  very  dark 
crimson  red,  with  many  white  conspicuous  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Caly* 
closed,  or  partially  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  compact,  juicy,  mild, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  February. 

Red  June  Sweet. 
June  Sweeting. 

Origin  unknown.  Received  from  Pennsylvania.  Tree  a  fine 
grower  and  abund  mt  bearer,  continuing  a  long  time  in  use. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  inclining  to  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  striped, 
splashed,  and  shaded  with  dull  red.     Stalk  short.     Calyx  closed.     Flesb 


THE    APPLE.  327 

white,   tender,   moderately  juicy,   rich,   pleasant,   sweet.     Very    Good 
July,  August. 

Red  Mormon. 

From  .Pennsylvania.      Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  productive, 
Fruit  medium,   oblate,   yellowish,  shaded  and  indistinctly  splashed 
■with  red,  small  dots.     Stalk  long,  slender.     Calyx  closed.     Flesh   yel- 
lowish, tender,  juicy,   slightly  aromatic  subacid.     Good  to  very  good. 
Core  small.     January  to  March. 

Red  Must. 

An  old  Herefordshire  (England)  cider  fruit,  of  large  size,  roundish 
oblate,  yellow,  with  red  cheek  in  the  sun.  Flesh  rich.  October,  No- 
vember. 

Red  Range. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  vigorous,  upright  spreading  grower,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  slightly  conic.  Color  fine  yellow, 
shaded  with  red  and  thickly  covered  with  whitish  dots.  Stalk  short,  in- 
serted in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  broad,  shallow  basin. 
Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  with  a  mild  Spitzenburgh  flavor. 
Good  to  very  good.      December,  February. 

Red  Republican. 

Origin,  Lycoming  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  moderately 
productive. 

Fruit  huge,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  yellowish,  striped  and  shaded 
with  red,  and  sprinkled  with  large  whitish  dots.  Stalk  short,  in  a  largo 
cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  broad,  deep,  and  furrowed.  Good.  Flesh 
coarse,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     December,  January. 

Red  Romaein. 

Pomrae  Romarin  Rouge.  Mela  di  Rosmarino  rossa. 

An  Italian  fruit. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  oblong  conic,  bright  yellow,  shaded  with  red,  and 
dotted  with  small  brown  spots.  Stalk  Blender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
white,  fine-grained,  crisp,  sugary  acid,  perfumed.  Core  small.  Decem- 
ber to  March.      (An.  Pom.) 

Red  Russet. 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  Sanborn,  Hampton  Falls,  N.  H.  Tree  very 
vigorous,  upright  spreading,  and  productive.  Young  wood  clear  reddish 
brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  shaded  with  dull  red  and  deep 
carmine  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  covered  with  gray  dots,  with  a  slight  ap- 
pearance of  rough  russet  on  most  of  the  surface.  Stalk  rather  short  and 
thick,  inserted  in  a  medium  cavity,  surrounded  with  thin  russet.  Calyx 
uearl)  closed.  Segments  long,  recurved,  in  a  uarrow,  uneven  basin. 
Flesh  yellow,  solid,  crisp,  tendi  r,  with  an  excellent  rich,  subacid  flavor 
somewhat  resembling  Baldwin.      Very  good.     January  to  April. 


328  the  apple. 

Red  Seek-no-Farther. 

Origin  unknown.  From  Pennsylvania.  Tree  open,  spreading,  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  splashed,  striped,  and  shaded 
with  red.  Flesh  whitish  green,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  sub- 
acid.    Core  small.     Good.     December,  January. 

Red  Streak. 
Herefordshire  Red  Streak.  Scudamore's  Crab.  Johnson. 

A  capital  English  cider  Apple,  which  thrives  admirably  in  this 
country,  and  is  very  highly  esteemed,  as  it  makes  a  rich,  high  flavored, 
strong  liquor.     It  is  a  handsome  grower,  and  a  great  bearer. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish.  Calyx  small,  set  in  a  rather  deep 
basin.  Stalk  rather  slender  and  short.  Skin  richly  streaked  with  red, 
with  a  few  yellow  streaks  and  spots.  Flesh  yellow,  rich,  firm,  and 
dry.     Good. 

Red  Stripe. 
English  Eed  Stripe.         Carolina  Red  Stripe.        Rockhill's  Summer  Queen. 

Origin  unknown.  Comes  to  us  from  Indiana.  Tree  hardy  and  pro- 
ductive.    Valuable  fruit  for  market  or  cooking. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  almost  ribbed,  whitish,  considerably 
striped,  splashed,  and  mottled  with  crimson.  Stalk  short  and  slender. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good. 
August.     Core  large  and  open. 

Red  Sweet. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  D.  C.  Richmond,  Sandusky,  O.  Tree  upright, 
vigorous,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  yellowish,  striped  and  shaded  with 
light  red,  and  sprinkled  with  greenish  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  very  tender, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  excellent.     Good.     November  to  February. 

Red  Warrior. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.  Distinct  from  Nickajack,  which  is  some- 
times grown  under  this  name.  Tree  upright,  with  young  shoots  dark 
reddish. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  striped  and  marbled  with  two 
shades  of  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy.  Good.  November  to 
March. 

Red  Winter  Calville. 

Calville  Royale  d'Hiver.     Calville  Rouge  d'Hiver.  Calville  Rouge  Normar.de. 
Calville  Rouge  d'Anjou.      Calville  Rouge.  Sanguirtole. 

Caillot  Rosat.  Red  Calville.  Calville  vraie  des  Allemandtt- 

Cushinan's  Black  ? 

An  old  French  variety,  quite  superseded. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  ribbed,  pale  and  dark  red.  Flesb 
tender,  mild  subacid.     Poor.     November  to  February. 


THE   APPLE. 

Red  "Winter  Pearmain. 


329 


Red  Lady  Finger. 
Bunkum. 

Robertson  s  Pearmain. 
Jackson's  Red. 


Buncombe.  Red  Fall  Pippin. 

Red  Vandevere.  Meig's. 

Batchelor.  Tinson's  Red. 

Southern  Fall  Pippin.  Powers. 


Origin  unknown.  An  old  variety.  Tree  of  moderate  upright 
growth  ;  a  regular  bearer.  Young  shoots  clear  rich  reddish  brown 
Blightly  downy. 


Red  Winter  Pearmain. 


Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblong  conic,  yellowish  white,  mostly 
shaded  with  maroon  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  light  dots.  Stalk 
very  short,  in  an  acute  deep  cavity,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed,  set 
in  a  small,  round,  open  basin.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  mild 
subacid,  or  nearly  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.  Good  to  verv  good.  Jan 
uary  to  March. 

Red  Winter  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Specimens  from  Kentucky,  although  the  fruh 
is  there  stated  to  have  come  from  Virginia  or  Maryland. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  deep  crimson  on  yellow,  with  indis- 
tinct splashes  and  stripes,  large  and  small  light  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  small.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  yellow,  a  Little  coarse,  rich, 
honeyed  sweet.     Fine  for  cooking.     December,  February. 

i 
Reed. 

Originated  on  the  premises  of  George  Reed,  Leedsville,  Dutches* 
Co.,  N.  Y. 


330  THE  APPLE. 

Fruib  medium,  roundish,  whitish,  shaded,  splashed,  and  mottled  with 
light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  shal- 
low. Flesh  white,  a  little  stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     Good.     November. 


Reinette  Calville. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  rich  yellow,  with  broad 
stripes  of  dull  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  perfumed. 
November  January.     (Diel.) 

Reinette  Coulon. 

A  new  Apple,  originating  with  M.  L.  Coulon,  Liege,  in  1856.  Tree 
vigorous,  with  dark  reddish  gray  young  shoots. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  golden  yellow, 
washed  and  splashed  with  rich  bright  red,  many  prominent  reddish  gray 
dots.  Stalk  stout,  short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  rather 
deep.  Flesh  creamy  white,  semi-crisp,  brisk  subacid,  agreeable.  Core 
open,  large.     November,  January.     (An.   Pom.) 

Reinette  Daniel. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Sides  unequal,  whitish  yel- 
low, nearly  covered  with  thin  dull  russet.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  sharp  subacid. 
Good.     November  to  February. 

Reinette  D'Anjou. 

Of  French  origin.     New.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  yellow,  shaded 
and  indistinctly  splashed  with  rich  red,  few  light  or  areole  dots.  Stalk 
rather  slender.  Cavity  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  large,  open.  Basin 
shallow.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  rather  rich  subacid. 
Very  good.     Core  medium,  hollow.     December,  February. 

Reinette  de  Bayeux. 

A  Belgian  Apple  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  golden  yellow,  shaded  with 
red  around  the  stalk,  and  with  scattered  red  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity 
large.  Calyx  half  closed.  Flesh  white,  half  tender,  sharp  subacid, 
December  to  January.     (An.  Pom.) 

Reinette  de  Breda. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  rich  yellow,  with  russet  and  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  iirm,  crisp,  juicy,  vinous,  aromatic 
December  to  March.     (Diel.) 


THE    APPLE.  33  i 

Reinette  de  Caux. 

Of  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  •  yellow,  splashed  and  mottled 
with  bright  red  in  the  sun,  many  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  half 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  agreeable  aromatic,  sub- 
acid.    January,  February.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Reinette  de  Clareval. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  clear  lemon  yellow,  with  a  slight 
tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  fine,  white,  firm,  juicy,  aromatic,  vinous. 
December,  March.     (Diel.) 

Reinette  de  Hongrie. 

An  old  Apple,  described  by  Lindley  as  : 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  rough  gray  russet,  with  faint  orango 
m  the  sun,  numerous  warty  specks.  Flesh  greenish  white,  firm,  crisp, 
aromatic.     November  to  April. 

Reinette  de  Thorn. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  in  Holland.  It  is  described  in  the  An- 
nals of  Pomology  as  a  vigorous,  upright,  productive  tree. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  truncated,  yellowish,  washed,  shaded, 
and  mottled  with  bright  red,  gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx 
with  long  segments.  Flesh  creamy  white,  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid. 
December. 

Reinette  Dorb. 
Reinette  Jaune  Sardive.  Reinette  Rousse. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun, 
nettings  of  russet,  and  large  brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  whitish,  not  very  juicy,  firm,  subacid.  Good.  Core  small. 
October,  November. 

Reinette  du  Yigan. 

Of  foreign  unknown  origin.    Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  rich  yellow,  with  many  red  and  gray 
dots,  faint  blush  of  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  small,  closed. 
Flesh  yellow,  tinted  with  rose,  fine-grained,  firm,  juicy,  rich  subacid. 
December  to  March.      (An.  Pom.) 

Reinette  Grain  d'Or. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  with  gray  spots  and  dots, 
bronzed  in  the  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish, 
firm,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     December,  January.     (Alb.  Pom.) 


332  the  apple. 

Reinette  Pippin. 

Origin,  supposed  France. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  witn  light  and 
gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin 
medium  or  small,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  moderately  juicy,  brisk 
subacid.     Good.     Core  rather  large.     December,  January. 

Reinette  Quarrendon. 

French  origin. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  golden  yellow,  washed  and 
splashed  with  two  shades  of  red,  small  black  dots.  Stalk  slender. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  half  crisp,  sugary  acid.  December.  (Alb. 
Pom.) 

Reinette  St.  Lambert. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  in  Liege. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  overspread 
with  brilliant  rich  red  or  crimson,  with  a  tinge  of  purple.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  in  a  deep  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine,  juicy,  delicate,  per- 
fumed.    September.     Of  good  promise.     (An.  Pom.) 

Reinette  Triomphante. 
Victorious  Reinette. 

A  German  early  winter  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  pale  yellow,  thickly  dotted  with  white  specks 
and  rough,  projecting  warts.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  aroma- 
tic.    Good.     The  tree  is  of  thrifty  growth,  and  is  said  to  bear  well. 

Reinette  Yervaene. 

Originated  at  Ledeberg-les-Gand.  Tree  spreading.  Young  wood 
brownish,  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  mottled  and  shaded  with  brick  red. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  fine-grained,  sharp  subacid.     Good.     November. 

Republican  Pippin. 

Origin,  Lycoming  Co.,  Pa.  First  discovered  by  George  Webb,  who 
gave  it  the  name.  Tree  of  strong,  but  crooked  growth,  only  moderately 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  oblate,  dull  yellow,  mostly  shaded  with  red, 
somewhat  striped  and  marbled,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  large  gray 
dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Cooking  and  drying.  September, 
October. 

Rhode  Island  Greening. 

Burlington  Greening.  Russine.  Bell  Dubois, 

Jersey  Greening.  Grunting  von  Rhode  Island . 

The  Rhode  Island  Greening  is  such  a  universal  favorite,  and  is  so 
generally  known,  that  it  seems  almost  superfluous  to  give  a  description 


THE   APPLE.  333 

of  it.  It  succeeds  well  in  almost  all  of  the  northern  sections  of  the 
States,  and  on  a  great  variety  of  soils,  and  where  it  does  succeed  is  one 
of  the  most  esteemed  and  profitable  among  early  winter  fruits.  In 
Southern  Ohio,  Indiana,  and  farther  scuth  it  drops  too  early.  Tree  a 
very  vigorous,  strong,  spreading  grower.  Young  shoots  reddish  brown. 
"Very  productive. 


Rhode  Island  Greening. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  a  little  flattened,  pretty  regular,  but  often 
obscurely  ribbed,  dark  green,  becoming  greenisii  yellow  when  ripe,  when 
it  sometimes  shows  a  dull  blush  near  the  stalk.  Calyx  small,  woolly, 
closed,  in  a  slightly  sunk  scarcely  plaited  basin.  Stalk  three-fourths  of 
an  inch  long,  curved,  thickest  at  the  bottom.  Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained, 
tender,  crisp,  with  an  abundance  of  rich,  slightly  aromatic,  Lively,  acid 
juice.     Very  good.     November  to  February. 

Rhode's  Orange. 

Raised  by  Col.  Mercer  Rhodes,  Newton  Co.,  Ga.  Tree  a  slow 
grower,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  washed,  striped,  and  mot- 
tled with  light  red,  many  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  rather  long.  Calyx 
small,  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good. 
Core  small.     August. 

Ribston  Pippin. 
Glory  of  York.         Travers'.         Formosa  Pippin.         Rockhill's  Russet 

The  Ribston  Pippin,  a  Yorkshire  Apple,  stands  as  high  in  Great 
Britain  as  the  Bank  of  England,  and  to  say  that  an  Apple  has  a  RibstOB 


334  THE   APPLE. 

flavor  is  there  the  highest  praise  that  can  be  bestowed.  But  it  is 
scarcely  so  much  esteemed  here,  and  must  be  content  to  give  place  with 
us  to  the  Newtown  Pippin,  the  Swaar,  the  Spitzenburgh,  or  the  Baldwin. 
In  Maine,  and  parts  of  Canada,  it  is  very  fine  and  productive. 


Ribston  Pippin. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  mixed  with  a  little 
russet  near  the  stalk,  and  clouded  with  dull  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Stalk  short,  slender,  planted  in  a  rather  wide  cavity.  Calyx  small, 
closed,  and  set  in  an  angular  basin.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  with 
a  sharp,  rich,  aromatic  flavor.  "Very  good.  The  tree  forms  a  spreading 
top.     November  to  April. 

Richard's  Graft. 

Derrick's  Graft.  Red  Spitzenburgh.  Derrikinan. 

Strawberry.  Wine.  Dirck's  Graft. 

Uncle  Richard's  Graft. 

Originated  at  Greenport,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y.  An  excellent  fal' 
Apple,  worthy  of  extended  cultivation.  Tree  a  free,  upright  spreading 
grower,  productive.     Young  shoots  very  dark  reddish  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Color  yellow,  nearly  covered  with 
splashes,  marblings,  and  shades  of  rich  red.  Stalk  medium  length,  slen- 
der. Cavity  large.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Segments  sometimes  recurv- 
ed. Basin  medium,  slightly  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant,  rich,  aromatic  subacid.     Yery  good.     September,  October. 

Richardson. 

Origin,  farm  of  Ebenezer  Richardson,  Massachusetts. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  mostly  covered  with  red,  bright  in  the 


THE    APPLE. 


333 


sun,  with  numerous  large,  light  specks.  Stem  rather  stout,  in  a  large 
cavity.  Calyx  large,  open,  in  a  deep  narrow  basin.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  remarkably  tender,  juicy,  with  a  tine,  rich,  almost  saccharine 
flavor.     Good.     Last  of  August  and  September.     (Cole.) 


Richard's   Graft. 


Richmond. 


Origin,  farm  of  D.  C.  Richmond,  Sandusky,  O.  Tree  a  free  grower, 
and  a  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  light  yellow,  striped,  splashed,  and  marbled  with 
crimson,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  brown  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet,  and  rich.  Good, 
October  to  February. 

Ridge  Pippin. 

Origin  unknown,  supposed  Pennsylvania.  Tree  a  good  grower  and 
bearer. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  conical,  very  much  ritbed.  Yellow,  very 
slightly  shaded,  Sprinkled  with  russet  and  crimson  dots.  Stalk  rather 
short,  inserted  generally  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  an  ab- 
rupt uneven  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  crisp,  with  a  mild,  almost 
saccharine,  slightly  aromatic  flavor.     Good.     March,  April. 

Valued  mainly  as  a  long  keeper  and  salable  in  market. 

Riest. 

from  Simon  S.  Riest,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  ribbed  at  apex,  fair  yellow.  Flesh  fine, 
pleasant.     Good.     August. 


336  THE   APPLE. 


RlGLEY. 


From  Pennsylvania.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  splashed 
with  shades  of  red.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish, 
moderately  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     December  to  March. 

RlTTER. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  striped  and  splashed  with 
two  shades  of  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid,  almost  sweet.     Good.     September. 

River. 

Origin,  Massachusetts.     Tree  of  slow  growth,  but  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  ribbed,  yellow, 
striped  and  shaded  with  dark  red,  with  a  slight  bloom.  Stalk  medium, 
deeply  planted.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh 
juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     August,  September. 

Roadstown  Pippin. 

Introduced  to  notice  by  James  McLean,  of  Roadstown,  N.  J.,  and 
originated  in  that  town.  A  strong,  erect  grower,  and  makes  a  large 
tree ;  a  good  bearer,  and  a  profitable  market  fruit,  large  and  uniformly 
fair,  excellent  for  cooking  and  drying.  Size  large,  oblate  oblique. 
Calyx  small,  and  closed.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  sparsely  sprinkled  with 
green  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  sprightly  subacid.  Good  to  very 
good.     Middle  of  April  to  the  middle  of  September. 

Roane's  White  Crab. 

An  old  Virginia  cider  Apple ;  valuable  only  for  that  purpose. 
Fruit  small,  round,  yellow.     September,  October. 

Roberson's  White. 

Origin  said  to  be  Culpepper  Co.,  Va.,  where  it  is  popular.  Tree  up- 
right, of  rapid  growth,  and  bears  regular  crops. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Color  greenish  yellow,  with  many 
dark  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained,  crisp,  juicy,  subacid.  Good. 
October  to  December. 

Robert  Bruce. 

Origin,  Wake  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  of  vigorous,  upright  growth,  and 
good  bearer. 

Fruit  rather  above  mediiun,  oblate,  crimson  shaded.  Calyx  open. 
Stalk  short.  Flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  pleasant.  August. 
(Gar.  Mon.) 


THE   APPLE.  357 

Roberts. 
Roberts    Seedling. 

Origin,  Muskingum  Co.,  O. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  blush  cheek  in  sun. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Very  good.  November, 
December. 

Robey. 

Robey's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  H.  R.  Robey,  Fredericksburgh,  Va.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  round,  tapering  to  the  eye.  Color  lively  red,  faintly 
striped,  on  a  scarcely  perceptible  yellow  ground,  thickly  covered  with 
creamy  spots.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Novem- 
ber, December. 

Robin. 

This  is  a  new  Apple,  originated  in  the  garden  of  M.  Robin,  at 
Corbeil,  and  described  in  the  Annals  of  Pomology. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate  conic,  yellowish,  mottled  and  veined 
with  vermilion  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large.  Flesh 
white,  firm,  juicy,  perfumed  subacid.     April  to  May. 

Robinson's  Pippin. 

An  old  English  Apple  of  little  value. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  bronzed  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  greenish,  tender,  juicy,  sharp  subacid  or  acid.  December,  Feb- 
ruary. 

Robinson's  Superb. 

Farrar'e  Summer. 

An  Apple  from  Virginia.     Tree  upright,  productive. 
Fruit  large.     Flesh  crisp,  juicy.     September,  October. 

Robinson's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Vermont.     Tree  upright,  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  round,  light  red,  striped.     Flesh  fine-grained,  juicy, 
sweet.     Too  much  of  the  fruit  imperfect  to  make  it  desirable. 

ROCHELLE    REINETTE. 
Reinette  de  la  Rochelle. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conical,  pale  yellow,  brownish  blush 
in  sun,  many  large  gray  and  red  spots  or  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  rathe* 
coarse,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.     January.      (Am.  Pom.) 

22 


338  THE  APPLE. 


Rock. 


Origin,  Peterborough,  N.  H.,  recommended  by  Robert  "Wilson,  of 
Keene,  as  an  excellent  fruit.  Tree  vigorous,  with  long,  slender  branch esi 
very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  striped  and  splashed  with 
dark  and  bright  red  on  a  yellowish  ground.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy, 
flavor  subacid.     Good.     September,  October. 

Another  Rock  Apple  comes  from  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  whitish,  sprinkled  with  a 
few  indistinct  gray  and  light  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  lively 
subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     August. 

Pock  Pippin. 
Lemon.  Walnut  Stem. 

From  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  yellow,  bronzed  in  sun.  Flesh  firm, 
and  a  good  keeper,  and  in  spring  profitable  market  fruit.     (O.  P.  S.) 

Rockport  Sweet. 

Origin,  Massachusetts.  Tree  a  strong  grower  and  productive. 
Young  shoots  reddish  brown,  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  becoming  waxen  yellow, 
with  a  dull  red  cheek.  Stalk  rather  long,  inserted  in  a  cavity  some- 
what ribbed,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  large,  nearly  closed,  set  in 
a  broad,  open  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  brisk,  sweet.  Good  to  very 
good.     January  to  April.     Core  small. 

There  is  claimed  to  be  another  Rockport  Sweet,  originating  in  Ohio, 
but  we  fail  to  discover  the  distinction  by  means  of  the  fruit. 

Rock  Sweet. 

Origin,  farm  of  Elihu  Pearson,  Newbury,  Mass.  Tree  hardy,  vigor- 
ous, and  a  constant  bearer.     Young  shoots  reddish  olive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  reddish, 
shaded,  striped,  and  splashed  with  darker  red,  and  sprinkled  with  large 
whitish  dots.  Stalk  short,  set  in  a  broad,  deep,  russeted  cavity.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  rich, 
sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Rolen's  Keeper. 

Rowland. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  regular,  splashed  red  on  russet.  Dots  scattered, 
email,  white.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  fine  grained 
acid,  rich.     Good  to  very  good.     March,  Aoril.      (Warder.) 

Rollin. 

Rolla  ? 

Origin.  Franklin  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  Dears  abun- 
dantly. 


THE   APPLE.  339 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  stained  and  striped  with 
dull  red.  Stalk  long.  Cavity  wide  and  deep.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh 
compact,  tine-grained,  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  October  to  Janu 
ary. 

ROMANITE. 

Broad  River.  Southern  Romanite. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  unknown.  It  has  been  sometimes  con- 
founded or  placed  as  identical  with  Shockley  in  North  Carolina,  where 
it  is  much  grown,  but  it  is  quite  distinct.     It  is  also  distinct  from  Gil- 


Romanite. 

pin,  sometimes  known  as   Romanite.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  very 
productive.       Branches    slender.        Wood   short-jointed,    dull    grayish 

1   I'OWU, 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  truncated,  yellow  ground,  mostly 
overspread  with  clear,  light,  handsome  red,  indistinct  light  dots.  Stalk 
slender.  Calyx  in  an  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained, 
juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  February,  April. 
Valuable  as  a  keeper,  and  for  the  evenness  of  its  fruit. 

Roman*  Stem. 

Originated  at  Burlington,  in  New  Jersey,  and  is  much  esteemed 
in  that  neighborhood.  Tree  very  productive,  moderately  vigorous, 
spreading,  irregular. 

Fruit  Bcarcelj  of  medium  size,  roundish,  whitish  yellow,  with  a 
faint  brownish  blush,  sprinkled  with  patches  of  dark  russet,  and,  when 
ripe,  having   a   few  reddish  specks,  unless  the  fruit  is  very  lair. 


340  THE   APPLE. 

three-fourths  of  an  inch  bng,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity  under  a 
fleshy  protuberance.  Calyx  set  in  a  rather  narrow  basin,  with  a  few 
plaits.  Core  hollow.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  pleasant,  musky 
flavor.     Yery  good.     November  to  March. 

Rome  Beauty. 
Gillett's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Southern  Ohio.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  succeeds  well  at 
the  Southwest.  Young  wood  clear  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy  or 
gray.     A  late  bloomer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  approaching  conic,  yellow,  shaded  and  striped 
with  bright  red,  and  sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  in- 
serted  in  a  large,  deep  cavity,  surrounded  by  greenish  russet.  Calyx 
partially  closed,  set  in  a  narrow,  deep  basin,  Flesh  yellowish,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Good.  Core  rather  large.  October  to  De- 
cember. 

Rosa. 

An  old  French  Apple.     Tree  moderately  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  light  yellow,  shaded  and  splashed  with  red  in 
the  sun,  reddish  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  subacid. 
December,  January.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Rose. 

Coxe  calls  this  the  Rose  Apple  of  China,  and  says  he  imported  it 
from  England.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  rather  oblong,  striped  red  and  green.  Flesh  pleasant, 
juicy.     October. 

Roseau. 

Foreign.     Tree  poor  grower  and  unprofitable. 

Fruit  large,  dark  red,  irregular  in  size  and  form.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy, 
rich.     Good.     November,  February. 

Roseau  d'Automne. 

Tree  large,  vigorous  grower,  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate,  flat  at  base,  yellow,  russet  at  stem, 
blush  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  tender,  rich,  firm.  September. 
(Coxe.) 

Rose  Calville. 

From  France. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  shaded  and 
rather  indistinctly  splashed  with  crimson.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed, 
or  partially  open.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  No- 
vember, January. 


the  apple.  341 

Rose  de  Hollande. 
Rose  de  la  Benauge.  Rose  Tendre.  Pomme  de  Codillao 

Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate  conical,  golden  yellow,  spotted  and 
reined  with  rosy  carmine.  Stalk  small,  short.  Calyx  half  open.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  tender,  sugary,  acid.     Winter.     (An.  Pom.) 

R.OSEMARY. 

Rosemary  Russet. 

An  old  Apple  described  by  Ronalds  as  of  medium  size,  roundish 
conical,  greenish,  with  a  Little  red  russet.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish,  rich, 
and  good  for  table  or  kitchen  use.     December,  February. 

Ross  Nonpareil. 

An  Irish  fruit,  rather  below  medium  size,  roundish,  narrowing  a  lit- 
tle to  the  eye,  covered  with  a  thin  mellow  russet,  and  faintly  stained 
with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  with  a  rich 
aromatic  flavor.  Very  good.  A  profuse  bearer.  Very  subject  to  rot 
before  ripening.     Unprofitable.     October. 

Rostocker. 

Stetting  Rouge.  Annaberger.  Matapfel. 

Rothe  Stettiner  Rothe  HernapfeL  Bodickheimer  ? 

Berliner  Glossapfel. 

A  large  and  favorite  German  Apple,  says  Hogg,  valuable  for  culinary 
purposes. 

Fruit  oblate,  ribbed,  yellowish,  deep  red  next  the  sun.  November 
to  May. 

Rosy  Red. 

An  old  variety,  origin  unknown.  It  is  grown  in  Michigan,  where  it 
is  claimed  as  a  seedling  of  Western  New  York,  and  in  Indiana,  and  there 
claimed  as  a  seedling  of  Cambridge,  la. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  marbled  with  light  and  dark  red,  light  dots.  Stalk  medi- 
um, slender.  Cavity  deep,  acute.  Calyx  closed,  medium,  irregular. 
Flesh  yellowish,  breaking,  sometimes  a  little  stained,  mild  subacid. 
Good.     November,  January. 

Round  Winter  Nonesuch. 

A  variety  described  by  Hogg  as  an  excellent  bearer,  and  valuable 
fo:  market. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  obscurely  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  with 
broken  stripes  and  spots  of  red,  some  russet  dots.  Calyx  large,  closed, 
Stalk  short.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  November  to 
March. 


342 


THE   APPLE. 


Rowe. 
Rowe's  Seedling. 
An  old  Devonshire  sauce  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as : 


Fruit  large, 
juicy,  pleasant. 


roundish,   conical,  light 
August,  September. 


green.     Flesh  greenish   white, 


Roxbury  Russet. 


Reinette  Rousse  de  Boston. 
Howe's  Russet. 
Marietta  Russet. 
Belpre  Russet. 


Boston  Russet. 
Putnam  Russet. 
Warner  Russet. 
Sylvan  Russet. 


This  Russet,  a  native  of  Massachusetts,  is  one  of  the  most  popular 
market  fruits  in  the  qountry,  as  it  is  excellent,  a  prodigious  bearer,  and 
keeps  till  lute  in  the  spring  wherever  the  soil  and  climate  suit  it.  South 
and  West  it  drops  its  fruit  too  early,  and  is  therefore  not  valuable. 
The  tree  is  healthy,  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  with  young  shoota 
of  a  reddish  brown,  downy. 


Roxtrary  Rnsaet, 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  often  large,  roundish,  a  little  flattened,  and 
slightly  angular.  Skin  at  first  dull  green,  covered  with  brownish  yellow 
russet  when  ripe,  with,  rarely,  a  faint  blush  on  one  side.  Stalk  nearly 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  not  deeply  inserted.  Calyx 
closed,  set  in  a  round  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  greenish  white, 
moderately  juicy,  with  a  rather  rich  subacid  flavor.  Good  to  very  good. 
Ripens  in  January,  and  may  be  brought  to  market  in  June. 

Royax  Pearmain. 
Merritt's  Pearmain. 
An  old  Applo  described  by  Coxe  and  Ronalds.     It  is  to  be  found 


THE   APPLE.  343 

in  the  old  orchards  of  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  and  Ohio.  The 
tree  a  moderately  vigorous  grower,  very  productive,  the  fruit  keeping 
well. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  couical  truncated,  yellow,  mostly  overspread 
and  indistinctly  striped  with  red,  warm  rough  russet  at  the  apex.  Stalk 
slender.  Cavity  russeted.  Calyx  with  short  divided  segments.  Basin 
irregular  or  broadly  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  rich,  mild  subacid, 
when  fully  ripe  almost  sweet.     Very  good.     November  to  March. 

Royal  Reinette. 
Royal  Grise  Reinette. 

From  Sussex,  England.  Described  by  Lindley  as  :  tree  an  abundant 
bearer. 

Fruit  rather  small,  conical,  yellow,  striped  with  red,  many  gray  spots. 
Flesh  pale  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     November  to  May. 

Royal  Russet. 

Leathercoat  Russet.  Reinette  de  Canada  Platte. 

Reinette  de  Canada  Grise.  Passe  Pomme  de  Canada. 

An  old  variety.     Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  yellowish  gi'een,  mostly 
covered  with  brownish  russet,  which  is  bronzed  in  the  sun.  Fles^ 
greenish  white,  firm,  rich  acid.     Good.     November,  February. 

Royal  Shepherd. 

A  culinary  Apple,  desci-ibed  in  Hogg  as : 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  dull  red  in 
the  sun.     Flesh  greenish  white,  crisp,  brisk,  pleasant  acid.     November. 

Royal  Somerset. 

Fi*uit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  broken  streaks  of 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid 
November  to  March.     Cooking.     (Hogg.) 

Rules  Summer  Sweet. 

Origin,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  yellow.     August.     Poor.     (A.  Pom.  S.  Rep.) 

Rum  Apple. 

Origin,  Paw  let,  Vt.,  on  the  farm  of  Brownley  Rum.  Tree  upright, 
vigoroxis,  an  early  and  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  slightly  shaded  with  crimson.  Stalk 
short.  Cavity  moderate.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  broad  and  shal- 
low. Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  sprightly  subacid.  Good.  Novem- 
ber to  March. 

RUNNELLS. 

Origin,  Maine.  Profitaole  as  a  market  fruit  from  its  great  produc- 
tiveness and  long  keeping. 


344 


THE  APPLE. 


Fruit  medium,  roundish,  deep  green  in  the  shade,  mostly  corered 
with  purplish  brown.  Flesh  firm.  Moderately  good.  April  to  June 
(Me.  Rep.) 

Rushock  Pearmain. 

Charles  Pearmain. 

An  English  Apple. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  with  cinnamon  russet,  becom 
ing  brownish  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk  sub- 
acid.    December,  April.     (Hogg.) 

Russet  Pearmain. 

An  old  variety  from  Connecticut.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  russet, 
and  a  brownish  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellowish,  breaking,  rich,  brisk  sub- 
acid.    Good.     December  to  March. 

Russet  Table  Pearmain. 

A  little  dessert  Apple,  from  England.  Tree  of  slender  growth,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  yellowish  green,  slightly  russeted, 
with  a  bright  red  cheek  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  rich,  aromatic, 
subacid.     Yery  good.     November  to  February.     (Ron.) 

Russian  Transparent. 

Ronalds  describes  this  as  forming  a  large  broad  tree,  but  a  poor 
'•earer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  ribbed  at  apex,  golden  yellow,  faced 
witn  a  flush  of  rose,  and  speckled  with  dark  points.  Flesh  sweet,  pecu- 
liar.    Good  for  cooking.     November,  December. 

Rymer. 

Caldwell.  Green  Cossings.  Newbold's  Duke  of  York. 

Cordwall.  Newbold's  Admiral  Duncan. 

Of  foreign  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  shaded  with  deep  red, 
light  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  tender,  subacid.  Good.  De- 
cember to  April. 

Sable  Sweet. 

Origin,  Vermont.     Tree  good  grower,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  whitish  yellow,  partially 
bplashed  and  mottled  with  red.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild 
sweet,  subacid.     Good.     August. 


THE   APPLE.  Zit 

Sack,  and  Sugar. 
Morris's  Sack   and  Sugar. 

A  little,  old,  early  English  Apple.  Tree  a  fine  grower,  and  good 
boarer. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow.  Flesh  white,  soft,  juicy 
sweet.     Good.     August. 

Sailly  Autumn. 
Salle? 

Origin,  Plattsburgh,  N.  Y.,  on  the  farm  of  J.  H.  Sanborn.  Tree 
upright,  vigoious,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  greenish  yellow,  the  exposed 
side  frequently  deep  red.  Stalk  short,  in  a  medium  cavity.  Calyx 
small,  closed.  Basin  small,  narrow.  Flesh  very  tender.  Subacid. 
Good.     September. 

Saint  Julien 

Saint  Julian.  Seigneur  d'Orsay.  Concombre  des  Chartreaux. 

Heilige  Julian's  Apfel.    De  Saint  Julien.  Pomme  de  Saint  Julien. 

An  old  variety,  probably  of  French  origin.  Tree  a  strong,  vigorous 
grower,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  obtusely  ribbed,  yellowish  russet 
green,  slight  tinge  of  red  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  rich, 
sweet.     December.     (Lind.) 

St.  Lawrence. 

Origin  uncertain.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive.  Young 
shoots  smooth,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  tapering  towards  the  eye,  yellowish,  striped  and 
splashed  with  carmine.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  large  cav- 
ity. Calyx  firmly  closed.  Basin  small  and  deep.  Flesh  white,  lightly 
stained,  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  and  vinous.  Good  to  very  good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 

Saint  Sauveur. 
Calville  Saint  Sauveur.  Pomme  Saint  Sauveur. 

Originated  in  France. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conical,  pale  yellowish,  faint  blush  iii 
the  sun,  many  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  milk  white,  tender,  juicy, 
aromatic,  acid.     Good.     November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Salem. 
Salem  Sweet. 
An  old   Massachusetts  Apple,  somewhat  grown  in  Ohio  and  west- 
ward.    Tree  a  good  grower  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate  conic,  rough,  yellow,  with 
brown  and  green  dots,  sometimes  a  blush  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish, 
crisp,  tender,  mild,  almost  sweet.  Good.  Core  small.  October,  De- 
cember. 

Salopian  Pippin. 

A  Shropshire  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds.  Tree  a  compac>  grower 
constant  bearer. 


346  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish  green,  faint  bronzed  cheek  in  sun, 
many  small  brown  specks.  Flesh  white,  iuicv.  Valued  for  cooking, 
October,  December. 

Sam  Young. 

Irish  Russet. 

Origin,  Ireland. 

Fruit  small,  slightly  flattened  and  regularly  formed,  bright  yehow, 
a  good  deal  covered  with  gray  russet.  Flesh  greenish,  quite  juicy  and 
*«nder.     Good.     November  to  January. 

Santouchee. 
Panther.  Wildcat. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  grower,  productive. 
Young  shoots  grayish  brown,  with  prominent  buds. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  oblique,  waxen  white,  with  brown  dots. 
Stalk  medium,  slender.  Cavity  large,  fun-owed.  Calyx  partially  closed, 
small.  Basin  narrow.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good. 
November  to  February. 

Sapson. 
Sapsonvine. 

An  old  but  very  nice  little  dessert  Apple.     Tree  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  crimson  red,  stained  and  striped  with  purplish 
crimson.  Flesh  white,  stained  with  pink,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid. 
Good.     August  to  October. 

Sartha's  Yellow. 
Pomme  de  Jaune.         Pomme  d' Argent.  Pomme  de  Jaune  de  la  Sartha. 

Of  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  small  or  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  spotted  with  brown  spots. 
Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  subacid.     (An.  Pom.) 

Savage's  Cheese. 

Origin,  Columbia  Co.,  Ga.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  a 
good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  marked  and  striped  with  red.  Flesh 
white,  juicy.     October.     Good  bearer. 

Savewell. 

Putnam's  Savewell.  Cornell's  Savewell. 

Origin,  Westchester  Co.,  N.  Y.    Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  often 
shaded  with  dull  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  February,  March.  Valu 
able  keeper. 


THE    APPLE. 


347 


Sawyer. 
Origin,  Amos  Sawyer,  Hillsborough,  111.     Tiee  vigorous,   upright, 

early  bearer.  .. 

Fruit  medium.  Form  conic  truncated,  regular.  Color  waxy  yellow, 
with  faint  blush  of  crimson,  thinly  sprinkled  with  small  gray  dots.  Stalk 
medium,  slender.  Cavity  medium,  acute.  Calyx  rather  large,  somewhat 
open.  Segments  retlexed.  Basin  deep,  abrupt,  regular.  Flesh  yellow, 
breaking,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Core  small.  Quality  good.  April  to 
July.     (Am.  Jour,  of  Hort.) 

Sawyek  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.      Tree  a  strong,  healthy  grower,  upright  spreading, 
Young°wood  reddish  brown,  grayish,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  large,  greenish,  with  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  sweet, 
Good.     October,  November. 

Scarlet  Crofton. 
Red  Crofton. 

An  Irish  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish  russet,  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  firm, 
crisp,  rich,  sugary.     October,  December.     (Lindley.) 

Scarlet  Leadington. 

Of  Scottish  origin. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conical,  four-sided,  yellow^  and  red 
striped.  Flesh  yellowish,  veined  with  pink  or  lilac,  firm,  crisp,  juicy, 
brisk,  sugary.     November,  February.     (Hogg.) 

Scarlet  Nonpareil. 

New  Scarlet  Nonpareil. 

Foreign ;  medium  size,  roundish  oblate  conical,  whitish,  striped  and 
shaded  with  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy,  subacid.  Very 
good.     November,  December. 

Scarlet  Pearmain. 
Bell's  Scarlet  Pearmain.  Sigler's  Red  ?  Oxford  Peach. 

A  showy  dessert  Apple,  of  English  origin. 

Fruit  medium  sized,  pearmainor  conical  shaped.  Skin  light  crimson 
or  yellow  is  the  shade,  rich  crimson  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  nearly 
an  inch  long,  deeply  set.  Flesh  white,  stained  with  a  tinge  of  pink, 
crisp,  juicy,  subacid.  Very  good.  In  eating  from  the  last  of  August  to 
the  tenth  of  October.     A  plentiful  bearer. 

Scarlet  Sweet. 

Origin,  Ohio.  Tree  'igorous,  productive.  Young  wood  dark  brown- 
ish red,  downy.  . 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  come,  yellow,  shaded 


348  THE   APPLE. 

and  indistinctly  striped  and  splashed  with  light  scarlet,  many  light  dota 
Stalk  varying.  Cavity  open,  deep.  Calyx  small,  open.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  tender,  juicy,  mild  pleasant  sweet.  Core  small.  Good  to  verj 
good.     October  to  February. 

Scarlet  Tiffing 

A  culinary  Apple,  from  Lancaster,  England. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblate,  pale  yellow,  mostly 
overspread  with  deep  scarlet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  pure  white,  tender, 
crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  acid.     November,  December.     (Hogg.) 

Schaffer's  Early. 
Schaffer's  Early  Red.  S  chaffer's  Garden. 

Origin,  Lehigh  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  an  upright  thrifty  grower,  and  a  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  pale  yellow,  striped,  splashed, 
and  marbled  with  red,  sometimes  only  a  red  cheek.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Good,  or  very 
good.     Core  small.     August,  September. 

SCHOOXMAKER. 
,  Schoolmocker. 

An  old  Apple.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  up- 
right spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  bronzed  blush  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  brisk  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Jan- 
uary to  March. 

SCHREVETON    GOLDEN    PlPPIN. 

From  Nottinghamshire,  England. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellowish,  marked  with  russet.  Flesh  yel 
lowish,  tender,  crisp.     Good.     December,  April. 

Sciota  Beauty. 

Origin,  Ohio.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  ovate,  whitish  yellow,  shaded, 
uplashed,  and  striped  with  two  shades  of  red.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     January  to  April. 

Scollop  Gilliflower. 
Scolloped  Gilliflower.  Striped  Gilliflower  ? 

This,  according  to  Elliott,  is  an  entirely  distinct  variety  from  Red 
Gilliflower.     Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  flattened  at  base,  tapering 
towards  the  eye,  always  much  ribbed  or  scolloped,  light  yellow,  striped 
and  splashed  with  shades  of  light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  short,  slender. 
Cavity  deep,  russeted.  Calyx  with  long  segments.  Basin  abrupt,  deep, 
ribbed.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  tender,  juicy,  slight  tinge  of  sweet. 
Core  large,  hollow.      Good.      November  to  February. 


the  apple.  m9 

Scotch  Bridget. 

A  cooking  fruit,  Lancaster,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed  or  knobbed  at  apex-  JJlesh 
white,  tender,  soft,  juicy.     October,  January.     (Hogg.) 

Scott's  Best. 

Origin,  farm  of  Luther  Scott,  Hinsdale,  Cattaraugus  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  shaded  and  mot- 
tled with  light  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  crimson.  Stalk  variable, 
slender.  Cavity  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  nearly  closed.  Flesh  whitish, 
fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  agreeable,  slightly  aromatic,  subacid.  Good 
to  very  good.     November,  December, 

Scrivener's  Red. 

An  admired  cider  fruit  in  some  parts  of  Maryland  and  Delaware. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conical,  bright  red,  with  dark  stripes. 
Flesh  juicy,  breaking,  rich.     October. 

Seaconk  Sweet. 

An  old  Connecticut  Apple.     Tree  strong  grower,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conic,  red,  with  stripes  of  darker  red, 
few  small  white  dots.  Flesh  white,  compact,  sweet.  Good.  January 
to  April 

Seaman's  Sweet. 

From  Long  Island. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  whitish,  splashed,  striped,  and 
shaded  with  red.  Calyx  closed.  Stalk  very  short.  Flesh  white,  not 
tender,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     Baking.     October. 

Seaver  Sweet. 
Grafton  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  productive,  spreading.  Young 
wood  light  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conical,  pale  yellow,  blush  of  red  in 
the  sun,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  medium,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
yellowish,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  Core  small.  Janu- 
ary to  April. 

Seedless. 

Origin  in  the  grounds  oi  Alfred  Smith,  A  ddison,  Vt.  Tree  drooping 
habit,  healthy  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate  roundish,  light  greenish  yellow,  with 
dark  carmine  cheek  in  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  open,  deep.  Calyx 
small,  closed.  Flesh  white,  dry,  very  mild  subacid.  Only  good.  Core 
without  seeds.     November,  December. 


350  the  apple. 

Seever. 
Seever's  Red  Streak. 

From  Coshocton  Co.,  O. 

Fruit  medium,  globular,  lemon  yellow,  striped  with  bright  clear  red 
Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  with  loug  segments.  Basin  deep,  open. 
Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  subacid.     October  to  November.     (Elliott.) 

Selby  Bellflower. 

A  seedling  from  the  Yellow  Bellflower.     Tree  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  approaching  conic,  pale  yellow  on  rather  a 
greenish  ground.  Stalk  medium,  slender.  Calyx  medium.  Basin  shal- 
low. Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  spicy,  subacid.  No- 
vember to  March.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Selma. 

From  Clark  Co.,  O. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  flattened,  yellow,  with  pale  russet 
patches,  especially  around  the  stem,  dull  faint  red  in  sun.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  breaking,  mild  subacid.  Very  good.  November,  Decem- 
ber.    (Elliott.) 

Selwood's  Reinette. 

From  Lancaster,  England.      Tree  a  healthy  grower  and  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish,  mostly  covered  and  striped  with 
red.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  brisk,  pleasant.  Cooking.  Decem- 
ber, March.     (Hogg.) 

September. 
Pride  of  September. 

Origin,  Centre  Co.,  Pa.,  received  from  W.  G.  Waring.  Tree  hardy 
and  vigorous,  a  good  and  regular  bearer.  Young  wood  smooth,  reddish 
brown.     Buds  prominent. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  somewhat  depressed,  very  slightly  conic,  yel- 
low, slightly  shaded  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  short, 
inserted  in  a  deep,  abrupt  cavity,  surrounded  by  thin  russet.  Calyx 
partially  closed,  set  in  an  open  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy, 
rery  agreeable  subacid.     Very  good.     October. 

Sergeant's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Massachusetts. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  straw  color,  with  a  blush  next  the  sun. 
Flesh  tender,  very  sweet,  superior  for  baking.     October.      (Kenrick.) 

Shaker  Greening. 
Hampshire  Greening  ?  Shaker  Pippin. 

Origin,  Enfield,  N.  H.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  very  pro- 
lucti  re. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  yellowish,  ten- 
der, crisp,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     March,  November. 


the  apple.  351 

Shakespeare. 

An  English  dessert  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  of  medium  size, 
roundish  oblate  conic,  greenish,  with  brownish  red  next  the  sun,  few 
broken  stripes  of  darker  red,  many  russety  dots.  Flesh  greenish  yellow 
firm,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  vinous.     December  to  April. 

Sharpe's  Greening. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.     Tree  thrifty,  and  upright  grower. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  blush  cheek.     Fl«sh 
juicy,  subacid.     Good.     January  to  March. 

Sheepnose. 

There  are  several  Apples  to  which  this  name  has  been  applied  :  some 
are  proved  identical  with  well-known  varieties  ;  others,  of  which  no  ori 
gin  can  be  traced,  may  yet  prove  only  synonyms  of  well-known  kinds. 

Warder  describes  a  Sheepnose  as  : 

Fruit  medium,  round,  slightly  conic,  irregular,  greenish  yellow,  white 
striae  about  the  base.  Dots  minute.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  breaking, 
tender,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     December,  February. 

Another  Sheepnose  is  grown  in  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania,  which 
is  medium  size,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  sometimes  a  blush  in  sun. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellow,  rather  firm,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  No- 
vember, December. 

Shell. 

Supposed  origin,  Virginia. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  becoming  clear  yellow  in  the 
sun.     Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  rich.     August.    New. 

Shepherd's  Fame. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  pale  yellow .  streaked  with  a 
deeper  shade  and  rich  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  soft,  tender,  sweet.  October, 
March.     (Hogg.) 

Sheppard's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Windham  Co.,  Conn.  Tree  thrifty,  upright,  and  a  great 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  approaching  conic,  yellow,  striped  with 
red.  Stalk  long,  slender,  inserted  in  an  acute  cavity.  Calyx  firmly 
closed,  set  in  a  small  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  sweet  and  pleasant. 
Good.     October,  November. 

Shiawassee  Beauty. 

Michigan  Beauty. 

Originated  in  Shiawassee  Co.,  Mich.  Tree  a  strong  upright  grower 
until  in  full  bearing,  when  it  becomes  partially  pendent,  very  productive. 
Young  wood  dull  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy.  This  variety  iesen> 
bles  Fameuse,  but  its  wood  shows  its  distinctiveness. 


352  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  whitish,  shaded,  marbled,  splashed,  and  Btriped 
with  rich  red,  few  light  dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  large. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  large,  open,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh 
fiim,  very  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  refreshing  subacid.  Very  good. 
October,  January. 

Shipley   Green. 

Origin,  Maryland. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  rei,  and  very  acid.  Good  for  cooking  and 
keeping  only. 

Se  -ppen's   Russet. 

Originated  in  Philadelphia.  It  is  often  found  at  the  West,  and  as  a 
market  sort  profitable,  but  inferior  in  quality  to  the  Roxbury  Russet. 
The  tree  is  very  vigorous,  forming  a  large  round  spreading  head,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  irregular,  yellowish  green,  somewhat  russeted. 
Flesh  greenish,  rather  dry,  soft,  mild  subacid.  Good.  November, 
February. 

Shockley. 

Origin,  Georgia.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  very  pro- 
ductive, bearing  young  and  regularly.  Young  wood  reddish,  grayish 
on  under  side. 


Shockley. 


Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow  overspread  with 
red,  inconspicuous  minute  dots.     Stalk  loner,  slender  inse^d  in  a  deep 


THE   APPLE.  353 

acute  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  corrugated  basin. 
Flesh  crisp,  juicy,  rich,  saccharine,  slightly  vinous,  and  pleasant.  Good. 
April,  May. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  profitable  varieties  at  the  South,  where  it  not 
only  bears  abundantly,  but  keeps  and  sells  remarkably  well. 

Simpson   Sweet. 

Origin,  Mercer  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  flattened  at  base  and  crown,  green- 
ish yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  brown  in  the  sun.  Calyx  small,  closed. 
Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasant.  Good.  Core  small. 
December. 

SlNE-QUA-NON. 

A  native  of  Long  Island,  named  by  the  late  ¥m.  Prince. 

Fruit  roundish  conical,  about  medium  size,  smooth,  pale  greenish  yel- 
low. Stalk  slender.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  and  of  a  delicate 
and  very  sprightly  flavor.  Good.  The  young  trees  are  rather  slow  and 
crooked  in  growth.     August. 

Sink. 

Origin,  Boalsburg,  Centre  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  spread- 
ing, productive. 

Fruit  inediuni,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  whitish,  splashed  and 
marbled  with  red.  Flesh  very  white,  stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  juicy, 
brisk  subacid.     Good.     September. 

Sir  William  Gibbons. 

An  English  cooking  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  yellow,  streaked  with  light  and 
dark  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  slightly  acid.  Novem- 
ber, January. 

Skunk. 

An  old  New  Jersey  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  yellow,  resembling  Newtown  Pippin,  with  red  spots  and 
blotches.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  pleasant.  Good.  November,  Decem- 
ber.    (Coxe.) 

Sleeping  Beauty. 
Winter  Sleeping  Beauty.  Sleeper. 

Tree  an  excellent  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  somewhat  flattened,  straw-color,  washed 
with  lively  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  acid.  No- 
vember, February.     (Hogg.) 

Sleight's  Lady  Apple. 

This  valuable  Apple  was  raised  by  Edgar  Sleight,  Dutchess  Co., 
N.  Y.  It  is  almost  a  perfect  fac-simile  of  Lady  Apple,  except  being  nearly 
twice  as  large.  Tree  somewhat  more  vigorous  and  spreading  than  the 
Lady  Apple,  and  very  productive.      The  fruit  a  little  earlier  in  ripening 

23 


954 


THE    APPLE. 


Slingerland  Pippin. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Slingerland,  of  Albany  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous 
spreading. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  often  oblique,  yellow,  shaded  with 
red  and  sprinkled  with  minute  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  par- 
tially closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  rather  rich  subacid 
Good  to  very  good.     December,  February. 

Smalley. 
Spice. 

From  Kensington,  Conn.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oblate  conic,  yellow,  with  a  slight  blush.  Stalk 
short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  pleasant  aromatic. 
Good.     September,  October. 

Small's  Admirable. 

This  is  described  by  Hogg  as  an  immense  bearer,  and  adapted  foi 
dwarf  culture. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  ovate,  flattened,  lemon  yellow.  Flesh 
firm,  yellowish,  crisp,  subacid.     November,  December. 


Smith"  8  Cider. 


Smith's. 
Fuller. 


Smith's  Cider. 

Pennsylvania  Cider. 
Fowler. 


Popular  Bluff. 


Origin,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.     This  Apple  is  widely  grown,  and  much  eft 
teemed  as  a  profitable  market  sort.     The  tree  is  a  very  vigorous,  strag 


THE    APPLE. 


35t> 


gling,   spreading  grower,    and   prodiictive.     Young  wood  a    rich   dark 
brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellow,  shaded  and 
striped  with  red,  sparsely  covered  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender,  of 
medium  length,  inserted  in  a  deep,  rather  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  closed, 
set  in  a  broad,  rather  shallow  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  crisp, 
pleasant,  mild  subacid.     Good.     December,  March. 


Millcreek  Vandevere. 


Smokehouse. 
Red  Vandevere. 


English  Vandevere. 


Origin,  Lancaster   Co.,  Pa.,  near  Millcreek,  grew  on  the   farm  of 

Gibbons,  near  his  smokehouse,  hence  its  name.     An  old  variety 

and  popular  in  Pennsylvania.  It  somewhat  resembles  the  old  Pennsyl- 
vania Vandevere,  and  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  of  it. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  a  spreading  head,  a  good  bearer. 
Young  wood  dull  dark  reddish  brown. 


Smokehouse. 


Fruit  rather  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  skin  yellow,  shaded 
and  splashed  with  crimson,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  large  gray  and 
brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  broad  cavity. 
Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  wide  basin,  of  moderate  depth,  slightly  corrugated. 
Flesh  yellowish,  somewhat  firm,  juicy,  crisp,  rather  rich  subacid.  Good. 
September  to  February.     Valued  for  culinary  uses. 

Snediker. 
Origin  unknown.     Tree  an  upright  vigorous  grower,  productive. 


356  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  sides  unequal,  yellow,  marbled  with 
large  red  dots,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  very  sliort.  Calyx  closed  or  par- 
tially open.  Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy, 
tender,  brisk  subacid.     Core  rather  small.    Good.    December,  February 

Snepps'. 
Jno.  Snepps'. 

Supposed  origin,  Edinburgh,  la.  Tree  vigorous  and  sufficiently  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  almost  large,  flat,  dull  green,  becoming  pale 
yellow,  with  many  dark  dots  that  often  give  it  a  gray  appearance.  Calyx 
large,  closed.  Stalk  stout.  Flesh  yellowish,  breaking,  fine-grained, 
juicy,  agreeably  sweet.     December,  March.     (Warder.) 

Somerset. 

Origin,  Somerset  Co.,  Me.     Tree  very  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  somewhat  flattened,  bright  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  splashes  and  stripes  of  bright  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  some- 
times a  little  stained  with  red,  tender,  juicy,  agreeable  subacid.  Sep- 
tember.    (Me.  Rep.) 

There  is  another  Somerset  grown  in  Western  New  York,  the  fruit 
of  which  is  medium  or  below,  roundish  conical,  whitish  yellow,  partially 
netted  with  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  tender.  Good.  August,  September. 
The  wood  as  well  as  fruit  of  these  is  quite  distinct,  the  former  being 
reddish  brown,  the  latter  dull  grayish  reddish  brown,  downy. 

Sommerset    Lasting. 

A  fine  showy  English  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as  large,  round- 
ish oblate,  clear  yellow,  with  a  blush  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
brisk,  sharp  subacid.  Valuable  for  cooking  or  market.  December  to 
March. 

Sops  of  Wine. 

Red  Shropsavine  ?  Worden's  Pie  Apple.  Hominy. 

Bell's  Early  ?  Washington.  Dodge's  Early  Red. 

Bennington. 

An  old  European  variety.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  an  early  and 
productive  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow  and  red,  splashed  and  shaded  with 
deep  red,  and  sprinkled  with  white  and  gray  dots,  and  a  thin  bloom. 
Stalk  slender,  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  rather  shallow, 
uneven.  Flesh  white,  often  stained,  not  very  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  sub- 
acid.   Good.     August,  September. 

Souisson  Russet. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  shaded  with  rich  red  or  crim- 
son in  the  sun,  and  splashes  and  blotches  of  russet  in  the  shade,  and 
sometimes  russet  mixed  with  the  red.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  rich, 
Drisk  subacid.     Very  good.     Core  small.     February,  March. 


the  apple.  357 

Sour  Bough. 

An  old  variety,  grown  in  Westchester  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  thrifty, 
upright. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  moderately  sprinkled  with 
gray  and  light  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  brisk  subacid.  Good  for  cooking. 
September.     Often  knotty  and  unprofitable. 

Southern  Lady. 

From  North  Carolina. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  whitish,  much  shaded  with  bright  crimson,  many 
light  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender, 
juicy,  very  mild  subacid,  aromatic.      Very  good.     September,  October. 

Sovereign. 

A  little  Apple  from  England,  described  by  Ronalds  as : 
Fruit  small,  oblong  oblate,  light  yellowish  brown,  with  a  small  flush 
of  red.     Flesh  firm,  rich,  and  sweet.     February,  April. 

Spafford  Russet. 

Origin,  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  flattened  at  ends,  yellowish,  slightly 
russeted.  Flesh  greenish  white,  soft,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
Hardly  good.     December,  February. 

Spark's  Late. 
Spark's. 

A  variety  somewhat  grown  in  Southern  Illinois,  its  origin  unknown. 
Tree  an  upright  grower,  hardy,  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conic,  greenish  yellow,  rarely  with  a 
shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  brown  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  whitish,  half  tender,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Valuable 
for  cooking. 

Speckled. 

Westbrook. 

Origin  uncertain.     Tree  a  rapid  grower  and  annual  bearer. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  yellowish  white,  red  in  the  sun,  small 
russet  dots.     Flesh  white,  tender,  subacid.     Good.     October,  January. 

Speckled  Oley. 

From  Berks  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  striped  and  mottled  with 
red,  large  white  dots.     Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy.     Hardly  good. 

Spectator. 

Originated  by  J.  W.  Bailey,  Plattsburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  spreading^ 
very  productive. 


358  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  oval,  ribbed,  yellow,  shaded  vtitk 
led  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Hardly  good 
•September. 

Spice  Russet. 
Sweet  Russet  of  some,  erroneously. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  flattened,  light  yellow  russet,  with 
numerous  small  fine  dots,  exposed  to  the  sun  carmine  and  yellow 
bronzed.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  fine-grained, 
juicy,  almost  sweet,  aromatic  subacid.     December  to  March.      (Elliott.) 

Spice    Sweet. 
Berry  Bough. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive,  medium,  oblate,  smooth,  pale  yellow. 
Flesh  rather  firm,  sweet,  highly  aromatic,  apt  to  be  knotty  and  unfair. 
August,  September. 

Sponge. 

There  are  two  varieties  under  this  name,  neither  of  which  is  at  all 
valuable. 

One  is :  Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish,  striped  with 
dull  red,  dotted  with  whitish  spots.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  subacid.  A 
kitchen  fruit.     October  and  November. 

The  other  is :  Fruit  medium,  oblong  conic,  green,  splashed  with 
red.     Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy.     Poor.     November. 

Sprague. 

Fruit  rather  small,  oblong  oval,  slightly  conic,  yellow.  Flesh  yellow, 
•uicy,  tender,  sprightly  subacid.     Scarcely  good.     October. 

Springer. 

Springer's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Ohio. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblong,  yellowish  green,  with  faint  stripes  of 
red.      Flesh  firm,  negative  character.     January  to  May.     (Elliott.) 

Spring  Grove   Codlin. 

An  old  English  cooking  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish  yellow,  deeper  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  crisp,  J  uicy,  brisk,  sharp  subacid.     October. 

Spring  Pippin. 
S,  ringport  Pippin. 

Origin,  Springport,  Cayuga  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  upright,  thrifty,  unpro 
iuctive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblong,  yellowish  green.  Flesh  yellow 
ish  white,  crisp,  sprightly  subacid.     December  to  May.     (Elliott.) 


the  apple.  359 

Squire's  Greening. 

An  English  culinary  Apple. 

Fruit  described  by  Hogg  as  above  medium,  roundish,  flattened,  green, 
with  dull  brownish  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  brisk 
subacid.     December  to  April. 

Staats'  Sweet. 

Originated  in  Somerset  Co.,  N.  J.  Tree  a  strong,  upright,  vigorous 
grower,  with  curved  erect  branches,  forming  a  beautiful  head,  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  greenish  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  overspread  mostly  with  light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  breaking,  juicy,  mild,  plea- 
sant, sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     December  to  February. 

Stack. 

Origin,  Indiana. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  red,  striped  with  deep  red. 
Dots  minute  and  few.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  medium,  closed. 
Basin  medium.  Flesh  light  yellow,  fine-grained,  juicy.  Good.  Core 
large,  open.     December  to  January.     (Ind.  Trans.) 

Stackyard. 

Originated  in  Montgomery  Co.,  Pa.     An  old  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  covered  and  marbled  with 
yellow  and  red,  and  speckled  with  small  spots  and  patches  of  russet. 
Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  juicy.     Good.     November,  December. 

Stamford  Pippin. 

An  English  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  first-rate  for  dessert. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  tinge  of  orange  in  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  tender,  crisp,  sweet,  brisk,  pleasant  aroma.  De- 
cember to  March. 

Stanard. 
Stanard's  Seedling1. 

An  Apple  extensively  disseminated  in  Illinois  and  West,  from  Col- 
onel P>.  Hodge,  through  "The  Grove"  nurseries.  The  tree  is  ex- 
tremely hardy,  enduring  uninjured  the  most  severe  changes  of  the 
prairies.  It  is  a  crooked,  spreading,  irregular,  but  rapid  grower;  a 
young,  abundant,  and  annual  bearer.  Young  wood  reddish  brown, 
downy. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  dull  green, 
changing  to  yellow  at  maturity,  splashed  and  striped  with  red.  large 
i  specks.     Stalk  in  a  deep  cavity.     Calyx  closed.     Flesh  yellowish 

while,  rather  coarse,  very  juicy,  rather  rich  subacid.  Very  good.  De- 
cember to  March.      Suj>erior  for  cooking. 


360  the  apple. 

Stanley. 
Stanley's  Seedling. 

Originated  in  Alabama.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  conical,  greenish  yellow.       Flesh  whitish,  tea- 
der,  moderately  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Stanley's  Winter  Sweet. 

Origin,  Winthrop,  Me.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  red,  streaked  and  specked  with  purple.  Flesh 
juicv,  sweet.     December  to  March.     (Me.  Rep.) 

Stansill. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  sometimes  a  blush 
in  sun,  and  occasionally  indistinctly  striped.  Flesh  yellow,  subacid. 
Good  to  very  good.     January. 

Star. 

An  old  variety,  grown  in  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded  and  indistinctly 
splashed  with  crimson,  large  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  white,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.     Good.     November. 

Stark. 

Origin  unknown,  grown  in  some  parts  of  Ohio,  and  valued  as  a  long 
keeper  and  profitable  market  fruit.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading. 
Young  shoots  dark  brownish  red. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  sometimes  a  little  elongated, 
and  sometimes  slightly  oblique.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots,  a  portion  of  them  areole 
dots.  Stalk  short,  rather  stout,  inserted  in  a  medium  cavity.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  rather  large,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  a  little 
coarse,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  January 
to  May. 

Starr. 

From  New  Jersey 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  white.  Stalk  slen- 
der. Flesh  whitish,  pleasant  subacid.  July  to  September.  Cooking 
only. 

Star  Reinette. 
Reinette  Etoile.  Calville  Etoile. 

A  Belgian  Apple.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  ribbed  at  apex  end,  washed  and  shaded 
with  red,  distinct  white  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  subacid.  Novem- 
ber.    (Alb  Pom.) 


the  apple-  361 

Steel's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Connecticut ;  productive,  keeps  well,  but  not  always  fair. 
Fruit  medium,  globular,  yellowish,  slight  blush.     Flesh  white,  com 
pact,  juicy,  with  a  peculiar  saccharine  flavor.     December  to  March. 


Stephenson's  Winter. 

Origin,  Marshall  Co.,  Miss.  Tree  a  moderate  grower  and  a  good 
bearer.     Young  shoots  smooth,  reddish  brown,  slightly  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  and  sometimes 
striped  with  red.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish, 
rather  firm,  juicy,  pleasant,  brisk  subacid.  Core  small.  Good.  Jan- 
uary to  April. 

Stevens'  Gilliflower. 

Originated  in  Sweden,  Me.  Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  dull 
whitish  ground  striped  with  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  pleasant  sub- 
acid.    November  to  February.     (Cole.) 

Stillman's  Early. 

Origin,  Clinton,  Oneida  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  of  moderate  upright  growth, 
productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  sometimes  a  slight  blush,  and  a 
few  brown  dots.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellow,  tender, 
pleasant  subacid.     Good.     Last  of  July  and  first  of  August. 

Stillwater  Sweet. 
Grandmother. 

Originated  by  Caleb  Mendenhall,  near  Dayton,  O.  Tree  an  upright 
grower,  productive.  Young  shoots  clear  reddish  brown,  very  sbightly 
downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  faintly  ribbed,  greenish 
yellow,  shaded,  minute  black  dots,  sometimes  in  the  sun  it  has  a  pale  red 
cheek.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  sweet.  Good  to  very 
good.     September,  October. 

Stirzaker's  Early  Square. 

A  Lancaster,  England,  variety,  described  by  Hogg  as  : 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  ribbed,  pale  yellow,  overspread  and 

mottled  with  a  dingy  brown  russet.      Flesh  white,   tender,  pleasant. 

August,  September. 

Stockade  Sweet. 

Origin,  Marietta,  Ohio.      Tree  thrifty,  very  upright,  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  red.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish, 
compact,  moderately  juicy,  rich,  sweet.  Core  small.  Good.  Valuable  for 
baking  and  keeping.     December  to  May. 


362  the  apple. 

Stone  Pippin. 
White  Stone  Pippin. 

A  Norfolk,  England.  Apple,  described  by  Lindley  as  worthy  of  culti- 
vation.    Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conic,  pale  green,  becoming  yellow.  Flesh 
very  firm,  almost  sweet.     November  to  May. 

Stonewall  Jackson. 

A  new  Southern  Apple,  mostly  valued  because  of  its  long-keeping 
quality.     Tree  an  upi-ight,  stout  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  sides  unequal,  whitish  yellow, 
shaded,  and  obscurely  striped  and  splashed  in  the  sun  with  light  red. 
Stalk  small.  Flesh  white,  firm,  not  very  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good. 
A  long  keeper. 

Stonor  Park. 

An  English  dessert  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as  of  medium  size, 
conical,  yellow,  with  faint  stripes  and  shades  of  red.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, brisk  subacid.     Good.     November. 

Straudt. 

Origin,  Berks  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  conical,  deep  crimson,  with  stripes 
of  paler  red,  and  numerous  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Flesh  fine-grained,  tender,  white,  subacid,  pleasant.  Good, 
November. 

Strawn. 
Strawn's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  James  Strawn,  Virginia.  Tree  a  thrifty  grower  and  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  rather  large,  reddish  stripes  on  a  pale  yellow  ground,  cream- 
colored  spots.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  slightly  acid.  Good.  December  to 
April. 

Streaked  Pippin. 

Red  Pippin.  Hempstead.  Quaker  of  some. 

Skunk,  erroneously. 

Origin,  Westbury,  Long  Island,  N.  Y.  Tree  thrifty,  hardy,  vigorous, 
spreading,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  pale  yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and 
striped  with  rich  red,  few  bight  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  smalL 
Cavity  narrow,  sometimes  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  slightly  cor- 
rugated. Flesh  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid, 
slightly  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     November  to  January. 

Striped  Beaufin. 

An  English  Apple.     Tree  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  broadly  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  covered 


THE   APPLE.  363 

and  mottled  with  broken  stripes  and  dashes  of  deep  red.     Flesh  yellow 
ish  white,  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  acid.     October  to  May.     (Lindley.) 

Striped  Belle  et  Bonne. 

An  old  Eastern  Apple.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  upright 
spreading,  productive.  Young  shoots  dull  reddish  brown,  somewhat 
downy.     A  profitable  market  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  mostly  covered,  striped, 
splashed,  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red,  few  light  brown  dots. 
Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  brisk  subacid,  moderately 
juicy.     Good.     Core  rather  small.     August,  September. 

Striped  Holland  Pippin. 

An  old  Holland  fruit.  Tree  a  free  grower,  and  productive ;  valued 
mainly  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  obscurely  ribbed,  yellow,  striped  with  red. 
Flesh  white,  subacid.     October,  December.     (Lindley.) 

Striped  Mohawk. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  red  striped  on  yellow.  Flesh  dry, 
poor.     Late  autumn.     (Elliott.) 

Striped  Monstrous  Reinette. 

An  English  cooking  Apple.     Tree  a  strong  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  with  irregular  ribs,  terminating  in  strong 
wrinkles  around  the  eye,  greenish  yellow,  mostly  covered,  striped,  and 
blotched  with  red.  Stalk  small.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  agreeable  acid. 
October,  November.     (Ronalds.) 

Striped  Porter. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conical,  yellow,  with  stripes  and 
splashes  of  red,  red  and  russet  specks.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  deep, 
russeted.  Basin  wrinkled.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  subacid.  Octo- 
ber.    (N.  E.  Far.) 

Striped  Shropsavine. 
Curtiss  Early  Stripe. 

Fruit  small,  oblong  conic,  pale  yellow,  striped  with  bright  red« 
Flesh  crisp,  pleasamt.     July,  August.     A  j)oor  grower. 

Striped  Winter  Pearmain. 

Striped  Sweet  Pippin.  Larjxe  Striped  Winter  Pearmain. 

Snorter.  Striped  Pearmain. 

Winter  Pearmain  of  some.  Missouri  Keeper  ? 
Missourian  V 

An  old  variety,  whioh  can  only  be  trace. 1  to  Kentucky.  It  is  con- 
siderably grown  now  all  through  the  West,  and  largely  under  the  name  of 
Btziped  Sweet  Pippin.  Tree  bardy,  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 
Young  shoots  clear  reddish  brown,  slight  bloom  on  ends. 


364  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  inclining  Lo  oblate,  yellow,  striped, 
splashed,  and  shaded  with  shades  of  red,  numerous  gray  dots,  giving  it 
somewhat  appearance  of  bloom.     Stalk  medium  or  short,  and  small,  in- 


striped  Winter  Pearmoin. 

sorted  in  a  large  cavity  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  small,  closed,  set 
in  a  broad,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  crisp,  tender,  very  mild, 
rich,  pleasant,  scarcely  subacid.     Very  good.     October  to  January. 

Steoat. 

Straat. 

An  Apple  formerly  in  high  esteem  among  the  descendants  of  the 
Dutch  settlers  on  the  North  River.     Not  profitable. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  roundish,  and  tapering  a  little  to  the 
eye,  yellowish  green.  Flesh  yellow,  very  tender,  brisk  subacid.  Good. 
September  to  December. 

Strode's  Birmingham. 
Strode's. 

Origin,  Chester  Co.,  Pa.  A  vigorous,  upright  grower,  very  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  oblong  oval  or  conic,  yellow,  sprinkled 
with  a  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender,  set  in  a  deep,  narrow  cavity. 
Basin  broad,  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellow,  moderately  juicy,  sub* 
acid.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 


THF    APPLE.  36t 


Strubel. 


Origin,  Pennsylvania.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  hardy,  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  oblong  conic,  yellowish,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  marbled  with  rich  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
compact,  yellowish,  juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Good.  Core 
small.     November  to  March. 

Stump. 

Supposed  origin,  Delaware.     Tree  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded  with  light  red  nearly  ovei 
the  whole  surface.  Stalk  short,  small.  Calyx  closed  or  partially  open. 
Flesh  whitish,  rather  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  sprightly  subacid. 
Good.     Core  small.     September,  October. 

Sturmer  Pippin. 

An  English  fruit.  Below  medium,  oblate,  approaching  conic,  yel- 
low, with  a  bronzed  or  crimson  cheek.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  insert- 
ed in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  long.  Basin  shallow 
and  uneven.     Flesh  compact,  rich  subacid.     Good.     January,  May. 

Stymus. 

This  new  and  really  excellent  Apple  originated  on  the  farm  of  Jacob 
Stymus,  Dobb's  Ferry,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately  thrifty,  upright,  and  pro- 
ductive.    Young  shoots  dull  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  light  and  dark  crimson.  Stalk  short,  small.  Cavity 
large,  deep.  Calyx  closed  or  partially  open.  Segments  short,  erect. 
Basin  large,  deep,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild, 
pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Core  small.  Very  good.  Octo- 
ber, November. 

Styke. 

Forest  Styre. 

A  famous  old  English  cider  fruit,  of  medium  size,  roundish,  pale 
yellow,  with  an  orange  cheek.  Flesh  firm,  and  makes  a  high-colored 
liquor.     October,  January. 

Sudbury  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  niediuni,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  faintly  splashed, 
marbled,  and  striped  with  dull  red,  many  light  and  gray  dots.  Flesh 
whitish,  rather  tender,  moderately  juicy,  rather  rich,  sweet.  Good. 
December,  January. 

Suffolk  Beauty. 

A  new  variety  from  H.  H.  &,  E.  L.  Brown,  Deer  Park,  Long  Island 
Tree  a  free  grower  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  white,  with  a  few  dark 
green  dots,  and  a  little  russet  near  the  stalk.     Stalk  slender.     Calyx 


366  THE    APPLE. 

small.     Flesh   white,  agreeable   subacid.     August,  September.      (Gat 
Mon.) 

Sugar  and  Brandy. 

A  Lancashire,  England,  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  rib  on  one  side,  deep  dull 
yellow,  pale  red  in  the  shade,  bright  orange  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  deep 
yellow,  spongy,  juicy,  very  sweet.     August,  September.     (Hogg.) 

Sugar  Loaf  Pippin. 
Hutching's  Seedling. 

A  foreign  sort.     Tree  of  good  growth  and  productive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  or  conical,  smooth,  clear  pale  yellow, 
becoming  nearly  white  on  one  side  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  white,  firm, 
very  slightly  acid,  and  moderately  j nicy.  Good.  Ripens  the  latter  part 
of  July,  and  is  very  showy  on  the  tree. 

Sugar  Sweet. 

From  Massachusetts.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  a  moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellow,  mostly  shaded  with  red, 
and  a  dark  maroon  cheek.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  not  very  tender, 
but  with  a  rich,  honeyed  sweetness.     Good.     December  to  February. 

Suisse. 
Pomme  Suisse.  Pomme  Rubanee.  Pomme  de  Perroquet. 

An  old  variety,  described  in  1665. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  greenish,  and 
striped  in  the  shade  with  yellowish  green,  which  in  sun  becomes  dull 
reddish.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  small.  Flesh  white,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  subacid.     Good. 

Summer  Bellflower. 

Origin,  farm  of  J.  R.  Comstock,  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigor- 
ous, upright,  productive.     Young  shoots  clear  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oval,  inclining  to  conic,  clear  yellow,  with 
rarely  a  faint  orange  blush  on  the  side  of  the  sun.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
in  a  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  with  small  reflexed  segments,  slightly 
five-sided  basin.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  excellent  subacid. 
Good.     Middle  of  August  to  middle  of  September. 

Summer  Bellflower  of  Pennsylvania 

is  quite  distinct  from  the  above,  and  very  much  resembles  Yellow  Bell- 
flower  in  shape  and  color,  but  has  a  very  wide  and  deep  cavity,  and 
closed  calyx.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm  and  fine  texture,  not  very 
juicy,  with  a  brisk,  agreeable,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Last  of  August 
and  first  of  September.     Young  shoots  light  reddish  brown,  downy. 


the  api  us.  367 

Summer  Broaden. 
Summer  Colman.  Summer  Broadend. 

An  old  Norfolk,  England,  cooking  Apple. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dull  greenish  yellow,  tinged  on 
the  sunny  side  with  dull  pale  brown.  Flesh  greenish  white,  subacid. 
October,  November.     (Lindley.) 

Summer  Cheese. 
Cheese  Apple.         Maryland  Cheese.        Prather  Apple.        Findlay  Apple. 

An  old  variety,  of  poor  quality.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  strong 
grower,  spreading,  not  an  early  bearer,  but  moderately  productive  when 
old. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sides  sometimes  unequal,  yellow,  occasionally 
with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid. 
August,  September. 

Summer  Golden  Pippin. 

A  nice  little  English  dessert  Apple,  but  inferior  to  many  of  our 
own. 

Fruit  small,  ovate,  flattened  at  the  eye,  bright  yellow,  with  a  little 
orange  next  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  and  rich.  Good  to  very 
good.     August. 

Summer  Hagloe. 
Hagloe. 

An  old  sort.  Tree  vigorous,  bvit  slow  in  its  growth  while  young, 
thick  blunt  shoots,  productive.  Young  shoots  clear  light  reddish 
brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  striped  and  splashed 
with  bright  red,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  short  and 
thick,  inserted  in  a  broad,  open  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  small, 
round  basin.  Flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good 
to  very  good.  An  excellent  culinar\r  and  table  variety.  August,  Sep- 
tember. 

Summer  Harvey. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  thrifty,  spreading,  very  productive,  an  early 
And  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  nettings  of 
russet  and  red  cheek  in  the  sun,  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  and  green 
do's.     Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     August. 

Summer  Janet. 

Fruit  medium,  round  truncated,  regular.  Surface  smooth,  pale  yellow, 
mixed  red,  striped  darker  red.  Dots  scattered,  gray.  Flesh  yellow, 
tender,  fine-grained,  subacid,  aromatic.  Good.  September.  (War- 
der.) 

Summer  Limbertwig. 

A  Southern  fruit  from  Greensboro',  N.  C. 

Fruit  medium,  flat,  regular,  pale  yellow,  mixed  pink,  striped  dark  red. 


368 


THE    APPLE. 


Flesh  white,    tender,  fine-grained,  juicy, 
September.     (Warder.) 


subacid,   aromatic.      A\igust, 


Summer  Marigold. 

An  old  English  Apple.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  great  bearer. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  striped  with  two  shades  of 
red.     Flesh  breaking,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     August. 


Sour  Bough. 
Walworth. 
Haverstraw  Pippin. 
Paper  Apple. 


Summer  Pippin. 

Calkin's  Pippin. 

Tart  Bough. 

Champlain. 

Large  Golden  Pippin. 


Underdunk. 
Nyack  Pippin. 
Geneva  Pearmain. 


Origin  unknown.  An  old  fruit,  much  cultivated  in  Rockland  and 
Westchester  Counties,  N.  Y. ;  a  valuable  market  fruit.  Tree  vigorous, 
forming  a  beautiful  round  head,  a  regular  and  good  bearer.  Young 
shoots  dull  reddish  grayish  brown,  slightly  downy. 


Summer  Pippin. 


Fruit  medium  to  large,  variable  in  form,  generally  roundish  oblong, 
inclining  to  conic,  pale  waxen  yellow,  shaded  with  a  delicate  crimson 
blush,  and  sprinkled  with  green  and  grayish  dots.  Stalk  varies  in 
length  and  thickness,  inserted  in  a  deep,  abrupt  cavity.  Calyx  closed, 
set  in  a  deep,  abrupt,  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  moderate- 
ly juicy,  pleasant,  refreshing,  subacid,  valuable  for  culinary  uses,  and 


THE    APPLE.  369 

profitable  for  market.  Ripens  the  middle  of  August,  and  continues  a 
month  or  more. 

There  is  another  Summer  Pippin  which  we  have  received  from 
Iowa.     Tree  very  vigorous,  productive. 

The  fruit  is  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  striped  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  large  light  dots.  Stalk 
rather  long.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  pleasant  subacid.  August, 
September. 

Summer  Pound  Royal. 

Pound  Royale.  Pound  Royal  of  the  Putnam  List. 

Summer  R.  I.  Greening.  Orange. 

An  old  variety,  the  origin  of  which  has  not  been  traced.  It  is  now 
pretty  widely  disseminated  in  some  parts  of  Michigan,  Ohio,  and  in  the 
South  and  West.  Tree  a  strong,  vigorous,  upright  spreading  grower, 
hardy  and  productive.     Young  shoots  very  dark  brown. 


Summer  Pound  PoyaL 


Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  sometimes  roundish  oblate  conical 
greenish  white,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  green  and  Light  dote 
Stalk  rather  short.  Cavity  large,  deep,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed. 
Segments  medium,  erect.  Basin  abrupt,  rather  deep.  Flesh  white 
fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  sprightly  subacid.  Good  to  very  good! 
Core  small.  August,  September.  A  profitable  orchard  and  market 
variety. 

24 


370  the  apple. 

Summer  Queen. 

Sharpe'a  Early.  Lancaster  Queen.  Polecat. 

This  variety  forms  a  large  tree  with  somewhat  pendent  boughs,  and 
is  a  profitable  sort  for  orchards  and  marketing  over  a  large  territory. 


Summer  Queen. 

The  fruit  is  large  and  broad  at  the  crown,  tapering  towards  the  eye. 
The  stalk  is  rather  long,  and  is  planted  in  a  pretty  deep  cavity,  some- 
times partially  closed.  Calyx  but  little  sunk,  in  a  narrow  plaited  basin. 
Skin  fine  deep  yellow  in  its  ground,  though  well  striped  and  clouded 
with  red.  Flesh  aromatic,  yellow,  rich,  and  of  good  flavor.  August 
and  September. 

Summer  Rambo. 

Rambour  Franc.  Rambour  Gros.  Frank  Ramboui. 

Summer  Rambour.        Rambour  d'Ete. 

This  is  an  old  French  Apple  which  was  pretty  freely  distributed 
many  years  since,  and  the  old  trees  of  which  everywhere  prove  hardy 
and  profitable  for  early  marketing.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  open 
round  head. 

Fruit  a  little  above  medium  size,  flat,  generally  evenly  formed,  but 
occasionally  a  little  irregular,  pale  greenish  yellow,  stained  and  streaked 
with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  rather  soft,  sprightly  subacid 
Good.     Ripens  early  in  September. 


the  apple.  371 

Summer  Red  Calville. 

Calville  Rouge  d'£te.  Calville  d'fite.  Madeleine. 

Rother  Sommercalville. 

An  old  French  Apple  of  medium  size,  roundish  conical,  ribbed,  yel- 
lowish white,  streaked  and  stained  with  red,  becoming  very  bright  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  soft,  tender,  tinged  with  red,  mild  subacid. 
Good.     July,  August. 

Summer  Red  Streak. 

Origin,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  produo 
tive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  rich  red.  Stalk  small.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white, 
Bometimes  a  little  stained  next  the  skin,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good. 
Valued  for  cooking.     September. 

Summer  Reinette. 
Weisse  Wack's  Reinette.      Weisse  Sommer  Reinette.       Reinette  d'£te  Blanche. 

A  beautiful  German  Apple. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  oily.  Color  clear  yellow, 
faintly  washed  with  clear  bright  red.  Calyx  half  open.  Stalk  very 
short.  Cavity  russeted.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet,  aromatic. 
September,  October.     (Diel.) 

Summer  Rose. 

Woohnan'8  Harvest.  Lippincott's  Early. 

A  very  pretty  and  very  excellent  Apple,  highly  esteemed  as  a  de»- 
•ert  fruit.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 


Bummer  Row. 


Fruit  scarcely   of  medium  size,  roundish,  smooth,  rich  waxon   yel- 
iow,  streaked  and  blotched  with  a  little  red  on  the  sunny  side.       Stalk 


172  THE    APPLE. 

rather  short  and  slender.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  an  even  basin.  Flesh 
tender,  abounding  with  sprightly  juice.  Very  good  or  best.  Ripens 
early  in  August. 

Summer  Sweet. 

An  old  Connecticut  Apple.  Tree  vigorous,  very  spreading,  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  netted  with  rus- 
set. Stalk  short  and  small.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  rich,  sweet.  Excellent  for  baking.  Core  small. 
September. 

Summer  Sweet  Paradise. 

Originated  in  Pennsylvania.  Tree  very  vigorous,  spreading,  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  quite  large,  round  and  regular  in  its  form,  a  little  flattened 
at  both  ends.  Skin  rather  thick,  pale  green,  sometimes  faintly  tinged 
with  yellow  in  the  sun,  and  very  distinctly  marked  with  numerous 
large  dai-k  gray  dots.  Stalk  strong,  and  set  in  an  even,  moderately 
deep  hollow.  Flesh  tender,  crisp,  very  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.     Ripe  in  August  and  September. 

Summer  Thorle. 
Thorie.         Thoral  Pippin.        Whorle  Pippin.        Watson's  New  Nonsuch. 

A  favorite  Scotch  Apple.  Tree  a  free  grower,  rather  pendent,  very 
productive,  bearing  in  clusters. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  rich  yellow,  with  mottled  stripes  of  rich  red. 
Stalk  short.  Calyx  half  open.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  juicy, 
brisk  subacid.     August,  September.     (Ron.) 

Summer  White  Calville. 

Calville  Blanche  d'Kt.''.  White  Calville. 

Calville  Blanc.  Wahrer  Weiser  Sommercalville. 

An  old  variety.     Tree  a  strong  grower  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  with  prominent  ribs,  pale  straw 
color,  with  traces  of  delicate  russet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender, 
delicate,  sweet,  and  pleasant.     August,  September.     (Hogg.) 

Superb. 

Origin,  Franklin  Co.,  N.  C.  Tree  tolerably  vigorous,  spreading,  and 
a  prodigious  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  regular.  Skin  green,  rarely 
with  a  blush.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Calyx 
large  and  open.  Flesh  yellow,  solid,  slightly  coarse-grained,  rich,  sub- 
acid.    Good  to  very  good.     November  to  March. 

Superb  Sweet. 

Raised  by  Jacob  Deane,  Mansfield,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous,  produo 
tive. 


THE   APPLE.  373 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  pale  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed  and  mottled  with  red.  Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  deep  cav- 
ity. Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  broad.  Flesh  white,  very  tender, 
juicy,  sweet,  rich.  Core  large.  Good  to  very  good.  September,  Octo- 
ber. 

Surprise. 

A  small,  round,  whitish  yellow  Apple,  of  little  or  no  value,  but 
admired  by  some  for  its  singularity,  the  flesh  being  stained  with  red. 
November  to  January. 

Surrey  Flat  Cap. 

Hogg  describes- this  as  a  very  excellent  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  bluish  green,  rough  veiny 
russet,  and  deep  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  rich,  and  sugary. 
October,  January. 

Susannah. 

Large,  oblong  oval,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  crisp,  rich,  aromatic. 
November  to  April.     (Sumner  MS.) 

Susan's  Spice. 

Originated  in  Franklin  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  compressed,  glossy  light  crimson,  deeper  in  the  sun, 
with  fawn-colored  dots.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  stained 
occasionally  with  red,  juicy,  pleasant,  aromatic.     October.     (Gar.  Moo.) 

Sutton  Beauty. 
Beauty. 

Origin,  Sutton,  Mass.     Tree  upright,  thrifty,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  -oundish  oblate  conic,  waxen  yellow,  shad- 
ed, mottled,  and  obscurely  striped  with  fine  crimson,  and  thinly  sprin- 
kled with  whitish  dots.  Stem  rather  short,  inserted  in  a  medium  cavity, 
slightly  surrounded  by  greenish  russet.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a 
moderate,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly 
subacid.     Very  good.     November,  February. 

Swaar. 
Hardwick. 

This  is  a  truly  noble  American  fruit,  produced  by  the  Dutch  set- 
tlers on  the  Hudson,  near  Esopus,  and  so  termed  from  its  unusual  weight, 
this  word,  in  the  Low  Dutch,  meaning  heavy.  It  requires  a  deep,  rich, 
sandy  loam  to  bring  it  to  perfection,  and,  in  its  native  soils,  we  have 
seen  it  twelve  inches  in  circumference,  and  of  a  deep  golden  yellow  color. 
It  is  one  of  the  finest  flavored  apples  in  America,  and  deserves  exten- 
sive cultivation  in  all  favorable  positions,  though  it  does  not  succeed 
well  in  damp  or  cold  soils. 

Fruit  large,  regularly  formed,  roundish  or  roundish  oblate.  Skin 
greenish  yellow  when  first  gathered,  but    when   entirely  ripe  ot  a  nne, 


574 


THE    APPLE. 


dead  gold  color,  dotted  w^ith  numerous  distinct  brown  specks,  and  some- 
times faintly  marbled  with  gray  russet  on  tbe  side  and  round  the  stalk 
Stalk  slender,  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  very  round  cav 
ity.     [Sometimes  this  cavity  is  partially  closed.]     Calyx  small,  greenish, 


Swaar. 

set  in  a  shallow  basin,  scarcely  plaited.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained* 
tender,  with  an  exceedingly  rich  aromatic  flavor  and  a  spicy  smell 
Very  good  to  best.  Core  small.  The  trees  bear  fair  crops,  and  the 
fruit  is  in  season  from  December  to  March. 

Swasey. 

Supposed  origin,  Ohio.     Tree  hardy,  but  a  poor  grower. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
whitish,  crisp,  tender,  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  December,  Janu- 
ary. 

Sweeney  Nonpareil. 

An  English  Apple.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conical,  greenish,  with  patches  of  russet 
and  brilliant  red  cheek  in  sun.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  acid.  Janu- 
ary to  April.     Cooking. 

Sweet  and  Sour. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  ribbed,  the  ribs  being  green,  and  the  intervening 
hollows  light  yellow  ;  the  ribs  bearing  the  flavor  of  the  fruit,  which  is 
acid,  the  intervening  hollows  being  almost  flavorless,  but  sweetish  ;  thi* 
portion  not  having  its  juice  well  elaborated.     December,  February. 


the  apple.  375 

Sweet  Baldwin. 

Origin  unknown.    Tree  very  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and 
striped  with  light  and  dark  red,  thin  bloom,  light  dots.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish, moderately  juicy,  mild,  sweet.     Good.     October. 

Sweet  Belle  Bonne. 
Belle  et  Bonne. 

A  very  old  Apple.  Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  spreading,  moderately 
upright  grower,  and  an  annual  bearer.  Young  shoots  reddish  brown, 
somewhat  grayish,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate  conic,  yellow,  with  nettings 
and  patches  of  russet,  few  large  brown  dots.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh 
yellow,  moderately  juicy,  rich,  sweet.     Good.     October,  December. 

Sweet  Bellflower. 
Sweet  Butter  ?  Butter  of  some. 

Of  unknown  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  ribbed,  greenish  yel 
low,  with  a  few  brown  dots,  slight  blush  in  the  sun.     Stalk  rather  long, 
slender.     Calyx  closed.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  aromatic,  sweet. 
Good.     October,  November. 

Sweet  Bellflower  of  Wyandot  County. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  unknown,  but  as  Elliott  has  first  described 
it  as  of  Wyandot  County,  we  follow  him  until  its  history  is  disclosed. 
The  variety  is  a  profitable  market  sort.  Tree  a  good  grower,  some- 
what drooping  in  fruit.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblong  conic,  rough  greenish  yellow 
netted  and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  half  tender,  sweet.  Good.  October, 
November. 

Sweet  Doctor. 

From  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and 
striped  with  light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  sweet.     Good.     Core  small.     October. 

Sweet  Fall  Pippin. 

Grown  in  "Westchester  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  slightly  sprinkled  with  brown 
dots.  Stalk  short,  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  very  shallow 
basin.     Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich.     Good.     October,  November. 

sweet  Greening. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  dull  bronzed  red 


576  THE   APPLE. 

in  the  sun,  many  irregular  scattered  rough  dots  and  marblings  of  russet 
Stalk  medium.  Cavity  broad,  acute,  regular.  Calyx  in  a  broad,  deep, 
slightly  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  white,  loose-grained,  mild,  sweet,  lather 
dry.     Good.     Core  small.     December  to  February. 

Sweet  Janet. 

Origin,  Indiana.  Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  spreading,  annually  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  round,  somewhat  conical,  covered  with  rich  red  or  crim- 
son, mixed  and  striped.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  yel- 
low, breaking,  not  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  December,  January.  Fine  for 
baking,  and  the  tree  claimed  to  bloom  late  in  season  and  thus  escape 
frosts.     (O.  P.  S.) 

Sweet  King. 

Origin,  Oyster  Bay,  Long  Island.  Tree  a  stout,  erect  grower,  an 
early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  wood  reddish  brown,  slightly  gray- 
ish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellowish,  shaded,  striped,  and  splash- 
ed with  red,  few  light  gray  dots.  Stalk  varying.  Calyx  large,  open. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  October  to 
March. 

Sweet  Mary. 

Originated  with  J.  W.  Dodge,  Pomona,  Tenn.  Tree  a  vigorous, 
upright  grower,  and  a  great  bearer.     Young  shoots  dull  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conical,  whitish  yellow,  very  smooth, 
sprinkled  with  a  few  light  brown  dots.  Stalk  very  short.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  August,  Septem- 
ber. 

Sweet  Pear. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  vigorous,  upright  grower,  very  hardy  and 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow,  with  dull  blush  red  in 
the  sun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet, 
aromatic.     Very  good.     September,  October. 

Sweet  Pearmain. 

An  old  variety,  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  a  strong,  upright  grower, 
and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conic.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  broad, 
deep.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  ten- 
der, brisk,  rich,  sweet,  aromatic.     Very  good.     January  to  April. 

Sweet  Pippin. 

An  old  variety.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  or  oblate,  yellowish,  with  red  in  the 
Bun.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  Novem- 
ber, Decern  oer 


the  apple.  377 

Sweet  Queen. 
Dale's  Sweet  Fall  Queen. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania.     Tree  a  fair  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  elongated  conic,  ribbed  at  apex,  whitish,  shaded,  striped, 
and  splashed  with  shades  of  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  pleasant,  sweet. 
Scarcely  good.     November. 

Sweet  Rambo. 

Origin,  supposed  Pennsylvania.  Tree  stout,  upright,  vigorous,  not 
an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  shaded  with  red,  and 
thickly  covered  with  large  gray  dots,  a  little  elevated  above  the  surface. 
Stalk  slender,  insei-ted  in  a  deep  cavity,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx 
closed,  set  in  an  open  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  pleasant  sweet.  Core 
small  and  close.     Good  to  very  good.     October  to  December. 

Sweet  Ribbed  Gilliflower. 

An  old  Connecticut  variety. 

Fruit  large>  roundish  elongated  conic,  ribbed,  mostly  covered  with 
bght  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  dark.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  white,  rather  compact,  moderately  juicy,  half  tender,  sweet- 
Good.     Core  large.     November,  December. 

Sweet  Romanite. 
Red  Winter  Sweet  ?  Sweet  Nonsuch. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  strong,  upright  grower,  hardy,  moderate 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  shaded,  splashed, 
and  striped  with  red,  light  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  closed. 
Segments  erect,  slightly  recurved.  Basin  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  compact,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  Core 
small.     November  to  March. 

Sweet  Russet. 
Summer  Russet. 

Received  from  Parsons  &  Co.,  Flushing,  Long  Island.  Origin  unknown. 
A  nice  Little  Apple.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood 
reddish  olive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  sometimes  oblate,  yellow, 
nostly  covered  with  light  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  russet  dots, 
tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish, 
crisp,  very  tender,  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  aromatic.  Very  good.  Sep- 
tember. 

Another  Sweet  Russet  is  grown  in  Massachusetts,  New  York,  and 
elsewheie.  The  tree  an  upright,  spreading  grower,  productive.  Good 
for  cooking. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  nettings  and 
patches  of  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  half  tender,  rich,  sweet.  Good 
November,  March. 

Another  Sweet  Russet  of  Kentucky,  is  described  by  Warder  as* 


378  THE    APPLR. 

Fruit  small,  conical,  truncated,  rough,  dark  russet.  Dots  minute, 
■white,  prominent.  Flesh  yellowish  white, .  fine-grained,  not  tender, 
sweet.     Scarcely  good.     December,  February. 

Sweet  Seek-no-Farther. 

Origin,  Hanover,  N.  H.  Tree  a  good  grower,  an  early  and  abun- 
dant bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellowish  green,  with  a  red 
cheek  next  the  sun.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.      A  long  keeper. 

Sweet  Sponge. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish  white.  Flesh  white,  tender,  sweet. 
July.      (Warder.) 

Sweet  Willie. 

Origin,  Todd  Co.,  Ky.     Tree  a  good  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  greenish,  mostly  covered  with  stripes  of  red.  Flesh  fine- 
grained, tender,  juicy,  rich,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  November, 
December. 

Sweet  Winesap. 

Henrick  Sweet  ?        Henry  Sweet.         Ladies  Sweet,  of  some. 
Sweet  Pearraain,  of  some.  Red  Sweet  Winesap. 

From  Pennsylvania.  Tree  of  moderate,  upright  growth,  productive, 
Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  approaching  conic.  Color  red, 
splashed  with  deep  criuison.  Stalk  long  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  deep 
cavity,  surrounded,  with  russet.  Calyx  partially  open,  set  in  a  rather 
deep,  open  basin.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  very  sweet,  rich.  Good  to  very 
good.     November  to  March. 

Sweet  Vandervere. 
Sweet  Redstreak.  Sweet  Harvey. 

Origin  unkuown.      Tree  of  crooked  growth,  a  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded  and  striped  witk 
dull  red.  Stalk  short,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  large,  irregular 
cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a  broad,  open  basin.  Flesh  tender, 
juicy,  mild,  sweet,  aromatic.     Good.     November,  March. 

Sweet  Winter  Pennock. 

From  Ohio,  supposed  origin  Belmont  Co.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
upright,  rather  slender,  a  moderate  bearer. 

Fniit   medium,   oblate,   greenish   yellow,   shaded    and  striped  with 
red.     Flesh  whitish,  moderately  juicy,  mild   sweet.     Poor.     December 
January. 

Swiss  Reinette. 
Reinette  Suisse. 
Of  foreign  origin.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading. 
Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  fine  yellow,  moder< 


the  apple. 


379 


ately  sprinkled  with  gray  and  rather  indistinct  light  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Cavity  large,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  deep, 
slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  rather  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid      Very  good.     December,  February. 

Syke-House  Russet. 

A  Yorkshire  Apple.     Tree  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  mostly  covered  with  light  brown 
russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  sprightly,  juicy,  subacid.  Novem- 
ber, February.      (Hon.) 

Sylvester. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Dr.  E.  W.  Sylvester,  Lyons,  N.  Y.  Tree 
vigorous,  forming  a  beautiful  open,  round,  spreading  head,  a  profuse 
bearer.     Young  shoots  dark  reddish  brown,  slightly  grayish  or  downy. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  regular,  waxen  white,  beauti- 
fully shaded  on  the  sunny  side  with  bright  crimson,  thinly  sprinkled 
with  minute  light  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  small,  short.  Cavity  regular. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  rather  shallow.  Flesh  very  white,  tender,  crisp, 
juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Very  good.  September,  October.  Excellent  for 
cooking  and  drying. 

Table  Greening. 

Origin,  Cornish,  Me.    Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  productive. 
Fruit   medium,  roundish,  dull  green.     Flesh  juicy,  mild,   pleasant 
subacid.     Good.     December  to  March. 


Talman's  Sweet. 


Talman's   Sweet. 
Tolman'i  Sweeting.        Tallman's  Sweeting.        Brown'B  Golden  Sweet. 
A  native  of  Rhode  Island.     In  quality  the  fruit  is  scarcely  second 
rate  as  a  table  sort,  but  it  is  a  very  popular  and  profitable  orchard  sort, 


380  THE    APPLE. 

from  the  hardihood  of  the  trees,  their  great  productiveness,  and  its  value 
for  stock  feeding  and  various  culinary  uses.  Tree  an  upright  spreading 
grower,  vigorous. 

Form  nearly  globular.  When  fully  ripe,  whitish  yellow,  with  a  soft 
blush  on  one  side,  and  generally  a  line  running  from  stem  to  calyx. 
Stalk  rather  long  and  slender,  inclining  to  one  side,  and  inserted  in  a 
rather  wide,  shallow,  but  regular  cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  small  basin, 
slightly  depressed.  Flesh  quite  white,  rather  firm,  fine-grained,  with 
a  rich  sweet  flavor.     November  to  April. 

Tardive  de  Joncret. 

Originated  in  Belgium.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical  truncated,  ribbed,  golden 
yellow,  with  bright  red  on  the  sun  side.  Dots  and  splashes  of  gray.  Stalk 
short.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  deep.  Flesh  white,  tender,  sweet  subacid. 
December,  February.     (An.  Pom.) 

Tart   Bough. 
Sour  Bough  of  some. 

An  old  variety,  originally  disseminated,  so  far  as  we  can  learn,  by 
Judge  Buel,  of  Albany,  N.  Y.  It  much  resembles  Early  Harvest  in  the 
fruit,  but  the  trees  are  more  rapid  in  growth,  and  it  ripens  much  later, 
is  more  acid,  and  not  considered  profitable. 

There  is  another  Tart  Bough,  the  fruit  of  which  is  small,  roundish 
conical,  whitish,  thickly  sprinkled  with  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender. 
Calyx  closed,  with  long  segments.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white,  firm- 
grained,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Core  small, 
August. 

Tarvey  Codlin. 

Raised  from  seed  of  the  Manks  Codlin. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  dull  olive  green,  with  yellow  and  yellowish  red, 
much  spotted  with  broken  rows  of  blood-red  dot,  next  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  juicy.     A  good  culinary  apple.     November,  December.    (Hogg.) 

Taunton. 

Origin  unknown.  Some  claim  it  for  Alabama,  others  Georgia.  The 
tree  is  a  vigorous  but  straggling  grower,  very  productive.  Young 
shoots  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  rather  lai'ge,  oblate  conic,  greenish  yellow,  striped  and  splash- 
ed with  red,  darkest  on  sun  side,  large  light  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity 
deep,  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  long,  slender.  Basin  slightly 
corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  aromatic,  acid.  Good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 

Taunton  Golden  Pippin. 

Tree  hardv  and  productive. 

Fruit  belo  w  medium,  roundish,  rich  yellow,  markings  and  freckles  of 
russet  in  shade,  clouded  red,  and  streaked  in  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  firm, 
crisp,  delicate,  brisk,  vinous.     December  to  March.     (Hogg.) 


THE    APPLE.  381 

Tenderskin. 

Of  Southern  origin.  Tree  very  vigorous,  1  ealtty,  and  productive, 
Young  wood  reddish  brown,  downy,  veiy  short-jointed,  with  prominent 
buds. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  striped  and  splashed 
somewhat  with  red,  some  bloom.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
yellowish,  tender,  very  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good  to  very  good. 
November  to  January. 

Ten  Shillings. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  pale 
brown  russet  orange  streaked  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  tender,  sweet  acid.     November.     (Hogg.) 

Tenterden  Park. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish  green,  mostly  covered  with  deep 
red,  striped  with  a  still  deeper  shade  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  white, 
tender,  crisp,  brisk,  juicy,  not  rich.     October,  February.     (Hogg.) 

Terral's  Late. 

A  Southern  Apple  of  unknown  origin.     Tree  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  oblique,  whitish,  shaded  with  light  red,  striped  and 
splashed  with  dark  red,  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  brown  dots.  Stalk 
very  short.  Cavity  narrow,  deep,  partially  russeted.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Segments  small,  erect.  Basin  abrupt,  deep.  Flesh  white,  ten- 
der, juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     October,  November. 


The  Tetofsky  is  a  Russian  Summer  Apple,  which  proves  profitable 
for  market  growing.     The  tree  is  an  upright  spreading  grower,  forming 


382  THE    APPLE. 

an  open  head,  conies  early  into  bearing,  and  produces  annually.       Very 
hardy.     Young  shoots  yellowish  reddish  brown,  leaves  very  large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblate  conic,  sometimes  nearly  round,  smooth, 
with  a  yellow  ground  handsomely  striped  with  red,  and,  like  most 
apples  of  that  country,  covered  with  a  whitish  bloom,  under  which  is  a 
shining  skin.  The  flesh  is  white  and  juicy,  sprightly  acid,  fragrant,  and 
agreeable.     Good.     August.     Succeeds  at  the  North. 

Teuchat's  Egg. 

Chucket  Egg.  Summer  Teuchat  Egg. 

Fruit  below  medium,  varying  in  shape  from  ovate  to  conical,  irreg- 
ularly ribbed,  pale  yellow,  washed  and  streaked  with  red.  Flesh  ten- 
der, juicy,  pleasant.     September.     (Hogg.) 

Tewkesbury  Winter  Blush. 
Tewkesbury  Blush. 

Coxe  says  this  Apple  was  brought  from  Tewkesbury,  Hunterdon 
Co.,  N.J. 

It  is  a  handsome,  fair  fruit,  with  more  flavor  and  juiciness  than  is 
usual  in  long-keeping  apples.     They  may  be  kept  till  August,  without 


Tewkesbury  Winter  Bbish. 

particular  care,  quite  plump  and  sound.  The  tree  grows  rapid  y  and 
straight,  and  the  fruit  hangs  till  late  in  the  autumn.  Young  shoots 
grayish  reddish  brown. 

The  size  is  small,  rather  flat.  The  skin  smooth,  yellow,  with  a  red 
cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  with  more  juice  and  flavor  than  any  other  long- 
keeping  variety.     Mild,  pleasant  subacid.     January  to  July. 

Them's  Red  Streak. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  green,  with  red  stripes.  Flesh  acid 
Winter.     (Hov.  Mag.} 


THE   APPLK.  383 

Thomas. 

An  old  unknown  variety,  carried  many  years  since  from  Maryland 
to  Illinois,  where  it  has  received  the  name  of  Thomas.  The  tree  is  very 
hardy,  moderately  vigorous,  forming  a  handsome-shaped  top,  annually 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical  truncated,  greenish,  becoming  yellow 
when  fully  matured.  Skin  thin.  Flesh  soft,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid.     December  to  February.     (N.  Lyon :  MS.) 

Tift's  Sweet. 

Origin,  New  England.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  green,  netted  with  russet,  sometimes  with  a 
dull  brown  cheek.  Flesh  yellowish,  exceedingly  sweet  and  lich.  A 
regular,  but  not  profuse  bearer.     Unprofitable.     September,  October. 

Tillaqua. 
Big  Fruit. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate  or  oblate,  yellowish  ground, 
neaily  covered,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  red,  moderately 
sprinkled  with  large  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
whitish,  moderately  juicy,  brisk  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Novem- 
ber to  March. 

Tinmouth. 
Teignmouth.  Vermont  Pippin. 

Origin,  Tinmouth,  Vt.  This  fine  Apple  is  much  esteemed  in  the 
region  of  its  origin.  The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  very  productive,  and  a 
profitable  sort.     Young  shoots  dull  brownish  red,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  considerably  shaded 
with  carmine,  and  sprinkled  with  a  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  in- 
serted in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a  deep  open  ba 
Bin.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant,  mild  subacid,  with  a  pecu- 
liar melon-like  aroma.     Good  to  very  good.     November  to  February. 

Titus  Pippin. 

Well  Apple.  Hang- On.  Timothy. 

Timothy  Titus  Sort. 

Origin,  near  Hempstead,  Long  Island.  Tree  an  upright,  thrifty 
grower,  productive,  and  profitable  for  market. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  conic,  somewhat  ribbed,  pale  yellow, 
rarely  with  a  blush.  Stalk  rather  slender.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whit- 
ish yellow,  a  little  coarse,  breaking,  juicy,  tender,  brisk  subacid.  Good 
Core  large  and  open.     December  to  February. 

Toccoa. 
Muskmelon. 
Originated  in  Habersham  Co.,  Ga. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellow,  with  a  light  shade  of  crim- 


384  THE   APPLE. 

son  in  the  sun,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed  Basin 
small,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  mild  subacid.  Good. 
August,  September. 

Toker's  Incomparable. 

An  English  culinary  sort. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed  or  five-sided,  yellowish  green, 
with  traces  and  streaks  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  brisk,  pleasant  acid.     November,  December.     (Hogg.) 

Tolbert. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  deep  red,  with  indistinct  stripes,  and  light 
dots.  Stalk  short  and  small.  Cavity  narrow,  a  little  russeted.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  juicy  and  tender,  mild  subacid 
Good.     Core  small.     September. 

Tom  Potter. 

A  Devonshire,  England,  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds.  Tree  healthy, 
but  uncertain  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  yellow,  shaded  and  striped 
with  red  in  the  sun.     Flesh  j  uicy,  high-flavored.     September,  October 

Toole's  Indian  Rareripe. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  stout,  upright,  short-jointed,  forming  a  dense 
round  head,  moderately  productive.     Young  shoots  smooth  clear  reddish. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  slightly  conic,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of 
red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  very  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  medium, 
uneven.  Flesh  greenish  white,  tender,  brisk  subacid,  valuable  for  cook- 
ing.    Core  large.     September,  October. 

Tower  of  Glammis. 
Glammis  Castle.  Late  Carse  of  Gowrie.  Carse  of  Gowrie. 

A  fine  culinary  Apple  from  the  Clydesdale  orchards,  Scotland.  Tree 
an  excellent  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  sides  sometimes  unequal,  pale  yellow, 
shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  slender.  Calyx  large, 
open.  Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  sharp  sub- 
acid.    Good.     December,  January. 

Tower's  Glory. 

A  cooking  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  of  medium  size,  roundish, 
with  obtuse  angles,  yellow,  covered  in  sun  with  red,  and  streaked  with 
darker  shades.  Stalk  very  short.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  yellowish, 
tender,  juicy,  brisk,  acid.     October  to  April. 

Townsend. 
Hocking.  Heager. 

Originated  in  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.,  found  over  one  hundred  years  ago,  in 


THE    APPLE.  386 

an  Indian  clearing  by  Stephen  Townsend,  when  he  first  settled  in  that 
then  wild  country.  Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  produc- 
tive.    Young  wood  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  pale  yellow,  striped  and 
splashed  with  red,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  rather  long, 
slender,  inserted  in  a  medium  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  basin  of 
moderate  depth.  Flesh  white,  tender,  very  mild,  agreeable,  subacid. 
Good  to  very  good.     Ripe  middle  of  August  to  middle  of  September. 

Townsend's  Smiling  Beauty. 

An  excellent  kitchen  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  yellow,  with  a  brownish  red 
cheek.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  tender,  fine-grained,  juicy,  agreeable  acid, 
October  to  April.    (Hogg.) 

Trader's  Fancy. 

Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  Solomon  Phillips,  Washington  Co., 
Pa,  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  a  good  and  regular  bearer,  and  popular 
where  known  ;  valued  as  a  late  keeper  and  market  fruit  at  the  South- 
west.    Young  wood  dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  stiiped  and  shaded 
with  dull  red,  covered  with  a  bloom.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  broad  and  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  cx*isp,  tender,  juicy, 
with  a  mild,  pleasant,  subacid  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  January  to 
May. 

Transparent  Codlin. 

Lindley  describes  this  as  a  handsome  Apple,  forming  a  spreading 
tree,  and  an  excellent  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conic,  lemon  yellow,  tinged  with 
Balmon  or  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  tender,  semi-transparent,  juicy,  sweet. 
September,  November. 

Transparent  de  Zurich. 

Fruit  small  or  medium,  beautiful  waxen  white,  clear,  translucent. 
September.     (Elliott.) 

Transport. 

Origin,  Indiana.  Tree  poor  in  the  nursery,  good  in  the  orchard, 
rery  productive. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  flattened,  angular,  pale  yellow,  blushed  car- 
mine. Dots  scattered,  green,  with  white  bases  ;  purple  where  exposed, 
bloom  white.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  melting,  fine-grained, 
juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  December  to  February. 
Not  very  profitable.      (Warder.) 

Trenton   Early  ? 

A  variety  somewhat  grown  in  Ohio  and  the  West,  the  origin  or  identi 

25 


386  THE   APPLE. 

ty  of  which  has  not  yet  been  discovered.  The  tree  is  a  moderately  vigor 
ous  grower,  hardy,  and  quite  productive.  Young  wood  reddish  brown. 
Fruit  above  medium,  irregular,  ribbed.  Color  yellowish,  with  slight 
undulations  over  the  surface,  which  are  green.  Skin  smooth  and  oily, 
Cavity  wide.  Basin  furrowed.  Flesh  not  very  fine-grained,  very  light 
and  tender,  with  a  pleasant,  subacid  flavor.     Good.     August. 

Trescott  Russet. 

Originated  in  Sharon,  Conn.  Tree  a  strong  grower,  good  bearer ; 
and  the  fruit  keeps  well,  but  inclines  to  shrivel. 

Fruit  roundish  conic  oblique,  yellow  russet,  with  a  dull  red  cheek. 
Stalk  short,  thick.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  tough,  mild  subacid,  vinous, 
almost  sweet.     Good.     February,  April. 

Trumbull  Sweet. 
Fenton  Sweeting.  Trumbull  Sweeting. 

Originated  in  the  orchard  of  Aaron  Fenton,  Trumbull  Co.,  Ohio.  Tree 
a  healthy,  spreading,  vigorous  grower,  an  early  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  whitish  yellow,  with  a  blush  in  the 
sun,  and  a  few  brown   and  indistinct  green  or  gray  dots.      Stalk  rather 
short  and  slender.     Cavity  broad,  uneven.     Calyx  closed.     Flesh  white, 
juicy,  tender,  mild,  sweet.     Very  good.     Core   rather  large.     Sep  tern 
ber,  October. 

Trumpeter. 
Treadle-Hole. 

An  Apple  esteemed  in  the  orchards  of  Lancaster,  England. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  ribbed,  pale  green,  with  a  tinge  of  yellow  in  the 
■sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  sweet  subacid.  October,  De- 
cember. 

Tucker. 

A  cooking  Apple,  described  by  Cole  as  medium,  flattish  round,  green- 
ish yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  acid.     July,  August. 

Tuebner's  Cider. 

Origin,  Missouri.     Valued  only  for  cider. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  truncated,  dull  yellowish  red.  Flesh 
vellow,  acid.     October. 

Tuebner's  Golden. 

Originated  in  Missouri. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow.  Flesh  acid.  Valued  only  for  ite 
productiveness.     Sejiteinber. 

Tuft's. 

tTift's  Baldwin. 

Originated  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  The  tree  is  vigorous,  forming  a 
handsome  head,  and  bearing  annually.     Young  wood  dark  brown. 


THE    ArPLE.  387 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  much  shaded  and  sometimes 
striped  with  red.  Stalk  in  a  large  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  plaited 
basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  crisp,  rather  juicy,  with  a  flavor  scarceh 
subacid,  and  slightly  aromatic.      Good.      September,  October. 

Tulip. 
Tulp.        Tulpen.        Dutch  Tulip.        Calville  Tulipee.         Tulipen  Carville. 

A  Dutch  Apple. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  yellow,  nearly  overspread  with 
deep,  almost  purplish  red.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellow 
ish  white,  juicy,  tender,  sweet  subacid.     Good.     November,  J«uiuary. 

Turkey  Greening. 

From  Connecticut.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  fair  and  very  productive,  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic.  Skir 
green,  with  a  dull  blush  and  many  light  dots.  Flesh  greenish,  tender, 
juicy,  subacid,  not  valuable.     January,  February. 

Turk's  Cap. 

A  cooking  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as : 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  ribbed,  golden  yellow,  some  russet  and 
a  brownish  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Calyx  large,  open.  Stalk  long. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  November,  Decem- 
ber. 

Turn  off  Lane. 

Winter  Strawberry. 

Origin,  Salem,  N.  J.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  a  regular 
and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  striped  and 
shaded  with  red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  brisk,  sprightly  subacid.  Good, 
Prized  in  the  neighborhood  of  its  origin  as  a  late  keeper. 

Tuscaloosa. 
Tuscaloosa  Seedling. 

A  variety  originated  by  Andrew  Clements,  of  Tuscaloosa  Co.,  Ala.  A 
new  seedling  of  good  promise  as  a  market  sort  for  the  South.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  shaded, 
striped,  and  marbled  with  red  russet  near  the  stalk,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk 
slender.  Cavity  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  corrugated. 
Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core 
small.     October  to  February 

Tuscaloosa  Sweet. 

Supposed  a  native  of  Kentucky.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright, 
spreading. 

Fruit  large  to  very  huge,  oblate,  Blightly  ribbed,  yellowish  green, 
becoming  deep  yellow  in  the  sun,  small  white  suffused  specks  surrounded 
with  crimson  red.     Stalk  medium.     Cavity  broad  and  russeted.     Calyx 


388  THE   APPLE. 

email,  closed.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  tender,  brisk,  sparkling, 
sweet.     Core  medium,  compact.     Very  good.     October,  December. 

Tuttle. 

Origin  unknown.     A  strong,  vigorous,  upright,  spreading  grower. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish;  slightly  conic,  yellow,  mostly  shaded 
and  splashed  with  dark  and  Light  red,  few  whitish  dots.  Stalk  very 
short  and  stout.  Cavity  small,  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish, 
rather  firm,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good. 
December,  February. 

Twenty  Ounce. 

Morgan's  Favorite.  Coleman. 

Twenty  Ounce  Apple.  Cayuga  Red  Streak. 

Eighteen  Ounce  Apple.  Lima. 

Aurora.  Wine  of  Connecticut. 

A  very  large  and  showy  Apple,  well  known  in  Cayuga  Co.,  N.  Y.,  but 
an  old  fruit  from  Connecticut.  It  is  a  good,  sprightly  fruit,  though  not 
eery  high  flavored,  but  its  remarkably  handsome  appearance  and  large 
size  render  it  one  of  the  most  popular  fruits  in  market.  The  tree  is 
thrifty,  and  makes  a  compact,  neat  head,  bears  regular  crops,  and  the 
fruit  is  always  fail'  and  handsome.     Young  wood  rich  brownish  red. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  slightly  uneven,  greenish  yellow,  boldly 
splashed  and  marbled  with  stripes  of  purplish  red.  Stalk  short,  set  in 
a  wide,  deep  cavity.  Calyx  small.  Basin  moderately  deep.  Flesh 
coarse-grained,  sprightly,  brisk  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  October 
to  January. 

Twin. 

A  variety  introduced  and  disseminated  in  Michigan  by  a  nursery- 
man, who,  having  lost  its  true  name,  applied  the  above,  because  of  its 
bearing  its  fruit  in  parrs.  It  has  not  yet  been  identified,  but  will  pro- 
bably prove  some  old  variety. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate,  yellowish  white,  nearly  covered  with 
bright  red,  shaded  and  striped  with  dark  red,  usually  a  patch  of  russet 
next  the  stalk.  Flesh  fine-grained,  crisp,  juicy,  with  occasional  pink 
Lines  or  threads  through  it,  aromatic.  October,  November.  Core  small, 
close.     (T.  T.  Lyon,  MS.) 

Twitchell's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Dublin,  N.  H. ;  a  vigorous  grower,  with  slender  branches, 
and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  red,  shaded  with  purple,  and  partially 
sprinkled  with  small  gray  dots.  Stalk  long  and  slender,  inserted  in  a 
deep  cavity.  Calyx  small  and  closed,  set  in  an  abrupt,  plaited  basin. 
Flesh  very  white,  veined  with  red  under  the  skin,  and  sometimes  at 
the  core,  tender,  very  sweet  and  pleasant.  Good.  November,  D«- 
ceniber. 

Tyre  Beauty. 
A  new  variety,  originated  on  the  farm  of  Jason  Smith,  Tyre,  Seneca 


THE   APPLE.  389 

Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  a  good  grower,  productive  of  fruit  uniformly  even  in 
size,  and  valuable  as  a  market  sort. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  broken  lines 
and  splashes  of  deep  crimson,  shaded  and  marbled  intermediate,  mouldy 
bloom,  light  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  with  almost 
erect  segments.  Basin  deep.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  breaking, 
slightly  acid,  pleasant.  Good.  Core  small.  Seeds  broad,  pointed. 
Season,  early  Sep+*unber.     (Rural  New  Yorker.) 

4 

Tyroler  Pippin. 
Reinette  der  TyroL 

A  Swiss  Apple. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  with  dull  red,  broken 
stripes  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  veined  with  green,  firm,  sugary.  Win- 
ter.    (Verg.) 

Uncle  John. 

Origin,  Eastern  Pennsylvania.  Tree  a  strong,  upright  grower,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  oblique,  whitish,  shaded  with  light,  and 
splashed  and  striped  with  dark  red  or  lake,  thickly  sprinkled  with  large 
light  dots.  Stalk  short  and  small.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  quite  white, 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  Novem- 
ber, December. 

Unique. 

A  French  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conic,  ribbed,  pale  yellow,  lightly  shaded  in 
the  sun  with  red,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  gray  and  light  dots. 
Stalk  short.  Cavity  medium.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Segments  short  to 
a  point.  Basin  small,  abrupt.  Flesh  white,  firm,  moderately  juicy, 
subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     November,  December. 

Union. 

Originated  in  the  County  of  Way,  la.     Tree  a  good  bearer. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  conical,  yellow,  with  pale  red  stripes. 
January.     (Lewis  Jones'  MS.) 

Updegraff. 

From  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  pale 
yellow,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red,  darkest  in 
Bun,  few  areole  dots.  Stalk  slender,  Calyx  large,  open,  or  partially 
closed.  Basin  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleassnt  sub- 
acid.    Core  small.     Good.     November. 

Utter. 

A  popxilar  Apple  in  Wisconsin  and  some  other  Western  section* 
Tree  a  regular  bearer,  and  l*rdv 


390  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  lemon  yellow  ground,  mottled,  shaded, 
and  striped  with  light  red,  small  russet  dots.     Stalk  short  and  slender. 
Calyx  small,  closed.     Basin  open,  furrowed.     Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy 
mild,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     November,  December. 


Vale  Mascal  Pearmain. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  bright  red  in 
the  sun,  and  many  spots  of  russet.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  sugary. 
(Hogg.) 

Van  Buren. 

A  Southern  variety. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  globular,  a  little  conical,  yellow,  shaded  with 
dark  red,  specks  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  short,  fleshy.  Cavity 
narrow.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy, 
tender.     Good  keeper.     October  to  April.     (White.) 

Vance's  Harvest. 
Vance's  Early. 

Origin,  Edgar  Co.,  111.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  inclining  to  oonic,  yellow,  shaded  with  orange  red 
in  the  sun,  few  gray  and  light  dots.  Cavity  russeted.  Calyx  closed. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  August,  Core 
small. 

Vandenabeele. 

Originated  in  Flanders.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conical  truncated,  ribbed  at  apex,  golden  yellow, 
splashed  and  marbled  with  red  in  the  sun,  many  gray  dots  and  shades. 
Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
half  tender,  agreeable  subacid.     December  to  February.     (An.  Pom.) 

Vandernoot. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings. 

Fruit  lai-ge,  roundish  conical,  clear  yellow,  splashed  and  clouded  with 
deep  rich  red  in  the  sun,  greenish  moidd  toward  the  apex.  Stalk  long. 
Cavity  deep.  Calyx  open.  Basin  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  tonderj 
juicy,  subacid.     November,  December.     (Alb.  Poai.) 

Vanderspiegel. 
Seek -no-Further  of  some. 

Origin,  Bennington,  Vt.     Tree  a  good  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conic  truncated,  yellowish,  shaded 
and  splashed  with  red,  few  light  dots.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Flesh 
yellowish,  crisp,  j  uicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December,  February. 


the  apple.  391 

Vandevere. 

White  Vandevere.  Vandevere  of  Pa.  Green  Vandevere. 

Little  Vandevere  of  Indiana.   Stalclubs.  Vandiver. 

Vanderveer.  Yellow  Vandervere.      Striped  Vandervere. 

Pennsylvania  Vandevere.  Lasting  Vandervere  ?    Fall  Vandevere  ? 

Red  Vandevere. 

The  Vandevere  is  an  old  fruit,  a  native  of  Wilmington,  Del.,  and 
took  its  name  from  a  family  there  by  name  of  Vandiver,  which  should 
be  by  right  the  name  of  the  Apple  ;  but  it  has  so  long  been  known  and 
grown  under  the  spelling  Vandevere,  that  we  deem  it  best  not  to 
change  it.  There  is  much  confusion  existing  respecting  this  Apple  and 
its  sub-varieties,  which  possibly  some  of  those  may  be,  grown  under 
what  we  give  as  synonyms.  Tree  of  moderate  horizontal  growth,  not 
very  productive.  Young  shoots  smooth,  dark  grayish  reddish  brown, 
with  bold,  full,  projecting,  rounded  conical  buds. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblate.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  inserted  in 
a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  round,  moderate  basin. 
Color  waxen  yellow,  striped  with  red,  and  covered  with  numerous  green 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  compact,  but  tender,  with  a  fine,  rich,  subacid 
flavor.     Good.     October  to  January.     Valuable  for  culinary  purposes. 

There  is  a  Vandevere  which  Ave  have  received  from  Virginia,  the  young 
wood  of  which  is  slender,  with  very  small  inconspicuous  buds. 

Vandervere  Pippin. 

Indiana  Vandevere.  Watson's  Vandevere.  Big  Vandevere. 

Mountain  Vandevere.  Imperial  Vandevere  ? 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  a  strong,  rapid  grower,  spreading,  a  mode- 
late  bearer.  Young  wood  smooth,  light  reddish  brown,  medium  sized, 
buds  reddish. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  approaching  conic,  yellow,  flaked  all  over  with  red, 
striped  on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered  with  rough  brown  dots.  Stalk 
short,  inserted  in  a  broad,  deep  cavity,  often  russeted.  Calyx  partially 
closed,  set  in  a  moderate  basin.  Flesh  crisp,  with  a  brisk  subacid 
flavor.  Good.  September  to  February.  Valuable  for  cooking  and 
drying. 

Vandyne. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  upright,  vigorous  grower,  productive. 
Young  wood  smooth,  brownish. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  yellowish,  with  a  tinge  of  red, 
and  slightly  sprinkled  with  brown  and  reddish  dots.  Stalk  rather  slen- 
der, in  a  huge  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  deep,  uneven  basin.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  agreeable.     Good      September,  October. 

Van  Mons  Reinette. 
Reinette  Van  Mons. 

( h*igin  unknown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  rich  yellow,  with  a  rich 
red  cheek  in  sun,  considerable  russet.  Stalk  rather  short.  ('alv.x 
closed.  Flesh  yellow,  rich  subacid.  Very  good.  December,  March 
Not  pro  Citable. 


392  the  apple. 

Vaughn's  "Winter. 

Origin,  Christian  Co.,  Ky.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive, 
Introduced  by  J.  S.  Downer,  of  Elkton,  Ky. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate.  Sides  unequal,  whitish,  waxen  yellow,  shad« 
ed  with  crimson  and  lilac,  and  sometimes  obscurely  striped,  and  thickly 
covered  with  conspicuous  light  dots.  Stalk  small  and  short.  Deep, 
uneven  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  deep,  abrupt,  open,  slightly  cor- 
rugated. Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Janu- 
ary to  March. 

Vaughn's  Pippin. 
Colonel  Vaughn's. 

Fruit  small,  conical,  waxen  yellow,  with  bright  crimson  in  the  sun. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  white,  tinged  with  red  under 
the  skin  on  the  side,  crisp,  juicy,  sweet.     September,  October.     (Hogg.) 

Vaugoyeau. 
Cadeau  du  General. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  flattened  at  base,  dull  yellow,  shaded 
and  splashed  with  red,  spotted  with  gray.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep 
Calyx  half  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  December  to 
March.     (An.  Pom.) 

Vermillon  Royee. 

A  French  Apple. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  mostly 
covered,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  red,  few  gray  dots.  Stalk 
short.  Cavity  russeted.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  juicy, 
brisk  subacid.     Very  good.     Core  small.     December,  March. 

Vebsaillaise  Reinette. 
Reinette  Versaillaise. 

Of  French  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with 
dull  russet,  a  slight  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  tine,  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
brisk  subacid.    Good  to  very  good.     Core  small.     December,  February. 

Victuals  and  Drink. 
Big  Sweet.  Pompey. 

An  old  Apple,  which  originated  in  the  neighborhood  of  .Newark, 
N.  J.,  about  1750.  Tree  of  vigorous,  upright  spreading  habit,  and  a 
moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  rather  irregular,  and  varies  a  good  deal  in  size. 
Skin   thin,  but  rough,  dull  yellow,  marbled  with  russet,  with    a  faint 


THE   APPLE.  393 

russet  blush  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  moderately  long  and  slender, 
deeply  inserted  in  an  irregular  cavity.  Calyx  small,  set  in  a  rather 
shallow  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  breaking,  rich,  sprightly,  sweet. 
Very  good.  In  perfection  from  October  to  January,  but  will  keep  till 
April. 

VlOLETTE. 

A  sauce  or  cooking  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as  of  medium  size, 
oblong  conical,  dark  copper  or  purple  color,  covered  with  a  fine  bluish 
bloom.  Flesh  white,  tinged  with  red  under  the  skin,  juicy,  brisk  acid* 
December  to  March. 

Virginia  Greening. 
Boss  Greening.  Green  Mountain  Pippin.        Virginia  Pippin  ? 

Origin  unknown,  supposed  Southern.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower  and 
very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  greenish  yellowish,  thinly  covered  with  large 
brown  dots,  and  a  slight  blush.  Stalk  rather  long,  in  a  large  cavity. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  broad,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellow,  compact,  a  rather 
pleasant  subacid.  Esteemed  at  the  South  as  a  late  keeper  and  a  good 
market  apple. 

Virginia  Quaker. 

Origin  not  known.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit   quite  small,   globular,  slightly  conic,  greenish  yellow.     Dots 

scattered,  minute,  black.     Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 

firm,  breaking,  subacid.     Good.     Midsummer.  (Warder.) 

Virginia  Spice. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  an  erect,  slender,  moderate  grower. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  whitish,  thinly  sprinkled  with  brown 
dots.  Stalk  very  short.  Cavity  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin 
small.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  crisp,  sprightly  subacid.  Good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 

Voss'  Winter. 

Southern. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  globular,  unequal,  smooth  white,  with  leather 
cracking,  and  a  heavy  bloom.  Dots  minute,  brown.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Basin  abrupt,  deep,  wavy.  Stalk  long.  Cavity  deep.  Flesh 
whitish  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     December.     (Warder.) 

Wabash. 
Wabash  Bellflower. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  or  somewhat  conical,  deep  yellow,  co? 
ered  with  clear  orange  red,  brightest  on  the  sunny  side,  and  streaked 
with  russet  in  the  cavity  around  the  stalk.     Stalk  short,  slender      Calyx 


394 


THE    APPLE. 


rather  large,  open.     Flesh  white,  firm,  crisp,  tender,  subacid.     Core 
large.     November,  December.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Waddell  Hall. 

A  Southern  Apple  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  moderately  vigorous. 
Young  wood  brownish. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  pale  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  and 
splashed  with  light  red.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh 
wlritish,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Wadhurst  Pippin. 

Origin,  Wadhurst,  Sussex,  England.     A  valuable  cooking  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  ribbed  at  apex,  yellow,  splashed  and 
marbled  with  red  in  sun,  small  gray  dots.  Stalk  very  short.  Calyx 
closed,  with  long  segments.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk  acid. 
November,  February. 

Wagener. 

Origin,  Penn  Yan,  Yates  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  thrifty,  upright,  hardy, 
and  early  bearer ;  requires  thinning  to  produce  good-flavored  fruit ; 
when  grown  in  the  shade  is  wanting  in  flavor.  Young  wood  light 
reddish  brown,  slightly  downy.     Buds  prominent. 


Wagener. 


Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  mostly  shaded  with 
crimson,  obscurely  striped,  and  sprinkled  with  light  dots.  Stalk  nearly 
an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  large,  broad,  irregular  cavity, 
Calyx  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  rather  abrupt  somewhat  corrugated  basin, 
Flesh  yellowish,  very  tender,  juicy,  excellent,  brisk,  somewhat  vinous 
Very  good  to  best.    A  very  delicate  apple.   Ripe,  November  to  February 


the  apple.  396 

Walker's  Yellow. 
Walker's  Winter. 

This  Apple  is  a  native  of  Pulaski  Co.,  Georgia,  and  introduced 
by  George  Walker.     Tree  upright,  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  tine  golden  yellow,  with  a  faint  blush  on  the 
Bunny  side..  Stalk  of  moderate  length,  in  a  deep,  acute  cavity.  Basin 
small.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  hard,  rather  too  acid  for  a  dessert 
fruit.     Good.     November  to  April. 

Walpole. 

Origin,  Walpole,  Mass.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  wood 
grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  shaded  and  striped  with  bright 
red.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  large.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh 
vellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Very  good.  Last  of  August 
and  first  of  September. 

Waltham  Abbey. 
Waltham  Abbey  Seedling 

Origin,  Essex,  England. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic ,  yellow,  with  dull  red  in  the 
sun,  many  minute  russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  russeted.  Calyx 
large,  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  October,  January. 
(Lindley.) 

Wanstall. 

Green  Street  Apple. 

Originated  in  Kent,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  ribbed  at  apex,  golden 
yellow,  striped  and  mottled  with  dark  red  in  the  sun,  patches  and 
veins  of  russet,  and  russet  dots.  Calyx  half  open.  Basin  furrowed. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  sugary,  rich.  December  to  May, 
(Hogg.) 

Ward. 

Origin,  Westville,  Champagne  Co.,  Ohio.  Tree  healthy  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  flattened  at  ends,  yellow,  streaked  and  spotted 
with  mottled  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  subacid.  (O.  P.  S.)  For- 
syth describes  an  apple  under  this  name  as  of  medium  size,  flat,  green, 
with  some  red  in  sun,  sharp  acid,  and  keeps  till  June. 

Wabfield. 

Originated  in  Muscatine,  la.  Tree  hardy,  thrifty,  vigorous  grower, 
an  early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  light  waxen  yellow,  with  a  blush  iD 
tiie  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity 
slightly  russeted.  Calyx  large,  open.  Segments  short.  Flesh  whitish, 
nuxlerately  juicy,  mild  suba  .-id.  Good.  Core  small.  Valuable  foi 
cooking.     September,  October. 


396  the  apple. 

"Warner's  King. 

Tree  a  free  and  vigorous  grower,  and  a  good  bearer ;  hardy,  valua- 
ble for  culinary  use. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  ovate,  deep  yellow,  with  russet  dots  and 
patches.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  crisp, 
brisk  subacid.     November  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Warraschke  de  Guben. 

A  Russian  variety,  new. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  greenish 
yellow,  with  considerable  brownish  red  at  apex  end.  Flesh  white,  fine, 
tender,  mild,  sweet,  agreeable.     Early  Winter.     (Ver.) 

Washington  Royal. 
Palmer  Greening. 

Originated  in  Leominster,  Mass.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  with 
numerous  small  gray  dots,  and  a  clear  red  in  the  skin.  Calyx  closed,  in 
a  broad  basin.  Stalk  short.  Flesh  whitish,  crisp,  juicy,  subacid,  slight- 
ly aromatic.     Core  small.     Good  to  very  good.    Keeping  till  July. 


Washington  Strawberry. 

Washington  Strawberry. 
Originated  on  the  farm  of  Job  Whipple,  "Union  Springs,  Washing- 


THE   APPLE.  397 

ton  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  an  early  and 
abundant  bearer.     Young  wood  reddish.     Buds  prominent,  rounded. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  flattened  at  base,  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  mottled  with  rich  red,  or  crimson.  Stalk  short.  Cavitj 
thinly  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  rather  long,  reflexed.  Basin 
abrupt,  deep,  furrowed.  Flesh  yellow,  a  Little  coarse,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Very  good.     September,  October. 

Washington  Sweet. 

Origin,  Berlin,  Mass.  Tree  a  thrifty  grower  and  annual  bearer. 
Young  wood  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblong  conic,  flattened  at 
ends,  yellow  occasionally  with  crimson  cheek  in  the  sun,  few  green  dots. 
Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant 
sweet.     Good.     October,  November. 

Water. 

Originated  in  Durham  Township,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous, 
erect,  forming  a  round  somewhat  close  head,  blooms  nearly  two  weeks 
later  than  other  varieties,  and  produces  abundantly  every  other  year. 
Young  wood  very  dark,  blackish  brown. 


Water. 


Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  sometimes  oblong  conic  truncated, 
whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  rich  purplish  crimson  in  the  sun,  few 
brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  small,  abrupt, 
slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid 
Very  good.     October,  November. 


398  the  apple. 

Waterman's  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  shaded,  splashed; 
and  mottled  with  crimson,  few  light  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx 
small,  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  tender,  juiw,  moderately  sweet. 
Good.     December  to  March. 

Watson's  Dumpling. 

A  large  English  kitchen  Apple,  nearly  round,  yellowish  green,  faintly 
striped  with  dull  red.  Flesh  juicy,  pleasant,  subacid.  Good.  Octo- 
ber to  January. 

Watson's  Favorite. 

From  Maine. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  reddish  blush  on  yellow.  Flesh 
yellowish,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Very  good.      (Cont.  Gent.) 

Waugh's  Crab. 

Claimed  to  have  originated  in  Culpepper  Co.,  Va.  Tree  thrifty, 
very  productive,  valued  mainly  for  cider  and  long  keeping. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conic  truncated,  shaded  with  light  red,  splash- 
ed and  striped  with  deep  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx 
in  an  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  very  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet 
subacid.     Good.     February  to  April. 

Wax. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  slightly  shaded  with 
red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  sweet. 
Good.     December,  February. 

Waxen. 

Origin,  supposed  to  be  Virginia.     Tree  thrifty.     Young  wood  dark. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblate,  pale  yellow,  oily,  sprinkled 
with  a  few  dots.     Stalk  slender,  in  a  deep  cavity.     Calyx  closed.    Basin 
shallow.     Flesh  whitish  yellow,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  mild  sub- 
acid.    Good.     November,  December. 

Wealthy. 

A  new  variety  originated  by  Peter  M.  Gideon,  near  St.  Paul,  Minn., 
from  seed  gathered  in  Maine  about  18G0.  So  far  the  tree  has  proved 
hardy,  vigorous,  and  healthy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  whitish  yellow  ground, 
Bhaded  with  deep  rich  crimson  in  the  sun,  obscure  broken  stripes  and 
mottlings  in  the  shade,  sometimes  entirely  covered  with  crimson,  many 
light  dots.  Stalk  short  to  medium,  slender.  Cavity  green,  russet. 
Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  deep,  abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  fine- 
grained, stained  with  red,  tender,  juicy,  lively,  vinous,  subacid.  Verj 
good.     Core  small.     Season,  December,  February. 


i-HE   APPLE.  «*99 


Wealthy's  Favorite. 
Winter  Seedling.  Bradley's  Winter. 

Oricrin   Town  of  Plymouth,  Mich.  . 

F  [ft medium,  mumSsh  oblate,  pale  waxen  ye  low  shaded  m  sun 
with  crimson,  and  thinly  sprinkled  with  brown  and  white  dots.  Stalk 
Sort  Sy  deep,  acute.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  abrupt^  uneven. 
Flesh  whitish  yellow/tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  pleasant.  Very  good. 
December  to  February.     An  amateur's  fruit. 

Webb's  Winter. 
A  Southern,  probably  Mississippi,  variety.    Tree  slender,  with  droop- 

ingFrShmedium,  roundish,  yellow,  shaded  and  rather  faintly  splashed 
and  siped  with  red.  Stalk  long,  slender  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  wtutxsh, 
unVgrained,  moderately  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good. 
Core°  small.     December,  February. 

Wellford's  Yellow. 

Origin,  Essex  Co.,  Virginia.     A  rapid  grower  and  a  great  bearer. 
Fruit  rather  small,  roundish  flattened,  pale  yellow,  with  faint  red 
streaks  on  one  side.     Flesh  yellow,  fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid,  aroma- 
tic.     Keeps  well  until  June. 

Well's  Sweet. 
Sweeting,  Well's. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  upright  spreading  productive. 

FruTof  medium  ske,  roundish,  broadest  m  the  middle,  and  lessen- 
bg  each  way,  pale  dull  green,  with  a  dull  red  or  brownish  cheek 
Stalk Trather  'slender  and  short.  Calyx  short,  set  in  quite  a  shal  ow 
basin  Flesh  very  white,  and  very  tender,  abounding  with  a  rich, 
arable,  sprightly  juice.     Good  to  very  good.    November  to  January. 

Western  Spy. 

Origin,  farm  of  John  Mansfield,  Jefferson  Co.,  O.  Tree  a  slende. 
spreading  moderate  grower,  but  very  productive. 

^  Fruit  rather  large*,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  often  much  shaded  with 
crimson.  Stalk  short  and  stout,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity  Calyx  open, 
sTt  in  an  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid. 
Excellent  for  cooking.     Good.     October  to  June. 

Westfield  Seek-no-Further. 
Connecticut  Seek-no-Further.  Seek-no-Further. 

The  Westfield  Seek-no-Further  is  the  Seek-no-Further  of  Connecti- 
cut,  and  is  an  old  and  highly  esteemed  variety  of  that  district.     It  nas 

"  ^dUar^Ipretty  regularly  round  conical,  pale  or  dull  red  over  a  pale 
clouded   green  ground-the  red  sprinkled  with   obscure    russeted    yel 


£00  THE   APPLE. 

low  dots.     Stalk  very  slender,  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in 
an  even  cavity.     Calyx,  closed,  or  with  a  few  reflexed  segments,  and  set 


Westfield  Seek-no-Further. 

in  an  even  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender, 
with  a  rich  pearmain  flavor.  Very  good  or  best.  A  first-rate  fruit* 
October  to  February. 

West  Grinstead  Pippin. 

East  Grinstead. 

A  Sussex,  England,  Apple,  described  by  Ronalds  as  of  great  excel* 
lence. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  greeniph,  with  broken  stripes  and 
splashes  of  red  brown  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  green- 
ish  white,  soft,  tender,  brisk  subacid.     November,  February. 

Weston. 

Origin,  farm  of  Major  Weston,  Lincoln,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous, 
spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  light  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  and 
splashed  with  red.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  mild  pleasant  flavor. 
Good.     Cors  large.     October. 

Wheeler's  Extreme. 

Origin,  Gloucester,  England. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  red, 
and  traced  with  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  eweet.  No- 
vember, February.     (Hogg.) 


the  apple.  401 

Wheeler's  Russet. 

An  Apple  originated  in  Gloucester,  England,  and  described  by 
Lindley,  as: 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  gray  russet  brown  in  the 
sun,  and  darker  russety  specks.  Flesh  firm,  greenish  white,  brisk,  sac- 
charine.    November  to  March. 

Wheeler's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Harding  Co.,  O. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek  in  the  sun,- 
minute  brown  and  light  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep,  furrowed. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  deep.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  mode- 
rately juicy,  pleasant,  sweet.  Good.  Core  rather  small.  October,  No- 
vember. 

Whig. 

From  Pennsylvania.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  often  oblique,  yellow, 
shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red,  sometimes  very 
dark,  large  light  dots,  often  with  a  brown  centre.  Stalk  short,  smalL 
Cavity  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid, almost  sweet.     Good.     Core  small.     December. 

White  Astrachan. 

Pyrus  Astracanica.  Transparent  de  Moscovie. 

Glace  de  Zelande.  Weisser  Astrakan. 

Astracanischer  Sommerapfel. 

A  nearly  white,  semi-transparent  Russian  Apple. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish.  Skin  very  smooth,  nearly  white, 
with  a  few  faint  streaks  of  red  on  one  side,  and  covered  with  a  white 
bloom.  Flesh  quite  white,  partially  transparent,  tender,  and  of  delicate 
flavor,  but  rather  dry.     Poor.     First  of  August. 

White  Beauty. 

Origin,  Ashtabula  Co.,  O.  Tree  a  good  grower,  young  shoots,  red- 
dish, with  gray  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  smooth,  dull  greenish,  with  grayish  specks. 
Flesh  very  white,  tender,  sprightly  subacid.  Good.  September,  De- 
cember.    (Elliott.) 

White  Calville. 

White  Winter  Calville.  Calville  Blanche  d'Hiver. 

Weisser  Winter  Calville. 

The  White  Calville  is  a  celebrated  old  French  sauce  and  cooking 
Apple  ;  but,  like  most  others  of  its  class,  is  not  worthy  of  cultivation. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  ribbed,  yellow,  faint  blush.  Flesh 
coarse,  tender,  pleasant.     Hardly  good.     November,  February. 

26 


402  the  apple. 

White  Doctor. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania.  A  profitable  market  sort,  and  valuable  foi 
culinary  uses.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow.  Stalk  short,  set  in 
an  acute  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow  and  furrowed.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     September,  October. 

White  Incomparable. 
Large  White  Incomparable  Crab. 

An  Apple  described  by  Ronalds  as  above  medium  size,  clear  creamj 
yellow.  Stalk  slender.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy,  acid.  October,  December. 
Valuable  for  culinary  uses. 

White  Juneating. 

Joanneting.  Owen's  Golden  Beauty.  Juneating. 

Juniting.  Jennetting.  Ginetting. 

Gennetting.  Juneting.  Early  Jennetting. 

Primiting.  May  Pippin.  Yellow  May. 

May  of  Virginia.  Caroline.  Carolina  of  some. 

Early  May. 

This  is  an  old  variety,  mentioned  by  Evelyn  in  16G0,  and  described 
by  Ray  in  1688,  and  is  a  very  tolerable  little  Apple,  ripening  among  the 
very  earliest,  during  the  last  of  June  and  the  first  of  July.  It  is  very 
distinct  from  the  Early  Harvest,  sometimes  called  by  this  name.  Tree 
a  moderate  grower,  and  forms  a  roundish  upright  spreading  bead.  Pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  small,  round,  a  little  flattened.  Calyx  closed.  Stalk  rather 
long  and  slender.  Pale  green  at  first,  light  yellow,  with  sometimes  a 
faint  blush  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  crisp  and  of  a  pleasant  flavor,  but 
soon  becomes  dry.     Good. 

White  Nonpareil. 

Tree  ATigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  depressed  at  the  ends.  Skin  gi-eenish  yel- 
low, almost  entirely  covered  with  reddish  gray.  Flesh  white,  half  firm, 
sugary,  acid.     May.      (Soc.  V.  Mon.) 

White  Paradise. 

Paradise  Pippin.  Lady's  Finger.  Long  May. 

May.  Egg.  Eve. 

A  Scotch  fruit  of  some  beauty,  but  of  little  value  except  for  culinary 
use.     Tree  a  free  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  roundish  conical,  broadest  at  base,  clear  yel 
low,  splashed  and  mottled  with  red,  brown  russety  dots.  Flesh  yellow 
iah,  tender,  crisp,  pleasant  acid.     October. 

White  Pippin. 
Canada  Pippin. 
Thin  Apple  is  much  cultivated  at  the  West,  but  of  unknown  origin. 


THE   APPLE.  403 

It  is  of  the  Newtown  Pippin  class,  distinct  from  Canada  Reinette.  Tree 
thrifty,  upright,  a  regular  and  good  bearer.  Young  shoots  dark  clear 
reddish  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  large,  form  variable,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  oblique,  greenish 
white,  waxen,  sprinkled  with  green  dots,  and  becoming  pale  yellow  at 
maturity,  sometimes  having  a  dull  blush  and  a  few  brown  dots.  Stalk 
short,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity,  surrounded  by  green  russet.      Calyx 


White   Pippin. 


small,  nearly  closed,  set  in  an  abrupt  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  crisp,  juicy,  fine,  rich  subacid.  Veiy  good  to  best.  Core  small. 
January  to  March. 

White  Rambo. 

Origin,  Huntington  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  of  medium  growth.  Branches 
remarkably  slender.     Very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  approaching  conic,  yellowish  white.  Stalk 
short,  in  a  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow,  surrounded  by 
prominences.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Core 
small.     November. 

White  Romarin. 
Romarin  Blanche. 

An  Italian  Apple. 

Fruit  me'lium,  oblong  conical,  clear  light  yellow,  faint  red  in  the 
sun,  large  gray  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  fine,  aromatic  subacid.  Core  large,  open.  December  to  March. 
(An.  Pom.) 


*04  the  apple. 

White  Russet. 

An  Irish  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  russety  green,  intermixed 
with  white,  and  having  a  little  light  red  on  the  sunny  side.  StaH 
short.     Flesh  firm,  good.     Apt  to  grow  mealy.     November.     (Lindley.) 

White   Spanish  Reinette. 

D'Espagne.  Reinette  Blanche  d'Espagne. 

Fall  Pippin,  erroneously.  Reinette  d'Espagne. 

Large  Fall  Pippin.  Camnesar. 

Cobbett's  Fall  Pippin.  Elgin  Pippin  ? 

A  very  celebrated  old  Spanish  variety. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  with  broad  ribs  on  its  sides,  ter- 
minating in  an  uneven  crown,  where  it  is  nearly  as  broad  as  at  the  base. 
Calyx  large,  open,  very  deeply  sunk  in  a  broad-angled,  oblique,  irregular 
basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  rather  small,  even  cavity.  Skin 
smooth,  yellowish  green  on  the  shaded  side,  orange,  tinged  with  brown- 
ish red  next  the  sun,  and  sprinkled  with  grayish  dots.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  crisp,  tender,  rich  subacid.  Very  good.  The  tree  has  the  same 
wood,  foliage,  and  vigorous  habit  as  our  Fall  Pippin,  and  the  fruit  keeps 
a  month  longer.     This  is  quite  distinct  from  Fall  Pippin. 

White  Spice. 

Origin,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Flesh  subacid,  good.  September. 
(A.  Pom.  S.  Rep.) 

White  Spitzenberg. 

Origin,  Northampton  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  an  annual  productive  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  yellow,  interspersed  with  large  gray 
dots,  with  a  blush  on  the  exposed  sides.  Stalk  short,  in  a  deep,  open 
cavity.  Calyx  small,  closed,  narrow  basin.  Flesh  breaking,  sufficiently 
juicy,  subacid,  agreeable  aroma.     Good.     December  to  March. 

White's  Red  Winter. 

Southern. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  shaded  and  striped  with  red.  Flesh  rich,  juicy. 
Good  keeper.     (Cont.  Gent.) 

White  Summer  Pippin. 

An  early  dessert  Apple,  described  in  Ronalds  as  of  medium  size, 
roundish,  straw  color,  mottled  and  variegated  with  some  russet  and  pur- 
ple spots.     Flesh  tender  and  delicious,  if  eaten  off  the  tree  in  August. 

White  Sweet. 

"WitheriU'a  White  Sweet.  Honey  Sweet  of  some. 

Origin,  supposed  New  Jersey.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roimdish  oblate  conic,  whitish  with  a  blush  of  crim 


THE   APPLE.  405 

boh  in  the  sun.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  white,  not  very 
tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  sweet.  Good.  September,  October. 
Valuable  for  stock,  cider,  and  cooking. 

White  Virgin. 
Scotch  Virgin. 

A  culinary  Apple,  described  by  Hogg  as  : 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  pale  yellow  to  rich  orange,  and  streaked  with 
red  in  the  sun,  a  few  dark  dots  and  veins  of  russet.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
large,  closed.  Flesh  white,  soft,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  acid.  October  to 
February. 

White's  Winter. 

Origin,  Guilford  Co.,  N.  C.     Tree  thrifty,  a  great  and  early  bearer. 
Fruit   medium,  roundish    oblate,  yellowish    white,   somewhat  rich, 
juicy,  and  very  good.     Keeps  well.     (Count.  Gent.) 

Whitewater  Sweet. 

From  Southern  Ohio.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  with  a  few  gray  and 
many  indistinct  light  dots.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  compact, 
juicy,  crisp,  mild  sweet.     Good.     December  to  March. 

White  Wine. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  yellowish,  with  rays,  patches,  and 
specks  of  russet.  Stalk  short  and  fleshy.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white, 
firm,  crisp,  pleasantly  acid.     October,  December. 

White  Winter. 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  Cocklin,  Cumberland  Co.,  Penn.  Tree  mode- 
rately vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular,  light  yellow,  with  a  dull  crimson  cheek. 
Stalk  medium,  in  an  acute  cavity.  Calyx  firmly  closed,  a  little  sunk,  in 
a  very  small  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  almost  buttery,  mild  subacid. 
Good.     January  to  May. 

White  Winter  Pearmain. 
Campbellite. 

Origin  unknown,  by  some  thought  to  be  an  old  Eastern  variety, 
nighly  esteemed  at  the  West.  Tree  spreading,  hardy,  and  thrifty,  a 
regular  and  good  bearer.  Young  shoota  very  short-jointed,  dull  reddish 
brown,  slightly  grayish  or  downy  at  end. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblong  conic,  somewhat  oblique. 
Stalk  shor+,  in  a  deep  cavi  nearly  closed.     Segments  long.    Basin 

uneven.      Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  slight  Mush  or  warm   cheek,  thickly 


4<)r>  THE   APPLE. 

sprinkled  with  minute  brown  dots.    Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  crisp,  juicy 
very  pleasant  subacid.     Very  good.     January  to  April. 


White  Winter  Pearmain. 


Whitman. 


From  South  Abington,  Mass. 

Fruit  a  little  above  medium,  oblong,  greenish  yellow,  with  russet 
blotches.     Stalk  slender.     Flesh  sweet.     December.     (N.  E.  Farm.) 

Whitmore's  Pippin. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  ribbed,  yellowish  green,  dark  green  specks, 
and  slight  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish  green,  breaking, 
brisk,  slight  aromatic.     November,  January.     (Lindley.) 

Whitniy  Russet. 

Origin  unknown.  Supposed  Canadian.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower, 
productive.     Young  shoots  reddish  brown,  grayish. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  slightly  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  thin  light  russet,  sometimes  a  shade  of  crimson  in  the 
Bun.  Stalk  long,  often  with  bracts.  Cavity  large,  deep.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  rich, 
mild  subacid.     Very  good.     Core  small.     December  to  April. 

Wickham's  Pearmain. 
Wick  Pearmain. 

This  variety,  says  Hogg,  was  grown  at  Wickham,  near  Winchester, 
Hampshire,  England.    It  is  an  excellent  dessert  Apple. 


THE   APPLE.  40? 

Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  flattened  at .  base,  yellow  tinged 
ana  shaded  with  red,  patches  and  specks  of  russet.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  high  flavored.     October  to  December. 

Wier  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  forming  a  round, 
regular  head,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  greenish  yellow  or  3'ellow,  often  with  a  shade 
of  bronze  in  the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk 
slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant, 
rather  rich  sweet.  Good.  Core  medium  or  rather  small.  December 
to  March. 

Wilfong. 

From  North  Carolina.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  depressed,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with 
dark  purplish  red,  indistinct  splashes  and  stripes,  light  dots.  Stalk 
short,  stout.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  firni,  moderately 
juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.  Core  small.  December  to 
March. 

"William  Penn. 

From  Columbia,  Pa.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  shaded, 
splashed,  striped,  and  mottled  with  bright  red,  many  Light  dots.  Stalk 
very  short.  Cavity  considerably  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  large, 
deep,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  sub- 
acid, slightly  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  December 
to  March. 

William's  Favorite. 
William's  Early.  William's  Red. 

A  large  and  handsome  dessert  Apple.  It  originated  at  Roxbury, 
near  Boston,  Mass.,  bears  abundantly,  and  ripens  from  the  last  of  July  to 
the  first  of  September.     An  excellent  market  variety. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblong  conic,  and  a  little  one-sided 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender,  slightly  sunk.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  furrowed 
basin.  Skin  very  smooth,  of  a  light  red  ground,  but  nearly  covered 
■svith  a  tine  dark  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  and  of  a  very  mild  and 
agreeable  flavor.     Good.     Requires  a  strong,  rich  soil. 

William's  Pippin. 

Fruit  below  medium,  somewhat  conical,  pale  yellow,  mottled  wdth 
pale  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  soft,  pleasant  subacid.  Good 
to  oat  from  the  tree,  and  for  baking  and  roasting.  October,  December, 
(Lindley.) 

William's  White. 

Origin,  supposed  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  whitish  yellow,  sprin- 


406 


THE  APPLE. 


kled  with  a  few  brown  dots.     Stalk  short.     Calyx  small,  closed.    Flesh 
light  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good.   August,  September 

Willis's  Russet. 

Origin,  farm  of  Mr.  Willis,  Sudbury,  Mass.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous, 
and  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  oblate  conic,  russet  on  a  yellow  ground,  and  occa- 
sionally a  sunny  cheek.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  set  in  a  large 
cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  rich 
pear-like  flavor.     Very  good.     December,  January. 

Willis  Sweet. 

Pear  Lot.  Pear-Tree  Lot 

Origin  on  the  farm  of  Edward  Willis,  Oyster  Bay,  Long  Island. 
Tree  a  vigorous,  spreading  grower,  productive.  Young  shoots  rich, 
warm  brown,  slightly  grayish. 


Willi*  Sweet. 


Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  whitish,  somewhat  shaded  with  a  thin 
light  red,  and  blotched  with  crimson,  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  short  and 
stout.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  furrowed.  Flesh  whitish, 
crisp,  juicy,  tender,  sweet,  and  rich.  Very  good.  Core  large.  August, 
September.     Valuable  for  table,  market,  and  culinary  purposes. 


the  apple.  409 

Willow  Twig. 
Willow.  James  River. 

Of  unknown  origin.  The  tree  is  a  poor  grower  in  the  nursery,  but 
makes  a  good  spreading,  somewhat  drooping,  orchard  tree,  quite  hardy, 
and  very  productive,  and  although  of  only  good  quality,  its  keeping 
qualities,  productiveness,  and  hardihood  make  it  a  profitable  market 
Apple  for  rich  prairie  and  bottom  lands  in  the  West.  Young  shoot* 
Blender,  reddish  brown,  downy.     Buds  inconspicuous. 


Willow  Twig. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  somewhat  oblate,  light 
yellow,  shaded  and  marbled  with  dull  red,  and  sprinkled  with  numerous 
russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  short  and  slender.  Cavity  narrow,  sometimes 
partially  closed,  with  a  lip.  Calyx  partially  closed,  in  a  somewhat  cor- 
rugated abrupt  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  green,  not  very  tender,  pleasant 
subacid.     Good.     Valuable  for  late  keeping. 

Willsboro. 

Supposed  origin,  Willsboro,  Essex,  Co.,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  yellow,  shaded,  mottled,  and  marbled 
mostly  with  dull  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  crisp,  tender, 
sprightly  subacid.     December,  February.     (J.  W.  Bailey.) 

Wilmot. 

Wilmot's  Seedling. 

A  sauce  or  cooking  Apple  described  by  Ronalds.  Tree  an  upright^ 
strong  grower,  productive. 


410  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  yellow,  with  marblings  of  graj  and  splashes 
of  red.     Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  fragrant  subacid.     Jtry,  August. 

Wilson. 

Of  Michigan. 

Fruit  large,  round,  slightly  conic,  regular.  Surface  smooth,  golden 
yellow.  Dots  scattered,  dark.  Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  fine-grained,  juicy, 
subacid,  rich.     January,  February.     (Warder.) 

The  same  author  describes  another  Apple  under  this  name  as  from 
Western  Virginia. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate  or  oblate,  smooth,  nearly  covered  with 
very  deep  red,  in  which  the  stripes  are  almost  obscured.  Dots  minute, 
white.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
January. 

Wilson's   Summer. 

Origin,  Forsyth  Co.,  N.  C.     Tree  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  greenish  yellow,  thickly 
striped  with  clear  red.  Flesh  rich,  juicy,  fine-flavored.  August,  Sep- 
tember.    (Count.  Gent.) 

Wilson's  Volunteer. 

Fruit  large,  globular  truncated  or  flattened,  regular,  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  mixed  red,  striped  darker.  Dots  large,  gray,  and  yellow. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  tender,  juicy  subacid.  December,  February. 
(Warder.) 

Winchell  Sweet. 

Origin,  Hartford  Co.,  Conn. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  brownish 
shade  in  the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  and 
rich.  Good.  Core  small.  February  to  May.  Valuable  for  cook- 
ing. 

Windham   Russet. 

An  Apple  from  Massachusetts.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic,  yellow,  mostly  covered 
with  dull  rough  russet,  often  mixed  with  red  in  the  sun,  gray  rough  or 
raised  dots.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  deep,  large.  Calyx  partially  open. 
Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.  Good. 
Core  small.     December  to  April. 

Wine. 

Hay's  Winter.  "Winter  Wine.  Pennsylvania  Red  Streak. 

English  Red  Streak,  incorrectly. 

The  Wine  Apple  is  a  very  handsome,  and  an  admirable  winter 
fruit,  a  most  abundant  bearer,  and  a  hardy  tree.  It  is  a  native  of  Del- 
aware. The  tree  has  small  leaves,  grows  thriftily,  and  makes  a  fine 
spreading  head.      Young  shoots  smooth  grayish  reddish  brown. 


THE    APPLE.  IH 

Fruit  rather  above  medium  size — in  rich  soils  !arge  ;  form  regular, 
nearly  round,  a  little  flattened  at  the  ends.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  lively 
deep  red  over  a  yellow  ground,  or  more  frequently  with  a  few  indis- 
tinct stripes  of  yellow.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  round,  smooth  cavity, 
with  a  little  russet  around  it.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  and  crisp, 
with  a  rather  vinous,  rich,  and  pleasant  flavor.  Good  to  very  good. 
Core  8inall.     October  to  March. 

WlNESAP. 

Wine  Sop  ?  Potpie  Apple. 

This  is  not  only  a  good  Apple  for  the  table,  but  it  is  also  one  of  the 
very  finest  cider  fruits,  and  its  fruitfulness  renders  it  a  great  favorite 
with  orchardists.  The  tree  grows  rather  irregularly,  and  does  not  form 
a  handsome  head,  but  it  bears  early,  and  the  apples  have  the  good 
quality  of  hanging  late  upon  the  trees  without  injury,  while  the  tree 
thrives  well  on  sandy,  light  soils.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  one  of 
the  most  profitable  orchard  varieties  wherever  grown.  Young  wooa 
reddish  brown,  with  smooth  red  buds. 


Wlnesap. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  rather  roundish  oblong.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  fine 
dark  red,  with  a  few  streaks,  and  a  little  yellow  ground,  appearing  on  the 
Bhady  side.  Stalk  nearly  an  inch  long,  slender,  set  in  an  irregular  cav- 
ity. Calyx  small,  placed  in  a  regular  basin,  with  fine  plaits.  Flesh 
yellow,  firm,  crisp,  with  a  rich,  high  flavor.  Very  good.  November  to 
May. 

Wing  Sweet. 

An  old  variety,  of  unknown  origin,  profitable  for  stock  feeding  and 
cooking.     Tree  a  moderate  grower,  spreading,  and  productive. 


412  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  oblate  conical,  yellow,  mostly 
shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  dark  red.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  sweet,  rich,  and  pleasant.  Good  to  very  good.  September  to 
December. 

Winn's  Russet. 

Origin,  Sweden,  Me.     Tree  of  slow  growth,  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  large.  Cavity  deep.  Basin  broad  and  shallow.  Color  dark 
russet,  with  obscure  stripes  of  red,  covered  with  whitish  spots.  Flesh 
fine-grained,  subacid.     Good.     Keeps  till  May. 

Winslow. 

From  Virginia. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  flattened  at  base,  dark  and  light  red  streaked, 
light  brown  specks  and  dark  flakes.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Calyx  open. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Fall  and  early  winter. 
(Elliott.) 

Winter  Codlin. 

An  English  culinary  Apple.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  whitish  yellow,  partially  splashed, 
striped,  and  marbled  with  light  red,  few  gray  dots.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  subacid. 
Good.     October  to  March. 

Winter  Colman. 

Norfolk  Colman,  Norfolk  Storing. 

A  culinary  Apple,  described  by  Lindley  as  : 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  deep  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  firm,  crisp,  sharp  subacid.     November  to  March. 

Winter  Gray  Reinette. 

Reinette  Grise  d'Hiver.  Reinette  Grise  Extra.         Belle  Fille. 

Prager.  Reinette  Grise.  Grauwe  Franse  Rennett. 

Reinette  Grise  Francaise. 

Among  the  Reinettes  there  is  a  world  of  confusion,  and  we  feel  no 
confidence  in  correctness  until  such  time  as  they  may  be  gathered  and 
grown  all  in  the  same  grounds.  The  present  description  of  this  variety 
is  taken  from  Hogg.     Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened  on  the  sides,  broadest  at  base, 
dull  yellowish  green  in  the  shade,  with  a  patch  of  thin  dull  brownish 
red  in  the  sun,  which  side  is  so  covered  with  brown  russet  that  little 
color  is  visible.  Stalk  very  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellow,  firm, 
crisp,  rich,  juicy,  sugary.     November  to  May. 

We  have  received  and  fruited  a  Winter  Gray  Reinette  from  Rivers, 
which  is  small,  oblate,  depressed,  dull  yellowish  gray  russet,  indistinct 
raised  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  firm, 
moderately  j  uicy,  rich,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     December  to  May. 


THE   AITLE.  *i* 

The  Album  of  Pomology  also  describes  a  Winter  Gray  Reinette  aa 
large,  roundish,  dull  pale  yellow,  overlaid  with  dull  greenish  russet. 

Winter  Harvey. 
Winter  Pippin.  Autumn  Pippin 

An  old  Eastern  variety.  Tree' vigorous,  upright,  spreading,  produc- 
tive.    Young  shoots  dark  grayish  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  slightly  ribbed  greenish  yellow, 
rarely  with  a  shade  of  dull  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx 
partially  closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid. 
Good.     Core  rather  small.     January  to  March. 

Winter  Hog  Island  Sweet. 

Origin,  Long  Island.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate  inclining  to  conic,  slightly  ribbed, 
pale  yellow,  striped,  splashed,  and  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red  few 
Ught  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx  closed  Flesh  yel- 
lowish,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  rather  rich  sweet.  Good.  Core  small, 
November  to  February. 

Winter  Lading. 

A  sauce  Apple,  from  Sussex,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  green,  with  patches  and  dots  of 
thin  russet.  Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy,  tender,  sweet  subacid.  Octo- 
ber, December.     (Hogg.) 

Winter  Maiden's  Blush. 

From  Bucks  Co.,  Pennsylvania.  MmtWu* 

Fruit  medium,   oblong  conic,   yellow,   covered  with   large,  distinct, 

carmine  dots.     Stalk  short.     Calyx  closed.     Flesh  white,  crisp,  tender, 

subacid.     Very  good.     Core  large.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Winter  Majettin. 
A  Norfolk,  England,  Apple,  described  by  Lindley  as  valuable  for 

culinary  uses.  „      .  .  „i.n. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate,  ribbed  at  apex,  yellowish  green,  with 
a  dull  brownish  red  in  sun  exposure.  Flesh  greenish  white,  firm,  brisk, 
sharp  subacid.     December,  February. 

Winter  Pearmain. 

Old  Pearmain.  E^T!?  d'Hiver- 

Ponrrmin  Great  Pearmain. 

P^pTSmain  d'Hiver.  Pepin  Parmain  d'Angleterre. 

Peremenes. 
This  is  one  of  the  oldest  Apples  on  record.     The  tree  a  free  and 
healthv  grower,  and  productive.  . 

Fruit  medium,  conical  greenish,  with  lively  deep  red  in  the  sun, 
russety  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic. 
November  to  March. 


414  THE   APPLE. 

There  is  grown  in  Illinois,  and  other  Western  Sta'es,  an  Apple  undti 
the  various  names  of  Winter  Pearmain  and  Red  Pearmain,  entirely 
distinct  from  above.  The  tree  is  vigorous,  spreading,  with  slender  bx-anches. 
Young  shoots  moderately  slender,  grayish  reddish  brown,  with  downj 
buds. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  a  little  inclining  to  conic,  yellowish,  shaded, 
splashed,  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  rich  subacid.  Good. 
Cure  small.     November,  February. 

There  is  another  Winter  Pearmain,  grown  in  Pennsylvania,  the 
fruit  of  which  is  below  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded 
and  obscurely  splashed  with  brownish  red,  few  light  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellow,  compact,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid. 
Good.     Core  small.     January  to  May. 

Winter  Pippin  of  "Vermont. 

Origin  unknown,  much  cultivated  in  Vermont ;  a  fair  grower  and 
productive. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  nearly  globular,  inclining  to  conic,  ob- 
scurely ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  with  star-like  crimson  dots, 
cheek  shaded  with  dull  crimson.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  com- 
pressed cavity.  Calyx  small,  nearly  closed.  Segments  long,  in  a  rather 
deep,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  and  agreeable.  Good.  No- 
vember to  March. 

We  have  received  a  Winter  Pippin  from  Michigan,  where  it  was 
introduced  from  Western  New  York,  but  have  not  sufficiently  tested 
it  to  decide  as  to  its  identity  with  the  above. 

Winter  Reinette. 
Weisse  Antillische.  Winter  Reinette. 

A  beautiful  and  excellent  German  dessert  Apple. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conical,  lemon  yellow,  with  blush  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  sugary,  vinous.  December  to  March. 
(Diel.) 

Winter  Strawberry. 

This  variety  is  described  by  Ronalds  as  above  medium  size,  roundish, 
yellow,  splashed,  shaded,  and  striped  partially  over  with  rich  red.  Flesh 
whitish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.     December,  January. 

Winter  Sweet  Paeadise. 
Paradise  Whiter  Sweet.  Grandmother. 

From  Pennsylvania.  The  Winter  Sweet  Paradise  is  a  productive  and 
excellent  orchard  fruit,  always  fair,  and  of  fine  appearance.  Tree 
hardy,  upright,  vigorous,  not  an  early  bearer.  Young  shoots  reddish 
gray. 

Fruit  rather  large,  regularly  formed,  roundish  oblate.  Color  dull 
green  when  picked,  with  a  brownish  blush,  becoming  a  little  paler  at 


THE  APPLE.  415 

maturity.     Stalk  short  ,  set  in  a  round  cavity,  often  russeted.     Calyx 
closed,  small.     Basin   rather   deep,  slightly  corrugated.     Flesh    white. 


Winter  Sweet  Paradise. 

fine-grained,  juicy,  sweet,  sprightly,  and  very  good.     Core  rather  small 
November  to  March. 

Winthrop  Greening. 
Lincoln  Pippin.  Howe  Apple. 

Origin,  Winthrop,  Me.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  ribbed,  greenish  yellow,  with  nettings 
and  patches  of  russet,  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk 
rather  short.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  rather 
rich  subacid.     Good.     Core  small.     September. 

Winthrop  Pearmain. 

Origin,  Winthrop,  Me.  Size  large,  roundish  ovate.  Skin  yellow, 
striped  with  red,  and  deep  red  in  the  sun.  Stem  in  a  lai-ge  cavity. 
Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white,  juicy.  Flavor  spicy  and  pleasant.  Septem- 
ber to  January.     (Me.  P.  S.  R.) 

Wisner. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of Wisner,  Middletown,  Orange  Co.,  N.  Y. 

•    Fruit   small,  conical,  greenish,  shaded  and   striped   with   dull  red. 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December,  March. 

Woodland. 

A  Southern  variety. 

Fruit  full  medium,  oblate,  yellowish  green,  sometimes  striped  red 


416  THE   APPLE. 

Dots  few,  minute.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Stalk  medium  to  long.  Flesh 
yellow,  rather  tough,  but  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Midwinter.  (Am. 
Hort.  An.) 

WOODRING. 

Originated  in  Fairfield  Co.,  O.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  slendei 
branches,  early  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  red, 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  subacid.     Good.     January  to  March. 

Wood's  Greening. 
Coate's  Greening.  Onstine.  Cooke's  Greening. 

A  native  of  New  Jersey.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  hardy,  somewhat 
spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish  green,  with  rough  spots  01 
patches.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large.  Flesh  greenish  white,  fine-grained, 
tender,  juicy,  slightly  subacid.  Very  good.  Core  small.  January, 
February. 

Wood's  Sweet. 
Hyde's  Sweet. 

Origin,  Sudbury,  Yt.,  and  there  considered  the  best  fall  sweet 
Apple  in  cultivation.  Growth  nearly  equal  to  Baldwin,  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  oblate.  Color  whitish  yellow,  waxen  or 
oily,  shaded  and  striped  with  fine  rich  red.  Stalk  rather  short,  inserted 
in  a  broad,  deep,  furrowed  cavity.  Calyx  small,  closed,  set  in  a  rather 
deep  open  basin.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  rich  saccharine.  Good  to 
very  good.     September,  November. 

Woolfolks. 

Supposed  Kentucky  origin. 

Fruit  full  medium,  truncated,  regular,  yellow  green,  scattered  gray 
dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  breaking,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Table, 
kitchen.     December  to  March.     (Warder.) 

Wormsley  Pippin. 

Knight's  Codling. 

An  English  fruit,  middle-sized,  roundish,  tapering  a  little  towards 
the  eye,  pale  green  or  straw  color,  darker  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white 
crisp,  firm,  with  a  sharp  subacid  juice.     Good.     September. 

Wright. 

Origin,  Hubbardton,  Yt.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young 
wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  lemon  yellow.  Stalk  short,  inserted 
in  a  deep   cavity.      Calyx   closed.     Basin   rather  large  and  corrugated. 


THE    APPLE.  41 1 

Flesh  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  vinous,  almost  sweet,  aromatic.     Good 
to  very  cood.     Middle  of  September  to  middle  of  October. 

Wright's  Janet. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  near  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  round,  sometimes  flat,  regular,  waxen  yel- 
low, mixed,  striped,  splashed  carmine.  Dots  minute,  prominent, 
scattering.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  breaking,  fine-grained,  juicy,  subacid. 
Good  to  very  good.     January  to  June.     (Warder.) 

Wykjen  Pippin. 
Warwickshire  Pippin.  Girkin  Pippin.  Arley. 

An  old  variety,  originated  near  Coventry,  England.  Tree  upright, 
hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate  conical,  greenish  yellow,  with  dull 
orange  blush  in  sun,  mottled  and  marbled  and  dotted  with  light  russety 
patches  and  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet  subacid.  De- 
cember, February.     (Ron.) 

Yacht. 

Origin,  Montgomery  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  a  regular 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with 
two  shades  of  red,  large  light  dots.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  partially 
closed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good.  Core 
small.     November,  January. 

Yadkin. 

Southern. 

Fruit  large,  round,  regular,  red  striped.  Flesh  white,  dry,  subacid. 
Only  good.     August.     (Warder.) 

Yahoola. 

Origin,  Lumpkin  Co.,  Ga.  Tree  with  slender,  wiry  limbs,  a  good 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  yellow  green,  specked  and  streaked  with  rus- 
set. Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  and  basin  medium.  Flesh  juicy. 
Good.     September  to  January.     (White.) 

Yankee  Spy. 
Seedsville  Sweet  ?  Dutchess  County  Sweet.  Ox  Sweet. 

Of  unknown  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sometimes  a  little  conic,  deep  yellow,  some- 
times a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  large  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  rich, 
Bweet.  Good.  Core  small.  October,  November.  A  valuable  cuhnary 
sort. 

27 


41£  the  apple. 

Yates. 

Originated  in  Fayette  Co.,  Ga.  Tree  very  upright  grower,  great 
bearer  and  good  keeper. 

Fruit  small,  oblate  or  oblate  conic,  whitish  yellow,  overspread, 
shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  shades  of  red,  many  light  dots.  Stalk 
slender.  Cavity  large,  slightly  russeted.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh 
white,  sometimes  stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid. 
Good.     March  to  May. 

Yellow  Bellflower. 

Bellefleur  Yellow.  Belle  Fleur. 

Bishop's  Pippin  of  Nova  Scotia.     Lady  Washington. 
Reinette  Musque.  Warren  Pippin. 

The  Yellow  Belle  Fleur  is  a  large,  handsome,  and  excellent  wintei 
Apple,  everywhere  highly  esteemed  in  the  United  States.  It  is  most 
abundantly  seen  in  the  markets  of  Philadelphia,  as  it  thrives  well  in  the 
sandy  soils  of  New  Jersey.  Coxe  first  described  this  fruit ;  the  original 
tree  of  which  grew  in  Burlington,  N.  J.  Tree  a  moderately  vigo- 
rous grower,  forming  a  spreading,  roundish,  rather  drooping  head. 
Young  wood  yellowish  brown.     A  regular  and  excellent  bearer. 


Yellow  Belhlower. 


Fruit  very  large,  oblong,  a  little  irregular,  tapering  to  tne  eye.    Skin 
smooth,  pale  lemon  yellow,  often  with  a  blush  next  the  sun.      Stalk  lon<> 


THE    APPLE.  419 

and  slender  in  a  deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed  and  set  in  a  rather  narrow 
plaited  basin.  Seeds  in  a  large  hollow  capsule  or  core.  Flesh  tender, 
juicy,  crisp,  with  a  sprightly  subacid  flavor  ;  before  fully  ripe  it  is  con- 
siderably acid.     Very  good.     December,  February. 

Yellow  Foster. 

Origin  unknown.  Received  from  Ohio.    Tree  very  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  yellow,  thinly  sprinkled  with  brown  and 
green  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse, 
moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Yellow  Ingestrie. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  clear  bright  gold  color,  without  red. 
Flesh  tender  and  delicate,  with  a  plentiful  juice  when  freshly  gathered 
from  the  tree.     Good.     October. 

Yellow  June. 
White  June. 

Of  unknown  Southern  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  grower,  and 
abundant  bearer.  Young  wood  light  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy, 
very  small  buds. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  slightly  rus- 
3eted.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  sprightly  subacid.  Good. 
Core  small.     June,  July,  South.     August  at  North. 

Yellow  Meadow. 

A  Southern  fruit. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  greenish  yellow.  Stalk  rather  slender,  in  a  deep, 
irregular  cavity.  Calyx  large  and  open,  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  yel- 
low, compact,  vinous.      Good.     November. 

Yellow  Newtown  Pippin. 

Albemarle  Pippin. 

The  Yellow  Newtown  Pippin  is  handsomer  in  appearance,  and  has  a 
higher  perfume  than  the  Green  or  Newtown  Pippin,  and  its  flesh  is 
rather  firmer,  and  equally  high  flavored  ;  while  the  Green  is  more  juicy, 
crisp,  and  tender.  The  Yellow  Newtown  Pippin  is  rather  flatter, 
measuring  only  about  two  inches  deep,  and  it  is  always  quite  oblique — 
projecting  more  on  one  side  of  the  stalk  than  the  other.  When  full, 
ripe  it  is  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  rather  lively  red  cheek,  and  a  smootn 
skin,  few  or  none  of  the  spots  on  the  Green  variety,  but  with  the  same 
russet  marks  at  the  stalk.  It  is  also  more  highly  fragrant  before  and 
after  it  is  cut  than  the  Green.  The  flesh  is  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  and  with 
a  very  rich  and  high  flavor.  Both  the  Newtown  Pippins  grow  alike, 
and  they  are  both  excellent  bearers.  This  variety  is  rather  hardier  and 
succeeds  best.     February  to  May. 

Yellow  Sweet. 
A  native  Apple  of  unknown  origin. 


420  THE   APPLE. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,   light  yellow,  with  a  few  gray  dots.     Fleet 
white,  rather  tender,  pleasant,  sweet.    Good.     October,  November 


Yellow  Newtown  Pippin. 


Yopp's  Favorite. 

From  Georgia.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  blush 
in  the  sun,  sprinkled  sparingly  with  russet  dots,  and  a  little  russet 
about  the  stem.  Calyx  open,  in  a  deep  basin.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep. 
Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  tender,  juicy,  subacid.  Good.  Core  small, 
November. 

York. 

From  Massachusetts.     Valuable  for  culinary  purposes. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conic,  pale  yellow,  with  a  slight  shade  of 
red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  small.  October, 
November. 

York  Imperial. 
Johnson's  Fine  Winter. 

Origin  thought  to  be  York  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
productive.     Young  wood  rich  brown,  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  oblique,  whitish,  shaded  with  crimson  in  the 
Bun,  thinly  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
closed  or  partially  open.  Basin  large,  deep.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm, 
crisp,  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid.  Good  to  very  good.  Core  com- 
pact, small.     November,  February. 


THE   APPLE. 


421 


Yorkshire  Greening. 
Coate's.  Yorkshire  Goose  Sauce. 

An  English  culinary  Apple.     Tree  very  vigorous  and  productive. 
Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  ribbed,  greenish,  with  shades  and  stripes 
of  dull  red,  specks  and  traces  of  russet.     Flesh  greenish  white,  firm, 
crisp,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     October,  November. 

Yost. 

A  native  of  Berks  Co.,  Pa.     Tree  large  and  spreading. 

Fruit  oblate,  very  much  flattened,  yellow,  striped  and  shaded  with 
crimson,  thinly  dotted  with  brown.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  slightly  rus- 
seted.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant  subacid.     Good.     December,  January. 

Zane. 

Zane  Greening. 

Origin,  Virginia. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  dull  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  greenish  white, 
tender,  soft.     Poor.     February  to  June.     (Elliott.) 

ZlEBER. 

Origin,  Reading,  Pa,  , 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  with  a  striped  red  cheek. 
Flesh  dry,  pleasant,  hardly  good. 

Zoar  Greening. 

Origin,  Ohio.  . 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conic,  greenish,  faintly  shaded  with  dull  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant  subacid.  Good. 
Core  small.     November,  December. 


SIBEEIAN  CKABS  AND  IMPKOVED  SIBEKIAN 

APPLES. 

The  varieties  of  Siberian  Crab  Apples  {Pyrus  baccata)  have,  here- 
tofore, been  mainly  valued  for  their  handsome  flowers  and  the  beautiful 
appearance  of  the  tree  when  loaded  with  fruit. 

Within  the  past  year  or  two,  however,  considerable  attention  has 
been  given  to  their  cultivation  by  fruit-growers  in  our  Western  and 
Northwestern  States,  because  of  the  superior  hardihood  of  the  trees. 
Largo  numbers  of  seedlings  have  been  grown,  some  bearing  full  evidence 
of  the  paternity  of  the  Pyrus  baccata,  others  possessing  more  or  less 
of  the  Pyrus  malus,  apparent  more  in  the  flesh  and  improved  quality 
of  the  fruit,  than  in  the  habit  of  the  trees.  They  are  all  valuable  for 
cider,  preserves,  and  cooking,  and  some  of  the  improved  varieties,  more 


422  THE    APPLE. 

truly,  perhaps,  Siberian  Apples  than  Crabs,  are  quite  pleasant  and  ricr 
for  the  dessert.  The  great  hardihood  of  the  trees,  and  their  produc- 
tiveness, make  them  highly  valuable  for  sections  where  the  better  vari- 
eties of  the  Pyrus  malus  do  not  succeed.  In  description  of  these  vari- 
eties the  terms  "  medium,  large,  or  small,"  must  be  considered  as 
applied  in  comparison  with  the  Siberian  Crab. 

The  common  Siberian  Crab  is  a  beautiful  little  fruit,  which  is  pro- 
duced in  rich  clusters  on  the  branches,  and,  at  a  distance,  resembles 
large  and  handsome  cherries.  It  is  highly  esteemed  for  preserving,  and 
almost  every  large  garden  contains  a  tree  of  this  variety.  It  forms  a 
vigorous,  neat  tree,  of  rather  small  size,  and  its  blossoms,  which  are 
white,  are  produced  in  beautiful  profusion  in  spring,  and  a  large  crop 
of  fruit  regularly  follows. 

Akin's  Winter. 

From  Minnesota. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  roundish  oblate,  light,  pale  yellow,  with  a 
rich  clear  carmine  red  cheek  in  sun.  Stalk  long  and  slender,  set  in  an 
open  acute  cavity,  often  russeted.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  deep,  broad, 
and  somewhat  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  crisp,  somewhat 
too  acid  for  a  pleasant  table  apple,  but  not  too  much  so  for  cooking. 
December. 

ASTRACAN. 

Evergreen  Apple  Crab. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  compressed,  green,  specked  with  white  dots. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy.     Inferior. 

ASTRACHAN. 

This  is  one  of  the  very  largest  sized  of  the  old  varieties. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  bright  rich  clear  red,  with 
a  fine  light  bloom.  Calyx  with  long  segments,  prominent.  Flesh 
whitish,  crisp,  juicy,  sharp,  brisk  acid,  tender.     September. 

Chase's  Winter  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  rich  'warm  yellow  ground, 
mostly  overspread  with  dark  rich  red,  minute  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender. 
Cavity  broad,  open,  deep.  Calyx  half  closed,  with  short,  almost  erect 
Begments.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish,  very  firm,  mod- 
erately juicy,  mild,  sweet.     December. 

Cherry. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  ovate,  pointed,  light  yellow,  spotted  and 
Bhnded  with  red.  Flesh  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant,  hangs  long,  almost  even 
to  drying  on  the  tree.     September,  October. 

Chicago. 

Origin  near  Marengo,  111. 

Fruit  similar  to  Coral  in  general  appearance — a  little  longer  or  more 


THE    APPLE.  423 

completely  oblong.  Flesh  not  as  deep  colorel  as  Coral,  but  quite  crisp, 
sprightly  subacid,  and  by  many  would  be  preferred  to  Coral,  although 
it  is  not  as  rich.     December  to  March. 

Coral. 

This  variety  has  the  same  origin  as  Chicago. 

Fruit  small,  conical  flattened  at  ends  ;  rich  warm  yellow  ground, 
with  a  vermilion  cheek.  Stalk  long,  slender,  set  in  a  narrow,  acute  cav- 
ity, slightly  russeted.  Calyx  closed,  surrounded  with  corrugated 
ridges,  but  with  little  or  no  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  sprightly, 
juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid,  almost  tender.  An  early  winter  sort,  keeping 
until  about  February. 

Currant  Crab. 

The  fruits  of  this  kind  are  of  the  size  of  currants,  and  are  borne  like 
them  in  clusters  ;  they  are  round,  a  little  compressed  towards  the  ends. 
Color  red,  slightly  striped  with  deep  red.  It  is  ornamental  in  its  flowers 
as  well  as  its  fruits. 

Double  Flowering  Chinese   Crab. 

Double  Flowering  Apple. 

This  very  beautiful  crab-tree  from  China,  which  produces  a  small 
green  fruit,  of  no  value,  is  highly  admired  for  its  showy  blossoms. 
These  are  large,  tipped  with  deep  red  in  the  bud,  but  when  open  are  of 
a  pale  rose  color,  semi-double,  large,  and  produced  in  fine  clusters.  It 
is  an  exceedingly  ornamental,  small  tree,  growing  from  ten  to  twenty 
feet  in  height. 

Double  White   Siberian  Crab. 

Fruit  roundish,  irregular,  swollen  on  one  side.  Color  red  carmine 
on  the  sunny  side,  green  on  the  shaded  side,  covered  with  a  white  bloom. 
Flowers  large  double  white,  very  ornamental. 

Foxley  Crab. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  England,  from  seed  of  the  Cherry 
Crab.     Tree  hardy.     Fruit  produced  in  clusters. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  golden  yellow.  Stalk  long.  Flesh 
yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  subacid. 

Fragrant. 

The  flowers  of  this  variety  are  very  fragrant. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  green,  with  whitish  dots.     Flesh  inferior. 

General  Grant.* 

Size  large  for  a  crab,  round,  oblate,  warm  yellow  ground,  with 
broken  stripes  of  dark,  becoming,  on  the  sun-exposed  side,  entirely  red, 
and  very  dark,  almost  black  red,  with  a  few  minute  light  dots.  Stalk 
■lender.     Cavity   open,  moderately  deep.     Calyx  closed.     Basin  broad, 


*24  THE   APPLE. 

not  deep,  but  conspicuously  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  moderately  fine- 
grained, not  juicy,  very  mild  subacid.  Core  large  for  size  of  fruit. 
Late  Autumn. 

Golden. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  golden  yellow.  Stalk  long,  slen- 
der. Cavity  medium.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  long,  slender,  recurv- 
ed. Basin  medium.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  brisk  acid.  Sep- 
tember. 

Hampton's  Siberian  Crab. 

A  beautiful  variety,  originated  with  Wm.  C.  Hampton,  Hardin  Co.,  O. 

Fruit  large  for  a  Siberian  Crab,  ovate  conical,  deep  rich  crimson, 
blotched  and  indistinctly  striped  with  clear  orange  and  yellowish  red. 
Blossoms  large.  This  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  all  the  crabs,  es- 
pecially when  in  bloom. 

Hutchison's  Winter  Sweet. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  light  yellow  ground,  with  a 
blush  red  cheek  in  the  sun,  and  many  minute  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender, 
in  a  deep  open  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  with  long  pointed  segments.  Ba- 
sin broad,  deep,  corrugated.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  dry,  sweet.  No- 
vember. 

Hyslop. 

This  variety  has  been  long  and  pretty  extensively  cultivated.  The 
trees  are  hardy,  the  growth  strong,  rather  spreading.  Wood  light  col- 
ored, a  little  downy. 

Fruit  large,  produced  in  clusters,  roundish  ovate,  dark  rich  red,  cov- 
ered with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  closed 
Flesh  yellowish,  subacid,  good  for  culinary  uses  and  for  cider. 

Lady  Crab. 

This  is  a  foreign  variety,  of  great  beauty,  and  the  tree  a  vigorous, 
upright  grower,  much  resembling  the  Lady  Apple.  Very  productive. 
Young  wood  grayish  reddish  dark  brown,  with  conspicuous  white  or 
gray  dots. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  oblique,  rich  dark  red,  with 
traces  of  russet,  and  many  apparently  rough  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium 
length  for  a  crab,  quite  slender.  Cavity  open,  broad,  deep  russeted. 
Calyx  almost  closed,  with  connected  half-recurved  segments.  Basin  bi-oad, 
shallow,  distinctly  corrugated  next  the  calyx.  Flesh  yellowish,  mode- 
rately juicy,  mild  subacid.     November,  December. 

Large  Red  Siberian  Crab. 

This  variety  is  about  twice  the  size  of  the  common  Siberian  Crab, 
roundish  ovate,  with  a  large  and  prominent  calyx,  and  a  pale  red  and 
yellow  skin.  It  forms  a  larger  tree,  with  rather  coarser  fobage  than  the 
common  variety,  and  is  esteemed  for  the  same  purposes.  September 
and  October. 


the  apple.  42c 

Large  Yellow  Siberian  Crab. 

Fruit  similar  in  size  to  the  foregoing,  roundish  oval,  flattened  at  base 
and  crown,  light  clear  yellow  often  inclining  to  amber,  with  a  warm 
cheek. 

Maiden's  Blush. 

Fruit  small,  flat,  somewhat  ribbed,  pale  clear  yellow,  with  clear 
bright  carmine  red  in  sun.  Calyx  large,  half  closed.  Basin  broad, 
slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  rather  dry,  almost  sweet. 
Late  Autumn. 

Marengo. 

The  discoverer  of  this  variety,  as  well  as  its  identity  with  the  Sibe- 
rian Crabs,  Pyrus  baccata,  as  a  tree,  is  attributed  to  James  F.  Lester, 
Marengo,  111.  It  is  said  to  be  a  seedling  found  in  the  rows  of  an  old 
seedling  nursery  of  apple-stocks.  The  original  tree  is  thought  to  be 
about  eighteen  years  old.  Young  shoots  vigorous,  reddish  brown,  with 
the  gray  specks,  bloom  and  scaly  cuticle  peculiar  to  the  Siberian. 

The  fruit  is  large  for  its  class  ;  in  form  roundish,  flattened  at  blossom 
end,  bright  warm  red  on  yellow  ground,  smooth,  with  a  few  scattered 
gray  or  light  russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  a  little 
harsh  until  fully  ripe,  when  it  is  a  mild  and  pleasant  subacid.  Stalk 
long,  slender,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  broad,  open, 
corrugated.     Early  Winter  to  late  in  Spring. 

Meader's  "Winter. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate ;  warm,  light  yellow  ground, 
shaded  with  clear  rich  red,  many  large  gray  dots.  Basin  deep,  broad, 
slightly  ribbed  or  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  crisp, 
tender,  rich,  sharp  subacid.  Season,  Winter.  A  valuable  cooking  sort, 
and  rich  for  cider. 

Montreal  Beauty. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  all  Crabs,  in  appearance. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  bright  yellow,  mostly  covered  and 
shaded  with  rich  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  rich,  firm,  acid.  September,  Oc- 
tober. 

Oblong-Fruited  Siberian  Crab. 

Fruit  elongated  conic,  Light  yellow,  almost  white,  washed,  marbled, 
and  striped  with  crimson  and  carmine,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom. 

Orange. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  slightly  flattened  at  ends ;  light,  warm  yellow, 
or  light  orange-colored.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  open,  deep.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  mild  subacid,  pleasant, 
a  Little  dry. 


426  the  apple. 

Powers'  Large. 

Originated  with  Hiram  Powers,  Catskill,  N.  Y.  Tree  "vigorous, 
hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  waxen  white,  shaded  and  striped  with 
carmine,  crimson,  and  yellow,  and  covered  with  a  lilac  bloom.  Flesh 
sharp,  yet  mild  acid.      Fine  for  cooking.      Early  October. 

Purple  Siberian  Crab. 

F:  uit  oblate.  Color  beautiful  reddish  purple  on  the  sunny  side, 
covert  i  with  a  bloom,  the  shaded  side  less  brilliant,  and  the  whole  sur 
face  speckled  with  some  gray  dots.  Flesh,  like  all  the  crabs,  coarse  and 
harsh. 

Red  Siberian  Crab. 

Fruit  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  very  regularly 
formed,  and  rather  flat.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  lively  scarlet  over  a  clear 
yellow  ground,  and,  when  the  bloom  is  rubbed  off,  is  highly  polished. 
Stalk  nearly  two  inches  long,  and  very  slender.  Calyx  small,  slighth 
sunk.     Fit  for  preserving  in  September  and  October. 

Pouen   Transparent  Crab. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  bright  carmine  red  on  light  yellow.  Stalk  slen 
der,  very  long,  set  in  a  deep  wide  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  acid. 
September. 

Showy  Crab. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oval,  yellow,  dotted  with  red  in  sun.  Stalk 
very  long.     Flesh  dry.     Not  valuable. 

Soulard. 

A  sort  of  little  value  except  in  appearance.  It  is  said  to  have 
originated  near  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  clear  smooth  greenish  yellow,  with  many 
minute,  suffused,  dark  green  dots.  Stalk  short  for  a  crab,  slender,  narrow 
cavity.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Pasin  medium,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh 
white,  bitter,  astringent,  unfit  for  anything  except  cider. 

Striped  Siberian  Crab. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish.  Color  rose  yellowish,  red  striped  all 
over,  carmine  on  the  sunny  side,  more  yellow  towards  the  stalk,  covered 
with  a  fine  white  bloom. 

Transcendent. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  of  early  autumn  varieties. 
Fruit  medium  to  large  for  its  class,  roundish  oblong,  flattened  at  ita 
ends,  slightly  but  regularly  ribbed,  golden  yellow,  with  a  rich  crimson, 


THE   APPLE.  1-7 

red  cheek  in  the  sun,  covered  with  a  delicate  white  bloom  ;  when  fully 
ripe  the  red  nearly  covers  the  whole  surface.  Stalk  long  and  slender, 
set  in  an  open,  deep  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  with  long  reflexed  segments, 
Flesh  creamy  yellow,  crisp,  subacid,  a  little  astringent  until  fully  mel 
low,  when  it  is  pleasant  and  agreeable.     Early  Autumn. 

Warfel  Crab. 

Originated  with  John  Warfel,  Lancaster,  Pa.     Tree  vigorous. 
Fruit  medium  size,  oblate,  yellow,  beautifully  striped  with  red  and 
crimson. 

White  Winter. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  light  pale  yellow,  with  a  faint 
blush  and  a  few  scattering,  irregular-sized,  dark  carmine  dots  in  sun. 
Stem  short.  Cavity  very  broad,  open,  yet  deep,  slightly  russeted. 
Calyx  closed,  with  short  segments.  Basin  shallow,  with  slight  broad 
furrows.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  moderately  juicy,  sharp  acid. 
December  and  January. 

Yellow  Sibebian  Crab. 

Amber  Crab. 

This  scarcely  differs  from  the  common  Siberian  Crab  except  in  its 
fruit,  which  is  rather  larger,  and  of  a  fine  amber  or  golden  yellow.  Both 
this  and  the  red  are  beautiful  ornaments  to  the  fruit  garden  in  summer 
and  autumn,  and  are  equally  esteemed  for  preserves  and  jellies.  Sep- 
tember. 


SELECT  LIST  OF  VARIETIES  FOR  TABLE  USE, 
MARKETING,  COOKING,  AND  KEEPING. 

In  this  list  it  is  not  assumed  that  all  against  which  the  word  market 
is  written  are  equally  profitable,  but  that  their  size  and  appearance  will 
generally  command  for  them  a  ready  sale.  Again,  some  varieties  are 
classed  as  market  sorts  mainly  because  of  their  long  keeping,  and  there- 
fore coming  into  use  when  there  are  but  few  sorts  with  which  to  com- 
pete. Soil  and  climate  make  so  great  a  change  in  the  growth,  quality, 
and  period  of  maturity  of  varieties,  that  it  is  impossible  to  make  a  list 
adapted  to  general  cultivation;  ami  so,  kinds  which,  because  of  their 
good  quality  (like  the  American  Golden  Russet),  which  we  mark  as 
only  for  table  use,  in  some  localities  are  found  also  profitable  for  mar- 
ket. The  planter,  in  selecting  from  this  list,  should  he  guided  some- 
what in  adopting  kinds  by  a  record  of  the  place  of  origin  of  the  variety, 
which  may  be  found  on  the  page  where  the  Apple  is  described  in  the 
book. 

We  have  appended  the  words  "  South  "  and  "  North  "  to  some  vari- 
eties, to  designate  them  as  of  most  value  in  oar  Southern  or  Northern 
States. 


428  THE    APPLE. 

American  Golden  Pippin.     Table  and  market. 

American  Golden  Russet.     Table. 

American  Summer  Pearmain.     Table. 

Baldwin.     Table  and  market. 

Baltimore.     Table  and  market. 

Belmont.     Table. 

Ben  Davis.     Market,  South  and  Southwest. 

Benoni.     Table  and  market. 

Bentley  Sweet.     Market  and  keeping. 

Bethlehemite.     Table  and  market. 

Bonum.     Table  aud  market. 

Broad  well.     Table  and  market.  , 

Buckingham.     Table  and  market. 

Canipfield.     Cider,  market,  and  keeper 

Canada  Reinette.     Table  and  market. 

Carolina  Red  June.     Table  and  market. 

Cogswell.     Table  and  market. 

Domine.     Table  and  market. 

Dutchess  of  Oldenburgb.     Cooking  and  market 

Dyer.     Table. 

Early  Harvest.     Table  and  market. 

Early  Joe.     Table. 

Early  Strawberry.     Table  and  market. 

English  Russet.     Market  and  keeper. 

Esopus  Spitzenburgh.     Table  and  market. 

Evening  Party.     Table  and  market. 

Fallowater.     Market  and  cooking. 

Fall  Pippin.     Table  and  market. 

Fall  Wine.     Table. 

Fameuse.     Table  and  market. 

Garden  Royal.     Table. 

Gilpin.     Market  and  keeper. 

Golden  Sweet.     Market  and  cooking. 

Gravenstein.     Market  and  cooking. 

Green  Cheese.     Table  and  market,  South. 

Grimes'  Golden  Pippin.     Table  and  market* 

Hall.     Table  and  market,  South. 

HaskeU  Sweet.     Table. 

Higby  Sweet.     Table. 

High  Top  Sweet.     Market,  West. 

Horse.     Market  and  cooking,  South. 

Hubbardston  Nonsuch.     Table  and  market. 

Hunt's  Russet.     Table. 

Jersey  Sweet.     Table  and  market. 

Jonathan.     Table  and  market. 

Keswick  Codlin.     Market  and  cooking. 

King  of  Tompkins  Co.     Table  and  market. 

Klaproth.     Table  and  market. 

Lady  Apple.     Table  and  market. 

Lady's  Sweet.     Table  and  market. 

Large  Yellow  Bough.     Table  and  market. 

Late  Strawberry.     Table  and  market. 

Lowell.     Market  and  cooking 


THE   APPLE.  428 

McLellan.     Table. 

Maiden's  Blush.     Market  and  cooking. 

Mangum.     Table,  South. 

Maverack  Sweet.     Market  and  cooking,  South. 

Melon.     Table. 

Monmouth  Pippin.     Table  and  market. 

Mother.     Table. 

Newtown  Pippin.     Table  and  market. 

Newtown  Spitzenburgh.     Table  and  market. 

Nickajack.     Market  and  keeper,  South. 

Northern  Spy.     Table  and  market. 

Ohio  Nonpareil.     Table  and  market. 

Peach  Pond  Sweet.     Table,  market,  and  cooking. 

Peck's  Pleasant.     Table  and  market. 

Pomme  Grise.     Table  and  market,  North. 

Porter.     Table  and  market. 

Primate.     Table. 

Pryor's  Red.     Table  and  market,  South  and  West. 

Eambo.     Table  and  market. 

Rawles  Janet.     Table,  market,  and  keeper,  Southwest. 

Red  Astrachan.     Market  and  cooking. 

Red  Canada.     Table  and  market. 

Rhode  Island  Greening.     Market  and  cooking. 

Ribston  Pippin.     Table  and  market,  North. 

Roxbury  Russet.     Market  and  keeper,  North  and  West. 

Shockley.     Market  and  keeper,  South. 

Smith's  Cider.     Market. 

Smokehouse.     Market  and  cooking. 

Striped  Winter  Pearmain.     Table  and  market,  South  and  Sov/  hwest. 

Summer  Pippin.     Market  and  cooking. 

Summer  Queen.     Market. 

Summer  Rose.     Table. 

Swaar.     Table. 

Tetofsky.     Market  and  cooking. 

Tewksbury  Winter  Blush.     Table,  market,  and  keeping. 

Tolman's  Sweet.     Market  and  cooking. 

Wagener.     Table. 

Washing-ton  Strawberry.     Table  and  market. 

Westfield  Seek-no-Furtker.     Table  and  market. 

White  Pippin.     Table  and  market. 

Willis  Sweet.     Cooking,  table,  and  market. 

Willow  Twig.     Market  and  keeper,  West  and  South. 

Winesap.     Table,  market,  and  keeper. 

Winter  Sweet  Paradise.     Table. 

Yellow  Bellflower.     Table  and  market. 

Yellow  Newtown  Pippin.     Table  and  market. 


430  THE   ALMOND. 


CHAPTER  X. 

THE  ALMOND. 

Amygdalus  communis,  Dec.     JZosacece,  of  botanists. 

Amandier,  of  the  French  ;   Mandelbaum,  German  ;  Mandorlo,  Italian  ; 

Almendro,  Spanish. 

The  Almond-tree,  which  is  a  native  of  the  north  of  Africa  and  tha 
mountains  of  Asia,  has  long  been  cultivated,  and  is  mentioned  in  Scrip- 
ture as  one  of  the  charms  of  the  fertile  land  of  Canaan.  It  so  strongly 
resembles  the  peach-tree  that  it  is  difficult  to  distinguish  it  by  the  leave? 
and  wood  only  ;  indeed,  several  botanists  are  of  opinion,  from  experi- 
ments made  in  raising  the  almond  from  seed,  that  this  tree  and  the 
peach  are  originally  the  same  species,  and  that  the  rich  and  luscious 
peach  is  the  effect  of  accidental  variation,  produced  by  culture  on  the 
almond.  The  chief  distinction  between  the  two  in  our  gardens  lies  in 
the  fruit,  which,  in  the  almond,  consists  of  little  more  than  a  stone 
covered  with  a  thick,  dry,  woolly  skin,  while  the  peach  has  in  addition 
a  rich  and  luscious  flesh.  The  blossoms  of  the  almond  resemble  those  of 
the  peach,  but  are  larger ;  they  are  produced  in  great  profusion,  early  in 
the  season,  before  the  leaves,  and  are  very  ornamental. 

Uses.  The  kernel  of  the  sweet  almond  is  highly  esteemed  as  an 
article  of  food,  and  is  largely  used  as  an  ingredient  in  confectionery, 
cookery,  and  perfumery.  It  is  raised  in  great  quantities  in  the  south  of 
Europe,  especially  in  Portugal,  and  is  an  important  article  of  commerce. 
The  bitter  almond  is  used  in  cookery  and  confectionery,  and  in  medi- 
cine ;  it  furnishes  the  prussic  acid  of  the  shops,  one  of  the  most  powerful 
of  poisons.     From  both  species  an  oil  is  also  obtained. 

In  France  the  almond  is  preferred  as  a  stock  on  which  to  bud  and 
graft  the  peach,  which  in  a  very  dry  climate  or  chalky  soil,  it  is  found, 
renders  the  latter  more  healthy  and  fruitful  than  its  own  bottom.  The 
sweet  hard-shelled  variety  {Douce  a  coque  dure)  is  preferred  for  stocks 
by  Fiench  nurserymen. 

Cultivation.  The  almond  thrives  best  in  a  warm  dry  soil,  and  its 
general  cultivation  in  this  country  is  precisely  like  that  of  the  peach. 
The  sweet  almond  is  the  only  variety  considered  of  value  here,  and  it  is 
usually  propagated  by  budding  it  on  Plum  stock,  or  on  the  bitter 
almond  seedlings.  It  is  rather  more  hardy  at  the  North  when  budded 
on  the  former,  and  as  the  buds  of  the  sweet  almond  are  rather  slender 
and  small,  the  plum  stocks  to  be  budded  should  be  thrifty  seedlings,  not 
more  than  a  fourth  of  an  inch  in  diameter  at  the  place  where  the  bud  is 
inserted. 

The  Common  Almond,  the  Hard-Shell  Sweet  Almond,  and  the  Bitter 
Almond,  are  hardy  in  the  latitude  of  New  York,  and  will  bear  tolera- 
ble crops  without  care.  The  Soft-shell  Sweet  Almond,  or  Ladies' 
Almond,  will  not  thrive  well  in  the  open  garden,  as  a  standard,  north 
of  Philadelphia ;  but  they  succeed  well  trained  to  a  wall  or  on  espalier 
rails  in  a  warm  situation,  the  branches  being  slightly  protected  in 
winter. 

There  is  no  apparent  reason  why  the  culture  of  the  almond  should 
not  be  pursued  to  a  profitable  extent  in  the  warm  and  favorable  climate 


THE    ALMOND. 


431 


of  some  of  the  Southern  States.     Especially  in  the  valley  of  the  Ohio 
and  Tennessee  it  would  be  likely  to  succeed  admirably. 

Bitter  Almond. 

The  Bitter  Almond  has  large  pale  blossoms,  differing  little  from  the 
common  almond  except  in  the  kernel,  which  is  bitter  There  are  two 
varieties,  one  with  a  hard,  and  the  other  with  a  brittle  shell.  The  fruit, 
which  is  produced  abundantly,  ripens  in  September.  The  leaves  are 
longer  and  of  a  darker  green  than  those  of  most  of  the  ■  sweet-fruited 
varieties. 

Common  Almond. 

A.  c.  dulcis.  Amande  commune. 

Amandier  a  Petit  Fruit.  Common  Sweet. 

commun. 

This  is  the  common  Sweet  Almond  of  France  and  the  South  of 
Europe,  and  is  one  of  the  most  hardy  and  productive  sorts  here.  Nuts 
hard  smooth,  about  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  compressed  and  pointed, 
of  an  agreeable  flavor,  but  inferior  to  the  following.  Flowers  expand 
before  the  leaves.     Ripens  last  of  September. 

Peach  Almond. 

Pecher.  Peach  Almond. 

Amandier-Pecher. 

A  rather  indifferent  variety,  nearly  sweet,  but  often  slightly  bitter. 
It  is  a  true  cross  between  the  peach  and  the  almond,  and  in  its  leaves, 
Bowers  and  stone  strongly  resembles  the  peach ;  the  fruit  is  also  pulpy 
and  of  tolerable  flavor,  like  an  indifferent  peach.  The  nut  scarcely  ever 
ripens  well  as  far  north  as  this. 

Pistachia  Sweet  Almond. 

Amande  Pistache.  Amandier  Pistache. 

A  variety  of  Almond  with  a  very  small  pointed  fruit,  about  the  size 
and  shape  of  that  of  a  Pistachia,  enclosing  a  kernel  of  a  delicate  sweet 
flavor.  The  shell  not  quite  so  soft  as  the  Soft-Shell  Almond.  This  ia 
{scarcely  known  yet  in  this  country,  but  is  worth  further  trial  at  the 
South. 

Soft-Shell  Sweet  Almond. 

Doux  a  coque  tendre.  Amandier  des  Dames, 
Sultan  a  coque  tendre.  Ou  Amande  Princesse. 
Amandier  a   coque  tendre.  Ladies'  Thin  Shell. 
des  Dames. 

The  Soft-Shell  or  Ladies1  Almond  is  the  finest  of  all  the  Almonds. 
[i  is  the  very  variety  common  in  the  shops  of  the  confectioners,  with  a 
shell  so  thin  as  to  be  easily  crushed  between  the  fingers,  and  the  kernel 
of  which  is  so  highly  esteemed  at  the  dessert.  It  ripens  early  in  the 
season,  and  is  also  highly  esteemed  in  a  young  or  fresh  state,  being  served 
^n  the  table  for  this  purpose  about  the  middle  of  July  in  Paris.      The 


4*32  THE    ALMOND. 

blossoms  of  this  variety  expand  at  the  same  time  with  the  leaves,  and 
are  more  deeply  tinged  with  red  than  the  foregoing.  Several  varieties 
are  made  of  this  in  France,  but  they  are  (as  quoted  above)  all  essentially 
the  same, 

Fruit  two  inches  long,  oval,  compressed.  The  nut  is  more  than  an 
inch  long,  oval,  pointed,  one-sided,  with  a  light-colored,  porous,  very 
tender  shell.     The  kernel  sweet  and  rich. 

On  the  plum  stock,  in  a  favorable  aspect,  this  Almond  succeeds,  with 
a  little  care,  in  the  Middle  States. 

Sultana  Saveet  Almond. 

Amande  Sultane.  Amandier  Sultane. 

Sultan. 

A  tender-shelled  Almond  of  excellent  quality,  with  smaller  fruit  and 
narrower  kernel  than  the  Soft-Shell  Almond,  but  of  equally  excellent 
flavor,  and  which  is  preferred  by  many.  It  is  thought  by  Poiteau  to 
be  scarcely  different  from  the  Soft-Shell  or  Ladies'  Almond. 

The  Long  Hard-Shell  Almond. 

Amandier  a  gros  fruit.  Amandier  a  gros  fruit  dur. 

A  variety  with  handsome,  large,  pale  rose-colored  flowers,  opening 
before  the  leaves,  and  large  and  long  fruit,  a  third  longer  than  other  va- 
rieties. The  stone  is  about  as  large  as  the  soft-shell  variety,  but  the 
kernel  is  larger  and  plumper.  This  is  a  good  hardy  sort,  and  it  is  very 
ornamental  wdren  in  blossom.     Bipi'ns  about  the  last  of  September. 

Ornamental  Varieties.  The  Dwarf  Double  Flowering  Almond 
{Amygdalus  pumila.  Lin.  Primus  sinensis  of  some)  is  a  beautiful, 
well-known  low  shrub,  extremely  ornamental  in  spring,  being  covered 
with  a  profusion  of  small  pink  blossoms,  very  double.  There  is  also 
a  Double  White,  similar  in  habit  of  growth. 

The  Large  Double  Flowering  Almond  (A.  d  grand '  jleur,  N.  Duh.) 
(A.  communis  plenoi)  is  a  beautiful  French  variety,  with  large  nearly 
white  flowers,  two  inches  in  diameter.  It  also  bears  a  good  small  hard- 
shell Almond. 


CHAPTER  XI. 


THE  apricot. 


Armeniaca  Vulgaris,  Dec.     Bosaceos,  of  botanists. 

Abricoticr,  of  the  French  ;  Aprikosenbaum,  German  ;  Albercoco,  Italian ; 

Albaricoque,  Spanish. 

The  Apricot  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  stone  fruit-trees,  easily 
known  by  its  glossy  heart-shaped  foliage,  large  white  blossoms,  and 
amooth-skinned  golden  or  ruddy  fruit.     In   the   fruit-garden    it   is   a 


the  ArmcoT.  433 

highly  attractive  object  in  early  spring,  as  its  charming  flowers  are  the 
first  to  expand.  It  forms  a  fine  spreading  tree  of  about  twenty  feet  in 
height,  ami  is  hardy  enough  to  bear  as  an  open  standard  south  of  the 
42d  degree  of  latitude  in  this  country. 

The  native  countries  of  this  tree  are  Armenia,  Arabia,  and  the  higher 
regions  of  Central  Asia.  It  is  largely  cultivated  in  China  and  Japan  ; 
and,  indeed,  according  to  the  accounts  of  Grosier,  the  mountains  west  of 
Pekin  are  covered  with  a  natural  growth  of  apricots.  The  names  by 
which  it  is  known  in  various  European  countries  all  seem  to  be  cor- 
ruptions of  the  original  Arabic  term  JSerkoche. 

Uses.  A  very  handsome  and  delicious  dessert  fruit,  only  inferior  to 
the  peach,  ripening  about  midsummer,  after  cherries  and  before  plums, 
at  a  season  when  it  is  peculiarly  acceptable.  For  preserving  in  sugar 
or  brandy,  for  jellies  or  pastries,  it  is  highly  esteemed,  and,  where  it  is 
abundant,  an  admirable  liquor  is  made  from  the  fruit  ;  and  it  is  also 
dried  for  winter  use.  In  some  parts  of  Germany,  the  free-bearing  sorts 
— the  Turkey,  Orange,  and  Breda — are  largely  cultivated  for  this  pur- 
pose. 

Cultivation.  This  tree  is  almost  always  budded  on  the  plum  stock 
(on  which  in  July  it  takes  readily),  as  it  is  found  more  hardy  and  du- 
rable than  upon  its  own  root.  Many  nurserymen  bud  the  apricot  on  the 
]  teach,  but  the  trees  so  produced  are  of  a  very  inferior  quality — short 
lived,  more  liable  to  diseases,  and  the  fruit  of  a  second-rate  flavor. 
Budded  on  the  plum  they  are  well  adapted  to  strong  soils,  in  which 
they  always  hold  their  fruit  better  than  in  light  sandy  soils. 

Apricots  generally  grow  very  thriftily,  and  soon  make  fine  heads,  and 
produce  an  abundance  of  blossoms  and  young  fruit  ;  but  the  crop  of 
the  latter  frequently  falls  off  when  half  grown,  from  being  stung  by  the 
plum-weevil  or  curculio,  to  which  the  smooth  skin  of  this  fruit  seems 
highly  attractive.  To  remedy  this,  the  same  course  must  be  pursued  as 
is  directed  for  the  plum.  Seedling  apricots  are  usually  more  hardy  and 
productive  here  than  the  finer  grafted  sorts. 

This  is  a  favorite  tree  for  training  on  walls  or  espaliers, and,  in  town 
gardens  especially,  we  often  see  it  trained  against  the  sides  of  brick 
houses,  and  yielding  most  abundantly.  As  it  bears  its  fruit  in  the  same 
way  as  the  peach,  and  requires  the  same  management,  we  must  refer  our 
readers  to  the  latter  head  for  direction  as  to  pruning  and  training.  As 
the  apricot,  however,  expands  its  blossoms  very  early,  it  should  not  be 
placed  on  an  east  wall,  or  in  a  situation  where  it  is  too  much  exposed 
to  the  full  morning  sun. 

Diseases.  When  budded  on  the  Plum,  this  tree  is  but  little  liable 
to  diseases,  and  may  be  considered  a  hardy  fruit-tree.  In  order  to 
render  it  fruitful,  and  keep  it  for  a  long  time  in  a  productive  state,  we 
cannot  too  strongly  urge  the  advantages  of  the  shortening-in  system  of 
pruning  recommended  for  the  peach. 

Albergier. 
Alberge. 

This  is  a  variety  very  common  in  the  interior  of  France,  where  it  is 
constantly  reproduced  with  but  little  variation  from  the  seed — Alberge 
being  the  name  of  the  apricot  in  some  of  the  provinces.  It  is  a  free 
grower,  and  bears   well,  but    is  neither  so  large  nor  fine  as  many  othei 

28 


434  THE    APRICOT. 

varieties      The   leaves  are  small,  and  often  have  little  wing-like  ears  at 
the  base.     The  Albergiers  are  much  used  for  stocks  in  France. 

_  Fruit  small,  roundish,  deep  yellow.  Flesh  reddish,  firm,  with  a 
brisk,  vinous  flavor.  Stone  compressed.  Kernel  bitter.  Esteemed  for 
preserving.     Ripe  middle  of  August. 


Angoumois. 

Anjou.  Kouge.  Violet 

Fruit  small,  oval,  flattened  at  the  apex.  Skin  clear  deep  yellow  on 
the  shaded  side,  but  dark  rusty  brown  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh 
deep  orange,  juicy,  and  melting,  separating  from  the  stone,  rich,  sugary, 
and  briskly  flavored,  but  when  highly  ripened  charged  with  a  fine  aro- 
ma. Back  of  the  stone  impervious.  Kernel  sweet.  End  of  July. 
(Hogg.) 

Beauge. 

A  foreign  variety  very  much  resembling  the  Moorpark,  but  ripening 
a  little  later. 

Black. 

Amygdalus  dasycarpa.  Purple  Apricot.  Norc 

Violet.  Du  Pape. 

This  remarkable  little  Apricot  so  strongly  resembles  a  dark  round 
plum,  that  at  a  little  distance  it  might  easily  be  mistaken  for  one.  (It 
was  indeed  called  Primus  dasycarpa  by  the  old  botanists.)  It  is  pretty 
good,  and  very  bardy,  and  its  unique  appearance  renders  it  sought  after 
by  amateurs.  The  tree  has  a  rough,  somewhat  crooked  trunk,  and 
small,  oval  foliage. 

Fruit  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  round.  Skin  pale  red 
in  the  shade,  but  dull  reddish  purple  in  the  sun,  covered  with  a  slight 
down.  Flesh  pale  red  next  the  skin,  yellow  near  the  stone,  adhering 
somewhat  to  the  stone,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  slight  astringent  flavor. 
Kernel  sweet.     August. 

Breda. 

De  Hollande.  Amande  Aveline.  Persique. 

Hasselnussmandel.  Ananas. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  small  Apricot,  said  to  be  originally  from 
Africa,  which  bears  well  with  common  culture,  and  deserves  a  place  in 
all  gardens,  as  it  is  not  only  a  high-flavored  dessert  sort,  but  it  makes 
one  of  the  richest  preserves.  The  blossom  buds  are  tinged  with  deep 
red  before  they  expand. 

Fruit  rather  small,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  roundish 
sometimes  rather  four-sided.  Suture  well  marked.  Skin  orange,  be 
coming  dark  orange  in  the  sun.  Flesh  deep  orange,  rich,  high-flavored, 
and  rather  juicy — separating  freely  from  the  stone.  The  kernel,  which 
is  sweet,  is  eaten  in  France,  whence  the  name  Amande  Aveline.  First 
of  August. 


the  aprkjot.  435 

Brown's  Early. 

Origin,  Chelsea,  Mass. 

Fruit  large,  short  oval,  yellow,  bright  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow 
melting,  rich  juicy,  luscious  flavor.  Season,  middle  to  last  of  July. 
(Cole.) 

Brussels. 

The  Brussels  Apricot  is  not  a  fine  fruit  in  this  country,  but  it  is  a 
good  bearer  iu  light  soils. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  rather  oval,  and  flattened  on  its  side.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  dotted  with  white  in  the  shade,  but  often  marked  with  a 
little  russety  brown  in  the  sun.  Suture  deep  next  the  stalk.  Flesh 
yellow,  rather  firm,  with  a  lively  but  not  rich  flavor.  Kernel  bitter. 
Middle  of  August.     The  Brussels  of  some  collections  is  the  JBrecbi. 

Burlington. 

Raised  by  Mrs.  Woolman,  Burlington,  N.  J.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong,  somewhat  compressed  at  the  sides, 
with  a  distinct  suture.  Skin  golden  yellow,  with  numerous  red  spots 
and  a  ruddy  tint  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish, 
sweet,  and  fine.  Middle  of  July  to  the  first  of  August.  This  variety  is 
probably  out  of  existence. 

Canino  Grosso. 

A  variety  from  the  Papal  States  of  Italy,  introduced  by  Thomas 
Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth,  England.  Tree  hardy  and  a  vigorous 
grower. 

Fruit  quite  large.  Skin  orange,  becoming  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
rich  reddish  yellow,  melting,  high-flavored.     Middle  July. 

Claude  Bidot. 

From  France.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate,  deep  suture,  half  round.  Skin  deep 
orange  yellow,  spotted  and  shaded  with  deep  red.  Flesh  deep  yellow, 
slightly  colored  with  red  on  the  side  of  the  sun.  Flesh  tine,  melting, 
sugarv,  aromatic.  Stone  medium,  roundish  ovate.  Kernel  very  sweet. 
(An.  Pom.) 

Comice  de  Toulon. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  ovate.  Skin  very  downy,  yellow,  becoming 
orange  in  the  .sun,  with  deep  carmine  dots.  Flesh  orange  yellow,  fine, 
jukv,  aromatic.     Kernel  sweet.     Early  July.     (An.  Pom.) 

I>es  Farges. 

Originated  near  Lyons,  France. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oval,  golden  yellow,  covered  with  a 
rfhort  down.  Flesh  orange  yellow,  fine,  juicy,  musky  perfumed.  Stone 
large.      Separates  free  from  the  flesh.     Last  of  June.      (Verg.) 


436  the  apricot. 

Early  Golden. 
Dubois'  Early  Golden. 

Origin  unknown.  Introduced  by  Charles  Dubois,  Fishkill  Landing, 
N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous,  with  long,  rather  slender  brancnes. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oval,  with  the  suture  well  marked,  and  ex- 
tending half-way  round.  Skin  smooth,  pale  orange.  Flesh  yellow,  mo- 
derately juicy  and  sweet,  with  a  very  good  flavor — separates  from  the 
stone.     Middle  of  Jnly. 

Early  Moorpark. 

A  variety  much  resembling  fche  Moorpark,  but  ripening  some  weeks 
earlier. 

Fruit  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  deep  suture  on  one  side,  extending 
from  the  base  to  the  apex.  Skin  yellow,  mottled  and  dotted  with  crim- 
son on  the  exposed  side.  Flesh  in  all  respects  resembling  that  of  the 
Moorpark.  Stone  oblong,  with  a  covered  channel  along  the  back,  which 
is  pervious.     Kernel  bitter. 

Golden  Drop. 

This  new  Apricot  is  described  by  Rivers  as  having  been  raised  from 
seed  of  the  Musch-Musch,  and  is  about  the  size  of  an  Orleans  Plum, 
bright  orange  and  crimson.  Flesh  melting,  with  a  delicious  pine  flavor. 
Ripe  middle  July. 

Hemskirke. 

A  large  and  beautiful  English  variety,  of  the  finest  quality.  It 
strongly  resembles  the  Moorpark,  from  which  it  is  known  by  its  stone 
not  being  perforated  like  that  variety.     It  also  ripens  a  little  earlier. 

Fruit  lai-ge,  roundish,  but  considerably  compressed  or  flattened  on 
its  sides.  Skin  orange,  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  bright  orange,  tender, 
rather  more  juicy  and  sprightly  than  the  Moorpark,  with  a  rich  and 
luscious  plum-like  flavor.  Stone  rather  small,  and  kernel  bitter.  End 
of  July. 

Jaques. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  hardy. 

Fruit  small,  ovate.  Skin  with  a  fine  short  down  or  bloom,  greenish 
yellow.  Flesh  orange  yellow,  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  perfumed.  Stone 
medium.     July,  August. 

Kaisha. 

A  variety  from  Syria,  of  high  reputation  abroad,  but  we  have  found 
the  tree  tender  and  unhealthy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  with  a  deep  suture  toward  the  stalk,  pale 
yellow,  mottled  and  tinged  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  tender,  juicy, 
pale  yellowish,  parting  freely  from  the  stone,  sugary,  high-flavored, 
Stone  small,  roundish.     Kernel  sweet.     July  and  first  of  August. 

Lafayette. 
Origin,  City  of  New  York.     Tree  remarkably  vigorous. 


THE    APRICOT.  437 

Fruit  very  large,  oval.  Skin  light  yellow,  marbled  with,  red  next  tb.6 
sun.  Flesh  high-flavored  and  excellent.  Ripens  in  August.  (W.  Bi 
Prince.) 

Large  Early. 

Gros  Precoce.  De  St.  Jean.  Precoce  d'Esperin. 

Gros  d'Alexandrie.  Gros  Fruhe.  d'Hongrie. 

De  St.  Jean  Rouge. 

A  fine,  large,  early  variety  from  France,  of  vigorous  growth,  and  one 
of  the  best  of  the  early  sorts. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  rather  oblong,  and  compressed.  Suture  deep 
Skin  slightly  downy,  pale  orange  in  the  shade,  fine  bright  orange  with  a 
few  ruddy  spots  in  the  sun.  Flesh  separating  readily  from  the  stone, 
orange-colored,  rich,  and  juicy.     Kernel  bitter.     Middle  of  July. 

Large  Red. 
Gros  Rouge.  Gros  Rouge  HatifL 

This  is  a  variety  of  the  Peach  Apricot,  the  tree  hardier  than  the 
Moorpark. 

Fruit  large,  deep  orange  red.  Flesh  rich,  juicy,  separating  freely 
from  the  stone.     Kernel  bitter.     Last  July. 

LlABAUD. 

Origin,  near  Lyons,  France. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  depressed  at  ends.  Skin  dull  yellow,  shaded 
with  orange  in  the  sun.  Flesh  orange  yellow,  translucent,  fine,  melting, 
sugary.     Stone  ovate,  obtuse  at  summit.     July.     (Verg.) 

Luizet. 

Originated  near  Lyons,  France.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  ovate  truncated  at  apex.  Skin  thick,  orange  yellow, 
washed  and  dotted  with  deep  crimson.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  sugary,  per- 
fumed.    Stone  large.     Freestone.     July.     (Verg.) 

Mexico. 

Originated  near  Lyons,  France. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  elongated.  Skin  thick,  greenish  yellow,  wash- 
ed with  reddish  brown.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  fine,  tender,  sugary,  musky. 
Stone  obtuse  at  apex  end.     July.     (Verg.) 

MONTGAMET. 

Crotte.  Alberge  de  Montgamet. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  somewhat  compressed  on  the  sides,  and  marked  with 
a  shallow  Buture.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  slight  tinge  of  red  on  the 
side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  adhering  to  the  stone,  juicy, 
and  agreeably  acid.  When  well  ripened,  highly  perfumed.  Store  round 
islu     Kernel  bitter.     End  of  July.       I 


438  THE    APRICOT. 


MoOKTATtK. 


Anson's.  Oldaker's  Moorpark.  Dunmore. 

Walton  Moorpark.  Dunmore's  Breda.  Temple's. 

Sudlow's  Moorpark.      De  Nancy.  Hunt's  Moorpark. 

This  fine  variety  is  the  most  popular  and  widely  disseminated  in  this 
country,  except  the  Breda.  It  has  its  name  from  Moorpark,  the  seat  of 
Sir  William  Temple,  in  England,  where  it  was  cultivated  more  than  one 
hundred  and  forty  years  ago.  It  is  only  a  moderate  bearer  here,  and 
especially  requires  the  shortening-in  mode  of  pruning,  as  recommended 
for  the  peach. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter 
each  way,  on  a  standard  tree  ;  rather  large  on  one  side  of  the  suture 
than  the  other.  Skin  orange  in  the  shade,  but  deep  orange  or  brownish 
red  in  the  sun,  marked  with  numerous  dark  specks  and  dots.  Flesh 
quite  firm,  blight  orange,  parting  free  from  the  stone,  quite  juicy,  with 
a  rich  and  luscious  flavor.  Stone  peculiarly  perforated  along  the  back, 
where  a  pin  may  be  pushed  through  nearly  from  one  end  to  the  other 
Kernel  bitter.     Ripe  early  in  August. 

Musch-Musch. 
D'Alexandrie. 

This  delicious  little  Apricot  takes  its  name  from  the  city  of  Musch, 
on  the  frontiers  of  Turkey  in  Asia ;  but  it  is  also  common  about  Alex- 
andria, and  in  northern  Egypt  it  is  said  to  be  raised  in  such  abundance 
that  the  dried  fruit  is  an  article  of  commerce.  The  tree  is  rather  deli- 
cate, and  requires  a  sheltered  position. 

Fruit  rather  small,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  round. 
Skin  deep  yellow,  with  a  little  orange  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
yellow,  with  a  translucent  pulp,  tender,  melting,  and  very  sweet.  Ker- 
nel sweet. 

Newhall's  Early. 

Origin,  Lynn,  Mass. 

Fruit  medium,  short  oval,  bright  orange,  deep  red  cheek,  tender, 
iuicy,  rich  delicious  flavor.  Clingstone.  Last  July.  Early  August 
(Cole.) 

Orange. 

Early  Orange.  Persian.  Royal  George. 

Royal  Orange.  Royal  Persian. 

An  Apricot  of  only  tolerable  quality  for  the  dessert,  but  it  is  much 
esteemed  by  many  for  preserving;  and  it  makes  delicious  tarts,  even 
before  the  fruit  begins  to  acquire  color. 

Fnut  of  medium  size,  roundish,  with  a  well-marked  suture,  deeply 
followed  near  the  stalk.  Skin  firm,  orange,  sometimes  tinged  with  a 
ruddy  tint  in  the  sun.  Flesh  dark  orange,  moderately  juicy,  but  often 
rather  dry  and  insipid  (unless  ripened  in  the  house),  not  separating  en- 
tirely from  the  flesh.  Stone  small,  roundish.  Kernel  sweet.  Mi  idlfl 
of  July. 


the  apricot.  43£ 

Oullins  Early  Peach. 
A.  Tariety  of  the  Peach  Apricot,  differing  only  in  time  of  ripening. 

Peach. 

Anson's  Imperial.  Royal  Peach.  Peche. 

Abricot  POche.  De  Nancy.  Du  Luxembourg. 

Pt'che  Grosse.  Wurtemburg.  Pfirsiche. 

The  Peach  Apricot,  originally  from  Piedmont,  has  long  been  con 
tidered  the  finest  variety  ;  and  it  is  with  us  the  largest  and  most  excel- 
lent sort  cultivated — being  often  as  lai'ge  as  a  Peach — of  medium  size, 
handsome,  and  of  delicious  flavor.  It  very  strongly  resembles  the 
Moorpark,  but  the  two  are  readily  distinguished  by  the  eye  when  stand- 
ing near  each  other,  and  the  fruit  of  the  Peach  is  rather  larger  and 
finer,  and  a  few  days  earlier. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  about  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter, 
roundish,  rather  flattened,  and  somewhat  compressed  on  its  sides,  with 
a  well-marked  suture.  Skin  yellow  in  the  shade,  but  deep  orange,  mot- 
tled with  dark  brown,  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  of  a  fine  yellow  saffron 
color,  juicy,  rich,  and  high-flavored.  Stone  with  the  same  pervious 
passage  as  the  Moorpark,  and  with  a  bitter  kernel. 

Pine  Apple. 

Ananas. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened,  and  marked  with  a  rather  shallow 
suture.  Skin  thin  and  delicate,  deep  golden  yellow  in  the  shade,  with  a 
high-colored  red  cheek  where  exposed  to  sun,  and  speckled  with  large 
and  small  red  specks.  Flesh  reddish  yellow,  somewhat  firm,  juicy,  rich 
pine-apple  flavor.  Stone  oval.  Kernel  bitter.  Middle  August. 
(Hogg.) 

Portugal. 

Male. 

Fruit  small,  resembling  in  shape  and  size  the  Red  Masculine,  round, 
divided  on  one  side  by  a  deep  suture.  Skin  pale  yellow  on  the  shaded 
side,  deep  yellow  tinged  with  red,  and  marked  with  brown  and  ied  rus- 
set spots  next  the  sun.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  tender,  melting,  rich  sugary. 
musky,  adhering  somewhat  to  the  stone.  Stone  almost  round.  Kernel 
bitter.     Middle  of  August.     (Hogg.) 

Provence. 

Abricot  de  Provence. 

Fruit  small,  compressed  on  the  sides,  with  a  deep  suture,  higher  on 
one  side,  yellow,  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  melting,  rich,  rather 
dry,  pleasant.     Kernel  sweet.     End  of  July. 


i40  THE   APEICOT. 


Red   Masculine. 


Early  Masculine.  Apricot  Prfecoce. 

Brown  Masculine.  Apricot  hatif  Musquee. 

Abricotier.  Abricotier  hatif. 

Friihe  Muscateher. 

A  small  early  sort,  hardy,  veiy  productive,  of  tolerable  flavor,  bul 
not  rich,  growth  upright,  slender. 

Fruit  small  and  nearly  round,  scarcely  an  inch  and  a  half  in  dia- 
meter, with  a  well-marked  suture  on  one  side.  Skin  bright  yellow, 
tinged  with  deep  orange  and  spotted  with  dark  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  with  a  slightly  musky,  pleasant  flavor.  Stone  thick, 
obtuse  at  the  ends.  Flowers  smaller  than  in  most  other  sorts.  Kernel 
bitter.     Ripe  about  the  12th  of  July. 

Ringold. 

Originated  in  Athens,  Ga. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  a  little  oblong,  suture  slight.  Skin  light 
orange,  darker  in  the  sun,  where  it  is  beautifully  dotted  with  carmine. 
Flesh  deep  yellow,  juicy,  and  excellent.  Ripens  just  after  the  orange, 
hardy  and  productive. 

Roman. 

Abricot   Commun  Germine. 

Qrosse  Genuine.  Transparent. 

This  is  with  us  one  of  the  largest  growing  and  hardiest  Apricot 
trees,  and  produces  good  crops  every  year  in  cold  or  unfavorable  situa- 
tions, where  none  of  the  other  soi'ts  except  the  Masculine  succeed.  It 
is  therefore,  though  inferior  in  flavor,  a  valuable  sort  for  northern  situ- 
ations.    The  blossoms  will  bear  quite  a  severe  frost  without  injury. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  with  the  sides  slightly  compressed,  with 
but  little  or  no  suture.  Skin  entirely  pale  yellow,  or  very  rarely  dotted 
with  a  few  red  spots  on  one  side.  Flesh  dull  yellow,  soft,  rather  dry. 
When  ripened  by  keeping  a  few  days  in  the  house,  the  flavor  is  tolerably 
good.  Stone  oblong,  with  a  bitter  kernel.  Ripe  the  last  of  July  and 
first  of  August. 

There  is  a  Blotched-leaved  Roman  (commun  a  feiiilles  panaches,  of 
the  French),  precisely  like  the  foregoing  in  all  respects,  except  the  white 
or  yellow  stain  in  the  leaf — but  it  is  quite  distinct  from  the  blotched- 
leaved  Turkey,  cultivated  here. 

Royal. 

A  fine  large  French  variety,  raised  a  few  years  since  at  the  Royal 
Luxembourg  Gardens.  It  is  nearly  as  large  as  the  Moorpark,  but  with 
larger  leaves  borne  on  long  footstalks,  and  without  the  pervious  stone  of 
that  sort.  It  is  quite  as  high  flavored,  and  ripens  a  week  or  ten  days 
earlier. 

Fruit  roundish,  large  oval,  slightly  compressed.  Skin  dull  yellow, 
with  an  orange  cheek,  very  faintly  tinged  with  red,  and  a  shallow  suture, 
Flesh  pale  orange,  firm  and  juicy,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor.  Ripe  the 
latter  end  of  July. 


THE   AriUCOL  44V 

St.  Ambroise. 

This  li  a  large  early  Apricot,  almost  the  size  of  and  earlier  than  the 
Moorpark.  It  is  compressed,  of  a  deep  yellow  color,  reddish  next  the 
Bun.     Flesh  juicy,  rich,  and  sugary.     Middle  August.     (Hogg.) 

Sardinian. 
De  Sardaigne. 

Tree  a  great  bearer,  ripening  its  fruit  as  early  as  the  Red  Mas- 
culine. 

Fruit  small,  with  a  deep  suture  on  one  side.  Skin  white,  with  a  few 
crimson  spots,  and  sometimes  a  flush  of  red.  Flesh  juicy,  sprightly, 
sweet,  pleasant.     Stone  small.     Kernel  bitter. 

Shipley's. 
BlenLeim.  Shipley's  Large. 

A  very  good  early  variety,  of  small  or  medium  size,  of  vigorous  but 
rather  slender  growth. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  orange,  with  a  deep  yellow,  juicy,  and  tolera- 
bly rich  flesh.  Stone  roundish,  impervious,  with  a  bitter  kernel. 
Ripens  here  about  the  25th  of  July. 

Surer  Para. 
Green  Gage. 

From  Syria. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  smooth  skin,  small  stone,  delicious,  rather 
dry,  very  sweet  flesh. 

Texas. 

Originated  with  Dr.  M.  A.  Ward,  Athens,  Ga. 

Fruit  small,  round.  Color  dark  maroon,  darker  in  the  sun.  Suture 
slight,  a  mere  line.  Flesh  juicy  and  pleasant,  except  at  the  stone,  where 
it  is  astringent.     Adheres  to  the  stone.     (W.  N.  White,  MS.) 

Turkey. 
Large  Turkey.  De  Nancy  of  some. 

The  Turkey  Apricot  is  a  fine  old  variety,  which  is  seldom  seen  in 
our  gardens,  the  sort  generally  sold  under  this  name  being  the  Roman. 
It  is  quite  a  late  soi't,  ripening  after  the  Moorpark,  from  which  it  is 
easily  known  b}>-  its  impervious  stone  and  sweet  kernel. 

Fruit  of  middle  size,  nearly  round,  not  compressed.  Skin  fine  deep 
yellow  in  the  shade,  mottled  with  brownish  orange  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
pale  yellow,  firm,  quite  juicy,  with  a  flavor  in  which  there  is  an  excellent 
ing  of  sweet  and  acid.  Kernel  nearly  as  sweet  as  that  of  an  Al- 
mond, which,  as  well  as  the  form  and  color,  distinguishes  this  sort  from 
the  Etoraj  n.     Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

The  Blotched-leaved  Turkey,  or"  Gold  Blotched  (Ab  rulh\ 

is  a  sab-variety,  very  well   known  here,  resembling  tJ  e  common  Turkey 


H'2  THE  BERBERRY. 

in  all  respects,  except  that  it  has  in  the  centre  of  each  leaf  a  lai  ge  rel 
lowish  spot.  It  is  a  thrifty  tree  and  bears  delicate  fruit.  Ours  is  not 
identical  with  the  Turkey,  as  the  last  edition  of  the  L.  H.  S.'s  Cata- 
logue arranges  it,  but  is  a  globular  fruit,  and  a  true  variation  of  the 
Turkey. 

White  Masculine. 

White  Apricot.  Early  White  Masculine. 

Abricot  Blanc.  Blanc. 

Abricotier  Blanc.  White  Algiers  ? 

This  scarcely  diners  from  the  Red  Masculine  before  described,  except 
in  color.     It  is  four  or  five  days  later. 

Fruit  small  and  roundish.  Skin  nearly  -white,  rarely  with  a  little 
reddish  brown  on  one  side.  Flesh  white,  delicate,  a  little  fibi-ous,  ad- 
heres a  little  to  the  stone,  and  has  a  delicate,  pleasant  juice.  Kernel 
bitter. 

Curious  or  ornamental  varieties.  The  Briancon  Apricot  (A. 
brigantiaca,  Dec),  a  very  distinct  species,  so  much  resembling  a  plum  as 
to  be  called  the  Briancon  Plum  by  many  authors  (Prune  de  Jjrianpon, 
Poit.),  is  a  small  irregular  tree  or  shrub,  ten  or  twelve  feet  high,  a  native 
of  the  Alps.  It  bears  a  great  abundance  of  small,  round,  yellow,  plum- 
like fruit  in  clusters,  which  are  scarcely  eatable ;  but  in  Fx-ance  and 
Piedmont  the  kernels  of  this  variety  make  the  "  huile  de  marmotte," 
which  is  worth  double  the  price  of  the  olive  oil. 

The  Double  flowering  Apricot  is  a  pretty  ornamental  tree,  yet 
rare  with  us. 

Selection  of  Apricots  for  a  small  garden.  Large  Early,  Breda, 
Peach,  Moorpark. 

Selection  for  a  cold  or  northern  climate.  Red  Masculine,  Roman, 
Breda. 


CHAPTER  XII. 


TH  E       BERBERRY. 


Barberis  vulgaris.  L.     Berberacem,  of  botanists. 
Epine-vinette,  of  the  French  ;  Berberitzen,  German ;  Berbero,  Italian  ;  Berberts, 

Spanish. 

The  Berberry  (or  barberry)  is  a  common  prickly  shrub,  from  eight 
to  ten  feet  high,  which  grows  wild  in  both  hemispheres,  and  is  par- 
ticularly abundant  in  many  parts  of  New  England.  The  flowers,  the 
roots,  and  the  inner  wood  are  of  the  brightest  yellow  color,  aud  the 
small  crimson  fruit  is  borne  in  clusters.  It  is  a  popular  but  fallacious 
notion,  entertained  both  here  and  in  England,  that  the  vicinity  of  this 
plant,  in  any  quantity,  to  grain  fields,  causes  the  rust. 

The  barberry  is  too  acid  to  eat,  but  it  makes  an  agreeable  preserve 


THE    BLACKBERRY.  443 

and  jelly,  and  an  ornamental  pickle  for  garnishing  some  dishes.  From 
the  seedless  sort  is  made  in  llouen  a  celebrated  sweetmeat,  confitivrt 
d'epine-vinette.  The  inner  bark  is  used  in  France  for  dyeing  silk  and 
cotton  a  bright  yellow. 

Culture.  The  culture  is  of  the  easiest  description.  A  rich  light  soil 
gives  the  largest  fruit.  It  is  easily  propagated  by  seed,  layers,  or 
suckers.  When  fine  fruit  of  the  barberry  is  desired,  it  should  be  kept 
trained  to  a  single  stem — as  the  suckers  which  it  is  liable  to  produce 
frequently  render  it  barren  or  make  the  fruit  small. 

Common  Red. 

This  is  too  well  known  to  need  description.  In  good  soils  it  grows 
twelve  or  fifteen  feet  high,  and  its  numerous  clusters  of  bright  oval 
berries  are  vei-y  ornamental  in  autumn.  There  is  a  Large  Red  variety 
of  this,  which  is  only  a  variation  produced  by  cultivation  in  rich  soil. 
There  are  also  varieties  of  this  in  Europe  with  pale  yellow,  white,  and 
purple  fruit,  which  are  not  yet  introduced  into  this  country,  and  which 
scarcely  differ  in  any  other  respect  than  the  color.  And  there  is  a  so- 
called  sweet  variety  of  the  common  Berberry  from  Austria  (I>.  v.  dulcis)t 
but  it  is  scarcely  less  acid  than  the  common. 

A  variety  with  purple  foliage  differs  but  little  in  the  fruit,  which  is 
perhaps  not  quite  as  fleshy,  but  the  foliage  is  extremely  ornamental. 


THE   BLACKBERRY. 


There  are  several  species  of  the  Bramble  indigenous  to  this  country, 
which  produce  eatable  fruit,  but  the  best  for  the  table,  or  for  cooking, 
are  the  Low  Blackberry,  a  trailing  shrub,  and  the  following  varieties 
of  the  High  Blackberry. 

The  fruit  is  larger  than  that  of  the  Raspberry,  with  fewer  and  larger 
grains,  and  a  brisker  flavor.  It  ripens  about  the  last  of  July  or  early 
in  August,  after  the  former  is  past,  and  is  much  used  by  all  classes  in 
this  country.  There  is  no  doubt  that  varieties  of  much  larger  size,  and 
greatly  superior  flavor,  might  be  produced  by  sowing  the  seeds  in  rich 
garden  soil,  especially  if  repeated  for  two  or  three  successive  genera- 
tions. 

Their  cultivation  in  gardens  is  similar  to  that  of  the  Raspberry,  ex- 
cept that  they  require  to  be  planted  at  greater  distances  apart,  say  from 
lix  to  eight  feet.     (See  pa 

Adair's  Claret. 

Originated  with  D.  L.  Adair,  Hawesville,  Ky.  The  plant  is  not 
quite  hardy. 

Fruit  medium  size,  claret  color,  soft,  with  a  mild  pleasant  flavor. 

Albion. 

A  wildling  found  and  introduced  by  John  B.  Orange,  of  Albion,  111. 
Although  described  as  large  and  productive,  we  have  never  been  able  to 
gather  more  than  half  a  crop  from  our  plants,  and  the  fruit  cf  only  fair 
size,  imperfect,  and  without  flavor. 


444  the  blackberry. 

Cape  May. 

Fruit  large,  black,  sweet,  quite  soft,  loses  color  soon  after  gathering, 
not  valuable. 

Colonel  Wilder. 

Introduced  by  John  B.  Orange. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong,  light  cream  color,  moderately  firm, 
does  not  fill  well. 

Crystal  White. 
Orange's  Crystal 

Introduced  by  John  B.  Orange,  Albion,  HI.  It  is  a  vigorous  grower, 
Backers  freely,  and  not  hardy.     Does  not  set  its  fruit  well. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  oval,  light  creamy  white,  translucent,  sweet. 
Good.     Only  desirable  as  a  curiosity. 

Cumberland. 

A  New  Jersey  variety,  productive,  hardy. 
Fruit  medium,  black,  sweet,  early. 

Cut-Leaved. 
Parsley  Leaved. 

An  old  European  variety,  valued  more  for  its  curious  foliage  than 
for  the  amount  of  its  fruit. 

Fruit  roundish,  black,  sweet,  with  a  musky  peculiar  flavor. 

Cutter's  Mulberry. 

Introduced  by  G.  B.  Cutter,  Newtown,  Mass. 

Fruit  long,  slender,  remarkably  sweet.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Doctor  Warder. 

Introduced  by  John  B.  Orange. 

Fruit  rather  shorter  and  thicker  than  the  Albion,  nearly  as  large. 
Color  dark  rosy  red.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Dorchester. 

Introduced  to  notice  by  the  late  Capt.  Lovett,  of  Beverly,  Mass. 
Nearly  equal  in  size  to  New  Rochelle,  of  a  more  elongated  form,  grains 
rather  smaller,  somewhat  sweeter,  and  producing  large  crops  of  high- 
flavored  fruit,  a  vigorous  grower. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conic,  sometimes  measuring  an  inch  and  a  quar- 
ter in  length,  of  a  deep  shining  black.  The  berries  should  be  fully  ma- 
tured before  they  are  gathered  ;  it  bears  carriage  well.  Bipens  about 
the  first  of  August. 


the  blackberry.  446 

Duncan's  Falls. 

Introduced  by  J.  C.  Neff,  Duncan's  Falls,  O.     An  upright,  very  vig 
orous  grower.  _  „ 

Fruit  large,  black,  moderately  firm,  juicy,  sweet.     New,  not  fully 

tested. 

Farley. 

Origin  unknown.     New. 

Fruit  nearly  as  large  as  New  Rocbelle,  black,  sweet,  and  ripens  two 
weeks  earlier.     (Hort.) 

Felton. 

Introduced  by  Oscar  Felton,  of  Camden,  N.  J. 
Fruit  large,  long,  slightly  conical,  sweet.      Good.     Ripens  early, 
moderately  productive. 

Holcomb. 

Introduced  by  E.  A.  Holcomb,  of  Granby,  Conn.     Canes  hardy  and 
)du 
Fi 
early. 


productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  black,  moderately  firm,  well  flavored.     Kipens 


Kentucky  White. 

Introduced  by  D.  L.  Adah-,  Kentucky.     Plant  tender. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oblong  oval,  light  dirty  white.     Imperfect. 

KlTTATINNY. 

A  native  wildling  from  the  Kittatinny  Mountains,  Warren  Co., 
N.  J.  It  has  within  a  few  years  become  widely  disseminated,  and  every- 
where proves  of  the  highest  value.  Canes  quite  hardy,  and  very  pro- 
ductive ;  ripening  early,  and  continuing  a  long  time. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  conical,  rich  glossy  black,  mod- 
erately firm,  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  excellent. 

Low  Blackberry. 

Trailing  Blackberry.  Dewberry.  Rubus  Canadensis. 

A  low  trailing,  prickly  shrub,  producing  large  white  blossoms  in 
May,  and  very  large  roundish  oblong  black  fruit  iu  midsummer.  Leaf- 
lets from  three  to  five  in  number.  The  fruit,  when  hi  good  soil  and 
fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  is  high-flavored,  sweet,  and  excellent. 

Mason's  Mountain. 

A  new  variety.     Canes  hardy. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  black,  sweet,  rich. 

Missouri  Mammoth. 
A.   variety   recently  disseminated  from    Missouri.       It  has  not  ye* 


446  THE    BLACKBERRY. 

fruited  here,  but  is  described  as  "  bearing  fruit  of  the  very  largest  size, 
quite  black.,  firm,  rich,  juicy,  sweet,  without  any  core.  Ripens  very 
early,  and  continues  a  long  time  in  bearing." 

Newman's  Thornless, 

A  new  variety,  discovered  by  Jonas  Newman,  Ulster  Co.,  N.  Y. 
Promises  to  be  valuable.  Growth  not  so  vigorous  as  New  Rochelle 
and  Dorchester,  but  produces  good-sized  oval  berries  of  excellent  flavor. 
The  canes  have  but  few  spines  or  thorns  in  comparison  to  the  others. 
Ripens  about  the  first  of  August. 

New  Rochelle. 
Seacor's  Mammoth.  Lawton. 

This  remarkable  variety  was  found  by  Lewis  A.  Seacor,  in  its  native 
wildness  by  the  roadside,  in  the  town  of  New  Rochelle,  Westchester 
Co.,  N.  Y.  It  is  of  very  vigorous  growth,  with  strong  spines  which 
belong  to  the  bramble,  is  hardy  and  exceedingly  jiroductive. 

Fruit  very  large,  oval,  and,  when  fully  ripe,  intensely  black.  When 
mature  the  fruit  is  very  juicy,  rather  soft  and  tender,  with  a  sweet,  ex- 
cellent flavor ;  when  gathered  too  early  it  is  acid  and  insipid.  The  gra- 
nules are  larger,  consequently  the  fruit  is  less  seedy  than  any  other  va- 
riety. Ripens  about  the  first  of  August,  and  continues  in  use  five  or 
six  weeks. 

Sable  Queen. 

Introduced  by  J.  W.  Manning,  Reading,  Mass.,  who  describes  it  as 
in  size,  beauty,  and  fruitfulness,  equal  if  not  superior  to  Dorchester  or 
New  Rochelle.     We  have  not  seen  it. 


Wachusett. 

Found  growing  wild  on  Monadnock  Mountain.     Canes  hardy,  nearly 
thornless. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  oval,  moderately  firm,  productive.     (J.  of  H.) 

Washington. 
Raised  by  Prof.  C.  G.  Page,  Washington,  D.  C. 


Wilson's  Early. 

Introduced  by  John  Wilson,  Burlington,  N.  J.  A  hardy,  produc- 
tive, very  early  ripening  market  sort. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  oval,  black.     Flesh  firm,  sweet.     Good. 

Ornamental  Varieties. — The  "  Double  White  Blossomed "  and 
"  Double  Pink  Blossomed  Brambles  "  are  beautiful  climbing  shrubn,  of 
remarkably  luxuriant  growth,  which  may  be  trained  for  a  great  length 


THE   CHERRY.  447 

in  a  season,  and  are  admirably  adapted  for  covering  walls  ana  _n- 
sightly  buildings.  The  flowers  are  like  small  double  roses,  and  are  pro- 
duced  in  numerous  clusters  in  June,  having  a  very  pretty  effect.  North 
of  New  York  these  climbers  are  rather  tender  in  severe  winters. 

The  Rose  Flowering  Bramble  (Hubus  odoratus)  is  a  very  pretty 
native  shrub,  with  large  broad  leaves,  and  pleasing  rose-colored  flowers, 
and  groups  well  with  other  shrubs  in  ornamental  plantations. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 
The  Cherry. 


Cerasus  sylvestri-s,   and  C.    vulgaris,  Arb.    Brit.     Rosacem,  of    botanists. 
Cerisier,  of    the    French;    Kirsclienbaum,  German;     Ciriego,  Italian ;     Cerezo, 

Spanish. 

The  Cherry  is  a  fine,  luxuriant  fruit-tree,  with  smooth,  light-colored 
bark,  and  generally  of  rapid  growth.  The  varieties  of  the  black  and 
heart-shaped  cherries  are  always  vigorous,  and  form  fine  large  spreading 
heads,  forty  or  fifty  feet  in  height ;  but  those  of  the  acid  or  red  cherry 
are  of  lower,  more  bushy,  and  tardy  growth.  In  the  spring  the  cherry- 
tree  is  profusely  covered  with  clusters  of  snow-white  blossoms,  and 
earlier  in  summer  than  upon  any  other  tree,  these  are  followed  by  abun- 
dant crops  of  juicy,  sweet,  or  acid  fruit,  hanging  upon  long  stalks,  and 
enclosing  a  smooth  stone 

The  Cherry  comes  originally  from  Asia,  and  the  Roman  general, 
Lucullus,  after  a  victorious  expedition  into  Pontus,  has  the  reputation 
of  having  brought  it  to  Italy  from  Cerasus,  a  town  in  that  province,  in 
the  year  69  b.c.  According  to  Pliny,  the  Romans,  100  years  after 
this,  had  eight  varieties  in  cultivation,  and  they  were  soon  afterwards 
carried  to  all  parts  of  Europe.  The  seeds  of  the  cultivated  cherry  were 
brought  to  this  country  very  early  after  its  settlement,  both  from  Eng- 
land and  Holland. 

Uses.  As  a  pleasant  and  refreshing  dessert  fruit,  the  cherry  is 
everywhere  liighly  esteemed.  The  early  season  at  which  it  ripens,  its 
juiciness,  delicacy,  and  richness,  render  it  always  acceptable.  While  the 
large  and  fleshy  varieties  are  exceedingly  sweet  and  luscious,  others  which 
are  more  tender,  and  more  or  less  acid,  are  very  valuable  for  pies,  tarts, 
and  various  kinds  of  cookery.  The  fruit  of  the  Kentish  or  Early  Rich- 
mond is  excellent  when  stoned  and  dried,  and  the  Mazzard,  and  our  wild 
Virginia  cherries,  are  used  to  give  a  flavor  to  brandy.  When  canned 
*hey  retain  their  character  and  are  very  delicious.  The  Dukes  or  Mo- 
rellos  arc  best  for  the  purpose. 

The  celebrated  German  J^irschwasser  is  made  by  distilling  the  liquor 
of  the  common  black  mazzard  or  gean  (in  which  the  stones  are  ground 
and  broken,  and  fermented  with  the  pulp),  and  the  delicious  Ratafia  cox- 
dial  of  Grenoble  Is  also  made  from  this  fruit.  Marasch inoy  the  most 
celebrated  liqueur  of  Italy,  is  distilled  from  a  small  gean  or  mazzard 
with  which,  in  fermenting,  honey  and  the  leaves  and  kernels  of  the  fruit 
are  mixed. 


448  THE  CHERRY. 

The  gum  of  the  Cherry  is  nearly  identical  with  gum  arabic,  and  there 
are  some  marvellous  stories  told  of  its  nutritive  properties.  The  wood 
of  the  cherry  is  nard  and  durable,  and  is  therefore  valuable  for  many 
purposes ;  but  the  best  wood  is  afforded  by  our  common  wild  or  Virginia 
cherry,  which  is  a  very  good  substitute  for  mahogany,  taking  a  fine 
polish. 

The  larger  growing  sorts  of  black  cherry  are  the  finest  of  all  fruit- 
trees  for  shade,  and  are,  therefore,  generally  chosen  by  farmers,  who  are 
always  desirous  of  combining  the  useful  and  the  ornamental.  Indeed 
the  Cherry,  from  its  symmetrical  form,  its  rapid  growth,  its  fine  shade 
and  beautiful  blossoms,  is  exceedingly  well  suited  for  a  roadside  tree  in 
agricultural  districts.  We  wish  we  could  induce  the  planting  of  ave- 
nues of  this  and  other  fine-growing  fruit-trees  in  our  country  neighbor- 
hoods, as  is  the  beautiful  custom  in  Germany,  affording  ornament  and  a 
grateful  shade  and  refreshment  to  the  traveller  at  the  same  moment. 
Mr.  Loudon,  in  his  Arboretum,  gives  the  following  account  of  the  cherry 
avenues  in  Germany,  which  we  gladly  lay  before  our  readers : — 

"  On  the  Continent,  and  more  especially  in  Germany  and  Switzer- 
land, the  cherry  is  much  used  as  a  roadside  tree ;  particularly  in  the 
northern  parts  of  Germany,  where  the  apple  and  pear  will  not  thrive. 
In  some  countries  the  road  passes  for  many  miles  together  through  an 
avenue  of  cherry-trees.  In  Moravia,  the  road  from  Brunn  to  Olmutz 
passes  through  such  an  avenue,  extending  upwards  of  sixty  miles  in 
length ;  and  in  the  autumn  of  1828,  we  travelled  for  several  days  through 
almost  one  continuous  avenue  of  cherry-trees,  from  Strasburg  by  a  cir- 
cuitous route  to  Munich.  These  avenues,  in  Germany,  are  planted  by 
the  desire  of  the  respective  governments,  not  only  for  shading  the  travel- 
ler, but  in  order  that  the  poor  pedestrian  may  obtain  refreshment  on  his 
journey.  All  persons  are  allowed  to  partake  of  the  cherries,  on  condi- 
tion of  not  injuring  the  trees  ;  but  the  main  crop  of  the  cherries,  when 
ripe,  is  gathered  by  the  respective  proprietors  of  the  land  on  which  it 
grows ;  and  when  these  are  anxious  to  preserve  the  fruit  of  any  particu- 
lar tree,  it  is,  as  it  were^  tabooed ;  that  is,  a  wisp  of  straw  is  tied  in  a 
conspicuous  part  to  one  of  the  branches,  as  vines  by  the  roadsides  in 
France,  when  the  grapes  are  ripe,  are  protected  by  sprinkling  a  plant 
here  and  there  with  a  mixture  of  lime  and  water,  which  marks  the 
leaves  with  conspicuous  white  blotches.  Every  one  who  has  travelled 
on  the  Continent  in  the  fruit  season,  must  have  observed  the  respect 
that  is  paid  to  these  appropriating  marks ;  and  there  is  something  highly 
gratifying  in  this,  and  in  the  humane  feeling  displayed  by  the  princes 
of  the  different  countries  in  causing  the  trees  to  be  planted.  It  would 
indeed  be  lamentable  if  kind  treatment  did  not  produce  a  corresponding 
return." 

Soil  and  Situation.  A  dry  soil  for  the  cherry  is  the  universal 
maxim,  and  although  it  is  so  hardy  a  tree  that  it  will  thrive  in  a  great 
variety  of  soils,  yet  a  good  sandy  or  gravelly  loam  is  its  favorite  place. 
It  will  indeed  grow  in  much  thinner  and  dryer  soils  than  most  other 
fruit-trees,  but  to  obtain  thc3  finest  fruit  a  deep  and  mellow  soil,  of  good 
quality,  is  desirable.  When  it  is  forced  to  grow  in  wet  places,  or  where 
the  roots  are  constantly  damp,  it  soon  decays  and  is  very  short  lived. 
And  we  have  seen  this  tree,  when  forced  into  too  luxuriant  a  growth  in  our 
over-rich  Western  Foils,  become  so  gross  in  its  wood  as  to  bear  little  r  - 
no  fruit,  and   split   open  in  its  trunk,  and   soon   perish.     It  is  a  verj 


THE    CHEKRT.  449 

hardy  tree,  and  will  bear  a  great  variety  of  exposures  without  in- 
jury. In  deep  warm  valleys,  liable  to  spring  frosts,  it  is,  however, 
■well  to  plant  it  on  the  north  sides  of  hills,  in  order  to  retard  it  in  the 
spring. 

Propagation.  The  finer  sorts  are  nearly  always  propagated  by  bud- 
ding on  seedlings  of  the  common  black  mazzard,  which  is  a  very  com- 
mon kind,  producing  a  great  abundance  of  fruit,  and  very  healthy,  free 
growing  stocks.  To  raise  these  stocks,  the  cherries  should  be  gathered 
wben  fully  ripe,  and  allowed  to  lie  two  or  three  days  together,  so  that 
they  may  be  partially  or  wholly  freed  from  the  pulp  by  washing  them  in 
water.  They  should  then  be  planted  immediately  in  drills  in  the  seed 
plot,  covering  them  about  an  inch  deep.  They  will  then  vegetate  in 
the  following  spring,  and  in  good  soil  will  be  fit  for  planting  out  in  the 
nursery  rows  in  the  autumn  or  following  spring,  at  a  distance  of  ten  or 
twelve  inches  apart  in  the  row.  Many  persons  preserve  their  cherry 
stones  in  sand,  either  in  the  cellar  or  in  the  open  air,  until  spring,  but 
we  have  found  this  a  more  precarious  mode;  the  cherry  being  one  of  the 
most  delicate  of  seeds  when  it  commences  to  vegetate,  its  vitality  is 
frequently  destroyed  by  leaving  it  in  the  sand  twenty-four  hours  too 
long,  or  after  it  has  commenced  sprouting. 

After  planting  in  the  nursery  rows,  the  seedlings  are  generally  fit  for 
budding  in  the  month  of  August  following.  And  in  order  not  to  have  weak 
stocks  overpowered  by  vigorous  ones,  they  should  always  be  assorted 
before  they  are  planted,  placing  those  of  the  same  size  in  rows  together. 
Nearly  all  the  cherries  are  grown  with  us  as  standards.  The  English 
nurserymen  usually  bud  their  standard  cherries  as  high  as  they  wish 
them  to  form  heads,  but  we  always  prefer  to  bud  them  on  quite  young 
stocks,  as  near  the  ground  as  possible,  as  they  then  shoot  up  clean, 
straight,  smooth  stems,  showing  no  clumsy  joint  where  the  bud  and  the 
stock  are  united.  In  good  soils  the  buds  will  frequently  make  shoots, 
six  or  eight  feet  high,  the  first  season  after  the  stock  is  headed  back. 
Grafting  of  the  cherry  may  be  perfoimied  the  same  as  with  the  apple  and 
pear,  but  the  work,  to  be  successful,  should  always  be  performed  early  in 
the  season,  before  the  frost  is  well  out  of  the  ground.  If  omitted  until 
the  buds  begin  to  swell  strongly  the  chances  for  success  are  less  than  those 
of  failure. 

When  dwarf  trees  are  required,  the  Morello  seedlings  are  used  as 
stocks,  or  the  Perfumed  Cherry  (Cerasus  Mahaleb)  is  employed  ;  but 
as  standards  are  almost  universally  preferred,  these  are  seldom  seen 
here.  Dwarfs  in  the  nursery  must  be  headed  back  the  second  year,  in 
o  der  to  form  lateral  shoots  near  the  ground. 

Cultivation".  The  cherry,  as  a  standard  tree,  may  be  said  to  require 
little  or  no  cultivation  in  the  Middle  States,  further  than  occasionally 
supplying  old  trees  with  a  little  manure  to  keep  up  their  vigor,  pinning 
out  a  dead  or  crossing  branch,  and  washing  the  stem  with  soft  soap 
should  it  become  hard  and  bark-bound.  Pruning,  the  cherry  very  Utile 
needs,  and  as  it  is  always  likely  to  produce  gum  (and  this  decay),  it 
should  be  avoided,  except  when  really  required.  It  should  then  be 
done  in  midsummer,  as  that  is  the  only  season  when  the  gumisnot  more 
or  Less  oxuded.  The  cherry  is  not  a  very  long-lived  tree,  bul  in  favor- 
able soil  the  finest  varieties  generally  endure  about  thirty  or  fortj  years. 
In  the  County  of  Perry,  Ohio,  there  is  a  tree  of  the  Black  Mazzard 
variety  which  is  eighty  feet   in   height,  and   four  feet  one  inch  in  ilia 

29 


460  THE  CHERRY. 

meter  of  main  trunk,  while  the  length  of  the  largest  limb  or  branch  is 
forty -two  feet. 

A  large  cherry-tree  at  Walworth,  N.  Y.,  is  recorded  as  measuring 
fourteen  feet  six  inches  in  circumference,  sixty  feet  in  height,  and  having 
a  spread  of  over  four  rods.  It  has  produced  forty  bushels  of  fruit  in 
one  season. 

Twenty  feet  apart  for  the  strong,  and  eighteen  feet  for  the  slow- 
growing  kinds  is  the  proper  distance  for  this  tree. 

Training  the  Cherry  is  very  little  practised  in  the  United  States. 
The  Heart  and  Bigarreau  Cherries  are  usually  trained  in  the  horizontal 
manner,  explained  in  pages  44,  45.  When  the  wall  or  espalier  is  once 
filled,  as  there  directed,  with  lateral  branches,  it  is  only  necessary  to  cut 
off,  twice  every  season — in  the  month  of  May  and  July — all  additional 
shoots  to  within  an  inch  or  so  of  the  branch  from  which  they  grew.  As 
the  trees  grow  older,  these  fruit-spurs  will  advance  in  length,  but  by  cut- 
ting them  out  whenever  they  exceed  four  or  five  inches,  new  ones  will  be 
produced,  and  the  tree  will  continue  to  keep  its  proper  shape  and  yield 
excellent  fruit.  The  Morello  Cherries,  being  weaker  growing  sorts,  are 
trained  in  the  fan  manner  {pages  42,  43). 

Gathering  the  Fruit.  This  tender  and  juicy  fruit  is  best  when 
freshly  gathered  from  the  tree,  and  it  should  always  be  picked  with  the 
stalks  attached.  For  the  dessert,  the  flavor  of  many  sorts  in  our  climate 
is  rendered  more  delicious  by  placing  the  fruit,  for  an  hour  or  two  pre- 
vious, in  an  ice-house  or  refrigerator,  and  bringing  them  upon  the  table 
cool,  with  dew-drops  standing  upon  them.  For  market  or  transpor- 
tation long  distances,  they  should  be  gathered  only  when  perfectly  dry. 

Varieties.  Since  the  first  publication  of  this  work  was  written,  the 
number  of  varieties  has  greatly  increased,  and  become  so  hybridized  that 
no  distinct  line  can  now  be  drawn  separating  many  of  the  Heart  Cher- 
ries (tender  and  half  tender)  from  the  firm-fleshed  or  Bigarreau  varieties, 
«ach  class  insensibly  approaching  and  intermingling  with  the  other.  We 
have  therefore  made  but  one  class  of  these,  whose  main  characteristic  is 
the  large,  vigorous  growth  of  the  trees.  The  Duke  and  Morello  Cherries, 
also  wanting  a  natural  division,  we  make  to  constitute  another  class,  and 
in  these  two  have  comprised  all  the  cherries. 

CLASS  I. 
BIGARREAU  AND  HEART  CHERRIES. 

Adam's  Crown. 

Of  English  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  round  heart-shape,  pale  red.  Flesh  tender,  juicy, 
agreeable.     Middle  of  June. 

Amber. 

Imperial  English  Amber  ? 

A  variety  described  by  Coxe  as  large,  round.  Skin  glossy  cream 
color,  faint  blush.  Flesh  firm,  luscious.  Ripens  late  in  June.  Tree 
grows  large,  regular,  spreading. 


the  cherry.  451 

Amber  Gean. 
Gean  Amber. 

Of  foreign  origin,  exceedingly  productive,  ripens  late,  and  hangs  til. 
the  middle  of  July. 

Fruit  small,  oval  or  obtuse  heart-shape.  Skin  very  thin,  color  pale 
vellow,  partially  overspread  with  a  very  faint  red.  Stalk  long  and 
slender,  very  slightly  inserted.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  of  a  sweet 
and  pleasant  flavor. 

Am  b  ree. 
Cerise  Ambree. 

An  English  variety,  des>.  ribed  in  Lindley  as  of  rather  tender  habit  in 
tree. 

Fruit  large,  round,  flattened  next  the  stalk.  Skin  thick,  of  a  fine 
amber  color,  mottled  with  red  and  yellow.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  slightly 
tinged  with  red,  juicy,  excellent.     Middle  of  July. 

American  Amber. 

Bloodgood's  Amber.  Bloodgood's  Honey. 

Bloodgood's  New  Honey. 

Raised  by  the  late  Daniel  Bloodgood,  of  Flushing,  Long  Island.  A 
vigorous  tree,  productive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped,  slightly  indented  at  the 
apex.  Skin  thin,  smooth,  light  amber,  delicately  mottled  and  overspread 
with  bright  red.  Stalk  long  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  slight  narrow 
cavity.  Flesh  tender,  abounding  with  a  sprightly,  though  not  liigh- 
flavored  juice.     Ripe  about  the  25th  of  June. 

American  Heart. 

Its  origin  is  uncertain.  The  tree  is  quite  luxuriant,  with  wide- 
spreading  branches.     Productive. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  heart-shaped,  often  nearly  four-sided,  and  irregu- 
lar in  its  outline — borne  in  clusters.  Skin  at  first  pale,  not  becoming 
covered  with  light  red  or  pink,  mixed  with  very  little  amber.  Stalk 
rather  long  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  small  and  shallow  cavity.  Flesh 
half  tender  and  crackling,  adhering  to  the  skin,  which  is  rather  tough. 
Juice  abundant,  and  in  dry  seasons  sweet  and  excellent,  but  rather  want- 
ing in  sweetness  in  cool  or  wet  seasons.     Ripens  early  in  June. 

Anne. 

A  very  productive  early  variety.  Received  from  A.  V.  Bedford, 
Paris,  Ky. 

Fruit  medium  to  small,  bright  red,  tender,  juicy,  very  sweet,  and 
excellent,  a  good  amateur's  fruit,  growth  moderate.  Ripe  with  Early 
White  Heart,  or  soon  after. 

Argental's  Late. 

Bigarreau  Tardive  d'Argental. 

A  Cherry  from  France,  of  rather  spreading  habit,  with  irregular 
rather  slender  branches,  the  fruit  in  form  unlike  any  other  cherry. 


452 


THE    CHERRY. 


Fruit  medium,  elongated  oval.  Sides  compressed,  narrow  suture; 
Stalk  medium,  slender,  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  deep  purplish  black. 
Flesh  half  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  Very  good.  Stone  small,  narrow,  elon» 
gated  oval.     Ripens  July  10. 

Baumann's  May. 
Bigarreau  de  Mai.  Wilder's  Bigarreau  de  Mai. 

Of  foreign  origin.  A  very  productive,  early  variety,  of  vigorous 
growth,  of  good  quality,  but  not  equal  to  E.  P.  Guigne. 

Fruit  rather  small,  oval  heart-shaped,  and  rather  angular  in  outline. 
Skin  deep  rich  red,  becoming  rather  dark  when  fully  ripe.  Stalk  an  inch 
and  three-fourths  long,  pretty  stout  at  either  end,  and  set  in  a  very  nar- 
row and  rather  irregular  cavity.  Flesh  purplish,  tender,  juicy,  and  when 
fully  ripe,  tolerably  sweet  and  good.     Ripens  here  the  20th  of  May. 

Belle  Agathe. 
Autumn  Bigarreau.  Belle  Agathe  de  Novembre. 

A  variety  from  Belgium.     Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  good  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  roimdish  oval,  depressed  at  ends,  yellow,  mostly  covered 
with  red.  Flesh  firm,  hard,  sweet,  moderately  juicy.  Stone  large 
Valuable  only  because  of  its  time  of  ripening,  late  in  August. 


Belle  d' Orleans. 


Bigarreau. 


Belle  d'Orleans. 

A  foreign  variety,  ripening  just  after  the  Early  Purple  Guigne. 
lree  a  vigorous  grower,  spreading  habit,  productive,  and  a  valuable 
addition  to  the  early  kinds. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped.  Color  whitish 
yellow,  half  covered  with  pale  red.  Flesh  tender,  very  j  uicy,  sweet,  and 
excellent.     Ripens  early  in  June. 


THE  CHERRY.  453 

BlGARREAU. 

Graffion.  Yellow  Spanish. 

White  Bigarreau.  Amber,  or  Imperial. 

Turkey  Bigarreau  ?  Bigarreau  Royal. 

Italian  Heart.  Bigarreau  Gros  ? 

West's  White  Heart.  Bigarreau  Tardif. 

Groote  Princess.  Hollandische  Grosse. 

Prinzessin  Kirsche.  Cerise  Ambree. 

This  noble  fruit  is  uuquestionably  one  of  the  largest,  most  beautiful, 
and  delicious  of  Cherries.  It  was  introduced  into  this  country  about 
the  year  1800,  by  the  late  William  Prince,  of  Flushing,  and  has  been 
very  extensively  disseminated  under  the  names  of  Yellow  Spanish,  Graf- 
fion, and  Bigarreau.  The  tree  is  short,  but  thrifty  in  growth,  making 
6trong  lateral  shoots,  and  forming  a  large  and  handsome  head  with 
spreading  branches. 

Fruit  very  large,  and  of  a  beautiful  waxen  appearance,  regularly 
formed,  obtuse  heart-shaped,  the  base  a  good  deal  flattened.  Stalk  stout, 
nearly  two  inches  long,  inserted  in  a  wide  hollow.  Skin  pale  whitish 
yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  bordered  with  minute  carmine  dots,  and 
deepening  into  bright  red,  finely  marbled  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  pale 
yellow,  quite  firm,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  sweet,  and  delicious  flavor  if  allow- 
ed fully  to  ripen.     In  perfection  the  last  of  June. 

Bigarreau  Gros  Cceuret. 

Large  Heart-shaped  Bigarreau.  Bigarreau  Gros  Monstruetut 

Bigarreau  Cceur  de  Pigeon.  Bigarreau  Marcellin. 

Gros  Cceuret. 

This,  the  true  Large  Heart-shaped  Bigarreau,  is  a  French  variety 
only  rarely  seen  in  the  fruit  gardens  of  this  country. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  heart-shaped,  with  a  suture  blue  frequently 
raised,  instead  of  being  depressed.  Skin  at  first  yellowish  red,  marked 
with  deeper  red  streaks,  but  becoming,  when  fully  ripe,  a  dark  shining 
red,  almost  black.  Stalk  inserted  in  a  shallow  hollow.  Stone  oval  and 
rather  large.  Flesh  firm,  purplish,  a  little  bitter  at  first,  but  of  a  sweet 
flavor  when  fully  matured.     Ripe  first  week  in  July. 

Bigarreau  Jaboulat. 
Bigarreau  de  Lyon. 

This  is  a  fine  large,  early  Bigarreau.  Skin  covered  with  clear  red. 
Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  richly  flavored,  and 
delicious.     End  of  June.     (Hogg.) 

Some  years  since  we  received  a  Bigarreau  de  Lyon  from  Lewis  B. 
Eaton,  of  Buffalo,  N.  Y.,  he  having  purchased  it  from  a  lot  of  imported 
French  trees.  The  label  being  lost,  the  above  name  was  given,  and  as 
it  has  been  so  disseminated,  we  continue  it  and  give  description  to  aid 
in  its  identity.  The  tree  is  a  free  grower,  with  long,  spreading,  some- 
what pendulous  branches. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  somewhat  irregular  compressed.  Suture 
slight.  Skin  deep  red,  almost  black  at  maturity.  Stalk  rather  long, 
slender,  curved,  set     in   a  round  narrow  cavity  of    moderate    depth. 


454 


THE    CHERRY. 


Flesh  reddish   purple,   half   tender,  juicy,   sweet,   rich.       Very     good 
Early  July. 

BlGARREAU    OF    MEZEL. 


Great  Bigarreau  ? 

Great  Bigarreau  of  Mezel. 


Large  Red  Prool  ? 
Monstrous  de  Mezel. 


Bigarreau  Gaubalais. 

A  foreign  variety  of  the  largest  size,  and,  so  far  as  we  can  ju  Jge,  iden 
tical  with  Great  Bigarreau  and  Large  Bed  Prool.  This  is  however 
doubted  by  some.  The  tree  is  a  very  vigorous  grower,  forming  a  wide- 
spreading  open  head,  bearing  its  fruit  on  spurs  along  the  limbs  or 
branches. 

Fruit  very  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Surface  uneven,  dark  red,  or 
quite  black  at  maturity.  Stalk  long  and  slender.  Flesh  firm  and 
juicy,  but  not  high-flavored.     Bipe  last  of  June  and  beginning  of  July. 

Bigarreau  Biverchon. 

A  late  Cherry,  described  by  Bivers  as  large,  dark  red,  nearly  black. 
Flesh  rich.     July. 

Bill  and  Coo. 

A  variety  that  originated  on  the  grounds  of  Prof.  J.  P.  Kirtland, 
Cleveland,  O.,  and  took  its  name  from  the  tree  being  the  haunt  of 
two  young  lovers.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  regular,  heart-shaped,  flattened  at  apex.  Stalk 
long,  slender.  Sides  high.  Color  amber  yellow 
ground,  marbled  with  clear  rich  red.  Suture 
half  round,  broad,  opposite  side  knobby.  Flesh 
rich,  delicate,  sweet.  Early  in  June,  but  hangs  a 
long  time  without  decaying.     (Elliott's  Notes.) 

Black  Bigarreau  of  Savoy. 

New  Large  Black  Bigarreau. 
Bigarreau  Noir  de  Savoi. 
Bigarreau  Noir. 

An  Italian  variety,  of  very  vigorous  growth ; 
hardy  and  productive.    Young  wood  quite  dark. 

Fruit  large,  regularly  heart-shaped,  very 
slightly  obtuse.  Skin  smooth  and  even  on  the 
surface,  not  very  glossy,  quite  black  at  maturity. 
Stalk  an  inch  and  three-fourths  long,  rather  stout, 
set  in  a  narrow  even  hollow.  Flesh  purple,'  quite 
firm  and  solid,  with  a  rich  but  not  abundant 
juice.     Stone  rather  large.    Bipe  middle  of  July. 

Black  Eagle. 

A  very  excellent  English  variety,  raised  by 
the  daughter  of  Mr.  Knight,  at  Downton  Castle, 
in  180(3,  from  the  seed  of  the  Bigarreau  fertilized 
by  the  May  duke.     It  ripens  at  the  beginning  of 
July,  or  a  few  days  later  than  the  Black  Tartarian. 


Black  Eagle. 


THE    CHERRY.  455 

Fruit  rather  above  medium  size,  borne  in  pairs  and  tl  rees,  obtuse 
heart-shaped.  Skin  deep  purple,  or  nearly  black.  Stalk  of  medium 
length,  and  rather  slender.  Flesh  deep  purple,  tender,  with  a  rich, 
high-flavored  juice,  superior  to  the  Black  Heart.  Branches  strong,  with 
large  leaves.     Moderate  bearer. 

Black  Hawk. 

Originated  with  Dr.  J.  P.  Kirtland,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  The  tree  ia 
of  healthy,  vigorous,  spreading  habit,  with  much  of  the  general  character 
of  Yellow  Spanish.  As  a  table  fruit,  its  high  flavor  will  always  com- 
mend it ;  while  as  a  market  fruit,  its  size  and  productive  habit  of  tree 
place  it  among  the  very  bust. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shape,  often  obtuse.  Sides  compressed.  Surface  un- 
even. Color  dark  purplish  black,  glossy.  Flesh  dark  purple,  half  tender, 
almost  firm,  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  fine  flavor.  Season  from  20th  June  to  1st 
July. 

Black  Heart. 

Early  Black.  Black  Caroon. 

AnselTs  Fine  Black.  Guinier  a  fruit  noir. 

Spanish  Black  Heart.  Guigne  grosse  noir. 

Black  Russian.  Grosse  Schwarze  Hertz  Kirsche. 

The  Black  Heart,  an  old  varit  ty,  is  better  known  than  almost  any 
other  Cherry  in  this  country,  and  its  great  fruitfulness  and  good  flavor, 
together  with  the  hardiness  and  the  large  size  to  which  the  tree  grows, 
render  it  everywhere  esteemed. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  heart-shaped,  a  little  irregular.  Skin 
glossy,  dark  purple,  becoming  deep  black  when  fully  ripe.  Stalk  an 
inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  set  in  a  moderate  hollow.  Flesh,  before 
fully  ripe,  half  tender,  but  finally  becoming  tender  and  juicy,  with  a 
rich,  sweet  flavor.  Ripens  the  last  of  June,  about  ten  days  after  the 
Mayduke. 

Black  Mazzard. 

Mazzard.  Whixley  Black 

Common  English.  Merry  Cherry. 

Wild  English  Cherry.  Merisier  a  petit  fruit. 

Black  Honey.  Merisier  a  petit  fruit  noir. 

Bristol  Cherry.  Corone. 

Cerasus  avium.  Caroon. 

Wild  Black  Fruited.  Couronne. 

Small  Wild  Black.  Large  Wild  Black. 

This  is  the  wild  species  of  Europe,  being  common  in  the  forests  of 
France  and  some  parts  of  England;  audit  has  now  become  nal  iralized, 
and  grows  spontaneously  throughout  most  portions  of  the  settled  States. 
It  i  the  original  species  from  which  nearly  all  the  fine  Heart  and  other 
Bweet  cherries  have  sprung.  It  is  small,  and  of  little  value  for  eating, 
retaining,  unless  very  ripe,  a  certain  bitterness;  but  it  ripens  and  hangs 
on  th  ntil  the  middle  or  last  of  July,  so  that   it  then  becomes 

somewhat  acceptable. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  or  oval  heart-shaped,  flattened  a  little  on  both 
sides.      Stalk    long   and  very  slender,  inserted  in  a  small   depression 


456 


THE    CHERRY. 


Skin  thin,  and   when  fully  ripe,  jet  black.     Flesh,  soft  and   melting, 
purple,  with  an  abundant  somewhat  bitter  juice. 

The  White  Mazzard  of  Mr.  Manning  is  a   seedling  raised  by  that 
pomologist,  which  differs  little  except  in  its  color. 


Tartarian. 
Black  Circassian. 
Ronald's  Heart. 
Fraser's  Tartarische. 
Bishop's  Large. 


Black  Tartarian. 


Black   Tartarian. 

Fraser's  Black  Tartarian. 
Superb  Circassian. 
Fraser's  Black  Heart. 
Schwarze  Herz  Kirsche. 
Circassian. 


Ronald's  Large  Black  Heart. 
Fraser's  Black. 
Black  Russian. 
Double  Heart. 


This  superb  fruit  has  become  a  general  favorite 
in  all  our  gardens ;  and  in  size,  flavor,  and  produc- 
tiveness it  has  no  superior  among  black  cherries. 
It  is  a  Russian  and  West  Asian  variety,  intro- 
duced into  England  about  1796,  and  brought  thence 
to  this  country.  It  is  remarkable  for  its  rapid, 
vigorous  growth,  large  leaves,  and  the  erect  habit 
of  its  head.  The  fruit  ripens  about  the  middle  of 
June,  a  few  days  after  the  Mayduke. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  heart-shaped  (some- 
times rather  obtuse),  irregular  and  uneven  on  the 
surface.  Skin  glossy,  bright  purplish  black. 
Flesh  purplish,  thick  (the  stone  being  quite  small), 
half-tender,  and  juicy.  Flesh  very  rich  and  deli- 
cious. 

Bohemian  Black  Bigarreau. 
Bigarreau  Radowesnitzer. 

Foreign. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  heart-shape,  very 
even  and  regular  in  outline.  Skin  shining  jet 
black.  Stalk  short,  stout,  dark  green.  Flesh 
quite  black,  firm,  juicy,  richly  flavored  and  de- 
licious. Season  early  July.  (Florist  and  Pomo- 
logist.) 


Bowyer's  Early  Heart. 

Medium  size,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Skin  amber,  mottled  and 
shaded  with  red.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  vinous  flavor, 
Distinct  from  Early  White  Heart.     Ripens  immediately  after. 


Brand  ywine. 

Originated  near  Wilmington,  Del.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  pio- 
iuctive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  heart-shape,  almost  without  suture. 
Skin  yellowish,  beautifully  mottled  and  marbled  with  light  crimson 
and  lake,  small  light  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  in  a  moderate  oavity, 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  acidulous.  Fine  for  culinary  uses.  Stone 
rather  large.      Last  of  June. 


the  cherry.  457 

Brant. 

Origin,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  Tree  vigorous,  with  large  foliage  and 
spreading,  of  rather  round,  regular  form. 

Fruit  large,  rounded  angular  heart-shape.  Sides  slightly  compressed. 
Color  reddish  black.  Flesh  dark  purplish  red,  half  tender,  juicy,  sweet, 
and  rich.     Very  good.     Season  early  or  middle  of  June. 

Brown's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Connecticut.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  heart-shaped,  compressed  with  a  line  and  slight 
suture.  Stalk  in  a  broad  cavity.  Skin  whitish,  shaded  and  mottled 
with  red.     Flesh  half  tender,  j  nicy ,  sweet.     Good.     Early  July. 

Burr's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Perrinton,  Monroe  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  vigorous  spreading 
grower,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  whitish  yellow  shaded  with  light  red,  and 
Hometimes  mottled.  Flesh  nearly  tender,  with  a  sweet,  rich,  excellent 
flavor.     Very  good.     Ripe  the  last  of  June. 

Buttner's  Black  Heart. 

From  Germany.     Tree  a  vigorous  grower. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  almost  black.  Flesh  purplish,  firm,  juicy, 
not  very  rich.     Good,     Ripe  middle  of  July. 

Buttner's  Yellow. 
Buttner's  Wachs-Knorpel  Kirsche.  Buttner's  Gelbe-Knorpel  Kirsche. 

Raised  by  Biittner,  of  Halle,  in  Germany,  and  one  of  the  few  Cher- 
ries entirely  yellow. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish.  Skin  pale  yellow.  Flesh  firm,  yel- 
lowish, sweet,  and  not  of  much  value.     Ripe  first  week  in  July. 

Carmine  Stripe. 

Raised  by  Prof.  J.  P.  Kirtland.  Tree  vigorous,  healthy,  spreading. 
Very  productive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  heart-shaped.  Suture  half  round,  followed  by 
a  line  of  carmine.  Color  amber  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  bright, 
lively  carmine.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  sprightly,  and  agreeable. 
Verv  good.     Stalk  varies.     Season,  last  of  June. 

Caroline. 

One  of  Prof.  J.  P.  Kirtland's  originating.  Tree  a  vigorous,  somewhat 
upright  spreading  habit,  very  productive,  and  an  exceedingly  delicious 
fruit  for  the  dessert. 

Fruit  above  medium,  round  oblong,  one  side  compressed  slightly. 
Color  pale  amber,  mottled  with  clear  light  red,  and  when  fully  exposed 
to  the  sun  becomes  rich  red.  Flesh  very  tender,  juicy,  "weet,  and  deli 
cate.     Very  good  or  best.     Season  last  of  June. 


468  the  cherry. 

Byrnsville. 

Origin,  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  nearly  globular,  slight  apex.  Skin  yellowish, 
shaded  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red.  Stalk  medium  or  short. 
Flesh  very  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Good.     Last  June. 

Champagne. 

Originated  at  Newburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  and  forma 
a  round  head. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped.  Color  lively  brick 
red,  inclining  to  pink,  a  little  paler  on  the  shaded  side.  Stalk  of 
moderate  length  and  size,  inserted  in  a  rather  flat  shallow  depression. 
Flesh  amber-colored,  of  a  lively  rich  flavor,  a  mingling  of  sugar  and 
acid,  something  between  Downer's  Late  and  a  Duke  cherry,  a  good 
bearer,  and  ripens  uniformly  and  hangs  some  time  on  the  tree.  Very 
good.     Season  last  of  June. 

China  Bigarreau. 

Chinese  Heart. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped,  light  amber,  mottled 
and  shaded  with  bright  red.  Flesh  firm,  with  a  sweet,  peculiar  flavor. 
Good.     Ripe  last  of  June. 

Cleveland. 
Cleveland  Bigarreau. 

Raised  by  Professor  J.  P.  Kirtland,  a  thrifty  strong  grower,  spreading, 
productive,  and  a  fine  fruit. 

Fruit  large,  round  heart-shape.  Suture  pretty  broad,  nearly  half- 
round.  Color  bright  clear  red  on  yellowish  ground.  Flesh  fine,  juicy, 
rich,  sweet,  and  fine  flavor.  Ripe  a  few  days  before  Black  Tartarian. 
Very  good. 

Cocklin's  Favorite. 
Late  Amber. 

Origin  unknown.  Introduced  by  E.  H.  Cocklin,  Shepherdstown, 
Pa.     Tree  upright,  conical,  vigorous,  and  exceedingly  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  regular,  a  little  compressed,  somewhat  flatten- 
ed at  base,  almost  without  suture.  Apex  sunk.  Skin  yellowish  shaded, 
and  somewhat  mottled  in  the  sun  with  light  crimson.  Stalk  long  and 
slender,  in  a  deep  smooth  cavity.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous. 
Very  good.    Stone  very  small.     Ripens  a  little  later  than  Downer's  Red. 

Coe's  Transparent. 

Originated  with  Curtis  Coe,  of  Middletown,  Conn.  A  produc- 
tive and  valuable  addition  to  the  amateur's  collection,  but  ralher  toe 
tender  for  carriage  to  market.  Tree  vigorous  and  hardy,  with  a  round 
and  somewhat  spreading  head. 


THE    CHERRY. 


4o9 


Coe's  Transparent 


Fruit  of  medium  size,  remarkably  round  ani  regular  in  form.  Skin 
thin,  wax-like,  of  a  very  delicate  pale  amber,  nearly  covered  with  pale  cor- 
uelian  red  in  the  sun,  and  marked  with  delicate  pale 
spots  or  blotches,  which  give  it  a  unique  appearance. 
Stalk  set  in  a  deep  depression  of  moderate  depth. 
Flesh  very  tender,  melting,  and  juicy,  with  a  deli- 
cate but  sweet  and  excellent  flavor.  Best.  Ripens 
just  before  Black  Tartarian. 

Columbia. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  pro- 
ductive. Fruit  medium,  heart-shaped,  inclining  to  a 
point.  Surface  angular  and  uneven.  Sides  com- 
pressed. Suture  deep  and  narrow.  Stalk  long  and 
slender,  in  a  large  deep  cavity.  Skin  whitish  yel- 
low, shaded  aud  mottled  with  light  red.  Flesh 
whitish,  slightly  stained  with  pink,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant.     Good.     Last  of  June. 

CoNESTOGA. 

Origin,  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa.  Introduced  by  Cas- 
par Hiller.  Tree  a  very  vigorous  spreading  grower, 
and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse,  heart-shaped,  slightly  compressed.  Suturo 
shallow.  Apex  small.  Stalk  long.  Cavity  deep,  large.  Skin  deep  red 
or  purplish,  somewhat  mottled.  Flesh  reddish,  almost  tender,  juicy, 
brisk.      Good.     Early  July. 

Cornelia. 

Originated  by  Charles  Pease,  near  Cleveland,  O.  Tree  vigorous,  up- 
right spreading,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  heart-shaped,  compressed.  Suture  slight. 
Skin  whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  rich  bright  crimson  when  fully  ex- 
posed to  the  sun.  Stalk  long,  in  a  narrow  deep  cavity.  Flesh  light 
yellow,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  lively  flavor.  Veiy  good.  Stone  small. 
Last  of  June. 

Dacotah. 

A  new  variety,  originated  by  Charles  Pease,  Sen.,  near  Cleveland,  O. 
The  tree  resembles  Rockport  in  habit  of  growth,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  heart-shaped,  compressed.  Suture  shallow, 
with  projection  aud  dark  line  on  the  opposite  side  Stalk  long,  slender, 
pretty  deep,  rather  narrow  cavity.  Skin  rich  dark  red,  almost  black. 
Surface  a  little  uneven.  Flesh  purplish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet.  Very 
good.     Stone  medium.     Ripe  just  after  Black  Tartarian. 


Davenport's  Early  Black. 


Davenport. 

Davenport's  Early. 


New  Mayduke. 


Origin,  Dorchester,  Mass.     Tree  of  moderate   upright   growth,  dis- 
tinct from  Black  Heart,  an  early  and  good  bearer. 


460 


THE    CHERRY. 


Fruit  above  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped.  Stem  an  incn  and 
a  half  long,  rather  stout,  in  a  medium  cavity.  Color  dark  purplish  black. 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  and  pleasant.  Ripe  about  the  time  of  May  duke  or 
just  before.     Very  good. 


Delicate. 


Ripens  early  in  June. 


Delicate. 

Raised  by  Prof.  J.  P.  Kirtland,  Cleveland,  O. 
Tree  thrifty,  rather  spreading  habit,  productive, 
and  its  beautiful  appearance  and  delicate  flavor 
will  make  it  a  favorite  for  family  uso. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium  size,  roundish, 
slightly  depressed.  Stem  medium  length,  in  a 
rather  broad  deep  cavity.  Color  fine  amber  yel- 
low in  the  shade,  with  a  rich  bright  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a 
delicate  rich  flavor.  Best.  Ripens  the  last  of 
June. 

Doctor. 
The  Doctor. 

Tree  a  free  grower,  somewhat  spreading,  very 
productive,  apt  to  be  small  unless  well  cultivated. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped. 
Stalk  of  medium  length,  in  a  round  regular  cavity. 
Color  light  yellow,  mostly  shaded  with  bright  red. 
Flesh   tender,   juicy,  and   pleasant.      Very   good. 


DOULIN  BlGARREAU  ? 

A  foreign  variety,  which  may  be  distinct, 
but  doubtful.  Tree  a  rapid,  spreading  grower, 
an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  compressed  on  one 
side.  Suture  slight.  Stalk  slender,  curved. 
Cavity  deep.  Skin  dark  purplish  red.  Flesh 
pinkish,  rather  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant. 
Good  to  very  good.     Early  June. 

Downer's  Late. 


Downer's  late  Red 
late    Cherry    was   raised    by 


Downer  a  Late. 


Downer. 

This  valuable 
Samuel  Downer,  Esq.,  an  ardent  cultivator,  of 
Dorchester,  near  Boston.  It  is  a  very  regular 
and  great  bearer,  ripens  about  a  week  after  the 
Cherry  season,  and  hangs  for  a  considerable  time 
on  the  tree. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped, 
inclining  to  oval.  Skin  very  smooth,  of  a  soft 
but  lively  red,  mottled  with  a  little  amber  in  the 


THE    CHERRY. 


461 


shade.  Stalk  inserted  with  a  very  slight  depression.  Fruit  be  rne  thick 
ly,  in  clusters.  Flesh  tender,  melting,  with  a  sweet  and  luscious  flavor 
Ripens  from  the  4th  to  the  10th  of  July. 

Downino's  Red  Cheek. 

Originated  at  Newburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading, 
productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  regulaidy  obtuse  heart-shaped,  with  a  pretty 
distinct  suture.  Skin  thin,  white,  with  a  rich  dark  crimson  cheek 
(somewhat  mottled).  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  set  in  an  even  hol- 
low of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  yellowish,  half  tender,  and  of  a  very 
debicate  sweet.     Very  good.     Ripens  about  the  14th  of  June. 


DOWNTON. 

A  variety  raised  by  T.  A.  Knight,  Esq.,  of 
Downton  Castle,  from  the  seed,  it  is  believed,  of 
the  Elton.  Tree  having  a  round  spreading  head, 
moderately  productive. 

Fruit  large,  very  blunt  heart-shaped,  nearly 
roundish.  Stalk  one  and  a  half  to  two  inches 
long,  slender,  set  in  a  pretty  deep,  broad  hollow. 
Skin  pale  cream  color,  semi-transparent,  deli- 
cately stained  on  one  side  with  red,  and  marbled 
with  red  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  without  any  red, 
tender,  adhering  slightly  to  the  stone,  with  a 
delicious  rich  flavor.     Very  good.     Last  of  June. 

Drogan's  White  Bigarreau. 
Bigarreau  Blanc  de  Drogan. 

Fruit  heart-shaped,  pointed  at  apex,  flattened 
on  one  side,  yellow,  mottled  and  flushed  with 
red  in  the  sun.     Stalk  stout.     Flesh  firm,  sweet.  Downton. 

(Hogg.) 

Drogan's  Yellow  Bigarreau. 
Bigarreau  Jaune  de  Drogan.  Drogan's  Gelbe  Knorpelskirsche. 

Fruit  large,  round.      Skin  clear   pale   yellow.     Flesh   very  juicy, 
Bweet,  and  pleasant.     Middle  July.     (Hogg.) 


Early  Black  Bigarreau. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped.     Skin  jet  black.    Stalk  rather  long.  Flesh 
dark  purple,  firm,  sweet.     Ripe  middle  of  June.     (Hogg.) 

Eably  Lamaurie. 

A  rariety  described  by  Rivers,  not  yet  fruited  in  this  country. 
Fruit  large,   dark   purple.     Flesh   rich,  juicy,  excellent.     A  week 
earlier  than  Early  Purple  Guigne. 


(62 


THE    CHERRY. 


Early  Lyons. 
Rose  de  Lyons. 

This,  to  our  knowledge,  has  not  yet  been  introduced  to  this  country. 
Rivers,  the  celebrated  English  pomologist,  describes  it  as : 

Fruit  very  large,  light  red  and  yellow.  Flesh  juicy,  rich,  excellent* 
Ripens  about  a  week  later  than  Early  Purple  Guigne. 

Early  Prolific. 

Raised  by  Dr.  J.  P.  Kirtland,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  An  excellent  early 
very  prolific  variety,  of  moderate  growth. 

Fruit  medium  size,  round  obtuse  heart-shape,  light  yellow  ground 
shaded  and  mottled  with  bright  red.  Stalk  long.  Flesh  half  tender, 
juicy,  rich,  sweet,  and  very  good.     Ripe  about  a  week  before  Mayduke. 

Early  Purple  Guigne. 

Early  Purple  Griotte. 
German  Mayduke. 
Trempe  Pnicoce. 

Origin  unknown.  An  exceedingly  early 
variety,  ripening  the  last  of  May  in  favor- 
able seasons.  Tree  hardy,  free  grower, 
spreading,  somewhat  pendent,  and  the 
leaves  have  longer  petioles  than  most  other 
sorts ;  a  good  bearer,  and  indispensable 
among  the  early  varieties. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  heart- 
shaped.  Stem  long,  inserted  in  a  rather 
shallow  cavity.  Suture  indistinct.  Skip 
smooth,  dark  red,  becoming  purple  at 
maturity.  Flesh  purple,  tender,  juicy, 
with  a  rich  and  sweet  flavor.  Good  to  very 
good. 

Has  proved  hardy  at  the  "West,  and  well 
adapted  to  that  climate. 

Early  Red  Bigarreau. 
Bigarreau  Rouge  de  Gouben. 

•An  excellent  early  Cherry,  the  tree  somewhat  of  the  habit  of  a  Duke 
in  its  growth. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shape,  bright  red,  translucent.  Stalk  long.  Flesh 
firm,  rich,  sweet,  excellent.     Early  June.     (Hogg.) 

Early  White  Heart. 

Arden's  Early  White  Heart.  White  Transparent. 

White  Heart.  Amber  Heart. 

Dredge's  Early  White  Heart.  Swedish. 

Herefordshire  White 

An  old  variety.  Tree  vigorous,  roundish  upright,  although  a  good 
early  fruit.  It  is  not  equal  to  Belle  D'Orleans,  Early  Prolific,  and  others 
of  the  same  season. 


Early  Purple  Guigne. 


THE    CHERRY. 


463 


Fruit  below  medium  size,  rather  heart-shaped — often  a  little  one- 
sided. Suture  quite  distinct.  Stalk  an  inch  and  three-fourths  long, 
rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  wide  shallow  cavity.  Skin  dull  whitish 
yellow,  tinged  and  speckled  with  pale  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  half  tender, 
unless  fully  ripe,  when  it  is  melting,  with  a  sweet  and  pleasant  flavor. 
Good.    First  of  June.     Manning's  Early  White  similar  to  abovp 

Elizabeth. 
Originated  by  Caleb  Atwater,  Ohio.      Tree  vigorous,  upright,  very 
prolific. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  heart-shaped.  Skin  rich  dark  red  when  fully 
ripe.  Flesh  half-tender,  juicy,  pleasantly  sweet.  Good.  Ripe  middlfl 
to  last  of  June. 

Elton. 


Bigarreau  Couleur  de  Chair. 
Flesh -colored  Bigarreau. 
Gros  Bigarreau  Couleur  de  Chair. 
Gr<>s  Bigarreau  Blanc. 
Bigarreau  a  Gros  Fruit  Blanc. 
Large  Heart-shaped  Bigarreau. 


Bigarreau  de  Rocmont. 

Coeur  de  Pigeon. 

Belle  de  Rocmont  ? 

Elton  Kirsche. 

Elton's  Bunte  KnorpelMrsche. 


The  Elton,  a  seedling  raised  in  1806,  by  the  late  President  of  the 
London  Horticultural  Society,  is  certainly  one 
of  the  first  of  Cherries  in  all  respects.  The 
trees  grow  very  vigorously,  and  are  readily 
known,  when  in  foliage,  by  the  unusually  dark 
ed  color  of  the  foot-stalks  of  the  leaves. 

Fruit  large,  rather  pointed  heart-shaped. 
Skin  thin,  shining,  pale  yellow  on  the  shaded 
side,  but  with  a  cheek  next  the  sun  delicately 
mottled  and  streaked  with  bright  red.  Stalk 
long  and  slender.  Flesh  somewhat  firm  at 
first,  but  becoming  nearly  tender,  juicy,  with 
a  very  rich  and  luscious  flavor,  not  surpassed 
by  any  large  Cherry  known.  Ripens  about 
the  middle  of  June,  or  directly  after  the  May- 
duke. 

Esperen  Bigarreau. 

Bigarreau  d'Esperm. 
Bigarreau  des  Vignes. 

Tree  vigorous,  rather  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  heart-shaped.  Skin 
yellowish  wliite,  mottled  and  shaded  with  bright 
rich  red.       Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  inserted  Eton. 

in  a  large  cavity.     Flesh  rather  iJrm,  juicy,  and 

good  flavor.       Good.       Ripe  middle  of  July.       This  may  yet  prove  th* 
same  as  Napoleon  Bigarreau. 

Favorite. 
Elliott's  Favorite. 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 
Fruit  small  to  medium.     Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  in  a  slight  de« 


464 


THE    CHEERY. 


pression.  Color  pale  yellow,  -with  a  light  red  cheek,  somewhat  marbled 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  of  a  delicate  flavor.  Very  good.  Eipe 
last  of  June. 

Florence. 
Knevett's  Late  Bigarreau. 

A  most  excellent  Cherry,  originally  brought  from  Florence,  in  Ialy, 
which  considerably  resembles  the  Bigarreau,  but  ripens  a  little  later, 
and  has  the  additional  good  quality  of  hanging  a  long  time  on  the  tree. 

Fruit  lai-ge,  roundish  heart-shaped,  flattened  at  base,  pale  amber, 
mottled  or  mostly  covered  with  bright  red.  Flesh  amber  color,  firm, 
rich,  sweet,  fine  flavor.     Very  good.     Stone  small.     Middle  July. 

Frogmoke  Early  Bigarreau. 

An  early  Cherry  of  recent  introduction.  It  is  described  in  the  Lon- 
don Florist  as  "  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Skin  with  a  brilliant  red 
cheek,  dotted  with  minute  yellow  points.  Flesh  delicate,  translucent, 
tender,  juicy,  rich  sweet  flavox*.     Ripens  before  any  fruit  of  its  class." 


< '  ■  :'s  Heart. 


Bleeding  Heart. 
Red  Heart. 


Herefordshire  Heart. 
Guigne  Rouge  Hative. 

An  old  English  variety. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  long  heart-shaped,  small  drop  or  tear  at  the 
end.     Skin  dark  red.     Flesh  reddish,  half  tender,  with  only  a  tolerable 

flavo".     Poor.     Ripe  the  last  of  June. 
A  bad  bearer. 


Gifford's  Seedling. 

Small,  roundish  heart-shaped, 
red,   very   sweet.     Hardly    good, 
ductive,  last  of  June. 

Governor  Wood. 


Light 
Pro- 


Raised  by  Professor  Kirtland,  Cleve- 
land, O.  It  deserves  a  place  in  every 
good  collection.  Tree  vigorous,  forming 
a  round,  regular  head,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  heart-shaped. 
Skin  light  yellow,  shaded  and  marbled 
with  bright  red.  Suture  half  round. 
Stem  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  in  a  broad 
cavity.  Flesh  nearly  tender,  juicy,  sweet, 
Ckremor  Wood.  rich,  and  delicious.     Very  good  to  best 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  June. 

Gkidlet. 

Apple  Cherry. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  black.     Flesh  firm,  not  very  juicy  nor  rich. 
Ripens  last  of  June.     Poor.     Productive.     Origin,  Massachusetts. 


the  cherry.  466 

Grosse  de  Wagnellee. 

Originated  in  Belgium.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  large,  oval.     Skin  yellow,  washed  and  spotted  with  red.  Flesh 
tender  juicy,  sweet.     July.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Guigne  Tres  Precoce. 

Rivers  says  of  this  : 

Fruit  rather  small,  round,  dark  purple.  Stalk  very  short.  Flesh 
very  sweet.     One  of  the  earliest  to  ripen,  and  a  great  bearer. 

Hensel's  Early. 

Origin,  Lancaster,  Pa.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  hardy,  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  roundish,  obtuse  at  base.  Stalk  slender.  Flesh  half  tender, 
moderately  juicy.     Good.     Early  June.     (Hort.) 

HlLDESHEIM    BlGARREAU. 

Bigarreau  Tardif  de  Hildesheim. 
Bigarreau  marbrr  de  Hildesheim. 
Bigarreau  Blanc  Tardif  de  Hildesheim. 
Hildesheimer  ganz  Spate  Knorpel  Kirsche. 
Hildesheimer  Spite  Herz  Kirsche. 
Spate  Hildesheimer  Marmor  Kirsche. 

The  Hildesheim  Bigarreau  is  a  German  variety  which  ripens  here 
in  August. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  heart-shaped.  Skin  yellow,  mottled  and 
marbled  with  red.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  firm,  with  a  sweet  and  agreeable 
flavor.     Good. 

HOADLEY. 

Raised  by  Prof.  Kirtland.  Tree  of  healthy,  vigorous  habit,  form- 
ing a  round,  spreading  head. 

Fruit  above  medium,  regular  round  heart-shape,  light  clear  carmine 
rod,  mottled  and  striped  on  pale  yellow.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  rich, 
sweet,  and  delicious.     Very  good.     Season,  20th  to  last  of  June. 


Honey. 

Large  Honey.  Late  Honey. 

Yellow  Honey.  Murisier  i  fruit  blano. 

A  small,  late,  very  sweet  fruit,  formerly  much  esteemed. 
Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow  and  red.     Flesh  tender,  very  sweet. 
Middle  of  July. 

HOVEY. 

Originated   with    C.    M.    Hovey,    Boston,    Mass.      Tree   vigorous, 
upright  spreading,  productive. 

30 


466 


THE    CHERRY. 


Fruit   large,  heart-sL aped,   compressed  on  one   side  with  a  distinct 
line  from  apex  to  stalk.     Stalk  medium.     Cavity  deep.     Skin  whitish 
yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with    rich    shades 
of  red.     Flesh  rather  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  pleas- 
ant.    "Very  good.     Middle  of  July. 

Hyde's  Late  Black. 

Origin,  Newton,  Mass.  Strong  grower  and 
good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  heart-shaped,  pur- 
plish black.  Flesh  half  firm,  juicy.  Good.  Ripe 
first  week  in  July. 

Hyde's  Red  Heart. 

Origin,  Newton,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium,  heart-shaped.  Skin  pale, 
but  becoming  a  light  red  at  maturity.  Flesh 
tender,  sprightly.     Ripe  last  of  June. 

Jaune  de  Prusse. 

Foreign. 

Tree  vigoro\is,  with  long  slender  branches,  Hovey. 

productive,    small,  heart-shaped,    light  yellow, 

translucent.  Stalk  long  and  slender.  Flesh  yellowish-white,  tender, 
juicy  sweet,  a  little  bitter  before  fully  ripe,  which  is  soon  after 
Downer's  Late. 

Jocosot. 

Origin  near  Cleveland,  O. 

Fruit  large,  very  regular,  uniform  heart-shape,  slightly  obtuse,  and 
with  a  deep  indenture  at  apex.  Surface  uneven.  Color  rich  glossy 
dark  liver  color,  almost  black.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  rich  sweet 
flavor.     Very  good.     Season,  near  the  last  of  June. 


Kennicott. 

Raised  by  Prof.  Kirtland.  Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  spreading.  Very 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  oval  heart-shape,  compressed.  Suture  shallow,  half 
round.  Color  amber  yellow,  mottled  and  much  overspread  with  rich, 
bright,  clear,  glossy  red.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  sweet.  Very  good. 
Season,  8th  to  10th  July. 

Keokuk. 

Originated  by  Prof.  J.  P.  Kirtland.  Tree  a  strong,  vigorous  grower, 
forming  a  large  tree. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  dark  purplish  black.  Flesh  half  tender, 
rather  coarse,  and  deficient  in  flavor.  Hardly  good.  Its  chief  merit  a 
market  variety.     Ripe  early  in  July. 

Kirtland's  Mammoth. 

Originated  by  Prof  Kirtland.  Tree  vigorous  grower,  but  pool 
bearer. 


THE    CHERRY. 


467 


Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Color  bright  clear 
yellow,  partially  overspread  and  marbled  with  rich  red.  Flesh  almost 
tender,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  very  fine  high  flavor.  Very  good,  or  best. 
Season,  last  of  June. 

Kirtland's  Mary. 

Raised  by  Prof.  Kirtland.  Tree  a  strong,  upright  grower,  said  to  be 
one  of  the  best  of  his  seedlings,  and  desirable  either  for  the  dessert  or 
market  purposes. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  heart-shape,  very  regular.  Color  light  and 
dark  rich  red,  deeply  marbled  and  mottled  on  a  yellow  ground ;  grown 
fully  in  the  sun,  is  mostly  a  rich,  dark  glossy  red.  Flesh  light  yellow, 
quite  firm,  rich,  juicy,  sweet,  and  very  high  flavored.  Very  good  or 
best.     Season,  last  of  June  and  first  of  July. 

Knight's  Early  Black. 

A  most  adjoirable  early  Cherry,  resembling 
the  Black  Tartarian,  though  much  more  obtuse  in 
form,  but  ripening  nearly  a  week  earlier.  Tree 
spreading.      Moderately  productive. 

Fruit  large,  a  little  irregular  in  outline,  obtuse 
heart-shaped.  Stalk  of  moderate  length,  rather 
stout,  and  inserted  in  a  deep  open  cavity.  Skin 
dark  purple,  becoming  black.  Flesh  purple,  ten- 
der, juicy,  with  a  rich  and  sweet  juice  of  high 
flavor. 

Lady  of  the  Lake. 

Originated  by  Charles  Pease,  Sen.,  near  Cleve- 
land, O.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obtuse  conic, 
compressed,  shallow  suture,  a  knob,  and  bine  on 
opposite   side.       Skin   light   yellow,    shaded   and 
marbled   with   rich   bright   crimson.      Stalk   me-        Knight's  Ewly  Black, 
dium,  in  a  deep  cavity.     Flesh  half  tender,  pale 
yellow,  juicy,  sweet.     Very  good.     Middle  to  last  of  June. 


Lady  Southampton's  Yellow. 


Lady  Southampton's  Duke. 

Golden  Drop. 


Yellow  or  Golden. 
Spanish  Yellow. 


Fruit  of  medium  size,  heart-shaped.     Skin  yellow.     Flesh  firm,  not 
very  juicy.     Ripens  about  the  middle  of  July. 


Large  Red  Bigarreau. 


Gros  Bigarreau  Rouge. 
Bigarreau  ;i  Gros  Fruit  Rouge. 


Bigarreau  a  Gros  Fruit  Rouge. 
Belle  de  Rocraont. 


Fruit   la  og  shape.      Skin  dark  red  in  the  sun.      Flesh 

firm.     Early  in  July.      Poor  bearer. 


468  the  cherry. 

Late  Bigarreau 

Originated  by  Prof.  Kirtland.  Tree  thrifty,  moderate  growth,  rathe* 
spreading,  product]  ve. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Skin  deep  yellow,  shaded  on  the 
sunny  side  with  bright  red.  Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  broad  open 
cavity.  Flesh  almost  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant  flavor.  Very  good. 
Ripe  last  of  June  and  first  of  July. 

Late  Purple  Guigne. 

A  new  foreign  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  dark  red.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet.  Middle 
July. 

Laura. 

Originated  with  Charles  Pease,  Sen.,  Cleveland,  O.  Tree  spreading 
upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  heart-shaped,  globular,  sometimes  one-sided. 
Color  pale  yellow  ground,  mostly  overspread  with  rich,  bright  red,  with- 
out suture.  Stem  medium  or  short,  in  a  shallow  depression.  Flesh 
peach-blow  white,  radiating  lines  wavy,  juicy,  sweet,  very  rich,  and 
high  flavor,  excellent,  half  or  nearly  tender.  Pit  medium  to  small 
Season  early  in  June,  but  hangs  well. 

Leather  Stocking. 

Raised  by  Professor  Kirtland.     Tree  vigorous,  upright  spreading. 
Fruit   medium,   heart-shaped,    reddish   black.      Flesh   firm,  sweet. 
Middle  to  last  of  July. 

Lincoln. 

Originated  near  Cleveland,  O.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  heart-shape,  pointed.  Color  when  ripe  a  brown 
red.  Suture  rather  broad,  shallow,  half  round.  Stalk  long.  Cavity 
deep.  Flesh  almost  firm,  veined  and  marbled  with  shades  of  red, 
sprightly,  juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasant.  Good.  Stone  above  medium. 
First  to  middle  of  July.     A  good  market  sort.     (Elliott.) 

Lindley. 

Origin,  near  Cleveland,  O.     Tree  vigorous,  moderately  prolific. 
Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,   dark  purplish  red.     Flesh  almost  firm, 
tinged  with  red,  juicy,  but  only  good.     Early  July.     (Elliott.) 

Logan. 

Originated  with  Prof.  Kirtland. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obtuse,  sometimes  regular  heart-shaped, 
with  a  hollow  indenture  at  apex.  Color  purplish  black  when  ripe. 
Flesh  nearly  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich  flavor.  Yery  good.  Season 
middle  to  last  of  June. 


THE   CHERRY.  160 

LuDWIG. 

Lndwig'8  Bigarreau.  Bigarreau  de  Ludwig. 

A  Cherry  of  recent  introduction,  not  yet,  to  our  knowledge,  fruited 
in  this  country.  It  is  described  as  large,  heart-shaped,  or  pointed,  with 
a  deep  suture  on  one  side,  bright  rich  red.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  half  ten- 
der, juicy.     Early  June. 

Lundie  Gean. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish,  purplish  black.    Flesh  tender,  juicy.    July. 

Madison  Bigarreau. 

Raised  by  Robert  Manning,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Tree  healthy,  very 
productive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  fair  quality,  roundish.  Skin  yellow,  shaded 
with  red.  Flesh  half  tender,  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  flavor.  Ripe  mid* 
die  or  last  of  June.     Good. 

Manning's  Early  Black  Heart. 

Raised  by  Robert  Manning,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous, 
spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  similar  to  the  Black  Heart,  rather  earlier  and  smaller 
in  size.     Ripe  about  the  middle  of  June. 

Manning's  Late  Black. 

Raised  by  Robert  Manning,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  deep  purple  or  nearly  black.  Flesh  purplish, 
half  tender,  veiy  juicy,  sweet,  and  excellent.  Good.  Ripe  the  last  of 
June.     Tree  vigorous. 

Manning's  Mottled. 
Mottled  Bigarreau. 

Raised  by  Robert  Manning.  It  is  a  most  abundant  bearer.  Tree 
vigorous,  upright  spreading. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  heart-shaped,  flattened  on  one  side,  with 
distinct  suture  lines.  Skin  amber  color,  finely  mottled  and  overspread 
with  red,  with  a  semi-transparent,  glossy  appearance.  Stalk  slender, 
inserted  in  a  shallow  hollow.  Flesh,  when  fully  ripe,  yellow,  tender, 
with  a  sweet  and  delicious  juice.    Very  good.     Ripens  the  last  of  June. 

Merveille  de  Septembre. 

Tardive  de  Mona. 

A  French  variety,  ripening  in  August,  vigorous  grower. 
Fruit  small,  firni,  rather  diy,  Bweet,  but  of  little  value. 

Moyer's  Honey  Heart. 

Originated  in  Bucks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  a  stroug  grower,  forming  m 
round  head. 


470 


THE    CHERRY. 


Fruit  small  or  medium,  obtuse  heart-shape,  slightly  compressed- 
Suture  small.  Apex  slight.  Skin  whitish,  shaded  and  mottled  with 
rich  red.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant, 
often  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Middle  July. 

Nancy. 

Originated  by  Charles  Pease,  Sen.,  Cleveland,  O.  Tree  a  vigorous, 
rather  upright  spreading  grower.    Very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shape.  Suture  slight.  Stalk  long,  stout, 
in  a  large  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  crimson. 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  rich,  and  sweet.  Very  good.  Stone  small.  Last 
of  June. 

Napoleon  Bigarreau. 


Bigarreau  Lauennann. 
Lauermann's  Kirsche. 
Lauermann's  Grosse  Kirsche. 
Clarke's  Bigarreau. 


Lauermann's  Herz  Kirsche. 
Holland  Bigarreau  ? 
Clarke's  Superb. 


The  Napoleon  Bigarreau  is  large,  well-flavored,  handsome,  and  pro 
ductive. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  very  regularly  heart-shaped,  a  little  inclining 
to  oblong.  Skin  pale  yellow,  becoming  amber  in  the  shade,  richly  dotted 
and  spotted  with  very  deep  red,  and  with  a  fine  marbled  dark  crimson 
cheek.  Flesh  very  firm  (too  much  so),  juicy,  with  an  excellent  flavor. 
Stalk  very  stout,  short,  and  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Ripens  a  few  days 
after  the  Bigarreau,  about  the  first  of  July,  and  is  a  good  and  constant 
bearer.     Good.     The  fruit  is  not  so  obtuse  as  the  Bigarreau. 

Holland  Bigarreau  is  so  much  like  the  above  that  we  think  it 
identical. 

Ohio  Beauty. 

Originated  by  Prof.  Kirtland.  Tree  a  vigor- 
ous grower,  with  a  rather  spreading  head,  and 
has  proved  so  far  a  productive,  valuable  kind. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Light 
ground,  mostly  covered  with  red.  Flesh  tender, 
brisk,  juicy.  Very  good.  Ripe  about  the 
middle  of  June. 

Osceola. 

Originated  with  Prof.  Kirtland.  Moderate 
bearer  and  medium  growth. 

Fruit  above  medium,  heart-shaped.  Color 
fine  dark  red,  approaching  to  black.  Flesh 
juicy,  tender,  sweet,  and  excellent.  Very  good. 
Ripe  last  of  June. 


Ox-Heart. 


Ohio  Beauty. 


Lion's  Heart. 
Bullock's  Heart. 


Very  Large  Heart! 
Ochsen  Herz  Kirsche. 


Fruit   large,    obtuse    heart-shaped.       Skin  dark    red.       Flesh   red, 


THE  CHERRY. 


471 


Qt*lf  tender,  with  a  pleasant  juice,  of  second 
quality  in  point  of  ilavor.  Good.  Ripens  last 
of  June. 

Pierce's  Late. 

Originated  with  Amos  Pierce,  Massachusetts. 
Growth  free,  rather  upright,  with  a  round  head. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  heai-t-shaped,  dark 
red  and  mottled,  light  amber  in  the  shade. 
Stalk  rather  short  and  slim.  Flesh  soft,  tender, 
very  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  Stone  small.  Pipe 
the  last  of  July. 

Pontiac. 

Originated  with  Prof.  Kirtland.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, round  headed,  upright  spreading.  Very 
productive.     Valuable  either  for  table  or  market 

purposes.  Osceola. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Sides  com- 
pressed. Color  dark  purplish  red,  approaching  to  black  when  fully  ripe. 
Flesh  half  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  agreeable.    Very  good.    Season,  last 
of  June. 


POWHATTAN. 

For  profitable  market  purposes  this  is  one  of  the  very  best,  the  fruit 
ripening  late,  and  all  being  uniform  and  regular  in  size.  Originated  with 
Prof.  Kirtland. 

Fruit  medium  size,  uniform,  roundish,  flattened  or  compressed  on 
sides.  Surface  irregular.  Color  liver-like,  highly  polished.  Suture  half 
round.  Flesh  rich,  purplish  red,  marbled,  half  tender,  juicy,  sweet, 
pleasant  but  not  high  flavor.     Good.     Season  late,  8th  to  15th  of  July. 


President. 

Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  regular  heart-shape,  slightly  compressed, 
slight  suture,  followed  by  an  indistinct  line.  Skin  amber  color,  mottled 
and  shaded  with  carmine  and  yellow.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  and  sprightly 
sweet.     Very  good.     Last  June. 

Prince's  Black  Heart. 

Originated  by  \Vm.  R.  Prince,  Flushing,  Long  Island.  Tree  vigor- 
ous, upright  spreading. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  heart-shaped,  slightly  compressed.  Apex 
amall.  Suture  small.  Surface  somewhat  uneven.  Flesh  purplish, 
-ather  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  good  to  very  good.     Last  of  June. 

Proud  foot. 
Raised  by  D.  Proudfoot,  Cleveland,  O.     Tree  vigorous. 


4:72  THE   CHERRY. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  dark  purplish  red.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet* 
Ripe  15th  to  last  of  Jul\. 

Red  Jacket. 

One  of  Prof.  Kirtland's  seedlings.  A  free- 
growing,  rather  spreading,  late,  and  produc- 
tive variety.     Very  profitable  for  market. 

Fruit  large,  regular,  obtuse  heart-shaped. 
Color  amber,  mostly  covered  with  light  red. 
Flesh  half  tender,  juicy,  good  but  not  rich 
flavor.  Stalk  long,  slender,  in  a  moderate 
basin.  Ripe  about  the  time  of  Downer's 
Red. 

Remington. 

Remington  "White  Heart.         Remington  Heart. 

Fruit  small,  heart-shaped.  Skin  yellow, 
rarely  with  a  faint  tinge  of  red  on  one  side. 
Flesh  yellowish,  dry,  and  somewhat  bitter. 
Middle  and  last  of  August. 


Richardson. 

Red  Jacket  Raised  by  J.  R.  Richardson,  Boston.  Tree 

vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  dark  red,  inclining  to  black.     Flesh  deep 
led,  half  tender,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     Last  of  June. 


Rival. 

An  English  variety.  Its  principal  value  being  from  its  period  of 
late  maturity.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  heart-shape,  compressed  one  side.  Suture 
distinct.  Skin  purplish  black,  or  black.  Flesh  firm,  sweet.  Good. 
August. 

Rivers's  Early  Amber. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England. 

Fruit  medium  size,  heart-shaped,  prolific,  a  sub-variety  of  old  Early 
White  Heart,  but  not  as  early. 

Rivers's  Early  Heart. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England. 

Fruit  medium   size,    heart-shaped,  ripening  just  after  Belle  d'Or 
leans.    Very  much  inferior. 


THE    CHERRY. 


473 


Roberts'  Red  Heart. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  David  Roberts,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Tree 
hardy,  free  grower,  bears  abundantly. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shape.  Skin  of  a  pale  ambe. 
gro\ind,  but  nearly  overspread  with  pale  red,  mottled  with  deeper  red. 
Suture  quite  distinct.  Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  and  well  flavored.  Stalk 
long,  slender,  set  in  a  moderate  depression.  Very  good.  Ripe  last  of 
June 


Rockport. 
Bockport  Bigarreau. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Kirtland,  Cleveland,  O.     Tree  vigorous,  healthy,  up- 
right, forming  a  beautiful  pyramidal  head  ;    a 
good  bearer,  and   worthy  of  a  place   in   every 
good  collection. 

Fruit  large,  rcmndish  obtuse  heart-shaped. 
Color,  when  fully  ripe,  a  beautiful  bright  red, 
shaded  with  pale  amber.  Flesh  rather  firm, 
juicy,  sweet,  rich,  with  an  excellent  flavor. 
Very  good  or  best.  Ripens  early  in  June,  or 
just  before  May  duke. 

Sparhawk's  Honey. 
Sparrowhawk's  Honey. 

Raised  by  Edward  Sparhawk,  of  Brighton, 
near  Boston.  A  profuse  bearer.  Vigorous 
grower. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  heart- 
shaped,  very  regular  in  form.  Stalk  of  moder- 
ate length,  rather  slender,  set  in  a  round,  even 
depression.  Skin  thin,  of  a  beautiful  glossy 
pale  amber  red,  becoming  a  lively  red  when 
fully  ripe.  Flesh,  juicy,  with  a  very  sweet  fla- 
Tor.     Ripe  the  last  of  June. 


Rockport. 


Strass's  Early  Black. 

Noir  Precoce  de  S  trass. 

Fruit  Bmall,  heart-shape,  black.     Flesh  juicy,  sweet, 
ripening,  and  an  abundant  bearer.     New. 


Very  early  in 


Sumner's  Honey. 

Originated  by  Clement  Sumner,  Dorchester,  Mass.  Tree  a  vigorous 
grower  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  heart-shape.  Skin  amber,  half  cohered  and 
marbled  with  pale  red.  Flesh  rather  firm,  juicy,  rich,  sweet.  Good. 
Last  of  June.     (Cole.) 


474  the  cherry. 

Sweet  Montmorency. 
Allen's  Sweet  Montmorency. 

Raised  by  J.  F.  Allen,  Salem,  Mass.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous  growth, 
good  bearer. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  -ound,  flattened.  Skin  pale  amber  in  the 
shade,  light  red,  slightly  mottled,  in  the  sun.  Stalk  an  inch  and  three- 
fourths  long,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  small,  shallow,  even  hollow. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  sweet,  and  excellent.  Ripens  here  middle 
July. 

Tecumseh. 

One  of  Prof.  Kirtland's  varieties.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Skin  reddish  purple 
Flesh  dark  red,  half  tender,  with  a  brisk  vinous  flavor.  Good  to  very 
good.     Ripe  towards  the  end  of  July. 

TOBACCO-XiEAVED. 

Four  to  the  Pound.  Cerisier  de  4  a  Livre. 

Bigarreautier  a  Feuilles  de  Tabac.  Bigarreautier  a  Grandes  Feuilles. 

Guignier  a  Feuilles  de  Tabac.  Vier  auf  ein  Pfund. 

Leaves  very  large. 

Fruit  small,  hard,  of  no  value. 

Townsend. 

Tree  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  productive,  and  promises  well. 
Raised  by  W.  P.  Townsend,  Lockport,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped,  high-shouldered,  compressed. 
Suture  distinct.  Apex  depressed.  Stem  long,  somewhat  slender,  set 
in  a  broad,  rather  deep  depression.  Color  light  amber,  mottled  and 
shaded  with  carmine.  Flesh  almost  tender,  juicy,  rich,  sprightly,  re- 
freshing flavor.     Pit  small.     Good  to  very  good.     Ripe  last  of  June. 

Tradescant's  Black  Heart. 

Elkborn.  Elkhorn  of  Maryland. 

Large  Black  Bigarreau.  Tradescant's. 

Bigarreau  Gros  Noir.  Guigne  Noir  Tardive. 

Gross  Schwarze  Knoorpel.  Kirsche  mit  Saftigen  Fleisch. 

It  is  an  European  variety,  but  a  tree,  growing  about  forty  years  since 
in  the  garden  of  an  inn  in  Maryland,  attracted  the  notice  of  the  late 
Wm.  Prince,  who  propagated  it  under  the  name  of  Elkhorn,  by  which 
it  was  there  known.  The  bark  is  of  a  peculiarly  gray  color,  and  the 
growth  quite  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  with  a  very  irregular  or  uneven  surface. 
Skin  deep  black,  glossy  (before  fully  ripe,  deep  purple,  mottled  with 
black).  Stalk  rather  short,  set  in  a  pretty  deep  hollow.  Flesh  very 
solid  and  firm,  dark  purple,  moderately  juicy.  Good.  Ripe  first  and 
second  week  in  July. 


the  cherry.  475 

Transparent  Guigne. 
Transparent  Gean.  Transparent. 

It  is  a  pretty  variety  for  the  dessert,  hanging  late  on  the  tree. 

Fruit  small,  regular,  oval  heart-shaped.  Skin  glossy,  thin,  yellowish 
white,  delicately  blotched  with  tine  i*ed,  distinct  suture  line  on  both 
sides.  Stalk  long  and  slender.  Flesh  tender,  when  fully  ripe  very 
sweet,  mingled  with  a  very  slight  portion  of  the  piquant  bitter  of  the 
Mazzard  class  of  Cherries.     Good.     First  of  July. 

Triumph  of  Cumberland. 

Monstrous  May.  Brenneman's  Early. 

Street's  May.  Cumberland  Seedling. 

Origin,  Carlisle,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous  and  spreading, 
moderately  productive. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shape,  one  side  compressed.  Suture  slight. 
Stalk  rather  long.  Skin  deep  crimson,  almost  black  when  fully  ripe. 
Flesh  purplish,  rather  firm,  j  uicy,  sweet,  not  high-flavored.  Good.  Last 
of  June. 

Warren's  Transparent. 

Origin,  Brighton,  Mass. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  heart-shape,  pale  yellow  and  red.  Flesh  tender. 
Good.     Early  July.    (Cole.) 

Waterloo. 

An  English  vaiiety.     Tree  a  moderate  grower  and  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped,  deep  suture  half  round.  Skin  dark 
purplish  black.  Stalk  rather  short.  Flesh  purplish  red,  juicy,  half 
tender,  sweet.     Good.     Middle  June. 

Wellington. 

Fruit  medmm,  roundish,  obtuse  heart-shape,  purplish  black.  Flesh 
almost  firm,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     Early  July. 

Wendell's  Mottled  Bigarreau. 

Originated  with  Dr.  H.  Wendell,  Albany,  N.  Y.  Tree  upright, 
thrifty  growth. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped,  dark  red,  nearly  black  at  maturity, 
mottled.  Flesh  dark  red,  firm,  and  high-flavored.  Good  to  very  good. 
Ripe  about  the  time  of  Downer's  Late. 

Werder's  Early  Black  Heart. 

Werdsche  Friihe  Schwarze.     Ilerz  Kirsche. 

An  early  variety.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  moderately  productive. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  heart-shaped.     Skin  black.      Flesh  purplish, 


476  THE    CHERRY 

tender,  sweet,  and  excellent.     Very  good.     Ripens  early  in  June,  or  just 
before  Mayduke. 

White  Bigarreau. 

White  Ox-Heart.  Ox -Heart.  White  Bigarreau. 

Harrison  Heart  ?  Large  White  Bigarreau.       Turkey  Bigarreau. 

Bigarreau  blanc  ? 

The  White  Bigarreau  is  inferior  to  the  Bigarreau  or  Graffion  in  hardi 
ness,  and  in  the  circumstance  that  it  is  a  very  poor  bearer  while  the  tree 
is  young,  though  it  bears  fine  crops  when  it  has  arrived  at  from  twelve 
to  fifteen  years'  growth.     Growth  upright. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  heart-shaped,  with  a  rather  irregular  outline, 
and  a  pretty  distinct  suture  line  on  one  side.  Skin  yellowish  white, 
overspread  with  marbling  of  red.  Flesh  firm,  but  scarcely  so  much  so 
as  that  of  the  Bigarreau,  and  when  fully  ripe  half  tender,  and  more 
luscious  than  the  latter  Cherry.  Good  to  very  good.  It  is  very  liable 
to  crack  after  rain.     Middle  and  last  of  June. 

White  French  Guigne. 

A  foreign  sort,  of  vigorous  growth. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  a  little  compressed,  slight 
Buture.  Skin  whitish  yellow,  translucent,  sometimes  a  tinge  of  crimson 
in  the  sun.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant. 
Good.     Middle  July. 

White  Tartarian. 

Eraser's  White  Tartarian.  Fraser's  White  Transparent 

Amber  a  petit  fruit. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Skin  pale  yellow.  Stalk 
slender.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  tender,  and  very  sweet.  Good. 
Early  June. 

Wilkinson. 

Fruit  medium,  heart-shape,  compressed,  slight  suture.  Skin  deep 
red,  almost  purplish.  Flesh  purplish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant.  Good. 
Stone  large.     Early  July. 


CLASS  II. 
DUKE   AND   MORELLO  CHERRIE& 

Admirable  de  Soissons. 
De  Soissons.  Belle  de  Soissons. 

A  Cherry  of  the  Morello  class,  good  for  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  broadly  heart-shaped,  slightly  compressed, 
slight  suture  half  round.  Skin  shades  of  red  on  yellow.  Stalk  rather 
long.     Flesh  tender  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Last  of  June. 


THE    CHERRY. 


477 


Arch  Duke. 


Uriotte  de  Port  igal. 
Portugal  Duke. 


Late  Arch  Duke. 
Late  Duke  of  some. 


Tree  rather  more  vigorous  and  upright  than  the  May  duke,  hardy  and 
prolific. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Suture  distinct  on  one  side.  Skin 
at  first  bright  red,  but  becoming  very  dark  when  mature.  Stalk  an  inch 
and  a  half  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  open  cavity.  Flesh 
light  red,  melting,  juicy,  rich  subacid  flavor.  Very  good.  Ripe  the  first 
and  second  week  in  July. 


Belle  Audegoise  ? 
Cerise  Doucette. 


Belle  de   Choisy. 

Ambree  de  Choisy. 
Cerise  de  la  Palembre. 
Schone  von  Choisy. 


Ambree  a  Gros  Fruit. 
Cerise  a  Noyau  Tendre. 


In  our  estimation,  there  is  no  Cherry  for  the  dessert  more  delicious 
than  the  Belle  de  Choisy.  It  comes  from  the  village  of  Choisy,  near 
Paris,  where  it  was  raised  in  1760.  The  habit  of  the  tree  is  nearly  that 
of  the  Mayduke,  the  leaves  dark,  and  the  head  upright.  It  is  hardy, 
a  moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  round  or  slightly  depressed.  Skin  very  thin  and  translucent, 
showing  a  net-like  texture  of  flesh  beneath  ;  in  color,  pale  amber  in  the 
shade,  but  in  the  sun  finely  mottled  with  yellowish  red — the  fruit  fully 
exposed  becoming  a  bright  cornelian  red.  Flesh  amber-colored,  very 
tender  and  melting,  of  a  delicate  sweet  flavor.  Stalk  rather  short,  swol- 
len at  the  upper  end.  Best.  Middle  of  June,  or  directly  after  the  May- 
duke. 


Belle  de  Sceaux. 
Chatenay. 


A  Morello,  from  France. 
Fruit   round,    deep    red. 
juicy  acid.     Last  of  June. 


Flesh   yellowish, 


Belle  Magnifique:. 

Belle  et  Magnifique.  Magnifique  de  Sceaux. 

Belle  de  Sceaux.  Belle  de  Chatenay. 

Planchoury  ? 

Tree  hardy,  moderately  vigorous,  prodiictive, 
a  beautiful  and  excellent  late  variety.  Useful 
for  culinary  purposes,  and  good  table  fruit  when 
pretty  ripe. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  heart- 
shape.  Stalk  long,  Blender,  in  an  open  medium 
cavity.  Skin  a  fine  blight  red.  Flesh  juicy, 
tender,  with  a  sprightly  subacid  flavor,  one  of 
the  best  of  its  class.  Ripe  middle  of  July  till 
the  middle  of  August. 


Bello  Matmiflqaa. 


478  the  cherry. 

Buttner's  October  Morello. 
A  foreign  sort.     Small,  late,  acid,  and  of  little  or  no  value. 

Carnation. 

Wax  Cherry.  Crown. 

Cerise  Nouvelle  d'Angleterre.  Cerise  de  Portugal. 

Grosse  Cerise  Rouge  Pule.  Griottier  Rouge  Pale. 
Griotte  de  Villennes. 

A  very  handsome,  light  red,  large  Cherry,  highly  esteemed  here  for 
brandying  and  preserving. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Skin  yellowish  white,  mottled  with  red,  becom- 
ing a  lively  red  slightly  marbled.  Stalk  stout.  Flesh  tender,  a  little 
more  firm  than  most  of  this  division,  but  juicy,  and  when  fully  ripe  of 
a  sprightly  and  good  subacid  flavor.  The  foliage  is  pretty  large,  and  the 
wood  strong,  but  the  tree  has  a  spreading,  rather  low  habit.  It  is  a 
moderate  but  regular  bearer,  and  the  fruit  hangs  a  long  while  on  the 
branches  without  decaying.     Good.     Ripe  the   middle  and  last  of  July 

Cluster. 

Cerise  a  Bouquet.  Cerisier  a  Trochet.  Chevreuse. 

Commune  a  Trochet.  Tres-Fertile.  Griottier  a  Bouquet 

Bouquet  Amarelle.  Trauben  Amarelle.  Busch  WeichseL 

Flandrische  Weichsel.  Biischel  Kirsche. 

A  very  curious  fruit,  growing  closely  clustered  around  a  common 
stalk,  small  size,  borne  in  clusters  of  from  two  to  six  ;  round,  of  a  lively 
red.     Ripens  the  last  of  June.     The  tree  is  small  in  all  its  parts. 

Coe's  Late  Carnation. 

A  promising  late  variety. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  roundish.  Suture  shallow,  with  a  line. 
Color  amber,  mostly  shaded  and  mottled  with  bright  red.  Flesh  juicy 
and  sprightly  subacid.     Ripe  from  the  middle  till  the  last  of  July. 

Dauphine. 

Of  the  Morello  class.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  without  suture.  Skin  bright  crimson, 
mottled.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  less  acid  than  most 
of  the  Morellos.     Very  good.     Stone  small.     Last  June. 

De  Chaux. 

D'Allemagne. 

A  Morello. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  dark  red.  Stalk  long,  slender. 
Flesh  dark,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid.     Middle  July. 

Dechenaut. 

A  fine  large  Cherry  of  the  Duke  class,  ripening  about  the  same  tune 
as  May  duke. 


THE    CIIERRY.  479 

Fruit  large,  roundish  heart-shape,  broad  at  the  stalk,  rather  flat- 
tened. Suture  slight.  Skin  rich  red.  Stalk  long,  in  a  deep  cavity. 
Flesh  tender,  succulent.     (Hogg.) 

De  Kleparow. 
Belle  Polonaise. 

A  Morello. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  dark  red.  Stalk  long.  Flesh  dark,  tender, 
juicy,  rich  subacid.     Middle  July.     (Hogg.) 

De  la  Toussaint. 

A  variety  of  little  value  except  as  ornamental.  It  flowers  almost 
continuously,  and  produces  fruit  the  whole  season,  so  that  ripe  and  green 
fruit  and  flowers  are  upon  the  tree  all  at  the  same  time. 

The  fruit  is  small,  round,  deep  red,  firm,  acid. 

Donna  Maria. 

A  Morello  Cherry,  forming  a  small  tree,  but  very  prolific. 
Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  dark  red,  tender,  juicy,  rich  acid* 
Valuable  for  cooking.     Middle  July.      (Elliott.) 

Double  Natte. 

Doppelte  Natte.  Kirsch  von  der  Natte. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  a  little  compressed  and  inclining  to 
ovate.  Skin  brownish  black.  Stalk  slender,  very  long,  and  bearing 
leaves.  Flesh  very  red,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  sprightly  acid.  Early 
July.     (Hogg.) 

DUCHESSE    DE    PALLUAU. 

A  vigorous  tree  of  the  Duke  class. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  heart-shaped,  compressed,  very  dark 
purple.  Stem  long  and  slender,  in  a  large  open  cavity.  Flesh  dark 
red,  tender,  juicy,  mild  acid.     Ripe  middle  of  June. 

Early  May. 

May  Cherry.  Pn'coce. 

Small  May.  Petite  Cerise  Rouge  Precoce. 

Cerisier  Nain  a  Fruit  Rond.  K<>nigliche  Amarelle. 

Pn'coce.  Friihe  Kleine  Runde. 

Griottier  Nain  Precoce.  Zwerg  Weichsel. 

Hative.  Cerise  Indulle. 

An  early  Morello  of  rather  dwarf  habit.  Ripening  about  the  first 
of  June. 

Fruit  small,  round,  slightly  flattened,  lively  red,  tender,  juicy, 
acid. 

This  is  an  old  variety  from  abroad.  The  Early  May  of  Illinois  and 
the  West  is  probably  a  distinct  sort,  and  by  some  considered  as  identical 
with  our  Kentish  or  Early  Richmond.  We  have  had  no  opportunity 
of  comparing  them. 


480  fHE  CHERRY. 

EXCELLENTE  DOUCE  TARDIVE. 

Originated  at  Jodoigne,  France.  A  Morello  of  vigorous  habit  and 
productive 

Fruit  medium  tc  large,  re  andish  flattened  at  ends.  Skin  deep  red. 
Stalk  large  and  long.  Flesli  yellowish,  melting,  acid.  Stone  small. 
Aug.     (An.  Pom.) 

Flemish. 

Montmorency.  Montmorency  a  Gros  Fruit. 

Cerise  a  Courte  Queue.  Gobet  a  Courte  Queue. 

Gros  Gobet.  A  Courte  Queue  de  Provence. 

English  Weichsel  ?  Weichsel  mit  ganzkurzen  Stiel. 

Double  Volgers.  Early  May  of  some. 
Kentish  of  some.  / 

This  is  a  very  odd-looking  fruit,  being  much  flattened  and  having  a 
very  short  stalk. 

Fruit  rather  large,  very  much  flattened  both  at  the  top  and  base,  and 
generally  growing  in  pairs.  Stalk  stout,  short.  Skin  shining,  of  a  bright 
lively  red.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  and  subacid.  Good  for  pre- 
serving ;  but,  unless  very  ripe,  scarcely  rich  enough  for  table  use.  Last 
of  July. 

Great  Cornelian. 

Double  Glass. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  deep  suture  half  round.  Skin  thin,  translucent, 
at  first  light  becoming  dark  red.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  subacid, 
vinous.     Last  June.     (Hogg.) 

GUIGNE    NOIR    LUISANTE. 

Black  Spanish. 

Fruit  medium  size,  round  heart-shaped,  glossy,  blackish  red.  Flesh 
reddish  purple,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  acid.     Ripe  middle  to  last  of  July 

Hative  Malgre  Tout. 

A  Duke  Cherry  from  France. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  heart-shape.  Skin  very  dark  red, 
nearly  black  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  dark  red,  juicy,  subacid.  June. 
(Alb.  Pom.) 

Holman's  Duke. 

A  variety  of  the  Duke  class,  which  has  been  confounded  with  May- 
duke.  It  is  very  similar,  but  ripens  later.  The  tree  has  short,  erect 
shoots. 

Fruit  large,  round  oblate,  deep  red,  almost  black.  Flesh  tender, 
juicy,  rich,  excellent.     Very  good.     Middle  to  last  of  July. 

Imperatrice  Eugenie. 

Empress  Eugenie. 

A  French  Cherry  of  the  Duke  family,  rather  dwarf  in  habit,  shoot* 
pretty  stout,  very  productive. 


THE    CHERRY.  481 

Fruit  Urge,  roundish  flattened.  Skin  rich  dark  red.  Suture  broad, 
shallow.  Stalk  rather  short,  in  a  deep  cavity.  Flesh  reddish,  tender, 
rich,  juicy  subacid.     Very  good.     Stone  small.     Middle  of  June. 

Imperial  Morello. 

A  productive  and  early  bearing  variety. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  dark  purplish  red.  Flesh  tender,  juicy, 
acid.     Last  of  July. 

Jeffrey's  Duke. 

Jeffrey's  Royal.  Jeffrey's  Royal  Caroon.  Royale. 

Cherry  Duke.  Royale  Ordinaire. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  round,  or  a  little  flattened  at  the  apex  and 
basin.  Skin  of  a  fine  lively  red.  Stalk  moderately  long.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish amber,  scarcely  red.  Juice  abundant,  and  of  a  rich  flavor.  The 
trees  are  of  a  distinct  habit  of  growth,  being  very  compact,  and  growing 
quite  slowly.  The  buds  are  very  closely  set,  and  the  fruit  is  borne  in 
thick  clusters.     Middle  and  last  of  June. 

June  Duke. 
Wetherill.  Shippen. 

A  variety  described  by  Coxe  as  a  vigorous  grower. 

Fruit  of  large  size,  very  rich,  tree  abundant  bearer.  We  know  little 
of  it,  having  only  heard  of  it  as  the  Wetherill,  grown  near  Phila- 
delphia. 

Kentish. 

Virginian  May  ?  Common  Red. 

Early  Richmond.  Pie  Cherry. 

Kentish  Red.  Montmorency. 

Commune.  Montmorency  a  longue  queue. 

Muscat  de  Prague.  Sussex. 

Cherry  Cluster    ).,,...  De  Kalb. 

May  Cluster         \  <*  Virginia. 

The  true  Kentish  Cherry,  an  old  European 
sort,  better  known  here  as  the  Early  Richmond, 
is  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  the  acid  Cherries. 
It  begins  to  color  about  the  20th  of  May,  and 
may  then  be  used  for  tarts,  while  it  will  hang 
upon  the  tree,  gradually  growing  larger,  and 
losing  its  acidity,  until  the  last  of  June,  or  in 
dry  seasons  even  until  July,  when  it  becomes 
of  a  rich,  sprightly,  and  excellent  acid  flavor. 
The  tree  grows  about  eighteen  feet  high,  with  a 
roundish  spreading  head,  is  exceedingly  pro- 
ductive, and  is  from  its  early  maturity  a  very 
profitable  market  fruit,  being  largely  planted 
for  this  purpose.  This  kind  is  remarkable  for 
the  tenacity  with  which-  the  stone  adheres  to 

the  ?talk.     Advantage  is  taken  of  this  to  draw  ~Eariy~uieLmoiiu 

31 


482 


THE    CHEP.RY. 


out  t  ie    stones.     The  fruit  is   then  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  become* 
one  of  the  most  excellent  of  all  dried  fruits. 

Fruit  when  it  first  reddens  rather  small,  but,  when  fully  ripe,  of  me- 
dium size,  round,  or  a  little  flattened ;  borne  in  pairs.  Skin  of  a  fine 
bright  red,  growing  somewhat  dark  when  fully  ripe.  Stalk  an  inch  and 
a  quarter  long,  rather  stout,  set  in  a  pretty  deep  hollow.  Flesh  melting, 
juicy,  and,  at  maturity,  of  a  sprightly  rather  rich  acid  flavor.   Yery  good. 


Late  Duke. 


Kirtland's  Morello. 
Kirtland's  Large  Morello. 

One  of  Prof.  Kirtland's  seedlings.  Tree  a 
spreading,  rather  drooping  grower,  moderate,  reg- 
ular bearer. 

Fruit  pretty  large  for  a  Morello,  roundish, 
dark  red.  Flesh  juicy,  acid,  when  fully  ripe  rich. 
Very  good.     Stone  small.     Middle  July. 

Late  Duke. 

Anglaise  Tardive. 

A  very  laige  and  fine  Duke  Cherry,  ripening 
later  than  the  Mayduke,  and  therefore  a  very  val- 
uable sort  for  the  dessert  or  for  cooking.  The  tree 
is  of  vigorous  growth  for  its  class. 

Fruit   large,    flattened  or  obtuse  heart-shaped. 
Color,  when  fully  ripe,  rich  dark  i-ed  (but  at  first 
white,  mottled  with    bright  red).      Stalk    rather 
slender,  inserted  in  a  shallow  hollow.      Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy, 
with  a  sprightly  subacid  flavor,  not  quite  so  sweet  and  rich  as  the  May- 
duke.    Ripens   gradually,  and  hangs  on 
the  tree  from  the  middle  of  July  till  the 
A  10th  of  August. 

Late  Kentish. 

Common  Red.  Pie  Cherry. 

Common  Sour  Cherry.     Kentish  Red. 

This  Cherry,  a  variety  of  the  Kentish, 
is  better  known  among  us  than  any  other 
acid  Cherry. 

It  is  emphatically  the  Pie  Cherry  of 
this  country,  being  more  generally  grown 
than  any  other  sort. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  flattened.  Skin 
deep  lively  red,  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh 
very  tender,  and  abounding  with  a  highly 
acid  juice.     Ripens  middle  July 

Louis  Philippe. 

jfrom  France.     Tree  upright   spreading,  habit  between  the  Duket 
and  Morellos.     Vigorous  and  very  productive. 


oouis  Philippe. 


THE    CTTERRY. 


485 


Fruit  large,  roundish  regular.  Stalk  rather  short,  stout,  set  in  a 
broad  even  regular  cavity,  usually  grows  in  clusters.  Skin  rich  dark, 
almost  purplish  black  red.  Flesh  red,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly,  mild 
acid.     Stone  small.     Very  good  or  best.     Middle  to  last  July. 


Love  Apple. 
Tomato. 

A  Cherry  from  Spain  of  the  Duke  class. 
Fruit  large,   roundish   obtuse  heart- shape,  shallow  sutures, 
clear  red.     Flesh  pale,  tender,  juicy.     Good. 


Skin 


Mayduke. 


Royale  Hative 

Cherry  Duke  of  some. 

Cerise  Guigne. 

Coularde. 

De  Holland  e. 

D'Espagne. 

Griotte  Grosse  Noire. 

Griotte  d'Espagne  of  some. 

Griotte  Precoce  of  some. 


Early  Duke. 
Large  Mayduke. 
Morris  Duke. 
Morris's  Early  Duke. 
Benham's  Fiue  Early  Duke. 
Thompson's  Duke. 
Portugal  Duke. 
Buchanan's  Early  Duke. 
Millet's  Late  Heart  Duke. 


This  invaluable  early  Cherry  is  one  of  the 
most  popular  sorts  in  all  countries,  thriving  al- 
most equally  well  iu  cold  or  warm  climates. 
This,  the  Black  Heart,  and  the  Bigarreau,  are 
the  most  extensively  diffused  of  all  the  finer 
varieties  in  the  United  States.  And  among  all 
the  new  varieties  none  has  been  foitnd  to  sup- 
plant the  Mayduke.  Before  it  is  fit  for  table 
use,  it  is  admirably  adapted  for  cooking,  and 
when  fully  ripe  it  is,  perhaps,  the  richest  of 
the  subacid  Cherries.  In  the  gardens  here,  we 
have  noticed  a  peculiar  habit  of  this  tree  of 
producing  very  frequently  some  branches  which 
ripen  much  later  than  the  others,  thus  protract- 
ing for  a  long  time  the  period  in  which  its  fruit 
is  in  use.  The  Mayduke  is  remarkable  for  its 
ujuight,  or,  as  it  is  called,  fastigiate  head,  es- 
pecially while  the  tree  is  young,  in  distinction 
to  other  sorts,  which  produce  many  lateral  branches. 

Fruit  roundish  or  obtuse  heart-shaped,  growing  in  clusters.  Skin  at 
first  of  a  lively  red,  but  when  fully  ripe  of  a  rich  dark  red.  Flesh  red- 
dish, tender,  and  melting,  very  juicy,  and  at  maturity  rich  and  excellent 
in  flavor.  This  fruit  is  most  frequently  picked  while  it  is  yet  red,  and 
partially  acid,  and  before  it  attains  its  proper  color  or  flavor.  It  begins 
to  color,  about  New  York,  in  favorable  seasons,  the  last  of  May,  and 
ripens  during  the  first  half  of  June. 

Mayduke  is  said  to  be  a  corruption  of  Medoc^  the  province  in  France 
where  this  variety  (the  type  of  all  the  class  now  called  Dukes)  is  believed 
4o  have  originated. 


Mayduke. 


♦84  THE    CHERRY. 

MORELLO. 

Milan.  English  Morello. 

Cerise  du  Nord.  Large  Morello. 

Griotte  Ordinaire  du  Nord.  Dutch  Morello. 

September  Weichsel  Grosse.  Ronald's  Large  Morello. 

The  Morello  is  a  fine  fruit.  Its  name  is  said  to  be  derived  from  the 
dark  purple  color  of  its  juice,  which  resembles  that  of  the  Moras  01 
Mulberry.  It  is  highly  valuable  for  all  kinds  of  preserves,  and  is  an 
agreeable  addition  to  a  dessert. 

Fruit  of  pretty  large  size,  round  or  slightly  obtuse  heart-shaped. 
Skin  dark  red,  becoming  nearly  black  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  dark 
purplish  red,  tender,  juicy,  and  of  a  pleasant  subacid  flavor  when 
quite  mature.     Ripe  20th  of  July. 

The  Common  Morello  of  this  country  is  a  smaller  variety  of  the 
foregoing,  and  a  little  darker  in  color.     Little  esteemed. 

Morello  de  Charmeux. 

This  is  a  very  late  variety  of  the  Morello,  with  a  milder  flavor,  ripen- 
ing middle  of  August. 

NOUVELLE    EOYALE. 

This  recently  introduced  variety  of  the  Duke  class  of  Cherries  is 
stated  to  possess  great  size  and  beauty  of  fruit,  while  the  tree  is  of  a 
pyramidal  form,  very  handsome  when  grown  upon  the  Mahaleb   stock. 

Fruit  large  or  very  large,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  stalk.  Skin  bril- 
liant glossy  red,  somewhat  mottled  with  large  dark  red  dots.  Flesh  ten- 
der,  melting,  juicy,  sprightly,  sweet,  acid.     5th  to  15th  July. 

Ostheim. 

Zwerg  Kirsche.  Ostheimer  Weichsel. 

Frankische  Wucher  Kirsche.  Ostheimer  Kirsche. 

A  small  growing  tree  of  the  Morello  class. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  compressed  one  side.  Skin 
red,  quite  dark  at  maturity.  Stalk  long.  Flesh  liver-color,  tender, 
juicy,  rich,  almost  sweet  subacid.     Very  good.     Middle  July. 

Paramdam. 
Baramdam. 

A  tree  of  very  dwarf  habit. 

Fruit  small,  round,  pale  red.  Flesh  pale,  tender,  agreeable,  lively 
acid.     Middle  July.     (Hogg.) 

Plumstone  Morello. 

Tree  of  slow  growth,  makes  a  fine  pyramid.  A  productive,  hardy# 
and  valuable  sort. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  heart-shape.  Skin  deep  red. 
Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  rather  slender  and  straight,  set  in  a  hoi 
low   of  moderate   depth.     Flesh  reddish,   tender,  juicy,  and  when  wel 


THE    CHERRY. 


486 


matured,  of  a  sprightly  and  agreeable  flavor.     Good.     Stone  long  and 
pointed.     Ripe  last  of  July  and  first  of  August. 


Heine  Hortense. 


Monstreuse  de  Bavay. 
Lemercier. 


Belle  de  Bavay. 
Seize  a  la  Livre. 


French  origin,  of  Duke  habit.     Tree  a  healthy  and  handsome  grc 
er,  productive,  and  a  very  desirable  variety. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  elongated.  Skin  a 
bright  lively  red,  somewhat  marbled  and  mot- 
tled. Suture  distinctly  marked  by  a  line  without 
any  depression.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  very  slightly 
subacid  and  delicious,  best  of  its  season.  Ripe 
from  the  middle  to  the  last  of  July. 

Royal  Duke. 
Royale  Anglaise  Tardive. 

Growth  upright,  compact  head,  branches  less 
slender  than  Mayduke.     Moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  and  distinctly  oblate  or 
flattened.  Skin  dark  red.  Flesh  reddish,  ten- 
der, juicy  and  rich.  Good.  Ripens  in  the  last 
of  June. 

Rumsey's  Late  Morello. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  moderately  vigorous. 
Ripens  gradually  through  August  and  September. 
Not  of  much  value  except  to  the  curious  ama-  Eeine  Hortense. 

tear. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  heart-shaped.     Color  rich  lively  red.     Flesh 
juicy,  with  too  much  acid  for  the  table. 


Shannon. 

This  is  a  Morello  raised  by  Prof.  Kirtland. 

Fruit  slightly  above  medium  size,  globular,  flattened  at  junction 
with  stem,  dark  purplish  red  when  ripe.  Flesh  tender,  reddish  purple, 
juicy,  acid.  Stone  small.  Stalk  long,  slender,  inserted  in  an  open 
cavity.     Good.     Season  middle  of  July. 


Vail's  August  Duke. 

A  very  late  Cherry,  of  the  Duke  class.  Originated  with  Henry 
Vail,  Esq.,  Troy,  N.  Y.     Tree  very  productive,  and  of  vigorous  growth. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Stalk  medium,  in  rather  deep 
but  narrow  cavity.  Skin  rich  bright  red  on  the  shaded  side,  and  of  a 
lively  cornelian  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  tender,  subacid,  much  like  the 
Mayduke  in  flavor.  Very  good.  Ripe  the  last  week  in  July,  and  the 
first  week  or  two  in  August. 


486  THE    CHERRY. 


ORNAMENTAL  VARIETIES. 

Chinese  Double-Flowering. 

Yung  To.  Cerasus  serrulata.  Serrulated  Leaved  Cht  nj. 

This  is  a  variety  from  China,  with  the  leaves  cut  on  the  edgia  in 
the  manner  known  as  serrulate  by  botanists.  Its  flowers,  which  are 
borne  in  fascicles,  are  white,  slightly  tinged  with  pink,  and  nearly  aa 
double  as  those  of  the  Large  Double-Flowering.  The  tree  considerably 
resembles  the  sour  cherry-tree,  and  appears  rather  dwarfish  in  its 
growth. 

Dwarf  Double-Flowering. 

Double-Flowering  Kentish.  Small  Double-Flowering. 

Cerisier  a  Fleurs  Doubles. 

This  is  a  double-flowering  variety  of  the  sour  or  Kentish  Cherry, 
and  has  the  more  dwarfish  habit  and  smaller  leaves  and  branches  of  that 
tree — scarcely  forming  more  than  a  large  shrub,  on  which  account  it  is 
perhaps  more  suitable  for  small  gardens.  The  flowers  are  much  like 
those  of  the  Large  Double-Flowering,  but  they  are  not  so  regular  and 
beautiful  in  their  form. 

Large  Double-Flowering. 

Double  French  Cherry.  Merisier  a  Fleurs  Doubles. 

Prunus  cerasus  pleno.  Cerasus  sylvestris,  flore  pleno. . 

The  double-blossomed  Cherry  bears  no  fruit,  but  whoever  admires  a 
beautiful  flowering  tree  cannot  refuse  a  place  in  his  garden  to  this  one, 
so  highly  ornamental.  Its  blossoms,  which  appear  at  the  usual  season, 
are  produced  in  the  most  showy  profusion ;  they  are  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  in  diameter,  and  resemble  clusters  of  the  most  lovely  full  double 
white  roses.  The  tree  has  the  habit  and  foliage  of  the  Mazzard  Cher- 
ries, and  soon  forms  a  large  and  lofty  head. 

Virginian  Wild  Cherry. 

Wild  Cherry  of  the  United  States.  Cerasus  Virginians. 

Cerisier  de  Virginie.  Virginische  Kirsche. 

Our  native  wild  Cherry  is  too  well  known  to  need  minute  descrip- 
tion. It  forms  a  large  and  lofty  forest-tree  with  glossy,  dark  green 
leaves,  and  bears  currant-like  bunches  of  small  fruit,  which  are  palata- 
ble, sweet,  aud  slightly  bitter  when  fully  ripe,  at  midsummer.  They 
are,  howevex*,  most  esteemed  for  preparing  cherry  bounce,  a  favorite 
liqueur  in  many  parts  of  the  country,  made  by  putting  the  fruit,  along 
with  sugar,  in  a  demijohn  or  cask  of  the  best  old  rum. 

The  black  wild  Cherry  (  C.  serotiwt,  Torrey  and  Gray),  which  ripens 
the  first  of  September,  is  the  best  kind.  The  other  species  ( C.  T^ir- 
ginicma),  which  is  commonly  known  as  the  Choke  Cherry,  bears  reddish 
colored  fruit,  which  is  more  astringent,  and  ripens  a  month  earlier. 


the  currant.  487 

Weeping,  or  All-saints. 

Ever-Flowering  Cherry.  C.  vulgaris,  semperflorens. 

Cerise  de  la  Toussainte.  Guignier  a  rameaux  pendana. 

Cerise  Tardive.  Cerisier  Pleuraut. 

Cerise  de  St.  Martin.  St.  Martin's  Amarelle. 

Martin's  Weichsel  Monats  Amarelle. 

Allerheiligen  Kirsche. 

This  charming  little  tree,  with  slender,  weeping  branches,  clothed 
with  small,  almost  myrtle-like  foliage,  is  a  very  pleasing  ornament  when 
introduced  on  a  lawn.  Its  fruit  is  a  small,  deep  red  Morello,  which  is 
acid,  and  in  moist  seasons  is  produced  for  a  considerable  period  succes- 
sively. When  grafted,  as  it  generally  is,  about  the  height  of  one's 
head,  on  a  straight  stem  of  the  common  Mazzard,  it  forms  a  beautiful 
parasol-like  top,  the  ends  of  the  branches  weeping  half  way  down  to  the 
ground. 


SELECTIONS  OF  CHOICE  CHERRIES  FOR  FAMILY  USE, 
TO  RIPEN  IN  SUCCESSION. 


Early  Purple  Guigne,  Belle  d' Orleans,  Mavduke,  Bigarreau,  Rock- 
port,  Black  Tartarian,  Elton,  Gov.  Wood,  Coe's  Transparent,  Osceola, 
Delicate,  Downei^s  Late,  Reine  Hortense,  Belle  Magnitique,  Kentish. 

The  hardiest  Cherries  are  the  Kentish  (or  Early  Richmond),  the 
Dukes,  and  the  Morellos.  These  succeed  well  at  the  farthest  limits, 
both  North  and  South,  in,  which  the  Cherry  can  be  raised  ;  and  when 
all  other  varieties  fail,  they  may  be  depended  on  for  regular  crops. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 


THE    CURRANT. 


Ribes  ruhrum ,  Lin.      G rosaulacecB,  of  botanists. 

OroseUtier  commnri,  of  the  French;  Die  Johanninbcere,  German;  Albesseboom, 

Dutch;  Ribes  rosso,  Italian;  and  Grosella,  Spanish. 

The  name  Currant  is  said  to  be  derived  from  the  resemblance  in  the 
fruit  to  the  little  Corinth  grapes  or  raisins,  which,  under  the  name  of 
VwrrantS)  are  sold  in  a  dried  state  in  such  quanl  ities  by  grocers  ;  the  latter 
woid  being  only  a  conniption  of  Corinth,  and  the  fruit  of  this  little 
grape'  being  familiarly  known  as  such  long  before  the  common  currants 
were  cultivated. 

The  Cm  rant  is  a  native  of  Britain,  and  the  north  of  Europe,  and  is, 
therefore,   an  exceedingly   hardy  fruit-bearing    shrub,  seldom  growing 


488  THE  CURRAUT. 

more  than  three  or  four  feet  high.  The  fruit  of  the  original  wil<i 
species  is  small  and  very  sour,  but  the  large  garden  sorts  produced  by 
cultivation,  and  for  which  we  are  chiefly  indebted  to  the  Dutch  gardeners, 
are  large,  and  of  a  more  agreeable  subacid  flavor. 

The  Black  Currant  (Hibes  nigrum)  is  a  distinct  species,  with  laiger 
leaves,  and  coarser  growth,  and  which,  in  the  whole  plant,  has  a  strong 
odor,  disagreeable,  at  first,  to  many  persons. 

Uses.  The  cooling  acid  flavor  of  the  Currant  is  relished  by  most 
people,  in  moderate  quantities,  and  the  larger  varieties  make  also  a 
pretty  appearance  on  the  table.  Before  fully  ripe,  currants  are  stewed 
for  tarts,  like  green  gooseberries,  and  are  frequently  employed  along 
with  cherries  or  other  fruits  in  the  same  way  ;  but  the  chief  value  of 
this  fruit  is  for  making  currant  jelly,  an  indispensable  accompaniment  to 
many  dishes.  Currant  shrub,  made  from  the  fruit  in  the  same  manner 
as  lemonade,  is  a  popular  summer  drink  in  many  parts  of  the  country, 
and  corresponds  to  the  well-known  Paris  beverage,  eau  cle  groseilles.  A 
sweet  wine  of  very  pleasant  taste  is  made  from  their  expressed  juice, 
which  is  very  popular  among  farmers,  but  which  we  hope  to  see  dis- 
placed by  that  alforded  by  grapes, — which  every  one  may  make  with 
less  cost  and  trouble,  and  which  is  infinitely  more  wholesome,  because  it 
requires  less  additions,  of  any  kind,  to  the  pure  juice. 

The  fruit  of  the  Black  Currant  is  liked  by  some  persons  in  tarts,  but 
it  is  chiefly  used  for  making  a  jam,  or  jelly,  much  valued  as  a  domestic 
remedy  for  sore  throats. 

The  season  when  Currants  are  in  perfection  is  midsummer,  but  it 
may  be  prolonged  until  October  by  covering  the  bushes  with  mats,  or 
sheltering  them  otherwise  from  the  sun. 

Propagation  and  Culture.  Nothing  is  easier  of  culture  than  the 
Currant,  as  it  grows  and  bears  well  in  any  tolerable  garden  soil.  T'; 
propagate  it,  it  is  only  necessary  to  plant  in  the  autumn,  or  early  in  the 
spring,  slips  or  cuttings,  a  foot  long,  in  the  open  garden,  where  they 
will  root  with  the  greatest  facility.  The  Currant  should  never  be  allowed 
to  produce  suckers,  and,  in  order  to  insure  against  this,  the  superfluous 
eyes  or  buds  should  be  taken  out  before  planting  it,  as  has  been  directed 
under  the  head  of  Cuttings.  When  the  plants  are  placed  where  they 
are  finally  to  remain,  they  should  always  be  kept  in  the  form  of  trees — - 
that  is  to  say,  with  single  stems,  and  heads  branching  out  a  few  inches 
from  the  ground.  The  after  treatment  is  of  the  simplest  kind ;  thinning 
out  the  superfluoiis  wood  every  spring  is  all  that  is  required  here. 
Those  who  desire  berries  of  an  extra  lai'ge  size  stop,  or  pinch  out,  the 
ends  of  all  the  strong  growing  shoots  about  the  middle  of  June,  when 
the  fruit  is  two-thirds  grown.  This  forces  the  plant  to  expend  all  its 
strength  in  enlarging  and  maturing  the  fruit.  And  we  may  add  to  this, 
that  it  is  better  not  to  continue  the  cultivation  of  currant-trees  after 
they  have  borne  more  than  six  or  eight  years,  as  finer  fruit  will  be 
obtained,  with  less  trouble,  from  young  plants,  which  are  so  easily 
raised. 

For  field  culture  many  prefer  to  grow  them  from  suckers,  but  when 
this  mode  is  adopted,  care  should  be  taken  to  thin  out  the  oldest 
branches  annually,  and  dig  in  old  manure  about  the  roots. 

Insects  and  Diseases.  Within  a  few  years  the  Currant  and 
Gooseberry  have  been  affected  by  the  ravages  of  an  insect  described  by 
Dr.  Asa  Fitch,  in  his  reports  to   the   New  York    State   Agricultural 


THE    CURRANT.  489 

Society,  under  the  name  of  Abraxis  ribearia.  ITie  moths  are  of  a 
dull  nankeen  yellow,  and  make  their  appearance  in  June — depositing 
their  eggs  upon  the  leaves.  These  soon  change  to  small  worms,  and 
rapidly  eat  up  the  foliage.  The  best  remedy  yet  known  is,  to  dust 
thoroughly  with  powdered  white  hellebore. 

The  Currant-borer,  Prenocerus  supernatatus,  is  another  insect  that 
sometimes  creates  damage  by  boring  its  way  through  the  centre  of  young 
shoots  and  thus  destroying  them.  By  examining  the  young  shoots  in 
winter,  such  as  are  injured  or  contain  the  worm  will  be  found  of  a  brown 
color  or  shrivelled.      Cutting  away  soon  checks  them. 

There  are,  nominally,  many  sorts  of  Currants,  but  the  following  sorta 
comprise  all  at  present  known  worthy  of  cultivation. 


CLASS  I. 
RED  AND  WHITE  CURRANTS. 

Attractok. 

A  variety  from  France.     Growth  rather  slow,  spreading,  very  pro- 
ductive.    Leaves  small,  sharply  serrate  or  toothed,  and  three-lobed. 
Fruit  medium,  yellowish  white.     Bunches  medium,  short. 

Buist's  Long-Bunched. 

Originated  by  Robert  Buist,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  A  very  vigorous 
tipright  grower,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  of  large  size.  Bunches  very  long,  tapering,  much  like  Red 
Dutch  in  flavor  and  color. 

Champagne. 

Pheasant's  Eye.  Groseillier  a  Fruit  Couleur  de  Chair. 

A  large  and  handsome  Currant,  of  a  pale  pink  or  flesh  color,  exact 
ly  intermediate  in  this  respect  between  the  Red  and  White  Dutch.  It 
is  qui  te  an  acid  sort,  but  is  admired  by  many  for  its  pretty  appearance. 

Cherry. 

A  strong-growing  variety,  with  stout,  erect,  short-jointed  shoots. 
Leaves  large,  thick,  and  dark  green.  Not  any  more  productive  than 
other  Currants,  but  a  valuable  one  for  market  on  account  of  its  size. 

Fruit  of  the  very  largest  size.  Bunches  short.  Beiries  deep  red, 
and  rather  more  acid  than  Red  Dutch. 

Fertile  de  Palluau. 
\   vavintry  <">f  rather    recent  introduction  from  France.     A  vigorous 


490  THE  CURRANT. 

upright  grower,  productive.     Fruit  large.     Bunches  long,  bright  red, 
moderately  juicy. 

Gondouin  Red. 

Red  Provens. 

From  France.     Red.     Vigorous  grower,  very  productive. 
Fruit  not  as  large  nor  as  good  as  Red  Dutch,  fails   to  ripen  veH 
quite  acid  and  worthless. 

Gondouin  White. 

Fruit  large,  whitish  yellow,  quite  sweet,  more  so  than  any  other 
sort.     Branches  rather  long,  strong  growth,  productive. 

Knight's  Early  Red. 

The  merit  of  this  variety  is  in  its  ripening  a  few  days  earlier  thai 
other  sorts. 

Knight's  Large  Red. 

Fruit  very  large,  bright  red.  Bunches  very  large,  very  productive, 
an  excellent  sort. 

Knight's  Sweet  Red. 

This  is  not  a  sweet  Currant,  but  is  considerably  less  acid  than  other 
red  Currants,  not  as  sweet  as  White  Dutch. 

Fruit  nearly  as  large  as  Red  Dutch,  rather  lighter  in  color.  Pro- 
ductive. 

La  Fertile. 

From  France.     A  vigorous  upright  grower,  and  productive. 
Fruit  large.     Bunches    long,  dark    red.       Flavor    similar   to  Red 
Dutch. 

La  HItive. 

Hative  de  Berthx 

A  variety  from  France.  Plant  vigorous,  foliage  not  as  large  as  the 
cherry. 

Fruit  large,  dark  red.  Bunches  medium  length,  tapering.  In  qual- 
ity about  equal  to  Red  Dutch. 

La  Versaillaise. 

Macrocarpa.  Caucase. 

Fertile  d'Angers.  Imperial  Red. 

A  variety  from  France.  A  very  vigorous  grower,  with  large,  coarse 
foliage,  productive. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  dark  red.  Bunches  resembling  Cherry  Cur- 
rant, but  occasionally  longer. 

We  have  received  this  Currant  under  the  various  names  above  sriven 


THE    CURRANT. 


49) 


but  have  been  uaable  to   discover  any  difference.     There  ma-)  bo  di* 
tinct  so*fs  under  these  names,  but  we  have  failed  tc  obtain  them. 

Long-Bunched  Red. 
Grosse  Rouge  de  Holland. 

Fruit  large.  Bunches  loug.  Berries  deep  red,  much  like  Red  Dutch, 
with  a  little  larger  clusters,  and  rather  larger  fruit.    Very  productive. 

Prince  Albert. 

Moderately  vigorous  grower,  large  foliage,  late  in  ripening,  produc- 
tive and  valuable. 

Fruit  large,  similar  in  color  to  Victoria. 

Red  Dutch. 

Large  Red  Dutch.  Large-Bunched  Red. 

New  Red  Dutch.  Morgan's  Red. 

Groseillier  Rouge  a  Gros  Fruit. 

An  old,  well-known  sort,  thrifty,  upright  growth,  very  productive. 
Fruit  large,  deep  red,  rich  acid  flavor,  with  clusters  two  or  three 
inmes  long. 

Short-Bunched  Red. 

Much  like  Red  Dutch,  with  rather  shorter  bunches. 
Fruit  not  quite  as  large,  but  similar  in  quality. 

Striped-Fruited. 

Grosse  Weiss  und  Rothgestreifte  Johannesbeere.         Silver- Striped. 

A  fruit  from  Germany.  Distinctly  striped,  small,  poor  bearer,  and 
of  T.o  value  except  as  a  curiosity.  Gloiie  des  Sablons  is  similar  to 
the  ibove,  and  both  without  value  except  for  ornament. 

Transparent. 
Blanc  Transparent. 

A  French  Currant. 

Fruit  very  large,  yellowish  white,  similar  to  White  Grape  in  growth 
and  fruit,  and  we  are  somewhat  disposed  to  consider  them  identical. 
Very  productive. 

Victoria. 

May's  Victoria.  Raby  Castle.  IToughton  Castle. 

Goliath.  Red  Grape.  Wiluiot's  Red  Grape. 

A  very  excellent,  rather  late  sort,  with  very  long  bunches  of  bright 
red  fruit,  and  is  an  acquisition  to  this  class  of  fruits.  Berries  as  large 
as  Red  Dutch.  Bunches  rather  longer,  of  a  brighter  red,  growth  more 
slow,  spreading,  and  very  productive.  Will  hang  on  the  bushes  some 
two  weeks  longer  than  most  Currants. 


432  the  currant. 

White  Dutch. 

New  White  Dutch.  Reeve's  White  Dana's  New  White  T 

White  Crys.al.  Morgan's  White.  White  Leghorn. 

White  Clinton.  White  Antwerp. 

This  is  precisely  similar  to  Red  Dutch  in  habit,  but  the  fruit  i» 
larger,  with  rather  shorter  bunches,  of  a  fine  yeLowish  white  color,  with 
a  very  transparent  skin.  It  is  cousiderably  less  acid  than  the  Red  Cur- 
rauts,  and  is  therefore  much  preferred  for  the  table.  It  is  also  a  few 
days  earlier.     Very  productive. 

White  Grape. 

Imperial  White.  Imperial  Blanc. 

Bunches  moderately  long.  Berries  very  large,  whitish  yellow,  sweet 
and  good.  Very  productive.  Branches  more  horizontal  than  White 
Dutch,  and  less  vigorous. 

White  Provence. 

A  strong,  upright  growing  variety,  leaves  often  silvery  edged. 
Fruit  yellowish  white.     Bunch  short,  tapering.     Not  as  productive 
or  profitable  as  White  G^ape. 

CLASS  II. 

BLACK  CURRANTS. 

Bang  Up. 
A  variety  similar,  and  no  way  superior,  to  the  Black  English. 

Black  Grape. 

Ogden's  Black  Grape. 

Very  much  resembling  Black  Naples,  but  the  plant,  perhaps,  a 
■tronger  and  more  vigorous  grower. 

Black  Naples. 

The  Black  Naples  is  a  beautiful  fruit,  the  finest  and  largest  of  all 
Black  Currants,  its  berries  often  measuring  nearly  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  in  diameter.  Its  leaves  and  blossoms  appear  earlier  than  those  of 
the  Common  Black,  but  the  fruit  is  later,  and  the  clusters,  as  well  aa 
the  berries,  are  larger  and  more  numerous. 

Common  Black. 

Black  English.  Caaia. 

The  common  Black  English  Currant  is  well  known  The  berries 
are  quite  black,  less  than  half  an  \nch  in  diameter,  and  borne  in  clu8» 
ters  of  four  or  fi  ve  berries. 


THE    CRANBERRY. 


493 


Several  vaiieties  of  Yellow  and  Black  Currants,  Winch  we  have  re- 
ceived from  Utah,  have  not  fruited  sufficiently  for  us  to  decide  upon 
their  values. 

Selection  of  Currants.  Red  Dutch,  White  Dutch,  White  Grape, 
La  Versaillaise,  Victoria,  Cherry.  . 

Ornamental  V  lrieties.  There  are  several  very  ornamental  species 
of  Currant,  among  which  we  may  here  allude  to  the  MlSSOUBI  ClJRBANl 
(Ribes  Aurwm),  brought  by  Lewis  and  Clarke  from  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains  which  is  now  very  common  in  our  gardens,  and  generally  admired 
rery  fragrant  yellow  blossoms.  Its  oval  blue  hemes,  which  are 
produced  in  great  abundance,  are  relished  by  some  p  srsans.  But  there  is 
a  Lwne-Fruited  Missouri  Currant,  a  variety  of  this,  whirl,  hears  hemes 
of  the  size  of  bhe  Black  Naples,  and  also  some  with  yellow  fruit  of  large 
size,  almost  equalling  small  cherries. 

The  Red  Flowering  Currant  (B.  sangumeum)  is  a  very  beauti- 
ful shrub  from  the  western  coast  of  America,  with  foliage  somewhat 
like  that  of  the  Common  Black,  but  which  bears  very  charming  clusters 
of  large  light  crimson  blossoms  in  April.  < 

There  are  several  other  varieties,  as  R.  sangumeum,  n.  pi.,  K.  san- 
guineus atro-purpurea,  and  R.  Gordoni.  They  are  not  quite  hardy 
enough  to  stand  our  winters  without  protection,  but  at  the  South  will 
make" a  valuable  addition  to  their  shrubbery. 


CHAPTER    XV. 

THE    CRANBERRY. 


Oxycoccus,  Arb.  Brit.     Ericaceip,  of  botanists. 

Airelle,  of  the  French  ;  Die  Mboseieere,  German  ;   Veen  bessen,  Dutch ; 

Ossicocco,  Italian. 

The  Cranberry  is  a  familiar  trailing  shrub,  growing  wild  in  swampy, 
sandy  meadows  and  mossy  bogs,  in  the  northern  portions  of  both  hemi- 
spheres, and  produces  a  round,  red,  acid  fruit.  ■  Our  native  species  (O. 
ws),  so  common  in  the  swamps  of  New  England,  and  on  the 
borders  of  our  inland  lakes,  as  to  form  quite  an  article  .,1  commerce  is 
much  the  largest  and  finest  species;  the  European  Cranberry  (  O.  palus- 
iris)  being  much  smaller  in  its  growth,  and  producing  fruit  interior  in 
size  and  quality.      Also  the  Russian  {0.  viridis),  a  medium-sized  va- 

Of  the  0.  macrocarpus,  there  are  three  varieties :— The  "Bell- 
shaped"  winch  is  the  largest  and  most  valued,  of  a  very  dark,  bright 
red  color.  The  "Cherry,"  two  kinds,  large  and  small;  the  large  one 
the  best,  of  a  round  form,  a  fine  dark  red  berry,  nearly  or  quite  equal 
to  the  Bell-shaped;  and  the  Bugle,  Oval,  or  Egg-shaped,  two  kinds, 
large  and  small,  not  bo  high-colored  as  the  Bell  and  Cherry— not  so 
much  prized,  but  still  a  fine  variety. 

The  valp "  of  the  common  Cranberry  for  tarts,  preserves,  and  oth«- 


494  THE    FIG. 

culinary  uses,  is  well  known,  and  in  portions  of  the  country  where  11 
does  not  naturally  grow,  or  is  not  abundantly  produced,  it  is  quite  worth 
while  to  attempt  its  culture.  Although,  naturally,  it  grows  mostly  in 
mossy  wet  land,  yet  it  may  be  easily  cultivated  in  beds  of  peat  soil, 
made  in  any  rather  moist  situation ;  and  if  a  third  of  old  thoroughly 
decayed  manure  is  added  to  the  peat,  the  berries  will  be  much  larger 
and  of  more  agreeable  flavor  than  the  wild  ones.  A  square  of  the  size 
of  twenty  feet,  planted  in  this  way,  will  yield  three  or  four  bushels  an- 
nually— quite  sufficient  for  a  family.  The  plants  are  easily  procured, 
and  are  generally  taken  up  like  squares  of  sod  or  turf,  and  planted  two 
or  three  feet  apart,  when  they  quickly  cover  the  whole  beds. 

In  some  parts  of  New  England,  low  and  coarse  meadows,  of  no  value, 
have  been  drained  and  turned  to  very  profitable  account  by  planting 
them  with  this  fruit.  In  New  Jersey,  on  Long  Island,  and  elsewhere, 
large  tracts  of  light  sandy  soils  have  been  planted  to  Cranberries,  and 
grown  with  profit  and  success.  The  Cranberry  grows  freely  in  light 
soils,  but  it  is  necessary  to  cover  the  surface,  after  ploughing,  a  depth 
of  several  inches,  with  clean  sand.  The  average  product  is  from  eighty 
to  one  hundred  bushels  of  cranberries,  and  the  care  they  require  after 
the  land  is  once  prepared  and  planted  is  scarcely  any  at  all,  except  in 
gathering.  Some  of  the  farms  in  Massachusetts  yield  large  crops, 
partly  from  natural  growth,  and  partly  from  cultivated  plantations. 
The  Cranberry  grows  wild  in  the  greatest  abundance  on  the  sandy  low 
necks  near  Barnstable,  and  an  annual  Cranberry  festival  is  made  of  the 
gathering  of  the  fruit,  which  is  done  by  the  mass  of  the  population,  who 
turn  out  on  the  day  appointed  by  the  authorities,  and  make  a  general 
gathering  with  their  cranberry  rakes,  a  certain  portion  of  the  crop  be- 
longing, and  being  delivered,  to  the  town. 

A  laborer  will  gather  about  thirty  bushels  of  the  fruit  in  a  day  with 
a  cranberry  rake. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 


Ficus  Carica,  L.  Arb.  Brit.      Urticacece,  of  botanists  ;  Figuier,  of  the  French  ; 
Fd'jenbaum,  German  ;  Fico.  Italian  ;  Higuera,  Spanish. 

This  celebrated  fruit-tree,  whose  history  is  as  ancient  as  that  of  the 
world,  belongs  properly  to  a  warm  climate,  though  it  may  be  raised  in 
the  open  air  in  the  Middle  States,  with  proper  care. 

In  its  native  countries,  Asia  and  Africa,  near  the  sea  coast  it  forms  a 
low  tree,  twenty  feet  in  height,  with  spreading  branches,  and  large, 
deeply  lobed,  rough  leaves.  It  Ls  completely  naturalized  in  the  south 
of  Europe,  where  its  cultivation  is  one  of  the  most  important  occupa- 
tions of  the  fruit-grower. 

The  fruit  of  the  Fig-tree  is  remarkable  for  making  its  appearance,, 
growing,  and  ripening,  without  being  preceded  by  any  apparent  blossom. 
The  latter,  however,  is  concealed  in  the  interior  of  a  fleshy  receptacle 


THE    FIG.  495 

which  is  culled,  and  finally  becomes,  the  fruit.  The  flavor  of  the  fig  is 
exceedingly  sweet  and  luscious,  so  much  so  as  not  to  he  agreeable  to 
many  persons  when  tasted  for  the  first  time  ;  but,  like  most  fruits  of 
this  kind,  it  becomes  a  great  favorite  with  all  after  a  short  trial,  and  is 
really  one  of  the  most  agreeable,  wholesome,  and  nutritious  kinds  of  food. 
It  has  always,  indeed,  been  the  favorite  fruit  of  warm  countries,  and  the 
ideal  of  earthly  happiness  and  content,  as  typified  in  the  Bible,  consists 
in  sitting  under  one's  own  ti^-tree. 

1 1  s  cultivation  was  carried  to  great  perfection  among  the  ancient 
Romans,  who  had  more  than  twenty  varieties  in  their  gardens.  But 
the  Athenians  seem  to  have  prided  themselves  most  on  their  figs,  and 
even  made  a  law  forbidding  any  to  be  exported  from  Attica.  Smug- 
gling,  however,  seems  to  have  been  carried  on  in  those  days,  and  a  curi- 
ous  Little  piece  of  etymological  history  is  connected  with  the  fig.  The 
informers  against  those  who  broke  this  law  were  called  sukophantai, 
from  two  words  in  the  Greek,  meaning  the  "  discoverers  of  figs."  And 
as  their  power  appears  also  to  have  been  used  for  malicious  purposes,  thence 
arose  our  word  sycophant.  The  fig  was  first  introduced  from  Italy 
about  1548,  by  Cardinal  Poole,  and  to  this  country  about  1790,  by  Wm. 
Hamilton,  Esq. 

Propagation*.  This  tree  is  very  readily  increased  by  cuttings  taken 
off  in  the  month  of  March,  and  planted  in  a  light  soil  in  a  hot-bed,  when 
they  will  make  very  strong  plants  the  same  season.  Or  they  may  be 
planted  in  a  shady  border  in  the  open  air,  quite  early  in  April,  with  tol- 
erable success.  In  either  case  the  cuttings  shotild  be  made  eight  or  ten 
inches  long,  of  the  last  year's  shoots,  with  about  half  an  inch  of  the  old 
or  previous  year's  wood  left  at  the  base  of  each. 

Soil  and  Culture.  The  best  soil  for  the  fig  is  one  moderately  deep, 
and  neither  too  moist  nor  dry,  as  in  the  former  case  the  plant  is  but  too 
apt  to  run  to  coarse  wood,  and  in  the  latter,  to  drop  its  fruit  before  it 
is  fully  ripe.  A  mellow  calcareous  loam  is  the  best  soil  in  this  climate 
— and  marl,  or  mild  lime  in  compost,  the  most  suitable  manure. 

As  in  the  Middle  States  this  tree  is  not  hardy  enough  to  be  allowed 
to  grow  as  a  standard,  it  is  the  policy  of  the  cultivator  to  keep  it  in  a 
low  and  shrub-lik e  form,  near  the  ground,  that  it  may  be  easily  covered 
in  winter.  The  great  difficulty  of  this  mode  of  training,  with  us,  has 
been  that  the  coarse  and  over-luxuriant  growth  of  the  branches,  when  kept 
down,  is  so  great  as  to  render  the  tree  unfruitful,  or  to  rob  the  fruit  of 
its  (hie  share  of  nourishment.  Happily  the  system  of  rooi^prv/ning^  re- 
cently found  so  beneficial  with  some  other  trees,  is  in  this  climate  most 
perfectly  adapted  to  the  fig.  Short-jointed  wood,  and  only  moderate 
vigor  of  growth,  are  well-known  accompaniments  of  fruitfulness  in  this 
tree;  and  there  is  uo  means  by  which  firm,  well-ripened,  short-jointed 
wood  is  so  easily  obtained  as  by  an  annual  pruning  of  the  roots — cutting 
off  all  that  project  more  than  half  the  length  of  the  branches.  In  this 
way  the  fig-tree  may  be  kept  in  that  rich  and  somewhat  strong  soil  ne- 
cessary to  enable  it  to  hold  its  fruit,  and  ripen  it  of  the  largest  size, 
without  that  coarseness  of  growth  which  usually  happens  in  such  soil, 
and  but  too  frequently  renders  the  tree  barren.  The  mode  of  perform- 
ing root-pruning  we  have  already  described,  but  we  may  add  here  that 
the  operation  should  be  performed  on  the  tig  early  in  November.  When 
this  mode  is  adopted  but  little  pruning  will  be  necessary,  beyond  that 
of  keeping  the   plant    in  a  somewhat   low    and    regular    shape,  short- 


49  C  THE    FIG. 

ening-in  the  tranches  occasionally,,  and  taking  out  old  and  decaying 
wood. 

In  winter  the  branches  of  the  fig  must  be  bent  down  to  the  ground, 
and  fastened  with  hooked  pegs,  and  covered  with  three  or  four  inchea 
of  soil,  as  in  protecting  the  foreign  grape.  This  covering  should  be  re- 
moved as  soon  as  the  spring  is  well  settled.  Below  Philadelphia, 
a  covering  of  straw,  or  branches  of  evergreens  is  stifficient — and  south 
of  Virginia  the  fig  is  easy  of  culture  as  a  hardy  standard  tree. 

Two  crops  are  usually  produced  in  a  year  by  this  tree :  the  first, 
which  ripens  here  in  midsummer,  and  is  borne  on  the  previous  season's 
shoots ;  and  the  second,  which  is  yielded  by  the  young  shoots  of  this 
summer,  and  which  rarely  ripens  well  in  the  Middle  States  It  is,  there- 
fore, a  highly  advantageous  practice  to  rub  off  all  the  young  figs  of  this 
second  crop  after  midsummer,  as  soon  as  they  are  formed.  The  conse- 
quence of  this  is  to  retain  all  the  organizable  matter  in  the  tree,  and  to 
form  new  embryo  figs  where  these  are  rubbed  off,  which  then  ripen  the 
next  season  as  the  first  crop. 

Ripening  the  Frujt.  In  an  unfavorable  soil  or  climate,  the  ripen- 
ing of  the  fig  is  undoubtedly  rendered  more  certain  and  speedy  by  touch- 
ing the  eye  of  the  fruit  with  a  little  oil.  This  is  very  commonly  prac- 
tised in  many  districts  of  France.  "  At  Argenteuil,"  says  Loudon, 
"  the  maturity  of  the  latest  figs  is  hastened  by  putting  a  single  drop  of 
oil  into  the  eye  of  each  fruit.  This  is  done  by  a  woman,  who  has  a 
phial  of  oil  suspended  from  her  waist,  and  a  piece  of  hollow  rye  straw 
in  her  hand.  This  she  dips  into  the  oil,  and  afterwards  into  the  eye  of 
the  fig." 

We  have  ourselves  frequently  tried  the  experiment  of  touching  the 
end  of  the  Fig  with  the  finger  dipped  in  oil,  and  have  always  found  the 
fruits  so  treated  to  ripen  much  more  certainly  and  speedily,  and  swell 
to  a  larger  size  than  those  left  untouched. 

There  are  forty-two  varieties  enumerated  in  the  last  edition  of  the 
London  Horticultural  Society's  Catalogue.  Few  of  these  have,  how- 
ever, been  introduced  into  this  country,  and  a  very  few  sorts  will  com- 
prise all  that  is  most  desirable  and  excellent  in  this  fruit.  The  follow- 
ing selection  includes  those  most  suitable  for  our  soil  and  climate. 

Fruit  nearly  all  ripen  in  August. 


CLASS  I. 
RED,  BROWN,  OR  PURPLE 

Black  Genoa. 

The  fruit  of  this  Fig  is  long  obovate,  that  poi'tion  next  the  stalk  being 
very  slender.  Skin  dark  purple,  becoming  nearly  black,  and  covered 
with  a  purple  bloom.  Pulp  bright  red,  flavor  excellent.  Habit  cf  the 
tree  moderately  strong. 

Black   Ischia. 
Early  Forcing.  Blue  Ischia. 

One  of  the  most  fruitful  sorts,  and  pretty  hardy. 


THE    FIG. 


497 


Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  flattened  at  the  apex.  Skip 
dark  violet,  becoming  almost  black  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  deep  red, 
and  of  very  sweet,  luscious  flavor. 

Brown  Ischia. 
Chestnut.  Chestnut-colored  Ischia. 

A  good  variety,  with,  however,  a  rather  thin  skin,  rendering  it  lia- 
ble to  crack  or  burst  open  when  fully  ripe.  It  is  hardy,  of  good  habit, 
and  a  very  excellent  bearer. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  light  or  chestnut 
brown.     Pulp  purple,  very  sweet  and  excellent. 

Brown  Turkey. 

Brown  Italian.  -  Large  Blue.  Italian. 

Brow  n  Naples.  Murrey.  Lee's  Perpetual. 

This  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  very  best  for  this  country,  and  for 
open  air  culture,  as  it  is  perhaps  the  very  hardiest,  and  one  of  the  most 
regular  and  abundant  bearers. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  or  pyriform.  Skin  dark  brown,  covered  with  <* 
thick  blue  bloom.     Flesh  red,  and  of  very  delicious  flavor. 

Brunswick. 

Madonna.  Hanover.  Brown  Hamburg.  Black  Naples. 

Clementine.         Bayswater.         Red. 

One  of  the  largest  and  finest  purple  Figs,  well  adapted  for  hardy 
culture. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  pyriform  in  shape,  with  an  oblique  apex. 
Eye  considerably  sunk.  Stalk  short  and  thick,  of  a  fine  violet  brown 
in  the  sun,  dotted  with  small  pale  brown  specks,  and,  on  the  shaded 
side,  pale  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  reddish  brown,  slightly  pink  near  the 
centre,  and  somewhat  transparent.  Flavor  rich  and  excellent.  The 
only  fault  of  this  variety  for  open  air  culture  is.  that  it  is  rather  too 
strong  in  its  growth,  not  being  so  easily  protected  in  winter  as  more 
dwarfish  sorts. 

Malta. 
Small  Brown. 

A  small,  but  very  rich  Fig,  which  will  often  hang  on  the  tree  until  it 
begins  to  shrivel,  and  becomes    "  a  fine  sweetmeat." 

Fruit  much  compressed  at  the  apex,  and  very  much  narrowed  in 
towards  the  stalk.  Skin  light  brown.  Pulp  pale  brown,  and  of  a 
sweet,  rich  flavor.  Ripens  later  than  the  foregoing,  about  the  last  of 
August. 

Small  Brown  Ischia. 

A  very  hardy  sort,  which,  in  tolerably  warm  places  south  of  Phihv 
delphia,  will  make  a  small  standard  tree  in  the  open  air.  bearing  pretty 
good  crops,  that  ripen  about  the  first  of  September. 


498  THE    FIG. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  with  a  very  short  footstalk.  Skin  light  bro  .vn. 
Pulp  pale  purple,  of  high  flavor.  Leaves  more  entire  than  those  of  the 
common  Fig. 

Yiolette. 

A  very  good  sort  from  the  neighborhood  of  Paris,  where  it  produces 
two  crops  annually. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obovate,  flattened  at  the  apex.  Skin  dark 
violet.  Pulp  nearly  white,  or  a  little  tinged  with  red  on  the  inside, 
and  of  pleasant  flavor. 

Yiolette  de  Bordeaux. 
Bordeaux. 

A  Fig  which  is  much  cultivated  in  France,  being  quite  productive, 
though  of  inferior  flavor  to  many  of  the  foregoing  sorts. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  about  three  inches  long  and  two  in  diameter. 
Skin  deep  violet  when  fully  ripe,  but  at  first  of  a  brownish  red.  Pulp 
reddish  purple,  sweet,  and  good. 


CLASS  II. 

FRUIT,  WHITE,  GREEN,  OR  YELLOW. 

Angelique. 
Concourelle  Blanche.  Melitte 

This  little  Fig  is  a  very  abundant  bearer,  and  a  pretty  hardy  sort. 

Fruit  small,  obovate.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  dotted  with  lighter 
colored  specks.  Pulp  white,  but  only  tolerably  sweet.  It  will  usually 
bear  two  crops. 

Large  White  Genoa. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  thin,  pale  yellow.  Pulp  red, 
and  well  flavored. 

Marseilles. 

White  Marseilles.  Ford's  Seedling. 

White  Naples.  White  Standard. 

Pocock.  Figue  Blanche. 

A  very  favorite  sort  for  forcing  and  raising  \mder  glass,  but  which 
does  not  succeed  so  well  as  the  Brown  Turkey  and  the  Iscliias  for  open 
culture. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obovate,  slightly  ribbed.  Skin  nearly  white, 
with  a  little  yellowish  green  remaining.  Flesh  white,  rather  dry,  but 
sweet  and  rich. 

Nerii. 

A  fruit  rather  smaller  and  longer  than  the  Marseilles,  and  which, 
from  a  mingling  of  slight  acid,  is  one  of  the  most  exquisite  in  its  flavor. 


THE     GOOSEBERRY.  ^i) 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow.  Pulf 
red  Flavor  at  once  delicate  and  rich.  This  is  a  very  favorite  variety 
according  to  Loudon,  "  the  richest  fig  known  in  Britain." 

Pregussata. 

A  sort  lately  introduced  from  the  Ionian  Isles  into  England.  It  u 
tolerably  hardy,  quite  productive,  and  succeeds  admirably  under  glass. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  good  deal  flattened.  Skin  purplish 
brown  in  the  shade,  dark  brown  in  the  sun.  Pulp  deep  red,  with  a 
luscious,  high  flavor.  Seeds  unusually  small.  Ripens  gradually,  in 
succession. 

White  Ischia. 

Green  Ischia. 

A  very  small  Fig,  but  one  of  the  hardiest  of  the  light-colored  ones 
Fruit  about  an  inch  in  diameter,  roundish  obovate.     Skin  pale  yel- 
lowish green,  very  thin,  and,  when  fully  ripe,  the    darker-colored  pulp 
appears  through  it.     Pulp  purplish,  and  high  flavored.     A  moderate 
grower  and  good  bearer. 


CHAPTER   XVII. 

THE    GOOSEBERRY. 


Ribes  Grossularia,  Arb.  Brit.     Grossulacece,  of  botanists. 
GroseiUier,  of  the  French  ;    StacMbeerstrauch,  German  ;   L  va  Spino,  Italian  ; 
Grosella,  Spanish. 

The  Gooseberry  of  our  gardens  is  a  native  of  the  north  of  Europe, 
our  native  species  not  having  much  improved  by  garden  culture.  Tina 
low  prickly  shrub,  which  in  its  wild  state  bears  small  round  or  oval 
fruit  about  half  an  inch  in  diameter,  and  weighing  one-fourth  ol  an 
ounce,  has  been  so  greatly  improved  by  the  system  of  successive  repro- 
duction from  the  seed,  and  high  culture  by  British  gardeners  that  it 
now  bears  fruit  nearly  or  quite  two  inches  in  diameter,  and  weighing  an 
ounce  and  a  half.  Lancashire,  in  England,  is  the  meridian  of  the  goose- 
berry,  and  to  the  Lancashire  weavers,  who  seem  to  have  taken  it  as  a 
hobby,  we  are  indebted  for  nearly  all  the  surprisingly  large  sorts  ol  mod- 
era  date.  Their  annual  shows  exhibit  this  fruit  in  its  greatest  perfec- 
tion, and  a  Gooseberry  Book  is  published  at  Manchester  every  year, 
nving  a  list  of  all  the  prize  sorts,  etc.  Indeed  bhe  elnuate  of  Lngland 
seems!  from  its  moistness  and  coolness,  more  perfectly  fitted  than  any 
Other  to  tie-  growth  of  this  fruit.  Under  our  more  clear  and  hot  suns, 
however,  the  best  varieties  of  English  sorts  do  notsucceed  well,  suffering 
from  mildew  of  the  fruit  and  foliage  in  nearly  every  location.  A  few 
varieties  of  tl  ts,  and  some  few  sorts  of  American  origin, 

8uc.c    »d    and  their  growth  near  large  cities  is  considered  quite  profitable 


600  THE    GOOSEBERRY. 

Uses.  This  fruit  is,  iu  the  first  place,  a  very  important  one  in  it* 
green  state,  being  in  high  estimation  for  pies,  tarts,  and  puddings,  com- 
ing into  use  earlier  than  any  other.  The  earliest  use  made  of  it  appears 
to  have  been  as  a  sauce  with  green  goose,  whence  the  name,  goose-berry. 
In  its  ripe  state  it  is  a  very  agreeable  table  fruit,  and  in  this  country, 
following  the  season  of  cherries,  it  is  always  most  acceptable.  Umipe 
gooseberries  are  bottled  in  water  for  winter  use  (placing  the  bottles, 
nearly  filled,  a  few  moments  in  boiling  water,  afterwards  corking  and 
sealing  them,  and  burying  them  in  a  cool  cellar,  with  their  necks  down- 
ward). They  are  also  canned,  the  same  as  with  cherries,  peaches,  and 
other  fruits. 

As  a  luxury  for  the  poor,  Mr.  Loudon  considers  this  the  most  valu- 
able of  all  fruits,  "  since  it  can  be  grown  in  less  space,  in  more  unfavor- 
able circumstances,  and  brought  sooner  into  bearing  than  any  other." 

Propagation.  Gooseberry  plants  should  only  be  raised  from  cut- 
tings. New  varieties  are  of  course  raised  from  seed,  and  the  produc- 
tion of  new  American  varieties  of  large  size  and  fine  quality  affords  a 
field  of  occupation  which  we  should  rejoice  to  see  abundantly  filled. 

In  preparing  cuttings  select  the  strongest  and  straightest  young  shoots 
of  the  current  year,  at  the  end  of  October  (or  very  early  in  the  ensuing 
spring) ;  cut  out  all  the  buds  that  you  intend  to  go  below  the  ground 
(to  prevent  future  suckers),  and  plant  the  cuttings  in  a  deep  rich  soil, 
on  the  north  side  of  a  fence,  or  in  some  shaded  border.  The  cuttings 
should  be  inserted  six  inches  deep,  and  from  three  to  six  or  eight  inches 
should  remain  above  ground.  The  soil  should  be  pressed  very  firmly 
about  the  cuttings,  and,  in  the  case  of  autumn  planting,  the  cuttings 
should  be  inserted  into  the  ground  level  with  the  upper  buds,  and  then 
covered  with  a  mulch  of  coarse  manure,  to  be  taken  away  in  the  fol- 
lowing spring,  when  they  should  be  examined,  and  the  earth  pressed  to 
■r  it  firm  again  should  the  cutting  have  been  raised  by  severe  frost. 
After  they  have  become  well  rooted — generally  in  a  year's  time — they 
may  be  transplanted  to  the  borders,  where  they  are  finally  to  remain. 

Cultivation.  The  Gooseberry  in  our  climate  is  very  impatient  of 
drought,  and  we  have  uniformly  found  that  the  best  soil  for  it  is  a  deep 
strong  loam;  or  at  least  whatever  may  be  the  soil,  and  it  will  grow  in  a 
great  variety,  it  should  always  be  deep — if  not  naturally  so,  it;  should 
be  made  deep  by  trenching  and  manuring.  It  is  the  most  common 
error  to  plant  this  fruit  shrub  under  the  blanches  of  other  trees  for  the 
sike  of  their  shade — as  it  always  renders  the  fruit  inferior  in  size  and 
flavor,  and  more  likely  to  become  mouldy.  On  the  contrary,  we  a\  ould 
always  advise  planting  in  an  open  border,  as,  if  the  soil  is  sufficiently 
deep,  the  plants  will  not  suffer  from  dryness,  and  should  it  unfortu- 
nately be  of  a  dry  nature,  it  may  be  rendered  less  injurious  by  covering 
the  ground  under  the  plants  with  straw  or  litter.  In  any  case  i 
soil  is  necessary,  and  as  the  Gooseberry  is  fond  of  manure,  a  pretty 
heavy  top-dressing  should  be  dug  in  every  year  around  bearing  plants. 
For  a  later  crop  a  few  bushes  may  be  set  on  the  north  side  of  a  fence 
or  wall. 

For  the  Gooseberry,  regular  and  pretty  liberal  pruning  is  absolutely 
necessary.  Of  course  no  suckers  should  be  allowed  to  grow.  In  No- 
vember the  winter  pruning  should  be  performed.  The  leaves  now  be- 
ing off,  it  is  easy  to  see  what  proportion  of  the  new  as  well  as  old  wood 
m\y  be  taken  away  ;  and  we  will  here  remark  that  it  is  quite  impossible 


THE    GOOSEBERRY.  50) 

to  obtain  fine  gooseberries  here,  or  anywhere,  without  a  verj  thorough 
thinning  out  of  the  brandies.  As  a  general  rule,  it  may  safely  be  said 
that  one-half  of  the  head,  including  old  and  young  branches  (more  espe- 
cially the  former,  as  the  best  fruit  is  borne  on  the  young  wood),  should 
now  be  taken  out,  leaving  a  proper  distribution  of  shoots  throughout 
the  bush,  the  head  being  sufficiently  thinned  to  admit  freely  the  light 
and  air.  An  additional  pruning  is,  in  England,  performed  in  June, 
which  consists  in  stopping  the  growth  of  long  shoots  by  pinching  out 
the  extremities  and  thinning  out  (superfluous  branches;  but  if  the 
annual  pruning  is  properly  performed  this  will  not  be  found  necessary, 
except  to  obtain  fruit  of  extraordinary  size. 

We  do  not  think  that  this  fruit  shrub  can  be  said  to  bear  well  for 
more  than  a  half-dozen  years  successively,  when  grown  in  the  single 
stem  or  tree  form.  In  large  plantations  of  acres,  and  where  cultivation 
is  given  by  means  of  the  horse  and  plough,  the  system  of  growing  in  the 
bush  form  is  by  many  considered  most  profitable ;  and  when  so  done, 
all  that  is  requisite,  from  year  to  year,  for  many  years,  is  to  cut  away 
dead  wood,  head  back  vigorous  shoots,  and  keep  the  form  open. 

A  succession  of  young  plants  should  be  kept  up  by  striking  some 
cuttings  every  season. 

Varieties.  The  number  of  these  is  almost  endless,  new  ones  being 
produced  by  the  prize  growers  every  year.  The  last  edition  of  the 
London  Horticultural  Society's  Catalogue  enumerates  149  sorts  consid- 
ered worthy  of  notice,  and  Lindley's  Guide  to  the  Orchard  gives  a  list 
of  more  than  seven  hundred  prize  sorts.  It  is  almost  needless  to  say 
that  many  of  these  very  closely  resemble  each  other,  and  that  a  small 
number  of  them  will  comprise  all  the  most  valuable. 

The  sorts  bearing  fruit  of  medium  size  are  generally  more  highly 
flavored  than  the  very  large  ones.  We  have  selected  a  sufficient  num- 
ber of  the  most  valuable  for  all  practical  purposes. 


I.  Red  Gooseberries. 

Boardman's  British  Crown.  Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  hairy, 
handsome  and  good.     Branches  spreading. 

Champagne.  A  fine  old  variety,  of  very  rich  flavor.  Fruit  small, 
roundish  oblong,  surface  hairy,  pulp  clear;  branches  of  very  upright 
growth. 

Capper's  Top  Sawyer.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  pale  red,  hairy; 
rather  late  ;  flavor  very  good.     Branches  drooping. 

Farrow's  Roaring  Lion.  An  immense  berry,  and  hangs  late. 
Fruit  oblong,  smooth  ;  flavor  excellent ;   branches  drooping. 

Hartshorn's  Lancashire  Lad.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  dark  r(d, 
hairy  ;  flavor  very  good  ;  branches  ei-ect. 

Keen's  Seedling.  Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong,  hairy;  fla-vor 
first-rate;  branches  drooping.      Early  and  productive. 

Leigh's  Rifleman.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  hairy ;  flavor  first-rate; 
branches  erect. 

Melling's  Crown  Bob.  Fruit  large,  oblong,  hairy;  flavor  first- 
-ate  ;  branches  spreading. 

Miss  Bold.  Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  surface  downy  J  flavor 
excellent;  branches  spreading. 


502  THE    GOOSEBERRY. 

Red  Warrington,  Fruit  large,  roundish  ollong,  hairy;  flavor 
first-rate ;  branches  drooping. 

II    Yellow  Gooseberries. 

Buerdsill's  Duckwing.  Fruit  large  and  late,  obovate,  smooth ; 
flavor  good ;  branches  erect. 

Capper's  Bunker  Hill.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  smooth ;  flavor 
good ;  brunches  spreading. 

Gorton's    Viper.       Fruit   large,    obovate,    smooth ;    flavor   good 
branches  drooping. 

Hill's  Golden  Gourd.     Fruit  large,  oblong,  hairy ;   flavor  good 
branches  drooping. 

Part's  Golden  Fleece.     Fruit  large,  oval,  hairy ;  flavor  first-rate 
branches  spreading. 

Prophet's  Bockwood.  Fruit  large  and  early,  roundish,  hairy  ;  fla- 
vor good ;  branches  erect. 

Yellow  Champagne.  Fruit  small,  roundish,  hairy ;  flavor  first- 
rate  ;  branches  erect. 

Yellow  Ball.  Fruit  of  middle  size,  roundish,  smooth  ;  flavor  first- 
rate  ;  branches  erect. 

III.    Green  Gooseberries. 

Collier's  Jolly  Angler.  Fruit  large  and  late,  oblong,  downy ; 
flavor  first-rate  ;  branches  erect. 

Berry's  Greenwood.  Fruit  large,  oblong,  smooth  ;  flavor  good ; 
•branches  drooping. 

Early  Green  Hairy  (or  Green  Gascoigne.)  Fruit  small  and 
early,  round,  hairy  ;  flavor  excellent ;  branches  spreading. 

Edward's  Jolly  Tar.  Fruit  large,  obovate,  smooth ;  flavor  first- 
rate  ;  branches  drooping. 

Glenton  Green.  Fruit  of  middle  size,  oblong,  hairy;  flavor  excel- 
lent ;  branches  drooping. 

Green  Walnut.  Fruit  middle  size,  obovate,  smooth  ;  flavor  first- 
rate  ;  branches  spreading. 

Hepburn  Green  Prolific.  Fruit  of  middle  size,  roundish,  hairy ; 
flavor  first-rate  ;  branches  erect. 

Massey's  Heart  of  Oak.  Fruit  large,  oblong,  smooth ;  flavor 
first-rate ;  branches  drooping. 

Parkinson's  Laurel.  Fruit  large,  obovate,  downy ;  flavor  first- 
rate  ;  branches  erect. 

Pitmaston  Green  Gage.  Fruit  small,  and  hangs  long,  obovate, 
smooth  ;  flavor  rich  and  excellent ;  branches  erect. 

Wainman's  Green  Ocean.  Fruit  very  lai  ge,  oblong,  smooth ;  fla- 
vor tolerably  good  ;  branches  drooping. 

IV.    White  Gooseberritts. 

Cleworth's  White  Lion.  Fruit  large  and  hangs  late,  obovate, 
downy  ;  flavor  first-rate.     Branches  drooping. 

Cro.mpton  Sheba  Queen.  Fruit  large,  obovate,  downy ;  flavor  first- 
sate.     Branches  erect 


THE    GOOSEBEt^KY. 


503 


Cook's  White  Eagle.  Fruit  large,  obovate,  smooth.  Flavor  first- 
rate.     Blanches  erect. 

Capper's  Bonny  Lass.  Fruit  large,  oblong,  hairy.  Flavor  good. 
Branches  spreading. 

Hapley's  Lady  of  the  Manor.  Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong, 
hairy.     Flavor  good.     Branches  erect. 

Saunders1  Cheshire  Lass.  Fruit  large  and  very  early,  oblong, 
downy.     Flavor  excellent.     Branches  erect. 

Woodward's  Whitesmith.  Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  downy. 
Flavor  first-rate.      Branches  erect. 

Wellington's  Glory.  Fruit  large,  rather  oval.  Very  downy. 
Skin  quite  thin.     Flavor  excellent.     Branches  erect. 

White  Honey.  Fruit  of  middle  size,  roundish  oblong,  smooth. 
Flavor  excellent.     Branches  erect. 

Taylor's  Bright  Venus.  Fruit  of  middle  size,  hangs  a  long  time, 
obovate,  hairy.     Flavor  first-rate.     Branches  erect. 

The  following  list  of  selected  sorts,  from  one  hundred  varieties,  is 
prepared  by  Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth,  England  : — 


Atlas,  late. 
Echo,  late. 
Guido,  very  large. 


Red  Gooseberries. 

Huntsman,  early. 
Hopley's  Companion. 
Overall,  late. 


Prince  Albert,  early. 
Prince  Regent,  early. 
Young  Wonderful 


Freedom. 
Lady  Delamere. 


White  Gooseberries. 

Ostrich,  early. 
Queen  Caroline. 


Smiling  Beauty. 
Riley's  Tallyho. 


Conquering  Hero,  late. 
Husbandman,  late. 
Jolly  Cutler,  late. 
Riley's. 


Green  Gooseberries. 

Elijah,  early. 
Green  River,  late. 
Keepsake. 
Thumper,  very  late. 


Favorite. 
Independent. 
Profit,  late. 
Wistastoa  Hero,  earry 


Yellow  Gooseberries. 


Banks  Dublin. 
Broom  GirL 
Briton. 


Husbandman,  late. 
Marigold,  early. 
Pilot,  early. 


Scorpion,  early. 
Sovereign,  early. 
Teazer,  late. 


AMERICAN  VARIETIES. 

Downing. 

A  seedling  of  Houghton,  originated  at  Newburgh,  N.  Y.  Upright 
vigorous  growing  plant,  very  productive. 

Fruit  somewhat  larger  than  Houghton,  roundish  oval,  whicisk  green 
with  the  rib  veins  distinct.  Skin  smooth.  Flesh  rather  soft,  juicy, 
very  good.     Excellenl  for  family  use. 


604  THE    GRATE. 

Hobbs'  Seedling. 

A  variety  claimed  to  have  originated  by  O.  J.  Hobbs,  of  Randolph 
Pa.  It  is  light  pale  green,  roundish,  slightly  oval,  smooth.  Flesh 
medium  firmness.  A  good  keeper,  and  nearly  one-half  larger  than 
Houghton's. 

Houghton's  Seedling. 

Originated  with  Abel  Houghton,  Lynn,  Mass.  A  vigorous  grower. 
Branches  rather  drooping,  slender,  very  productive,  generally  free  from 
mildew.     A  desirable  sort. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval.  Skin  smooth . 
pale  red.     Flesh  tender,  sweet,  and  very  good. 

Mountain  Seedling. 

Originated  with  the  Shakers  at  Lebanon,  N.  Y.  Plant  a  strong 
straggling  grower.     An  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  the  largest  of  any  known  American  sort,  long  oval,  dark 
brownish  red,  with  long  stalk.  Skin  smooth,  thick.  Flesh  sweet.  A 
good  market  sort. 

Pale  Red. 

American  Red.  American  Seedling. 

Robert's  Sweet  Water.  Ohio  Prolific. 

Ohio  Seedling.  St.  Clair. 

Dutch  Joe.  Cluster. 

A  variety  of  unknown  origin.  Bush  more  upright  than  Houghton. 
Slender  wood.     Very  productive. 

Fruit  small  or  medium,  or  size  of  the  Houghton ;  darker  in  color 
when  fully  ripe.  Hangs  a  long  time  upon  the  bush.  Flesh  tender, 
sweet,  very  good. 

■   Smith's  Improved. 
Smith's  Seedling. 

A  new  variety  recently  introduced.  Grown  from  seed  of  the  Hough 
ton,  by  Dr.  Smith,  of  Vermont,  and  in  growth  of  plant  more  upright 
and  vigorous  than  its  parent ;  the  fruit  is  larger  and  somewhat  oval  in 
"orm,  bight  green,  with  a  bloom.    Flesh  moderately  firm,  sweet  and  good. 


CHAPTER  XVTH. 

THE    GRAPE. 


Vitis  vinifera,  L.      Vitacea,  of  botanists. 
Viffne,  of  the  French  ;    Weintrauben,  German  ;    Vigna,  Italian  ;   Yid,  or  Vina, 

Spanish. 

The  history  of  the  Grape  is  almost  as  old  as  that  of  man.     Growing 
in  its  highest  perfection  in  Syria  and  Persia,  itd  luscious  fruit,  and  the 


THE    GRAPE.  j05 

aiirivalled  beverage  which  its  fermented  juice  affords,  recoix. mended  i$ 
to  the  especial  care  of  the  patriarchal  tillers  of  the  soil,  and  vineyards 
were  extensively  planted  long  before  orchards  or  collections  of  other 
fruit-trees  were  at  all  common. 

The  grapes  of  the  old  world  are  all  varieties  of  the  wine  grape  (  1  riti» 
vinifera),  which,  though  so  long  and  so  universally  cultivated  and  natu- 
ralized in  all  the  middle  and  southern  portions  of  Europe,  is  not  a  na- 
tive of  that  continent,  but  came  originally  from  Persia.  From  the  lat 
ter  country,  as  civilization  advanced  westward,  this  plan:  accompanied 
it — first  to  Egypt,  then  to  Greece  and  Sicily,  and  gradually  to  Italy, 
Spain,  Prance,  and  Britain,  to  which  latter  country  the  Romans  carried 
it  about  two  hundred  years  after  Christ.  To  America  the  seeds  and 
plants  of  the  European  varieties  were  brought  by  numerous  emigrants 
and  colonists  within  the  tirst  fifty  years  after  its  settlement. 

The  wild  grapes  of  our  own  country  are  quite  distinct  species  from 
the  wine  grape  of  Europe — are  usually  stronger  in  their  growth,  with 
larger  and  more  entire  foliage,  and,  in  their  native  state,  with  a  pecu- 
liar foxy  odor  or  flavor,  and  more  or  less  hardness  of  pulp.  These 
traits,  however,  disappear  in  process  of  cultivation,  and  we  have  reason 
to  hope  that  we  shall  soon  obtain  from  the  wild  type  new  varieties  of 
high  quality,  and  of  superior  hardiness  and  productiveness  in  this 
climate. 

The  grape-vine  is  in  all  cases  a  trailing  or  climbing  deciduous  shrub, 
living  to  a  great  age,  and,  in  its  native  forests,  clambering  over  the  tops 
of  the  tallest  trees.  In  the  deep  rich  alluvial  soils  of  western  America 
it  is  often  seen  attaining  a  truly  prodigious  size,  and  several  have  been 
measured  on  the  banks  of  the  Ohio  the  stems  of  which  were  three  feet 
in  circumference,  and  the  branches  two  hundred  feet  long,  enwreathing 
and  festooning  the  tops  of  huge  poplars  and  sycamores.  In  a  culti- 
vated state,  however,  it  is  found  that  fine  flavor  and  uniform  produc- 
tiveness require  the  plants  to  be  kept  pruned  within  a  small  compass. 

Uses.  The  grape  in  its  finest  varieties,  as  the  Hamburgh  and  the 
Muscat,  is  in  flavor  hardly  surpassed  by  any  other  fruit  in  debcacy  and 
richness,  and  few  or  none  are  more  beaiitiful  in  the  dessert.  Dried,  it 
forms  the  raisin  of  commerce,  the  most  excellent  of  all  dried  fruits,  every- 
where esteemed.  And  wine,  the  fermented  juice,  has  always  been  the 
first  of  all  exhilarating  liquors.  Some  idea  of  the  past  consumption  of 
this  product  may  be  formed  from  the  fact  that  more  than  500,000,000 
imperial  gallons  have  been  made  in  France  in  a  single  year;  and  as  a 
data  to  judge  of  its  value  we  may  add  that,  while  a  great  proportion 
of  the  vin  ordinaire,  or  common  wine,  is  sold  at  10  or  12  cents  a  bot- 
tle, on  the  other  hand,  particular  old  and  rare  vintages  of  Madeiras  or 
Sherries  will  not  unfrequently  command  twenty  or  thirty  dollars  a  gal- 
lon. 

Soil.  The  universal  experience  in  all  countries  has  established  the 
fact  that  a  dry  and  warm  soil  is  the  very  best  for  the  vine.  Where 
vineyards  are  cultivated,  a  limestone  soil,  or  one  composed  of  decay- 
ing calcareous  rocks,  is  by  far  the  best;  but  where,  as  in  most  gardens, 
the  vine  is  raised  solely  for  its  fruit,  the  soil  should  be  highly  enriched. 
The  foreign  grape  will  scarcely  thrive  well  here  on  a  heavy  soil,  though 
our  native  varieties  grow  and  bear  well  on  any  strong  land;  but  the 
essence  of  all  that  can  be  said  in  grape  culture  respecting  soil  is,  that  it 
be  dxy  and  light,  deep  and  rich.     Frequent  top-dressings  of  well-rotted 


506  THE    GRAPE. 

manure  should  be  applied  to  vines  in  open  borders,  and  tbi&   should, 
every  third  or  fourth  year,  be  alternated  with  a  dressing  of  slaked  lime. 

Propagation.  The  grape-vine  makes  roots  very  freely,  and  is, 
therefore,  easy  of  propagation.  Branches  of  the  previous  or  current 
year's  wood,  bent  down  at  any  time  before  midsummer,  and  covered  with 
earth,  as  layers,  root  very  freely,  and  make  bearing  plants  in  a  couple 
of  years,  or  very  frequently  indeed  bear  the  next  season. 

But  the  finer  varieties  of  the  vine  are  almost  universally  propagated 
by  cuttings,  as  that  is  a  very  simple  mode,  and  an  abundance  of  the  cut 
tings  being  afforded  by  the  annual  trimming  of  the  vines. 

When  cuttings  are  to  be  planted  in  the  open  border,  a  somewhat 
moist  and  shaded  place  should  be  chosen  for  this  purpose.  The  cut- 
tings should  then  be  made  of  the  young  wood  of  the  previous  year's 
growth,  cut  into  lengths  about  a  foot  long,  and  having  two  or  three  buds 
— one  near  the  top,  one  at  the  bottom,  and  the  third  in  the  middle. 
Before  planting  the  cutting,  pare  off  its  lower  end  smoothly,  close  below 
the  buds,  and  finally  plant  it  in  mellow  soil,  in  a  slit  made  by  the  spade, 
pressing  the  earth  firmly  about  it  with  the  foot.* 

The  rarer  kinds  of  foreign  grapes  are  usually  grown  by  cuttings  of 
shorter  length,  consisting  only  of  two  buds ;  and  the  most  successful 
mode  is  to  plant  each  cutting  in  a  small  pot,  and  plunge  the  pots  in  a 
slight  hot-bed,  or  place  the  cuttings  at  once  in  the  mould  of  the  bed  itself. 
In  either  case  they  will  make  strong  plants  in  the  same  season. 

But  the  most  approved  way  of  raising  vine  plants  in  pots  is  that  of 
propagation  by  eyes,  which  we  have  fully  explained  in  the  first  part  of 
this  work.  This,  as  it  retains  the  least  portion  of  the  old  wood,  is  mani- 
festly the  nearest  approach  to  raising  a  plant  from  the  seed,  that  most 
perfect  of  all  modes  with  respect  to  the  constitution  of  a  plant.  In  the 
case  of  new  or  rare  sorts,  it  offers  us  the  means  of  multiplying  them 
with  the  greatest  possible  rapidity.  As  the  grape  usually  receives  its 
annual  pruning  in  autumn  or  winter,  the  cuttings  may  be  reduced 
to  nearly  their  proper  length,  and  kept  in  earth,  in  the  cellar,  until  the 
ensuing  spring.     The  hardier  sorts  may  be  buried  in  the  open  ground. 

The  foreign  and  the  native  grapes  are  very  different  in  their  habits  in 
this  climate,  and  therefore  must  be  treated  differently.  The  native 
sorts  are  cultivated  with  scarcely  any  further  care  than  training  up  the 
branches  to  poles  or  a  trellis,  and  are,  on  this  account,  highly  valuable 
to  the  farmer ;  while  the  European  varieties  are  of  little  value  in  this 
climate  except  with  especial  care,  and  are  therefore  confined  to  the 
garden. 

1.    Culture  of  the  Foreign  Grape. 

The  climate  of  the  temperate  portion  of  this  country,  so  favorable  to 
all  other  fruits,  is,  unfortunately,  not  so  for  the  foreign  Grape.  This  re- 
sults, perhaps,  from  its  variability,  the  great  obstacle  being  the  mildew, 

*  In  sandy  or  dry  soils,  to  insure  greater  success,  cover  the  upper  end  of  the 
cutting  with  grafting-wax,  or  something  of  the  kind,  to  prevent  evaporation. 
The  practice  of  growing  grapes  from  single  eyes,  by  making  cuttings  of  one  eye 
tach,  and  callosing  them  in  sand,  in  the  cellar  or  pit,  has  been  recently  renewed. 
The  cuttings  are  made  of  one  eye  each,  placed  in  sand,  in  a  cool  cellar  or  shed, 
free  from  frost,  and  in  spring  planted  out,  covering  the  bud  half  an  inch  or  so 
with  soil,  and  over  the  whole  spreading  a  mulch  of  tan-bark  or  sawdust  one  or 
two  inches  deep. 


THE    GRAPE.  507 

which,  seizing  upon  the  3  oung  fruit,  prevents  its  further  growth,  causes 
it  to  crack,  and  renders  it  worthless.  Unwilling  to  believe  that  this 
was  not  the  fault  of  bad  culture,  many  intelligent  cultivators,  and  among 
them  men  of  capital  and  much  practical  skill,  have  attempted  vineyard 
culture  with  the  foreign  sorts  in  varkms  sections  of  the  country,  under 
the  most  favorable  circumstances,  and  have  uniformly  failed.  <  >n  the 
other  hand,  the  very  finest  Grapes  are  produced  under  glass,  in  great 
quantities,  in  our  first-rate  gardens.  In  the  small  yards  or  gardens  of  our 
cities,  owing  to  the  more  uniform  state  of  the  atmosphere,  the  foreigu 
Grape  thrives  pretty  well;  and  finally,  in  all  gardens  of  the  Middle 
States  the  hardier  kinds  may,  under  certain  modes  of  culture,  be  made 
to  bear  good  fruit. 

Without  entering  into  any  inquiries  respecting  the  particular  way  in 
which  the  mildew  (which  is  undoubtedly  a  parasitical  plant)  is  caused, 
we  will  endeavor  to  state  concisely  some  practical  truths,  to  which  our 
own  observation  and  experience  have  led  us,  respecting  the  hardy  cul- 
ture of  the  foreign  Grape. 

In  the  first  place,  it  is  well  known  to  gardeners  here  that  young 
and  thrifty  vines  generally  bear  one  or  two  fair  crops  of  fruit ;  second, 
that  as  the  vine  becomes  older,  if  it  is  pruned  in  the  common  mode 
(that  is  to  say,  the  spwrring-in  mode  of  shortening  the  side  branches,  and 
getting  fresh  bearing  shoots  from  main  branches  every  year),  it  soon 
bears  only  mildewed  and  imperfect  fruit ;  and,  finally,  that  the  older 
and  larger  the  vine,  the  less  likely  is  it  to  produce  a  good  crop. 

This  being  the  case,  it  is  not  difficult  to  see  that  as  the  vine,  like 
all  other  trees,  is  able  to  resist  the  attacks  of  disease  or  unfavorable 
climate  just  in  proportion  as  it  is  kept  in  a  young  and  highly  vigorous 
state,  it  follows,  if  we  allow  a  plant  to  retain  only  young  and  vigorous 
wood,  it  must  necessarily  preserve  much  of  the  necessary  vigor  of  con- 
stitution. And  this  is  only  to  be  done,  so  far  as  regards  training,  by 
what  is  called  the  renewal  system. 

The   renewal  system  of  training   consists  in   an-        9-       .        p 
nually  providing   a  fresh  supply  of  young  branches,       \        /       \ 
from  which  the  bearing  shoots  are  produced,  cutting      J     0}       1 
out  all  the  branches  that  have  borne  the  previous  year.        y       \        V 
Fig.  37  represents  a  bearing  vine  treated  in  this  man-      /      /      / 
ner,  as  it  would  appear  in  the  spring  of  the  year  after       >       )       Jf 
having  been  pruned.     In  this  figure  a  represents  the      \     cl        Y 
two  branches  of  last  year's  growth  trained  up   for       "^        7^^*" 
bearing  the  present  year ;  6,  the  places  occupied  by     -ss^s^^S^ss.. 
the  last  year's  wood,  which,  having  borne,  has  been         Renewal  Training. 
cut  down   to  within    an   inch    of    the  main   arm,  c. 
The  present  year,  therefore,  the  two  branches,  a.  will  throw  out  side  shoots, 
and  bear  a  good  crop,  while  the  young  branches  will  be  trained  up  in  the 
places  of  b,  to  bear  the  next  year  when  a  are  in  like  manner  cui  down. 

This  renewal  training  will  usually  produce  fair  fruit,  chiefly,  as  it 
appears  to  us,  because  the  ascent  and  circulation  of  the  sap,  being  mainly 
carried  on  through  young  wood,  is  vigorous,  and  the  plant  is  healthful 
and  able  to  resist  the  mildew ;  while,  on  the  contrary,  the  circulation  of 
the  sap  is  more  f<  eble  and  tardy  through  the  more  compact  and  rigid 
sap-vessels  of  a  vine  full  of  old  wood.* 

*  See  Hoare  on  the  Grape-  Vint. 


508  THE    GRAPE. 

The  above  mode  of  tr lining  is  very  easily  understood,  but  we  maj 
add  here,  for  the  benefit  of  the  novice  :  1st,  that  vines,  in  order  that 
they  may  bear  regularly  and  well,  should  always  be  kept  within  small 
bounds ;  2d,  that  they  should  always  be  trained  to  a  wall,  building,  or 
upright  trellis  y  *  and  3d,  that  the  leaves  should  never  be  pulled  off  to 
promote  the  ripening  of  the  fruit.  The  ends  of  the  bearing  shoots  may 
be  stopped  (pinched  off)  when  the  fruit  is  nearly  half  grown,  and  thia 
is  usually  all  the  slimmer  pruning  that,  under  our  bright  sun,  the  grape- 
vine properly  treated  requires. 

Following  out  this  hint,  that  here  the  vine  only  bears  well  when  it 
is  young,  or  composed  mainly  of  young  wood,  an  intelligent  cultivator 
near  us  secures  every  year  abundant  crops  of  the  Chasselas  by  a  system 
of  renewal  by  layers.  Every  year,  from  his  bearing  vines,  he  lays  down 
two  or  more  long  and  clean  shoots  of  the  previous  year's  growth.  These 
root  freely,  are  allowed  to  make  another  season's  growth,  and  then  are 
made  to  take  the  place  of  the  old  plants,  which  are  taken  out ;  and  by 
this  continual  system  of  providing  young  plants  by  layers  he  always 
succeeds  in  obtaining  from  the  same  piece  of  ground  fair  and  excellent 
grapes. 

Culture  under  Glass  without  Artificial  Heat.  The  great 
superiority  of  this  fruit  when  raised  under  glass,  renders  a  vinery  an 
indispensable  feature  in  every  extensive  garden.  Even  without  fire- 
heat  grapes  may,  under  our  bright  sun,  be  grown  admirably  ;  the  sud- 
den changes  of  the  weather  being  guarded  against,  and  the  warmth  and 
uniformity  of  the  atmosphere  surrounding  the  vines  being  secured. 
Cheap  structures  of  this  kind  are  now  very  common,  and  even  the 
Muscat  of  Alexandria,  and  other  sorts  which  are  usually  thought  to 
require  fire-heat,  ripen  regularly  and  well  with  moderate  attention. 

A  vinery  of  this  kind  may  be  erected  so  as  to  cost  very  Little,  nearly 
after  the  following  manner :  Its  length  Jaa.y  be  thirty  feet ;  its  width 
sixteen  feet ;  height  at  the  front  two  {bet :  at  the  back  twelve  feet. 
This  part  of  the  structure  may  all  be  built  of  wood,  taking  for  the 
frame  cedar  or  locust  posts,  setting  them  three  and  a  half  feet  in  the 
ground,  the  portion  rising  above  the  ground  being  squared  to  four  or 
five  inches.  On  these  posts  (which  are  placed  six  feet  apart)  nail,  on 
both  sides,  matched  and  grooved  planks,  one  and  a  quarter  inches  thick. 
The  space  between  these  planks  not  occupied  by  the  post,  fill  in  with  dry 
tan,  which  should  be  well  rammed  down.  The  rafters  should  be  fixed, 
and  from  three  to  four  feet  apart.  The  sashes  forming  the  roof  (which 
are  all  the  glass  that  will  be  necessary)  should  be  stationary,  ventilation 
being  given  by  small  windows  at  the  top  of  the  back  wall,  fitted  with 
hinges,  to  be  opened  or  shut  at  pleasure  by  means  of  a  pulley  cord.  The 
building  will,  of  course,  front  the  south,  and  the  door  may  be  at  either 
end. 

The  border  for  the  grapes  should  be  made  partly  on  the  inside  and 
partly  on  the  outside  of  the  front  wall,  so  that  the  roots  of  the  vines 
may  extend  through  to  the  open  border.  A  trellis  of  wire  should  be 
fixed  to  the  rafters,  about  sixteen  inches  from  the  glass,  on  which  the 
vines  are  to  be  trained.  Early  in  the  spring  the  vines,  which  should  be 
two-year-old  roots,  may  be  planted  in  the  inside  border,  about  a  foot 
from  the  front  wall,  one  vine  below  each  rafter. 

*  .And  never  on  an  arl  or,  except  for  the  purposes  of  shade. 


THE    GRArE.  509 

Sotl.  The  border  should  be  thoroughly  prepared  and  jm.verized 
oefore  planting  the  grapes.  Two-thirds  of  mellow  sandy  loam,  mixed 
with  one-third  of  a  compost  formed  of  well-fermeixted  Boanure,  bits  of 
broken  charcoal,  and  a  Little  lime  rubbish,  forms  an  excellent  soil  for 
the  grape  in  this  climate,  [f  the  soil  of  tin1  garden  is  old,  or  is  not  of 
a  proper  quality  for  the  basis  of  the  border,  it  is  best  to  prepare  some 
for  this  purpose  by  rotting  and  reducing  beforehand  a  quantity  of 
loamy  turf  from  the  road-sides.  The  depth  of  the  border  need  aoi  ex- 
ceed two  feet,  but  if  the  subsoil  is  not  dry  at  all  seasons  it  should  be 
well  drained,  and  filled  up  half  a  foot  below  the  border  with  small 
or  brick-b 

Pruning.  Decidedly  the  best  mode  of  pruning  for  a  cold  house,  or 
vinery  without  fire-heat,  is  what  is  called  the  long  or  renewal  mode, 
which  we  have  already  partially  explained.  Supposing  the  house  to  be 
planted  with  good  young  plants,  something  like  the  following  mode  of 
training  and  pruning  may  be  adopted.  The  first  .season  one  shoot  only 
is  allowed  to  proceed  from  each  plant,  and  this,  at  the  end  of  the  first 
season,  is  cut  dowTi  to  the  second  or  third  eye  or  bud.  The  year  follow- 
ing two  leading  shoots  are  encouraged,  the  strongest  of  which  is  headed 
or  stopped  when  it  has  extended  a  few  joints  beyond  the  middle  of  the 
house  or  rafter,  and  the  weaker  about  half  that  length.  In  November 
these  shoots  are  reduced,  the  strong  one  having  four  or  five  joints  cut 
from  its  extremity,  and  the  weaker  one  to  the  third  eye  from  its  lower 
end  or  place  of  origin.  In  the  third  season  one  leading  shoot  is  laid  in 
from  each  of  these,  the  stronger  one  throwing  out  side  shoots  on  which 
the  fruit  is  produced,  which  side  shoots  are  allowed  to  mature  one 
bunch  of  grapes  each,  and  are  topped  at  one  or  two  joints  above  the 
fruit.  No  side  shoots  are  allowed  to  proceed  from  the  weaker  shoot, 
but  it  is  laid  in  to  produce  fruit  the  ensuing  season,  so  that,  by  the 
third  season  after  planting,  the  lower  part  of  the  house  or  rafters  is  fur- 
nished with  a  crop  of  fruit  proceeding  from  wood  of  the  preceding  year. 
A.t  next  autumn  pruning  the  longest  of  these  main  shoots  is  short 
ened  about  eighteen  inches  from  the  top  of  the  rafter,  and  the  next  in 
strength  to  about  the  middle  of  the  rafter,  and  all  the  spurs  which  had 
borne  fruit  are  removed.  Each  vine  is  now  furnished  with  two  shoots 
of  bearing  wood,  a  part  of  old  barren  wood  which  has  already  produced 
fruit,  ami  a  spur  near  the  bottom  for  producing  a  young  shoot  for  the 
following  year.  In  the  fourth  summer  a  full  crop  is  produced,  both  in 
the  lower  and  upper  part  of  the  house,  the  longer  or  oldest  shoot  pro- 
ducing fruit  on  the  upper  part  of  its  length,  and  the  short  sr  on  its 
whole  Length  ;  from  this  last  a  leading  shoot  is  laid  in,  and  another  to 
succeed  it  is  produced  from  the  spur  near  the  bottom.  At  the  next 
autumn  pruning  the  oldest  or  Ion  ot,  which  has  now  reached  the 

top  of  the  house,  is  entirely  cut  out  and  removed,  and  replaced  by  that 
which  was  next  in  succession  to  it,  and  :his  in  its  turn  is  also  cut  out 
and  replaced  by  that  immediately  behind  it,  a  succession  of  a  yearly 
shoot  being  obtained  from  the  lower  part  of  the  old  stem.  (J/c  Inianh.} 
This  is  decidedly  the  most  successful  mode  for  a  vinery  without  heat, 
producing  abundant  and  fair  crops  of  fruit.  Hoare,  who  is  one  of  the 
most  experienced  and  ingenious  writers  on  the  grape,  strongly  recom- 
mends it,  and  suggests  that  "  the  old  wood  of  a  vine,  or  that  which  has 
previously  produced  fruit,  is  not  only  of  no  further  use,  but  is  a  positive 
injury  to  the  fertility  of  the  plant.     The  truth  of  this  remark  depends 


510  THE    GRAPE. 

on  the  fact  that  ev<  ry  branch  of  a  vine  ^hich  produces  little  or  nc 
foliage  appropriates  for  its  own  support  a  portion  of  the  juices  of  thr 
plant  that  is  generated  by  those  branches  that  do  produce  foliage." 

Routine  of  Culture.  In  a  vinery  without  heat  this  is  compara 
tively  simple.  As  soon  as  the  vines  commence  swelling  their  buds  ir 
the  spring  they  should  be  carefully  washed  with  mild  soap-suds,  to  free 
them  from  any  insects,  soften  the  wood,  and  assist  the  buds'  to  swell  re- 
gularly. At  least  three  or  four  times  every  week  they  should  be  well 
syringed  with  water,  which,  when  the  weather  is  cool,  should  always  be 
done  in  the  morning.  And  every  day  the  vine  border  should  be  duly 
supplied  with  water.  During  the  time  when  the  vines  are  in  blossom, 
and  while  the  fruit  is  setting,  all  sprinkling  or  syringing  over  the  leaves 
must  be  suspended,  and  the  house  should  be  kept  a  little  more  closed 
and  warm  than  usual,  and  should  any  indications  of  mildew  appear  on 
any  of  the  branches  it  may  at  once  be  checked  by  dusting  them  with 
flower  of  sulphur.  Air  must  be  given  liberally  every  day  when  the  tem- 
perature rises  in  the  house,  beginning  by  opening  the  rear  windows  a 
little  in  the  morning,  more  at  mid-day,  and  then  gradually  closing  them 
in  the  same  manner.  To  guard  against  the  sudden  changes  of  tempera- 
ture out  of  doors,  and  at  the  same  time  to  keep  up  as  moist  and  warm  a 
state  of  the  atmosphere  within  the  vinery  as  is  consistent  with  pretty 
free  admission  of  the  air  during  sunshine,  is  the  great  object  of  culture 
in  a  vinery  of  this  kind. 

Thinning  the  fruit  is  a  very  necessary  practice  in  all  vineries,  and 
on  it  depends  greatly  the  flavor  as  well  as  the  fine  appearance  and  size 
of  the  berries  and  bunches.  The  first  thinning  usually  consists  in  taking 
off  all  superfluous  blossom-buds,  leaving  only  one  bunch  in  the  large 
sorts,  or  two  in  the  small  ones,  to  each  bearing  shoot.  The  next  thinning 
takes  place  when  the  berries  are  set  and  well  formed,  and  is  performed 
with  a  pair  of  scissors,  taking  care  not  to  touch  the  berries  that  are  left  to 
grow.  All  this  time  one-third  of  the  berries  should  be  taken  off  with 
the  point  of  the  scissors,  especially  those  in  the  centre  of  the  cluster. 
This  allows  the  remainder  to  swell  to  double  the  size,  and  also  to  form 
larger  bunches  than  would  otherwise  be  produced.  Where  the  bunches 
are  large,  the  shoulders  should  be  suspended  from  the  trellis  by  threads, 
in  order  to  take  off  part  of  the  weight  from  the  stem  of  the  vine.  The 
last  thinning,  which  is  done  chiefly  to  regulate  the  form  of  the  bunch,  is 
done  by  many  gardeners  just  before  the  fruit  begins  to  color — but  it  is 
scarcely  needed  if  the  previous  thinning  of  the  berries  has  been  thor- 
oughly done. 

The  regular  autumnal  pruning  is  best  performed  about  the  middle 
of  November.  The  vines  should  then  be  taken  down,  laid  down  on  the 
border,  and  covered  for  the  winter  with  a  thick  layer  of  straw  or  a  slight 
covering  of  earth. 

Culture  under  Glass  With  Fire-heat.  As  the  foreign  Grape  is 
almost  the  only  fruit  of  temperate  climates  which  cannot  be'raised  in 
perfection  in  the  open  air  in  this  climate,  we  shall  give  some  concise 
directions  for  its  culture  in  vineries  with  artificial  heat.  Those  who 
only  know  this  fruit  as  the  Chasselas  or  Sweetwater  appears,  when 
grown  in  the  open  air,  have  little  idea  of  the  exceeding  lusciousness, 
high  flavor,  size,  and  beauty  of  such  varieties  as  the  Black  Hamburgh  or 
Muscat  of  Alexandria,  when  well  grown  in  a  first-rate  vinery.  By  the 
aid  of  artificial  heat,  which  in  this  climate  is,  after  all,  chiefly  required 


THE    GKAPE. 


5U 


in  the  spring  and  autumn,  and  to  counteract  any  sudden  cold  changes 
of  atmosphere,  this  most  admirable  fruit  may  easily  be  produced  for  the 
dessert  from  May  till  December.  Indeed,  by  vineries  constructed  in 
divisions,  in  some  of  which  vines  are  forced  and  in  others  retarded,  some 
have  Grapes  nearly  every  month  in  the  year. 

Construction  of  the  Vinery.  The  vinery  with  fire-heat  may  be 
built  of  wood,  and  in  the  same  simple  manner  as  just  described,  with  the 
addition  of  a  flue  above  the  surface  of  the  ground,  running  close  along 
the  end,  two  feet  from  the  front  wall,  and  about  a  foot  from  the  back 
wall,  and  returning  into  a  chimney  in  the  back  wall  over  the  furnace.* 

For  the  sake  of  permanence,  however,  a  vinery  of  this  kind  is  usuv 
ally  built  of  brick ;  the  ends  and  front  wall  eight  inches  thick  ;  the  back 
wall  a  foot  thick — or  eight  inches,  with  occasional  abutments  to  increase 
its  strength.  Tn  fig.  38 
(I)  is  shown  a  simple  plan 
of  a  vinery  of  this  kind. 
In  this  the  surface  of  the 
ground  is  shown  at  a,  be- 
low which  the  foundation 
walls  are  sunk  three  feet. 
Above  the  surface  the 
front  wall,  b,  rises  two 
feet,  the  back  wall,  c, 
twelve  feet,  and  the  width 
of  the  house  is  fourteen 
feet.  On  these  walls  are 
placed  the  rafters,  from 
three  to  four  feet  distant. 

In  the  present  example 
the  flues  are  kept  out  of 
the  way,  and  the  space 
clear,  by  placing  them  in 
a  square  walled  space  di- 
rectly under  the  walk  ;  the 
walk  itself  being  formed  by  an  open  grating  or  lattice,  through  which 
the  heat  rises  freely.  The  arrangement  of  the  flue  will  be  better  under- 
stood by  referring  to  the  ground  plan  (IT).  In  this  the  furnace  is  indi- 
cated at  d,  iu  the  back  wall  ;f  from  this  the  flue  rises  gradually  to  e9 
whence  it  continues  nearly  the  length  of  the  house,  and  returning  enters 
the  chimney  at/*.  For  the  convenience  of  shelter,  firing,  etc.,  it  is  usual 
to  have  a  back  shed,  g,  behind  the  back  wall.  In  this  shed  maybe  a  bin 
for  wood  or  coals,  and  a  sunk  area  (shown  in  the  dotted  lines  around 
d,f),  with  steps  to  descend  to  the  furnace  and  ash-pit.  [There  are  two 
doors,  h,  in  the  vinery  at  either  end  of  the  walk. 

*  Heating  by  hot  water  is  considered  more  successful  in  its  results,  because 
of  enabling  a  more  even  and  steady  temperature  to  be  maintained.  The  ex- 
pense is  somewhat  greater  at  first — but  in  the  end.  perhaps,  most  economical. 

f  This  furnace  shoidd  be  placed  two  feet  below  the  level  of  the  flue  at  e.  in 
order  to  secure  a  draught,  after  which  it  may  lie  carried  quite  level  till  it  enters 
the  chimney.  An  air-chamber  may  be  formed  round  it.  with  a  register  to  admit 
heated  air  to  the  house  when  necessary.  A  furnace  fourteen  inches  square  and 
deep,  with  an  ash-pit  below,  in  which  anthracite  coal  is  burned,  will  be  found  a 
very  easy  and  perfect  mode  of  heating  a  house  of  thie  width,  and  thirtv  fe-et 
long. 


Plan  and  Section  of  a  Vinery,  with  Fire-heat. 


612  THE    GRAPE. 

TJie  border  should  be  thoroughly  prepared  previously  to  plantiri  5  the 
vines,  by  excavating  it  two  feet  deep  and  filling  it  up  with  suitable  corn- 
post.  This  is  best  formed  of  one-half  loamy  turf,  well  rotted  by  huving 
been  previously  laid  up  in  heaps  (or  fresh  and  pure  loamy  soil  fro.n  an 
old  pasture  or  common)  ;  one-third  thoroughly  fermented  horse  or  cow 
manure,  which  has  lain  in  a  turf-covered  heap  for  three  months ;  and 
one-third  broken  pieces  of  charcoal  and  old  lime  rubbish  :  the  win  le  to 
be  thoroughly  mixed  together  before  planting  the  vines. 

The  vines  themselves  should  always  be  planted  in  a  border  prepared 
inside  of  the  house  ;  and  in  order  to  give  the  vines  that  extent  of  soil 
which  is  necessary  for  them,  the  best  cultivators  make  an  additional 
border,  twelve  or  fourteen  feet  wide  outside,  in  front  of  the  vinery.  By 
building  the  foundation  of  the  front  wall  on  piers,  within  a  couple  of 
inches  of  the  surface,  and  supporting  the  wall  above  the  surface  on  slabs 
of  stone  reaching  from  pier  to  pier,  the  roots  of  the  vines  easily  pene- 
trate to  the  border  on  the  outside. 

The  vines  should  be  planted  early  in  the  spring.  Two-year-old 
plants  are  preferable,  and  they  may  be  set  eighteen  inches  from  the  front 
wall — one  below  each  rafter,  or,  if  the  latter  are  over  three  feet  apart, 
one  also  in  the,  intermediate  space. 

The  pruning  and  training  of  the  vines  we  have  already  described. 
The  renewal  system  of  pruning  we  consider  the  best  in  all  cases.  The 
spur  system  is,  however,  practised  by  many  gardeners,  with  more  or  less 
success.  This,  as  most  of  our  readers  are  aware,  consists  in  allowing  a 
single  shoot  to  extend  from  each  root  to  the  length  of  the  rafters ;  from 
the  sides  of  this  stem  are  produced  the  bearing  shoots  every  year  ;  and 
every  autumn  these  spurs  are  shortened  back,  leaving  only  one  bud  at 
the  bottom  of  each,  which  in  its  turn  becomes  the  bearing  shoot,  and 
is  again  cut  back  the  next  season.  The  fruit  is  abundantly  produced, 
and  of  good  flavor,  but  the  bunches  are  neither  so  large  nor  fair,  nor 
do  the  vines  continue  so  long  in  a  productive  and  healthy  state  as  when 
the  wood  is  annually  renewed. 

The  essential  points  in  pruning  and  training  the  vine,  whatever 
mode  be  adopted,  according  to  Loudon,  "  are  to  shorten  the  wood  to 
such  an  extent  that  no  more  leaves  shall  be  produced  than  can  be  fully 
sd  to  the  light ;  to  stop  all  shoots  produced  in  the  summer  that 
are  not  likely  to  be  required  in  the  winter  pruning,  at  two  or  three 
joints,  or  at  the  first  large  healthy  leaf  from  the  stem  where  they 
originate;  and  to  stop  all  shoots  bearing  .bunches  at  one  joint,  or  at 
most  two,  beyond  the  bunch.  .  As  shoots  which  are  stopped  generally 
push  a  second  time  from  the  terminal  bud,  the  secondary  shoots  thus 
produced  should  be  stopped  at  one  joint.  And  if  at  that  joint  they  p'.sh 
also,  then  a  third  stopping  must  take  place  at  one  joint,  and  so  on  as 
long  as  the  last  terminal  bud  continues  to  break.  Bearing  these  points 
in  mind,  nothing  can  be  more  simple  than  the  pruning  and  training  of 
the  vine." 

When  early  forcing  of  the  vines  is  commenced,  the  heat  should  be 
applied  very  gently  for  the  first  few  days,  and  afterwards  very  gradually 
increased.  Sixty  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  thermometer  may  be  the 
maximum  till  the  buds  are  all  nearly  expanded.  When  the  leaves  are 
expanded,  sixty -five  may  be  the  maximum  and  fifty-five  the  minimum 
temperature.  When  the  vines  are  in  blossom,  seventy-five  or  eighty  in 
mid-day,  with  the  solar  heat,  should  be  allowed,  with  an  abundance  of, 


THE    GRAPE.  513 

air,  and  somewhat  about  this  should  be  the  average  of  mid-da}  tempera- 
ture. 

To  insure  a  good  crop  of  Grapes,  we  are  satisfied  that  they  must  have 
.—plenty  of  heat — plenty  of  air — p^en^y  of  moisture — severe  thinning  of 
bunches — and  severe  thinning  of  berries.  The  vines,  also,  must  be  pruned 
often,  and  kept  free ;  the  wood  never  crowded.  Great  attention  must 
be  paid  to  the  airing  of  the  house,  which  must  be  done  gradually,  that 
there  may  be  at  no  time  a  sudden  change  in  the  temperature. 

With  such  attention,  and  the  prerequisite  of  a  rich  border,  on  a  dry 
subsoil,  good  crops  of  tine  Grapes  are  always  to  be  obtained.  The  vines 
require  much  moisture  until  they  have  completed  their  last  swell,  when 
the  moisture  should  be  withdrawn. 

Insects  and  Diseases.  When  properly  grown  under  glass  the  Grape 
is  a  very  vigorous  plant,  liable  to  few  diseases.  The  bleeding  which 
often  happens  at  the  commencement  of  growth,  usually  ceases  without 
doing  harm  when  the  foliage  begins  to  expand.  If  excessive,  it  may  be 
stopped  by  a  mixture  of  three  parts  of  cheese-parings  and  one  part  lime 
applied  to  the  wound.  The  red  spider,  which  sometimes  infests  vineries 
kept  at  a  high  temperature,  is  usually  destroyed  by  coating  over  the 
flues  with  a  wash  of  quick-lime  and  sulphur,  after  which  the  house  must 
be  kept  closed  for  half  a  day.  The  smaller  insects  which  occasionally 
prey  on  the  young  shoots  are  easily  kept  down  by  syringing  the  parts 
affected  with  a  solution  of  whale-oil  soap. 

Varieties.  There  are  in  the  catalogue  a  vast  number  of  names  of 
Grapes,  many  of  which  belong  to  the  same  fruit.  But  there  are  really 
onlv  twenty  or  thirty  varieties  which  are  at  all  worthy  of  cultivation  in 
gardens.  Indeed,  the  most  experienced  gardeners  are  satisfied  with  a 
dozen  of  the  best  sorts  for  their  vineries. 

We  will  describe  some  of  the  finest  foreign  Grapes  that  have  been 
introduced. 


Aleppo. 

Switzerland  Grape.  Raisin  d'Aless. 

Striped  Muscadine.  Chasselas  panach.\ 

Variegated  Chasselas.  Maurillan  panache. 

Raisin  Suisse.  Maurillan  noir  panache. 

A  very  singular  Grape,  the  berries  being  mostly  striped  with  white 
and  black  in  distinct  lines.  The  foliage  is  also  prettily  striped  in 
autumn. 

Bunches  rather  below  medium  size.  Berries  medium  size,  roundish. 
Skin  thin,  striped  with  white  and  dark  red,  or  black.  Flesh  juicy, 
and  of  a  rich  and  excellent  flavor. 

Alicante. 

Black  Lisbon.  Black  St.  Peters.  Black  Portugal. 

Black  Palestine.  Black  Spanish.  Black  Valentia. 

Meredith's  Alicante.  St.  Peters.  Espagnin  Noir. 

Aiicantenivein.  Blauer  von  Alicante.  Sanct  Peter's  Traube 
Schwarzer  Spanischer. 

An  excellent  late  variety,  which  is  large  and  showy,  and  hangs  well 


514 


THE    GRAPE. 


Bunches  large,  sometimes  shouldered.  Berries  large,  oval.  Skin 
tough,  rather  thick,  jet  black,  with  a  blue  bloom.     Flesh  tender,  juicy. 

Black  Champion. 

Bunch  large,  long,  shouldered.  Berries  large,  roundish  oval,  deep 
black  with  a  slight  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  rich.  Ripens 
earlier  than  Black  Hamburgh.     A  good  variety  for  a  cold  vinery. 


Black  Morillon. 

Franc  Pineau. 

Pineau. 

Raisin  de  Bourgne. 

Black  Burgundy. 

Schwarzer. 


Black  Cluster. 

Morillon  noir. 
Auverna. 
Vrai  Auvernas. 
Small  Black  Cluster. 
Bother. 


Auverne. 
Auvernas  Rouge. 
True  Burgundy. 
Burgunder. 
Early  Black. 


This  is  readily  distinguished  from  Miller's  Burgundy,  by  the  ab- 
sence of  the  down  on  its  leaves.      The  fruit  is  very  sweet  and  excellent. 

Bunches  small,  compact  (i.  e.,  berries  closely  set).  Berries  middle 
sized,  roundish  oval.  Skin  deep  black.  Juice  sweet  and  good.  Ripens 
in  the  open  air  about  the  20th  of  September. 

Black  Frontignan. 


Muscat  Noir. 

Muscat  Noir  Ordinaire. 

Black  Frontignac. 

Black  Constantia  of  some. 

Muscat  Noir  de  Jura. 


Sir  William  Rowley's  Black. 
Purple  Frontignan. 
Purple  Constantia. 
Bourdales  des  Hautes  Pyrenees. 


An  excellent  Grape,  originally  from  the  town  of  Frontignan,  in 
France,  where  it  and  other  similar  sorts  are  largely  cultivated  for  mak- 
ing the  Muscadine  or  Frontignan  wine. 

Bunches  rather  long.  Berries  of  medium  size,  round,  quite  black. 
Skin  thin.     Flavor  musky  and  rich.     Ripens  in  October.     A  good  bearer. 


Black  Hamburgh. 


Warner's  Black  Hamburgh. 

Purple  Hamburgh. 

Red  Hamburgh. 

Brown  Hamburgh. 

Dutch  Hamburgh. 

Victoria . 

Salisbury  Violet. 

Hampton  Court  Vine. 

Valentine's. 

Gibraltar. 

Frankendale. 

Black  Frankenthall. 


Frank  enthaler. 

Frankenthaler  Gros  Noir. 

Trollinger. 

Blue  Trollinger. 

Troller. 

Welscher. 

Fleisch  Traube. 

Hudler. 

Languedoc. 

Mohrendutte. 

Weissholziger  Trollinger. 


The  Black  Hamburgh  has  long  been  considered  the  first  of  black 
Grapes  for  the  vinery,  but  it  will  very  rarely  perfect  its  fruit  out  of 
doors.  Its  very  large  size  and  most  luscious  flavor  render  it  universally 
esteemed. 

Bunches  large  (about  nine  inches  deep),  and  mostly  with  two  shoul- 
ders, making  it  broad  at  the  top.  Berries  very  large,  roundish,  slightly 
Inclining   to   oval.     Skin  rather  thick,  deep  brownish  purple,  becoming 


THE    GRArE.  51" 

nearly  black   at  full  maturity.     Flavor  very  sugary  and  rich.     A  good 
*nd  regular  bearer. 

Black  Lombardy. 

West's  St.  Peters.  Poonah.  Raisin  des  Cannes. 

Raisin  de  Cuba.  Money's. 

Bunches  large  and  long,  with  shoulders.  Berries  large,  roundish 
oval.  Skin  thin,  very  black  at  maturity.  Flavor  very  rich  and  sugary. 
The  leaves  arc  rather  small,  and  turn  purple  as  the  fruit  ripens.  It 
requires  a  pretty  high  temperature,  and  is  then  a  great  bearer. 

Black  Morocco. 

Le  Coeur.  Ansell's  Large  Oval  Black. 

Black  Muscadel.  Raisine  d'Espagne. 

A  large  and  showy  Grape,  ripening  late,  but  requiring  a  good  deal 
of  heat.  The  blossoms  are  a  little  imperfect,  and  require  to  be  fertilized 
with  those  of  the  Black  Hainburgh,  or  some  other  hardy  sort. 

Bunches  large.  Berries  very  large,  oval.  Skin  thick,  dark  red. 
Flavor  tolerably  sweet  and  rich. 

Black  Muscadine. 
Black  Chasselas.  Chasselas  Noir. 

A  pretty  good  black  Grape,  scarcely  succeeding  well,  however,  in  the 
open  air,  and  inferior  to  other  sorts  for  the  vinery. 

Bunches  of  medium  size,  compact.  Berries  roundish  oval.  Skin 
thick,  black,  overspread  with  a  blue  bloom.  Juice  sweet,  and  of  pretty 
good  flavor. 

Black  Muscat  of  Alexandria. 

Red  Muscat  of  Alexandria.  Red  Frontignae  of  Jerusalem. 

Muscat  Hamburgh. 

Bunches  la  rge  and  shouldered.  Berries  iai'ge,  oval.  Skin  thick,  of 
a  reddish  color,  becoming  black  at  maturity.  Flesh  quite  firm,  with  a 
rich  musky  flavor.     Requires  a  vinery  with  fire-heat. 

Black  Prince. 

Boston.  Sir  A.  Pytches'  Black. 

Pocock's  Damascus.  Steward's  Black  Prince. 

The  Black  Prince  is  very  highly  esteemed,  it  is  hardier  than  the 
Black  Hamburgh,  beai-ing  profusely,  witn  the  easiest  culture,  in  the 
vinery. 

Bunches  long  and  not  generally  shouldered.  Berries  large,  rather 
thinlj  set,  oval.  Skin  thick,  black,  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom. 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  rich  sugary,  sprightly. 

Black  Sweetwater. 

Water  Zoet  Noir. 

Bunches  small,  compact.  Berries  small,  round.  Skin  thin,  with  a 
sweet  and  pleasant  juice.     A  second-rate,  but  rather  hardy  sort. 


616  the  grape. 

Black  Tripoli. 
Black  Grape  from  Tripoli. 

This  Grape  is  said  to  be  a  large  and  very  excellent  one,  ripening 
late,  and  well  worthy  of  a  place  in  the  vinery.  It  requires  some  fire- 
heat. 

Bunches  of  medium  size,  shouldered,  rather  loose.  Berries  large, 
round,  often  slightly  flattened.  Seeds  quite  small.  Skin  thin,  purplish 
black,  slightly  covered  with  bloom.  Flesh  tender  and  sweet,  with  a 
very  high-flavored  rich  jiuce. 

Bowood  Muscat. 

Tynningham  Muscat. 

A  new  variety,  claimed  as  a  seedling  from  the  Muscat  of  Alexandria 
which  it  closely  resembles,  but  has  rather  shorter-jointed  wood,  and  sets 
its  fruit  and  bears  well. 

Burckhardt's  Prince. 
Aramon.  Plante  Riche.  Ugrie  Noir. 

A  late  variety  that  hangs  well. 

Bunches  long,  tapering.  Berries  medium,  round,  a  few  inclining  to 
oval.  Skin  of  a  deep  black  color,  covered  with  a  thick  bloom.  Flesh 
rather  fiim,  juicy,  rich,  piquant,  vinous. 

Canon  Hall  Muscat. 

A  variety  differing  from  its  parent,  the  Muscat  of  Alexandria,  in 
being  of  stronger  growth  and  more  tapeiing  bunches.  Berries  large, 
roundish  oval,  whitish,  juicy,  rich.  Requires  special  care  to  grow  it 
well. 

Chaptal. 

A  French  Grape,  a  great  bearer,  and  adapted  to  a  cold  vinery. 
Bunches  large  and  long.     Berries  large,  round,  amber  color  when 
ripe.     Flesh  sweet,  juicy. 

Charlsworth  Tokay. 

A  variety  from  England,  reputed  to  be  of  superior  quality. 
Bunches  long,  compact.       Berries  large,  oval.     Skin  thick,  white. 
Flavor  rich  and  excellent,  with  a  Muscat  perfume. 

Chasselas  Musque. 
Musk  Chasselas.  Le  Cour.  St.  Albans. 

A  very  delicious  Grape,  the  highest  flavored  Chasselas,  having  much 
of  the  flavor  of  the  Muscat  of  Alexandria. 

Bunches   of  medium   size,  lon^  and  rather    loose.     Berries   middle 


THE    GRATE.  51  t 

size,  round.  Skin  thin,  yellowish  white.  Flesh  tenaer,  with  an  abund- 
ant juice,  of  a  rich  musky  flavor.  Leaves  smaller  and  deeper  green 
than  those  of  the  Sweetwater  or  Muscadine.     Requires  heat. 

Chasselas  Royal. 

A  new  and  excellent  Grape. 

Bunches  short  and  thick,  with  shoulders.  Berries  large,  round 
pale  amber  color  when  ripe.     A  great  bearer.     (Rivers.) 

Chasselas  Vibert. 

A  strong  grower,  well  suited  to  a  cold  vinery. 

Bunches  long  Berries  large,  round,  golden  amber  when  ripe.  Flesh 
juicy,  rich.     (Rivers.) 

Duchess  of  Buccleugh. 

A  Grape  of  recent  introduction,  and  highly  praised.  It  is  said  to 
be  a  cross  between  the  Muscat  and  Chasselas  Musque. 

Bunches  large,  long,  tapering,  slightly  shouldered.  Berries  medium, 
roundish.  Early,  and  an  abundant  bearer.  Suited  for  a  hot  or  cold 
vinery. 

Early  Black  Bordeaux. 

One  of  the  best  very  early  sorts. 

Bunches  medium,  short,  shouldered.  Berries  medium,  round,  quite 
black,  with  a  thin  bloom.     Flesh  tender,  melting,  rich,  sweet. 

Early  Black  July. 

July  Grape.  Madeleine.  Madeleine  Noir. 

Raisin  Precoce.  Morillon  Hatif.  De  St.  Jean. 

Schwarzer  Fruhzeitiger.  Burgunder.  August  Traube. 

Jacob's  Traube. 

The  earliest  of  Grapes,  and  chiefly  valued  for  the  dessert  on  that 
account.  In  the  open  ah-  it  ripens  here  the  last  of  July,  or  early  in 
August.  The  leaves  are  rather  small,  and  bight  green  above  and  be 
neath. 

Bunches  small  and  compact.  Berries  small,  quite  round.  Skin 
thick,  black,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flavor  moderately  sweet,  but 
not  rich  or  perfumed. 

Early  Golden  Frontignan. 

A  variety  adapted  to  hot  or  cold  vineries. 

Bunch  long,  medium,  not  shouldered.  Berries  medium,  round,  yel- 
low, with  minute  dark  dots.     Flesh  juicy,  sprightly,  melting,  sweet. 

Early  Saumur  Frontignan. 

Muscat  de  Saumur.  Muscat  Hdtif  de  Saumur 

Madeleine  Musquee  de  Courtiller.  Precoce  Musque. 

A  very  early  variety,  ripening  well  in  a  cold  vinery. 

Bunches  small,  compact,   shouldered.        Berries  medium,   roundish 


618  THE    GRAPE. 

flattened.       Skin   thin,  translucent   amber  color    at    maturity.       Flesh 
juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  slight  Muscat  flavor. 

Early  Silver  Frontignan. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  shouldtred.  Berries  large,  roundish  oval, 
whitish  yellow,  witli  a  silver  bloom.  Flesh  very  tender,  melting,  rich, 
very  juicy,  and  agreeable.  An  early  and  productive  sort,  suited  to  hot 
or  cold  vinery. 

Early  Smyrna  Frontignan. 

Muscat  de  Smyrne.  Isaker  Daisiko. 

One  of  the  earliest  sorts,  well  suited  for  a  cold  vinery. 
Bunches  medium,  well  set,  not  shouldered.     Berries  medium,  round, 
bright  amber.     Flesh  melting,  rich,  juicy,  delicious. 

Early  "White  Malvasia. 

Morna  Chasselas.  Mornair  blanc. 

Early  Chasselas.  Le  Melier. 

Grove  End  Sweet  Water.  Melier  blanc. 

White  Melier.  Blanc  de  Bonneuil. 
Early  Kienzherm. 

A  nice  early  Grape,  and  a  good  bearer,  which  is  in  fact  only  an  ear- 
lier variety  of  the  Chasselas.     It  bears  very  well  in  the  open  air. 

Bunches,  in  size  and  form,  much  like  those  of  the  White  Chasselas  or 
Royal  Muscadine.  Berries  round,  yellowish  white.  Skin  thin.  Flesh 
sweet,  juicy,  and  agreeable  in  flavor.  Bipens  in  August.  The  leaves 
are  pale  green  on  the  upper  side,  slightly  downy  below,  cut  into  five 
rather  deep  lobes. 

ESPERIONE. 

Turner's  Black.  Hardy  Blue  Windsor. 

Cumberland  Lodge. 

The  Esperione  is  a  hardy,  luxuriant,  and  prolific  Grape,  growing  as 
well  in  the  open  air  as  the  Muscadine,  and  even  better  in  many  situa- 
tions. 

Bunches  large,  shouldered,  like  the  Black  Hamburgh  in  size.  Ber- 
ries round,  or  occasionally  flattened,  and  often  indented  with  a  groove. 
Skin  thick,  dark  purple,  powdered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Flesh  ad- 
heres to  the  skin,  of  a  pleasant,  sprightly  flavor,  not  very  rich. 

Fintindo. 

This  Grape  is  of  Italian  origin,  brought  to  notice  by  M.  De  Bavay, 
of  Vilvorde,  who  received  it  of  Major  Esperen,  and  is  said  to  have  been 
discovered  by  the  French  army  in  Naples.  Its  growth  is  vigorous. 
Peduncle  very  stout. 

Buuch  large,  compact,  and  shouldered.  Berries  of  the  largest  size, 
nearly  round,  slightly  oval.  Skin  dark  violet.  Flesh  abounds  in  a 
Bugary  juicQ,  and  has  a  peculiarly  pleasant  aroma.  It  has  a  resemblance 
to  the  Black  Hamburgh,  but  is  considerably  earlier. 


the  grape.  519 

Foster's  White  Seedling. 

A  new  variety,  described  as  superior  to  the  Iioyal  Musca.line,  and 
ripening  at  the  same  time. 

Bunches  large,  sets  well.  Berries  above  medium,  roundish  oval,  yel- 
lowish amber.  Flesh  tender,  melting,  sweet,  and  rich  flavored.  Said  tc 
have  the  character  of  han<nn£  without  shrivelling. 

Golden  Champion. 

A  new  variety  but  just  introduced.  It  is  described  in  the  Gar- 
dener's Magazine  as  remarkably  free  and  robust  in  growth,  and  of  as 
easy  culture  as  Black  Hamburgh. 

Bunches  large,  of  a  slightly-tapering  form,  and  heavily  shouldered. 
Berries  extra  huge,  obovate  or  ovate,  slightly  pointed — in  some  instances 
almost  round.     Flesh  Arm,  yet  remarkably  juicy,  tender,  and  rich  flavor 

Golden  Hamburgh. 
Busby's  Golden  Hamburgh.  Stockwood  Park  Golden  Hamburgh. 

A  new  white  Grapa  of  excellent  quality.  Requires  careful  cultiva 
tion,  as  it  soon  decays  after  ripening. 

Bunches  large,  somewhat  loose,  shouldered.  Berries  large,  round- 
ish oval,  rich  yellow.  Skin  thin.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  rich,  melting, 
sweet. 

Green's  Prolific. 

A  new  variety,  originated  by  W.  R.  Green,  Newburgh,  N.  Y.  Vine 
a  strong  grower,  very  productive,  and  sets  well. 

Bunch  large,  long,  shouldered,  very  compact.  Berry  medium,  round, 
deep  black,  blue  bloom,  raised  a  little  at  apex.  Flesh  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  vinous. 

Grizzly  Frontignan. 

Red  Frontignan.  Muscat  Gris.  Grizzly  Frontignac. 

Muscado  Rosso.  Red  Constantia.  Kummel  Traube. 

Muscat  Rouge.  Grauer  Muscateller. 

This  delicious  Grape  requires  to  be  grown  in  a  vinery,  when  it  is,  to 
our  taste,  scarcely  surpassed. 

Bunches  rather  long,  with  narrow  shoulders.  Berries  round,  of  me- 
dium size,  and  grow  ing  closer  upon  the  bunches  than  those  of  the  White 
Frontignan.  Skin  thick,  pale  brown,  blended  with  pink  and  yellow. 
Flesh  very  juicy,  rich,  musky,  and  high  flavored. 

Gros  Maroc. 
Marocain. 

An  excellent  variety,  ripening  after  Black  Hamburgh.  A  great 
bearer,  well  suited  bo  a  cold  vinery. 

Hunches  large,  long,  shouldered.  Berries  large,  oval,  covered  with  a 
thick  Muciia.  iikin  thick,  deep  reddish  purple.  Flesh  tender,  sweet, 
ri  ill. 


520  the  grape. 

Jura  Muscat. 
Muscat  Noir  de  Jura. 

A  valuable  Grape.     Vine  very  prolific. 

Bunches  long,  tapering,  slightly  shouldered.  Berries  above  medium 
oval,  and  well  set.  Skin  purplish  black  or  dark  chocolate,  with  a  thin 
blue  bloom.  Flesh  solid,  tender,  juicy,  richly  flavored,  with  a  fine  Mus- 
cat aroma. 

Knight's  Variegated  Chasselas. 
Variegated  Chasselas. 

A  hybrid  seedling,  raised  by  Mr.  Knight  from  the  White  Chasselas 
impregnated  by  the  Aleppo.  A  curious  and  pretty  fruit,  but  not  first- 
rate  in  flavor. 

Bunches  rather  long,  unshouldered.  Berries  below  the  middle  size, 
round,  loosely  set.  Skin  quite  thin,  white,  shaded  with  bluish  violet, 
sometimes  becoming  purplish  in  the  sun.  Flesh  tender,  sweet,  and  plea- 
sant. 

Lady  Downe's. 
Lady  Downe's  Seedling. 

This  variety  was  grown  from  seed  of  the  Black  Morocco  crossed  by 
the  Chasselas  or  Sweetwater.  It  is  among  the  most  valuable,  ripening 
its  fruit  and  hanging  a  long  time — Hogg  says,  from  August  until 
March. 

Bunches  large,  rather  loose,  shouldered.  Berries  above  medium, 
roundish  oval.  Skin  rather  thick,  reddish  purple,  becoming  quite  black, 
with  a  delicate  bloom.  Flesh  dull  white,  firm,  sweet,  and  richly 
flavored. 

Lombardy. 
Flame-Colored  Tokay         Rhemish  Red.        Wantage.         Red  Grape  of  Taurida 

The  Lombardy  is  remarkable  for  the  very  large  size  of  the  bunches, 
which  are  frequently  twelve  to  eighteen  inches  long.  It  is  a  handsome 
fruit,  the  berries  thickly  set  (so  much  so  as  to  need  a  good  deal  of  thin- 
ning), and  it  requires  fire-heat  to  bring  it  to  full  perfection. 

Bunches  very  large,  handsomely  formed,  with  large  shoulders.  Ber- 
ries large,  roundish.  Skin  thick,  pale  red  or  flame-colored.  Flesh  firm, 
sweet,  with  a  sprightly,  very  good  flavor. 

Miller's  Burgundy. 

Miller  Grape.  Midler.  Le  Meunier. 

Mullevrebe.  Morillon  Taconne.  Moron  e  Farinaccio. 

Fromente.  Pulverulenta.  Aleatica  du  Po. 

Farineux  noir.  Sauvignien  noir.  Noirin. 

A  variety  that  ripens  pretty  well  in  the  open  air,  and  is  readily 
known  by  the  dense  covering  of  cottony  down  which  bines  both  sides  of 
the  leaves,  whence  the  name  Miller' 's  Grape. 

Bunches  short,  thick,  and  compact.  Berries  rourdish  oval,  very 
closely  set  together.  Skin  thin,  black,  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  ten- 
der, abounding  with  a  sweet,  high-flavored  juice.  Each  berry  contains 
two  small  seeds. 


the  grape.  521 

Muscat  of  Alexandria. 

Alexandrian  Frontignan.  Moscatel  Gordo  Blanco. 

Charlesworth  Tokay  Malaga.  Panse  Musquee. 

Muscat  Escholata.  Passe  Musquee. 

Muscat  Grec.  Tottenham  Park  Muscat 

Muscat  of  Jerusalem.  Uva  Salamana. 

Muscat  of  Lunel.  White  Muscat  of  Alexandria. 

Muscat  Romain.  Muscat  Esculata  ? 

A  well-known  Grape  which  furnishes  the  Muscatel  Raisins,  from 
Spain.     It  requires  a  high  temperature  to  ripen  it  thoroughly. 

Bunches  very  large,  long,  loose  shouldered.  Berries  large,  oval,  unequal 
in  size.  Skin  thick,  pale  amber,  thin  white  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  mode- 
rately juicy,  sweet,  and  rich,  fine  Muscat  flavor. 

Pitmaston  White  Cluster. 

A  pretty  hardy  Grape,  raised  in  Pitmaston,  England,  from  the 
Black  Cluster,  ripening  rather  earlier  than  the  Sweetwater,  of  good 
quality,  and  well  deserving  a  place  where  the  foreign  Grapes  are  culti- 
vated in  the  open  air. 

Bunches  of  medium  size,  compact,  and  shouldered.  Berries  middle- 
sized,  round.  Skin  thin,  amber  color,  occasionally  tinged  with  a  little 
russet  when  fully  ripe.     Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  excellent. 

Primavis  Frontignan. 

An  early  ripening  variety  that  sets  well  and  is  productive. 

Bunches  large,  long,  shouldered,  berries  medium  to  large,  round, 
amber.  Flesh  rather  solid,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich.  One  of  the 
finest  of  the  Muscat  Chasselas  family.     Early. 

Red  Chasselas. 

Red  Muscadine.  Chasselas  Rouge  Foncee. 

Chasselas  Rouge.  Cerese  Septembro. 

This  Grape  a  good  deal  resembles  the  White  Chasselas,  except  that 
the  berries  are  slightly  colored  with  red.  Very  rarely,  when  over  ripe, 
they  become  a  dark  red. 

Bunches  loose,  not  large.  Berries  medium  size,  round.  Skin  thin, 
at  first  pale  green,  but  when  exposed  to  the  sun  they  become  red.  Flesh 
tender,  sweet,  and  very  good. 

Reeves'  Muscadine. 

An  excellent  variety  for  the  cold  vinery. 

Bunches  large,  :onical,  loose,  shouldered.  Berries  large,  nearly 
round,  amber  color      Flesh  tender,  rich,  juicy,  sweet. 

Royal  Muscadine. 

Amber  Muscadine.  Chasselas  de  Fontainebleau. 

Early  White  Teneriffe.  D'Arbois. 

Golden  Chasselas.  Raisin  de  Champagne. 

White  Chasselas.  Amiens. 

Chasselas  dore.  Campanella  Bianca. 

Chasselas  blano.  White  Nice,  or  Xerea. 

A.  truly  excellent  Grape  in  all  respects — one  of  the  very  best  fo* 


522  THE   GRAPE. 

hardy  culture   in  this  climate,   or  for  the  vinery.      It  is  everywhere 
highly  esteemed,  and  is  the  Chasselas  par  excellence  of  the  French. 

Bunches  large  and  shouldered.  Benies  larger  than  those  of  the 
Sweetwater,  round.  Skin  thin,  at  first  greenish  white,  but  turning  to 
an  amber  color  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  tender,  with  a  rich  and  delicious 
flavor.  Ripens  here  about  the  20th  of  September.  Wood  and  foliage 
Btronger  than  those  of  the  Sweetwater. 

Scotch  White  Cluster. 

Blacksmith's  White  Cluster.  Diamant. 

Laan  Hatif.  Diamant  Traube. 

Van  der  Laan  Precoce. 

This  Grape  was  raised  by  a  blacksmith  of  Edinburgh  in  1812. 
Bunches  of  middle  size,  compact.     Berries  medium-sized,   roundist 
oval.     Skin  white,  thin.     Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  excellent. 

Syrian. 
Jews.  Palestine.  Terra  de  la  Promise. 

This  is  believed  to  be  the  Grape  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures  as 
found  by  the  Israelites  on  the  brook  of  Eshcol,  the  bunches  of  winch 
were  so  large  as  to  be  borne  on  a  staff  by  two  men.  It  is  a  very  superb- 
looking  fruit,  and  has  been  grown  in  this  country  to  very  large  size.  In 
England  bunches  of  it  have  been  produced  weighing  19^  lbs. 

Bunches  enormously  large,  and  regularly  formed,  with  broad  shoul- 
ders. Berries  large,  oval.  Skin  thick,  white  at  first,  but  becoming  a 
tawny  yellow  or  amber  when  at  full  maturity.  Flesh  firm  and  solid, 
moderately  juicy  and  sweet,  though  not  rich.  Will  hang  till  Christmas 
in  a  vinery.     The  wood  and  foliage  are  very  large. 

Trebbiano. 
Trebbiano  Bianco.  Trebbiano  Vero.  Erbalus.  Ugni  Blanc. 

A  variety  that  requires  a  tolerably  high  temperature,  especially 
during  the  fall  months.     It  is  a  late  sort,  and  hangs  well. 

Bunches  very  large,  broad,  shouldered.  Berries  medium,  roundish, 
oval.  Skin  thick,  somewhat  adhering  to  the  flesh,  whitish,  with  a  deli- 
cate bloom.     Flesh  firm,  sweet,  rich. 

Trentham  Black. 
Long  Noir  d'Espagne. 

A  fine  variety,  well  suited  to  the  cold  vinery.  It  ripens  with  Black 
Hamburgh,  but  will  hang  plump  and  fresh  long  after  that  variety  haa 
shrivelled. 

Bunches  large,  tapering,  and  shouldered.  Berries  above  medium, 
oval.  Skin  tough,  jet  black,  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Flesh  melt- 
ing, juicy,  rich,  sugary,  vinous. 


the  grape.  521 

Troveren  Frontignan. 
Troveren.  MuBcat  Troveren.  Muscat  Tr<  \eron  Blanc. 

This,  says  Rivers,  is  one  of,  if  not  the  finest  of  all  the  Frontignans. 
A  great  bearer,  and  with  a  rich  Muscat  flavor  in  the  fruit. 

Bunches  large.  Berries  very  large,  roundish  oval,  greenish,  chang* 
ing  to  pale  amber.  Flesh  firm  and  crackling,  juicy,  sweet,  and  acid, 
Requires  fire  heat. 

Tyningham  Muscat. 

A  late  variety  that  sets  well  and  is  very  productive. 

Bunches  very  large,  double-shouldered.  Berries  large,  oval,  amber 
yellow,  slight  bloom.  Flesh  solid,  juicy,  sweet,  and  of  a  rich  Muscat 
flavor. 

Verdelho. 
Verdal.  Verdilhio.  Madeira  Wine  Grape. 

A  vigorous  growing  Grape,  of  good  quality,  from  Madeira,  which  is 
largely  used  in  that  island  for  making  the  best  wines. 

Bunches  rather  small,  loose.  Berries  small,  rather  unequal  in  size, 
and  often  without  seeds.  Skin  thin,  semi-transparent,  yellowish  green, 
a  little  tinged  with  russet  when  very  ripe.  Juice  a  little  acid  at  first, 
but  rich  and  excellent  at  maturity. 

White  Frontignan. 

White  Constantia.  White  Frontniac.  Nepean's  Constantia. 

Muscat  Blanc.  Raisin  de  Frontignan.  Muscat  Blanc  de  Jura. 

Moschata  Bianca.  Moscado  Bianco.  Moscatel  Commun. 

Muscateller.  Weisser  Muscateller.  Weisse  Muscaten  Traube. 

The  White  Frontignan  is  a  very  favorite  Grape,  as  the  many  names 
quoted  above,  by  which  it  is  known  in  various  parts  of  Europe,  suffi- 
ciently prove.  Its  hardy  habit,  uniform  productiveness  in  the  vinery, 
and  most  luscious  flavor,  make  it  everywhere  esteemed. 

Bunches  of  medium  size,  or  pretty  long,  and  without  shoulders. 
Berries  middle-sized,  round,  rather  thickly  set.  Skin  thin,  dull  white 
or  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  with  a  rich,  per 
fumed,  musky  flavor. 

White  Hamburgh. 
White  Lisbon.  White  Portugal.  White  Raisin. 

This  is  the  Portugal  Grape  of  commerce,  which  is  so  largely  ex- 
ported to  different  parts  of  the  world  in  jars.  It  is  not  a  high-flavored 
though  a  very  showy  grape,  and  will  hang  a  long  time  on  the  vines  after 
maturity.     It  requires  Eire-heat, 

Bunches  very  large  and  loose.  Berries  large  oval.  Skin  thick 
greenish  white.  Flesh  solid,  sweet,  and  sometimes  with  a  slight  .Muscat 
flavor.  Bunches  of  this  variety  weighing  over  three  pounds  have  been 
grown  near  Boston. 


524  the  grape. 

White  Nice. 

A  very  large  and  showy  fruit,  and,  in  a  vinery  with  fire-heat,  a  ven 
excellent  sort.  M'Intosh,  an  English  gardener  of  reputation,  has  grown 
bunches  of  this  the  White  Nice  to  the  enormous  weight  of  eighteen 
pounds,  and  considers  it  "  one  of  the  noblest  of  grapes." 

Bunches  very  large,  with  loose  shoulders.  Berries  roundish,  medium 
size,  thinly  distributed  over  the  shoulders  and  sides  of  the  bunch.  Skin 
thin,  rather  tough,  greenish  white,  becoming,  finally,  a  little  yellowish. 
Flesh  crisp,  sweet,  and  of  very  good  flavor.  Leaves  and  wood  very 
strong,  the  latter  remarkably  downy  beneath. 

White  Ressling. 

Schloss  Johannisberg.  Rudesheimerberg.  Riessling. 

Petit  Riessling.  Grosser  Riessling.  Rosshng. 

Kleiner  Riessling. 

The  most  celebrated  Grape  of  the  Rhine,  producing  the  celebrated 
Hock  wines. 

Bunches  of  medium  size,  compact.  Berries  rather  small,  round. 
Skin  thin.  Flesh  tender  and  juicy,  with  sweet  and  sprightly  pleasant 
flavor. 

White  Sweetwater. 

Early  Wbite  Muscadine.  White  Muscadine.  Early  Sweetwater. 

Stillward's  Sweetwater.  Dutch  Sweetwater.  Chasselas  Precoce. 

Chasselas  Royal.  Water  Zoete  Blanc. 

This  Grape  is  better  known  and  more  commonly  cultivated  than  any 
other  in  this  country,  although  it  is  inferior  to  the  Royal  Muscadine. 
It  differs  from  the  latter  in  having  weaker  wood,  and  open,  loose 
bunches  of  a  paler  color. 

Bunches  middle-sized,  loose  or  open,  usually  with  many  small  imper- 
fect berries,  shouldered.  Berries  of  the  middle  size,  round.  Skin  thin, 
clear  watery  green,  rarely  becoming  amber,  except  very  fully  exposed  to 
the  sun.  Flesh  crisp,  watery,  sweet,  but  not  high-flavored.  Ripens  ia 
the  open  air  from  the  20th  to  the  last  of  August — a  fortnight  earlier 
than  the  Royal  Muscadine. 

White  Tokay. 
Genuine  Tokay.  Gray  Tokay.  Tokai  blanc. 

This  is  the  fruit  from  which  the  delicious  Tokay  wine  of  Hungary 
is  made.     Its  flavor  is  good,  and  its  aroma  peculiarly  agreeable. 

Bunches  of  medium  size,  compact.  Berries  rounded  oval,  closely 
set.  Skin  thin,  of  a  dull  white.  Flesh  very  delicate,  sweet  and  per- 
fumed. 

Yeddo. 

A  variety  from  Japan,  introduced  with  high  praise,  but  proved  of 
jttle  value. 

Bunches  medium.  Berries  medium,  brownish.  Flesh  rich  and 
Bweet.  Not  good  enough  for  the  vinery,  and  liable  to  mildew  in  the 
open  air. 


THE   GRAPE.  52i 


AMERICAN  GRAPES. 


The  better  varieties  of  the  native  Grapes  are  among  the  most  valua- 
ble of  fruits  in  the  Middle  States.  Hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive, 
with  a  moderate  amount  of  care  they  yield  the  farmer  and  the  common 
gardener,  to  whom  the  finer  foreign  sorts,  requiring  much  attention  and 
considerable  expense  in  culture,  are  denied,  the  enjoyment  of  an  abun- 
dance of  very  good  fruit. 

The  grape  region  has  been  lately  greatly  extended  by  the  addition  of 
new  varieties,  which,  in  consequence  of  ripening  their  fruit  much  earlier 
than  the  Isabella  and  Catawba,  are  suited  to  two  or  three  degrees  of  lati- 
tude farther  north  than  the  limit  of  the  cultivation  of  these  varieties. 

The  garden  culture  of  the  hardy  native  grapes,  although  not  very 
difficult,  caimot  be  accomplished  so  as  to  give  the  fruit  in  perfection, 
without  some  attention  to  their  habits  and  wants.  The  soil  should  be 
dry,  deeply  worked,  and  well  enriched,  always  bearing  in  mind  that  it 
is  an  essential  point  to  secure  a  perfectly  open,  sunny  exposure,  as  it 
may  always  be  assumed  that  with  us  no  atmosphere  can  be  too  warm  or 
bright  for  the  grape  ;  for  although  it  will  make  the  most  vigorous  shoots 
in  the  shade  of  trees  or  buildings,  yet  the  crops  will  be  small,  the  fruit  poor 
and  uncertain,  and  the  vines  likely  to  fall  a  prey  to  mildew. 

In  the  second  place,  the  vines  should  be  kept  within  moderate  bounds, 
and  trained  to  an  upright  trellis.  The  Isabella  and  Concord  are  so 
rampant  in  their  growth,  when  young,  that  the  indulgent  and  gratified 
cultivator  is  but  too  apt  to  allow  them  to  overbear ;  the  border  should 
always  be  given  to  the  exclusive  occupancy  of  the  vines,  and  the  roots 
should  be  allowed  space  proportional  to  the  branches  they  are  to  carry. 
By  observing  these  directions,  and  not  suffering  the  vines  to  overbear, 
they  may  be"  continued  a  long  time  in  full  vigor  and  productiveness. 

The  system  of  pruning  and  training  these  grapes  generally  pursued 
is  the  upright  mode,  with  the  spur  mode  of  training.  The  first  season's 
growth  of  a  newly  planted  vine  is  cut  back  to  two  buds  the  ensuing  fall 
or  spring.  These  two  buds  are  allowed  to  form  two  upright  shoots  the 
next  summer,  which  at  the  end  of  the  season  are  brought  down  to  a 
horizontal  position,  and  fastened  each  way  to  the  lower  horizontal  rail 
of  the  trellis,  being  shortened  at  the  distance  of  three  or  four  feet  from  the 
root — or  as  far  each  side  as  the  plant  is  wished  to  extend.  The  next 
season,  upright  shoots  are  allowed  to  grow  one  foot  apart,  and  these,  as 
soon  as  they  reach  the  top  of  the  trellis,  are  also  stopped.  The  next 
year,  the  trellis  being  filled  with  the  vines,  a  set  of  lateral  shoots  will 
be  produced  from  the  upright  leaders,  with  from  one  to  three  bunches 
upon  each,  which  will  be  the  first  crop.  The  vine  is  now  perfect,  and, 
in  the  spur  mode  of  pruning,  it  is  only  necessary  at  the  close  of  every 
season,  that  is,  at  the  autumnal  or  winter  pruning,  to  cut  back  these 
lateral  shoots  or  fruit-spurs  to  within  an  inch  of  the  upright  shoot  from 
which  they  sprang,  and  a  new  lateral  producing  fruit  will  annually  sup- 
ply its  place,  to  be  again  cut  out  at  the  winter  pruning. 

After  several  years'  bearing,  if  it  is  found  that  the  grapes  fail  in 

size  or  flavor, -the  vines  should  be  cut  down  to   the   main  horizontal 

shoots  at  the  bottom  of  the  trellis.     They  will  then  speedily  make  a  new 

Bet  of  upright  shoots  which  will  produce  very  abundantly,  as  at  first.  _ 

It  cannof  be  denied  that    the   renewal  system  of  training  (607)  ifl 


dL'6  the  grape. 

certain  of  yielding  always  the  largest  and  finest  fruit,  though  not  so 
large  a  crop — as  half  the  surface  of  the  vine  is  every  year  occupied  with 
young  wood,  to  take  the  place  of  that  annually  cut  out. 

What  we  have  already  stated  (509)  respecting  pruning  will  ap- 
ply equally  well  here.  If  the  vine  is  fully  exposed  to  the  sun  it  will 
require  very  little  summer  pruning ;  in  fact,  none,  except  stopping  the 
young  shoots  three  joints  beyond  the  farthest 'bunch  of  grapes,  at  mid- 
summer— for  the  leaves  being  intended  by  nature  to  elaborate  the  sap, 
the  more  we  can  retain  of  them  (without  robbing  the  fruit  undtily  of 
fluids  expended  in  making  new  growth)  the  larger  and  higher  flavored 
will  be  the  fruit ;  careful  experiments  having  proved  that  there  is  no 
more  successful  mode  of  impoverishing  the  crop  of  fruit  than  that  of 
pulling  off  the  leaves. 

In  the  axils  of  the  leaves  by  the  side  of  the  buds  which  are  to  send 
^nrth  shoots  for  next  season's  crops,  branches  called  laterals  push  forth, 
•^hich  should  be  pinched  off  at  the  first  leaf,  and  at  the  next  leaf  where 
they  start  again ;  generally  the  second  stopping  will  be  sufficient. 

The  annual  pruning  of  the  hardy  grapes  is  usually  performed  during 
mild  days  in  February  or  March — at  least  a  month  before  vegetation  is 
likely  to  commence.  Many  cultivators  prefer  to  prune  their  vines  in 
November,  and,  except  for  cold  latitudes  or  exposures,  this  is  undoubt- 
edly the  better  season. 

Vineyard  Culture.  The  vineyard  culture  of  the  native  grape  is 
very  simple.  Strong,  loamy,  or  gravelly  soils  are  preferable — limestone 
and  clay  shale  being  usually  the  best — and  a  warm,  open,  sunny  expo- 
sure being  indispensable. 

In  preparing  the  soil,  if  it  is  loamy  or  gravelly,  a  simple  deep 
ploughing  is  all  that  is  requisite ;  but  if  it  is  clay,  or  underlaid  with  a  clay 
hard-pan,  the  subsoil  should  be  thoroughly  broken  to  a  depth  of  not  less 
than  sixteen  inches.  This,  on  most  lands,  can  be  done  by  means  of  a 
plough  and  team.  Steep  sidehills  or  slopes  must  of  course  be  prepared  by 
hand  labor,  digging  and  trenching  the  ground  thoroughly  with  the 
spade. 

The  vines  are  planted  in  rows,  the  distance  from  plant  to  plant  vary- 
ing according  as  it  is  a  strong  and  vigorous  grower  like  Concord,  or  a 
moderate  short-jointed  grower  like  Delaware.  The  first  are  generally 
planted  eight  by  eight  feet  or  eight  by  ten  feet  apart,  and  the  latter  four 
by  six  feet ;  while  varieties  of  intermediate  vigor  are  placed  at  six  by 
eight  feet.  The  renewal  system  of  pruning  is  generally  practised,  and 
the  vines  are  trained  both  on  stakes  and  wire  trellis,  the  latter  being 
most  generally  considered  as  the  best  and  most  economical. 

The  ordinary  culture  is  as  simple  as  that  of  a  field  of  Indian  corn — 
one  man  and  horse  with  a  plough,  and  the  horse  cultivator,  being  able 
to  keep  a  pretty  large  surface  in  good  order.  The  annual  pruning  is 
performed  in  autumn  or  winter,  top-dressing  the  vines  when  it  is  neces- 
sary in  the  spring ;  and  the  summer  work,  thinning,  tying,  and  gather- 
ing being  chiefly  done  by  women  and  children. 

The  summer  work  is  one  requiring  some  care  and  watchfulness,  al- 
though attendant  with  light  labor,  and,  as  we  have  said,  may  be  performed 
by  women  and  children.  In  vineyard  culture  the  long  renewal  system  is 
most  practised  ;  by  it  the  vine  the  first  year  is  permitted  to  make  but  one 
leading  shoot,  all  the  buds  likely  to  form  other  shoots  being  rubbed  off 
parly  in  spring,  or  as  soon  as  they  have  fully  developed.     The  second 


THE   GRAPE.  527 

year  this  one  cane,  or  the  first  year's  growth,  is  cut  down  to  two  buds, 
and  these  are  grown  to  two  long  canes,  all  others,  as  the  first  year,  being 
rubbed  off  The  third  year  one  of  these  canes  of  the  second  year's 
growth  is  cut  clown  to  two  buds,  and  the  other  to  four  buds — the  former 
again  permitted  to  make  two  good  long  stout  canes,  and  the  latter 
allowed  to  produce  about  four  or  six  clusters  of  fruit,  all  the  ground 
shoots  being  rubbed  away.  When  the  buds  break  in  spring,  as  soon  as 
they  are  about  one  inch  long  the  bearing  canes  are  to  be  examined,  and 
all  but  one  shoot  at  each  a\il  be  rubbed  out,  otherwise  there  will  be  a 
mass  of  small  shoots  and  clusters  without  any  perfecl  fruit.  It  is  also 
in  some  varieties  deemed  advisable  to  rub  out  entire  all  the  buds  of  each 
alternate  joint,  leaving  only  one-half  the  natural  quantity  to  fruit.  When 
this  is  done  the  winter  pruning  of  the  bearing  cane  should  be  somewhat 
longer  than  when  each  bud  is  allowed  to  fruit. 

The  two  buds  or  canes  for  the  next  year's  fruiting  are  allowed  t« 
grow  as  long  as  they  will,  and  are  trained  upright;  the  other,  on  which 
the  fruit  is  grown,  is  carried  off  at  an  angle  of  about  forty-five  degrees, 
and  when  it  has  made  its  shoots,  set  its  fruit,  and  grown  so  that  there  are 
three  or  four  leaves  or  joints  beyond  the  fruit  they  are  stopped  by 
pinching,  as  we  have  advised  in  the  training  of  foreign  grapes,  the  only 
point  of  difference  being  in  permitting  our  native  sorts  more  liberty  and 
foliage.  The  following  season,  or  fourth  year,  the  cane  which  has  this 
year  borne  fruit  is  cut  down  to  two  buds,  and  the  two  canes  of  this  year's 
growth  are  cut  to  four  or  more  buds  for  fruit-bearing,  and  trained  at  an 
angle  of  forty -five  degrees  each  way,  while  the  two  buds  on  the  bearing 
cane  of  last  year  make  canes  for  the  succeeding  year's  bearing. 

Diseases  and  Insects.  The  mildew  and  rot  are  diseases  which 
most  affect  the  success  of  grape  culture  in  this  country.  Many  theories 
and  suggestions  as  to  their  origin,  cause,  etc.,  have  been  promulgated 
and  printed,  but  we  feel  that  as  yet  no  clear  and  full  explanation  or 
cause  has  been  adduced.  Sudden  changes  of  temperature,  a  cold  night 
or  two  in  the  month  of  August,  a  few  days  of  foggy  warm  rain,  followed 
by  char  sunshine,  often  producing  the  disease,  with  serious  results,  with- 
out regard  to  the  most  thorough  practices  of  prevention  as  advised  by 
theorists. 

The  beetles  which  sometimes  infest  the  grape-vines  in  summer, 
especially  the  large  brownish  yellow  vine  beetle  {Pelilaota  punctata), 
and  the  grape-vine  flea-beetle  (Ilaltica  chalybea),  are  very  destructive  to 
the  foliage  and  buds,  and  the  most  effectual  remedy  is  hand-picking 
when  taken  in  time. 

Grafting  the  grape  may  be  performed,  and  often  quite  successfully. 
Operators  differ  in  their  opinion  as  to  the  best  season,  some  preferring 
the  autumn,  some  early  spring,  and  some  quite  late  spring.  But,  what- 
ever time  is  taken,  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  union  of  the  graft 
and  stock  should  always  be  covered  with  earth,  leaving  the  top  or  upper 
bud  of  the  graft  level  with  the  ground. 

Keeping.  Grapes  may  be  kept  into  mid-winter  or  even  spring. 
They  should  be  gathered  in  a  dry  day,  laid  in  tiers  of  two  bunches  deep 
on  shelves  for  a  couple  of  days,  then  aired,  and  each  bunch  carefully 
wrapped  in  soft  paper  an  1  packed  in  boxes,  not  over  five  or  six  inches 
leep,  and  laid  away  in  a  cool  dry  room.  Another  plan  is  to  pack  them 
in  layers  with  fine  soft  hay,  cut  by  a  cutting  machine  into  about  inch* 
long  bits,  laying   a   layer  of  hay,  then  grapes,  and  then  hay  again.     If 


628  THE   GRAFS. 

grapes  are  gathered  before  they  are  fully  matured,  they  do  not  have  a* 
good  flavor,  nor  are  they  as  rich  and  sweet  as  when  fully  ripe.  In  han- 
dling, be  careful  to  take  them  always  by  the  stem. 


VARIETIES. 

Adirondac. 

The  original  vine  of  this  Grape  was  discovered  in  the  grounds  of  J. 
G.  Witherbee,  Port  Henry,  Essex  Co.,  N.  Y.,  and  was  introduced 
to  notice  by  J.  W.  Bailey,  of  Plattsburgh,  N".  Y.  The  growth  and  foliage 
is  much  like  Isabella,  but  not  as  vigorous. 

Bunches  large,  compact,  shouldered.  Berries  large,  round.  Skin 
thin,  dark  purplish  black,  covered  with  a  delicate  white  bloom.  Flesh 
very  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant,  sweet,  not  rich.  Bipens  a  week  or  ten 
days  earlier  than  Isabella. 

Agawam. 
Rogers'  No.  15. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Yine  very  vigorous,  very 
productive,  but  subject  to  rot  badly  in  unfavorable  seasons. 

Bunch  large,  moderately  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  lai-ge,  round- 
ish, dark  red  or  maroon.  Flesh  almost  tender,  juicy,  vinous,  with  a 
little  of  the  native  aroma.     Ripens  soon  after  the  Concord. 

Albtno. 

Garber's  Albino. 

Raised  by  J.  B.  Garber,  Columbia,  Pa. 

Bunch  small.  Berry  nearly  round,  slightly  oval,  yellowish  or  amber 
color.     Flesh  acid,  tough,  too  late  for  the  North. 

Alexander's. 

Schuylkill  Muscadel.  Winne. 

Muscadine.  Schuylkill  Madeira. 

Cape  Grape.  Constantia. 

Springroill  Constantia.  Black  Cape. 

Clifton's  Constantia.  York  Lisbon. 

Madeira,  of  York,  Pa.  ?  Vevay. 

Tasker's  Grape.  Rotbrock,  of  Prince. 

This  Grape,  a  natural  seedling,  was  first  discovered  by  Mr.  Alex- 
ander, gardener  to  Gov.  Perm,  before  the  war  of  the  Revolution.  It  is 
not  unfrequently  found,  as  a  seedling,  from  the  wild  Foxgrape,  on  the 
borders  of  our  woods. 

Bunches  rather  compact.  Berries  of  medium  size,  roundish  oval. 
Skin  thick,  quite  black.  Flesh  with  a  very  firm  pulp,  but  juicy,  rather 
harsh.     October. 

The  White  Cape  is  similar  to  above,  differing  only  in  its  colcr,  which 
is  greenish  white. 

Allair. 

Bunch  small,  loose.  Berry  medium,  reddish  brown.  Flesh  pulpy, 
harsh,  poor. 


rat,  ouape. 


529 


I 


\ 


Adirondao. 

34 


630  the  grape. 

Alvey. 

Hagar. 

Introduced  by  Dr.  Harvey,  of  Hagerstown,  Md.  Vine  vigorous 
moderately  productive. 

Bunches  above  medium,  long,  and  shouldered.  Berries  medium  or 
small,  roundish,  black.  Flesh  tender,  refreshing,  vinous.  Ripens 
middle  to  last  of  September. 

Archer. 

Origin,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Bunch  large.  Berries  medium,  roundish,  greenish  white,  ambei 
in  the  sun,  white  bloom.  Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant.  Very  good. 
Nov.      (Hort.)     Ripens  too  late  for  the  North. 

Arkansas. 

A  small  black  variety  from  the  Southwest,  that  is  said  to  promise 
well  for  making  of  red  wine. 

Bunch  compact.  Berry  round,  black.  Flesh  juicy,  rich.  Ripens 
with  Catawba. 

Arcott. 

Resembles  Cassady.  Liable  to  cast  its  foliage.  Skin  thick.  Valu- 
able only  for  wine.     (Miss.  Rep.) 

Aughwick. 

A  new  variety,  described  as  having  originated  with  Wm.  A.  Fraker, 
Shirleysburgh,  Huntingdon  Co.,  Pa. 

Bunches  and  berries  similar  to  Clinton  in  size  and  form  and  color. 
Flesh  dark  red,  juicy,  making  a  dark  wine.  We  have  not  seen  the 
Grape. 

August  Pioneer. 

Origin  unknown.  It  is  one  of  the  coarsest  of  native  sorts,  large, 
black,  with  a  firm,  hard,  pulpy  flesh,  fit  only  for  stewing.  Middle 
of  August. 

AuTUCHON. 
Arnold's  No.  5. 

Originated  in  1859,  by  Charles  Arnold,  Paris,  C.  W.,  from  seed  of 
Clinton  crossed  with  Golden  Chasselas.      Leaf  deeply  lobed. 

Bunch  quite  long,  moderately  compact,  often  shouldered.  Berries 
medium,  greenish  white  with  a  golden  tint  when  fully  ripe.  Skin  thin. 
Flesh  void  of  pulp,  resembling  White  Chasselas,  but  more  sprightly  and 
;  ich.      Ripens  with  Delaware.      (C.  Arnold,  MS.) 

Baldwin  le  Noir. 

Originated  at  West  Chester,  Pa. 

Bunches  small,  rather  loose.  Berries  small,  quite  dark,  almost 
alack.  Flesh  somewhat  pulpy,  brisk,  rough  acid.  May  do  for.  wine  ; 
not  desirable  for  table  use      October. 


THE   GRAPE.  531 


iARNES. 


Origin,- Parker  Barnes,  Boston,  Mass". 

Bunches  shouldered.  Berries  medium,  oval,  black,  sweet,  good 
September  5th,  or  nearly  as  early  as  Hartford.     New.     (Strong.) 

Barry. 

Rogers'  No.  43. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Vine  vigorous,  produc- 
tive. 

Bunch  rather  large,  short,  broad,  compact,  often  shouldered.  Berry 
large,  roundish,  black.  Flesh  tender,  nearly  free  from  pulp,  juicy,  sweet, 
pleasant.     Ripens  about  the  time  of  Concord. 

Baxter. 

A  late  ripening  variety  from  the  South. 

Bunch  long,  loose.  Berries  small,  black,  juicy,  not  much  pulp,  but 
quite  acid  here  at  the  North.  May  be  better  South.  Very  late  in 
ripening. 

Bird's  Egg. 

Bunch  long,  pointed.  Berry  long  oval,  whitish,  with  brown  specks 
Flesh  pulpy.     Only  good.      Curiosity. 

Black  Hawk. 

Originated  at  Lebanon,  Pa.,  from  seed  of  Concord  vine.  Strong, 
vigorous,  hardy. 

Bunch  medium  to  large.  Berry  large,  nearly  round.  Flesh  some- 
what pulpy,  like  its  parent.     Comparatively  new  and  untested. 

Black  July. 

Lincoln.  Sherry.  McLean. 

Devereux.  Thurmond.  '  Husson. 

Sumpter.  Hart.  Lenoir,  incorrectly 

Blue  Grape.  Tuley. 

Origin  uncertain.  A  small  black  Grape,  a  half-hardy  vine,  not  an 
*:arly  bearer. 

Bunches  small,  compact.  Berries  small,  dark  bluish  black.  Flesh 
tender,  juicy,  vinous,  somewhat  prized  South  for  wine. 

Bland. 

Bland's  Virginia.         Bland's  Madeira.  Red  Seuppernong  of  some. 

Bland's  Pale  Red.      Powell. 

The  Bland  does  not  ripen  well  North,  except  in  favorable  Munitions, 
and  should  always  be  planted  in  a  warm  exposure.  It  is  said  to  have 
been  found  on  the  eastern  shore  of  Virginia,  by  Col.  Bland  of  that  State. 

Hunches  rather  long,  loose,  and  often  with    small    impevfecl    berries. 
Berries  round,  on  long  stalks, hanging  rather  thinly.     Skin  thiu,al  first 
pale  green,  but  pale  red  when  ripe.      Flesh  slightl)  pulpy,  of  a  pleasant, 
sprightly,  delicate  flavor,  and  with  little  or  i 
^stringency.     Ripens  Late. 


532  the  grape. 

Blood's  Biack. 

A  native  fox  Grape,  health}',  hardy,  and  prod  active  of  fruit,  quite 
harsh  and  foxy. 

Bunches  short,  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  round,  black.  Ripena 
abo\it  with  Hartford,  and  inferior. 

Blue  Favorite. 

A  Southern  Grape  that  does  not  ripen  well  North.  Vine  vigorous, 
productive. 

Bunch  above  medium.  Berries  medium,  round,  blue  black,  sweet, 
vinous,  much  coloring  matter.  Ripe  South  early  in  September,  and 
there  said  to  be  much  esteemed  for  wine-making. 

Blue  Imperial. 

Origin  uncertain.     Vine  vigorous,  free  from  mildew,  not  productive. 
Bunches  medium,  short.     Berry  large,  round,  black.      Flesh  with  a 
hard  acid  centre  or  pulp.     Ripens  with  Hartford.     Infeiior. 

Brand  ywine. 
Origin,  Wilmington,  Del. 

Bunch  large,  shouldered,  rather  compact.  Berry  oval,  greenish 
white.     Flesh  tender.     Middle  September.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Brant. 

Arnold's  No.  8. 

Raised  by  Charles  Arnold,  Paris,  C.  W.,  from  seed  of  Clinton 
fructified  with  mixed  foreign  pollen.  Vine  strong,  healthy  grower. 
Foliage  of  a  dark  reddish  green,  deeply  lobed.      Smooth  on  both  sides. 

Bunch  and  berry  medium,  black.  Flesh  free  from  pulp,  very  jnicy, 
sweet,  and,  when  perfectly  ripe,  rich  and  aromatic.  Ripens  early.  (C. 
Arnold,  MS.) 

Brixckle. 

Raised  by  Peter  Raabe,  near  Philadelphia.     Vine  tender. 
Bunch  large,  rather  compact,  sometimes  shouldered.    Berries  round, 
black.     Flesh  slightly  pulpy,  vinous,  saccharine.     Good.     Ripens  Sept. 

Brown. 
Very  much  like  Isabella,  and  ripens  with  it. 

Burroughs. 

From  Vermont.     Vine  allied  to  the  Clinton. 

Bunch  small.  Berry  round,  black,  thick  bloom.  Flesh  harsh,  acid, 
dustere.     Ripens  a  little  earlier  than  Isabella. 

Burton's  Early. 
A  large  early,  poor  Fox  Grape.     Unworthy  culture. 

Camden. 
Of  the  fox  class. 

Bunch  medium.  Berry  large,  greenish  white.  Flesh  with  a  hard 
centre,  acid,  poor. 


the  grape.  533 

Canada. 
Arnold's  No.  16. 

Raised  from  seed  of  Clinton  crossed  with  pollen  of  Black  St.  Peter's. 
Vine  and  foliage  somewhat  like  Clinton.  The  fruit  also  resembles  Clinton 
in  appearance  of  bunch,  but  larger  berry. 

Bunch  and  berry  above  medium,  shouldered.  Skin  thin,  black,  with 
a  fine  bloom.  Flesh  free  from  pulp,  juicy,  with  a  distinct  foreign  flavor, 
and  aromatic.     Ripens  with  Concord.      (Chas.  Arnold,  MS.) 

Carter. 

Of  a  foxy  character.  Berries  round,  large,  almost  black.  Ripens; 
with  Isabella,  and  inferior. 

Cassady. 

A.n  accidental  seedling  that  sprang  up  in  P.  H.  Cassady's  yard,  in 
Philadelphia. 

Bunches  medium  size,  tolerably  compact,  and  sometimes  shouldered. 
Berry  below  medium,  round,  greenish  white,  with  occasionally  a  faint 
salmon  tint,  and  thickly  covered  with  white  bloom.  Flesh  juicy,  little 
pulp,  pleasant,  peculiar  honey  sweet. 

Catawba. 

Red  Muney.  Catawba  Tokay.  Saratoga  ? 

Michigan.  Fancher  ? 

This  excellent  native  Crape  was  first  introduced  to  notice  by  Major 
Adlum,  of  Georgetown,  D.  C,  and  was  found  by  him  in  Maryland. 

The  Catawba  is  too  late  in  ripening  for  general  cultivation  in  the 
Eastern  and  Northern  States ;  but  where  it  does  succeed  few  Grapes  are 
its  superior.  Clay  shale  soils  appear  to  give  most  richness  to  the  fruit  ; 
but  very  handsome  clusters  are  grown  in  gravelly  or  sandy  soils.  It  is 
a  popular  and  profitable  market  sort.      Vine  hardy  and  productive. 

Bunches  of  medium  size,  somewhat  loose,  shouldered.  Berries 
round  (or  sometimes  slightly  oval),  pretty  large.  Skin  rather  thick, 
pale  red  in  the  shade,  but  pretty  deep  red  in  the  sun,  covered  with  a 
lilac  bloom.  Flesh  slightly  pulpy,  juicy,  very  sweet,  with  an  aromatic, 
rich,  musky  flavor.  Ripe  from  the  1st  to  the  middle  of  October,  and 
should  be  allowed  to  hang  till  fully  ripe. 

Mead's  Seedling,  and  Mammoth  Catawba,  and  Pceschel's  Mammoth 
are  claimed  as  seedlings  of  the  Catawba;  but  they  are  so  nearly  identical 
as  not  to  require  distinct  descriptions.  The  Zane,  White  Catawba, 
Pond's  Seedling,  James'  Seedling,  Clermont,  also  belong  to  this  class. 

'  Jhallenge. 

Raised  by  Rev.  Asher  Moore,  from  a  cross  between  Concord  and 
Royal  Muscadine.      Vine  hardy  and  thrifty. 

Bunches  short,   compact,   shouldered.     Berries  rather  large,  round, 

Eale  red  like   Catawba.     Flesh    slightly  pulpy,  juicy,    sweet.     Ripens 
efore  Concord.     (W.  F.  Basset.) 

Charter  Oak. 
A  very  large,  coarse,  native  Fox  Grape,  quite  worthless  except  for  size 


634  THE    GRAPE. 


Chtppewa. 


A  variety  found  growing  on  the  banks  of  the  Chippewa  Creek,  and 
described  in  1858  by  Wm.  H.  Read. 

Bunches  good  size,  compact,  heavily  shouldered.  Berries  medium, 
black,  covered  with  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  melting,  sweet,  and  excellent. 
We  have  never  seen  the  vine  or  heard  of  it  since  the  first  above-pub- 
lished description  in  the  "  Country  Gentleman." 

Clara. 

A  chance  seedling  in  grounds  of  Peter  Raabe,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Vine  rather  tender. 

Bunch  medium,  loose,  shouldered.  Berry  medium,  roundish,  pale 
yellow,  translucent.  Flesh  tender,  juicy  sweet.  A  fine  amateur  sort. 
Ripens  with  Catawba. 

Claret. 

A  seedling  of  Chas.  Carpenter,  Kelly  Island,  O.     Vine  vigorous. 
Bunch  and  berry  medium,  claret  red,  acid.     Not  valuable. 

Clinton. 
Worthington. 

Origin  uncertain,  said  to  have  originated  in  "Western  New  York. 
Growth  vigorous,  Lardy,  and  productive. 

Bunch  medium,  shouldered,  long  and  narrow,  somewhat  irregular, 
but  compact.  Berries  round,  rather  below  medium  size,  black,  covered 
with  a  thick  bloom,  juicy,  Avitk  some  acidity  and  toughness  in  its  pulp, 
but  with  a  brisk  vinous  flavor.  Colors  early,  but  does  not  fully  ripen 
until  quite  late,  or  after  frost. 

Clover  Street  Black. 

A  seedlin  g  raised  by  Jacob  Moore,  from  Diana  crossed  by  Black 
Hamburgh. 

Bunches  large,  compact,  shouldered.  Berries  large,  roundish,  black, 
with  a  dark  violet  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  sweet.  Vine  moderately  vig- 
orous.    Ripens  with  Concord.     (Ho v.  Mag.) 

Clover  Street  Red. 

Same  origin  as  the  preceding. 

Bunches  larger  than  Diana,  loose,  occasionally  with  a  similar  long 
stalk  or  shoulder  appended  to  the  top.  Berries  large,  roundish  oval, 
crimson  when  fully  ripe,  with  a  slight  Diana  flavor.  Vine  a  strong 
grower.     Ripens  with  Diana.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Columbia. 

This  Grape  is  said  to  have  been  found  by  Mr.  Adlum  on  his  farm 
at  Georgetown,  D.  C.     A  vigorous  grower,  productive. 

Bunch  small,  compact.  Berry  small,  black,  with  a  thin  bloom,  with 
■very  little  hardness  or  acidity  in  its  pulp,  not  high-flavored,  but  pleas- 
ant  and  vinous.     Ripe  last  of  September. 


THE    GRAPE. 


63S 


Con  curd. 


&36 


THE    GRAPE, 


Concord. 


This  tine  hardy  native  Grape  was  raised  from  seed  by  E.  W.  Bull, 
Concord,  Mass.     It  is  of  very  healthy,  vigorous  habit,  and  productive. 

Bunch  rather  compact,  large  shouldered.  Berries  large,  globular, 
almost  black,  thickly  covered  with  bloom.  Skin  rather  thick,  with 
more  of  the  native  pungency  and  aroma  than  the  Isabella,  which  it  re- 
sembles, but  does  not  quite  equal  in  quality.  Flesh  somewhat  buttery, 
moderately  juicy,  sweet,  with  considerable  toughness  and  acidity  in  its 
pulp.  It  is  more  hardy  than  the  Isabella,  and  ripens  about  ten  daws 
earlier,  consequently  it  is  a  very  valuable  variety  for  a  huge  northern 
range  where  the  Isabella  does  not  ripen.  It  is  very  popular,  but  as  a 
market  sort  the  fruit,  if  left  to  ripen  before  gathered,  does  not  carry  well 
long  distances,  and  is  liable  to  drop  from  the  bunch  after  a  few  days. 

Conqueror. 

A  cross  between  Concord  and  Royal  Muscadine,  grown  by  Rev. 
Asher  Moore.     Vine  hardy,  thrifty,  productive. 

Bunches  rather  long,  loose,  shouldered.  Berries  medium  to  large, 
somewhat  pear-shaped,  glossy,  black,  with  a  fine  bloom.  Flesh  slightly 
pulpy,  juicy,  sweet.  Ripens  with  Concord.  New.  (W.  F.  Bas- 
sett,  MSS.) 

Cornucopia. 
Arnold's  No.  2. 

Raised  in  the  year  1859,  by  Charles  Arnold,  from  seed  of  Clinton, 
crossed  with  St.  Peters.  Vine  very  healthy  and  vigorous.  Leaves 
large,  dark  green,  smooth  on  both  sides.  Wood  short-jointed.  Very 
productive,  and  a  long  keeper. 

Bunch  large,  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  above  medium,  very 
black,  with  a  fine  bloom.  Skin  thin.  Flesh  juicy,  no  pulp.  Ripens 
with  Concord,  which  ripens  early.     (C.  Arnold,  MSS.) 

Cottage. 

This  is  a  new  variety,  originated  with  E.  W.  Bull,  and  by  him  de- 
scribed as: 

Fruit  black,  and  ripening  two  weeks  before  Concord. 

Cowan. 
McCowan. 
A  native. 

Bunch  and  berry  medium,  black,  rather  harsh  and  austere.  Not 
desirable. 

Crevelling. 

Catawissa  Bloom.  Bloomburg1. 

Columbia  County.  Laura  Beverly  ? 

Claimed  to  be  of  Pennsylvania  origin.  Vine  hardy  and  vigorous, 
moderately  productive.  It  has  imperfect  blooms,  but  is  said  to  be  quite 
productive  when  grown  side  by  side  with  Concord. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  long,  loose,  shouldered.  Berries  medium, 
nearly  round,  black,  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  very  little  pulp, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  moderately  rich,  more  so  than  Concord.  Ripens  soon 
after  Hartford  Prolific 


THE    GRAPE. 


Croton. 


A  new  variety,  originated  by  Stephen  Underbill,  Croton  Point,  N.  Y., 
from  seed  of  Delaware  crossed  by  Cbasaelas.  The  vine  is  a  fine  grower, 
hardy. 

Bunch  medium,  shouldered,  moderately  compact.  Berries  small  to 
medium,  light  greenish  yellow.  Skin  thin.  Flesh  juicy,  sprightly, 
sweet,  pleasant,  rich.     Ripens  about  with  Hartford  Prolific. 

Cunningham. 
Long. 

Said  to  have  originated  with  Jacob  Cunningham,  Prince  Edward  Co.r 
Va.  Vine  vigorous  healthy.  A  variety  of  value  for  wine,  South  and 
Southwest. 

Bunch  medium,  brownish,  compact,  ofter  ot  always,  shouldered. 
Berries  small,  round,  black.  Flesh  juicy,  ric-.  Not  quite  hardy  at  the 
North,  and  ripens  later  than  Catawba. 

Cuyahoga. 
Wemple . 

A  chance  seedling  found   and    grown  by Wemple,  Collamer, 

Cuyahoga  Co.,  O.  Vine  strong  grower,  requires  a  warm  sandy  soil  and 
exposure  to  make  it  desirable  at  the  North ;  but  when  well  grown  is 
of  fine  quality.     South  it  casts  its  foliage,  and  is  not  valuable. 

Bunch  medium,  compact.  Berry  medium,  dull  greenish  amber 
when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  rich,  vinous,  sweet.  Ripens  with 
Catawba  or  a  little  later. 

Cynthiana. 
Red  River. 

Of  unknown  origin,  said  to  be  Kansas.  A  distinct  and  valuable 
variety  for  making  of  red  wine  South  and  West,  or  wherever  the  Catawba 
will  ripen.  Vine  very  vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive.  It  much  re- 
sembles Norton's  Virginia,  and  is  perhaps  superior. 

Bunches  moderately  compact,  shouldered.  Berries  small,  round, 
black,  blue  bloom.  Flesh  juicy,  the  juice  not  quite  as  dark  in  color  as 
Norton's  Virginia. 

Dana. 

A  seedling  grown  by  Francis  Dana,  of  Roxbury,  Mass.,  and 
described  in  the  "  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Transactions." 

Bunch  medium,  shouldered,  compact,  with  a  peculiar  red  stem. 
Berries  rather  large,  nearly  round,  red,  with  a  rich  heavy  bloom,  so 
that  when  fully  ripe  they  appear  almost  black.  Flesh  as  free  from 
pulp  as  Delaware  ;  not  so  sweet,  but  more  spirited  and  vinous,  vet 
not  acid.     Ripe  last  of  September. 

Delaware. 

Heath.  Italian  Wine. 

The  precise  origin  of  this  Grape  is  not  known.  It  was  found  many 
years  since  in  the  garden  of*  Paul  II.  Provost,  Frenchtowu,  Hunterdon 

Co.     N.    J.        it    is    moderately    vigorous   in   growth,    with   short-jointed 


d38 


THE    GRAPE. 


wood.  Quite  hardy,  requires  rich  soil,  open,  and  well  drained,  to  pro- 
duce the  finest  of  fruit.  One  of  our  most,  if  not  the  most,  valuable  sort* 
for  general  cultivation.     Very  productive. 


Delaware. 


Bunch  small,  very  compact,  and  generally  shouldered.  Berriea 
rather  small,  round.  Skin  thin,  of  a  beautiful  light  red,  very  translu 
cent.  It  is  witho\it  hardness  or  acidity  in  its  pulp,  exceedingly  sweet, 
but  sprightly,  vinous,  and  aromatic. 


the  grape.  539 

Detroit. 

This  variety  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling.  It  was  found  in  a  gaiden 
in  Detroit,  Mich.  Not  having  seen  the  fruit,  we  copy  from  description 
in  the  Horticulturist :  "  Vine  very  vigorous  and  hardy.  Foliage  re- 
sembling Catawba.     Wood  short-jointed. 

"  Bunches  large,  compact.  Berries  very  dark,  rich  brown  claret,  with 
a  light  bloom,  round  and  regular.  Flesh  with  very  little  pulp,  rich 
and  sugary.     Ripens  earlier  than  Catawba." 

Diana. 

A.  seedling  of  the  Catawba,  raised  by  Mrs.  Diana  Crehore,  of  Bos- 
ton. It  is  a  very  fine  fruit  when  well  ripened,  but  while  it  colors  early, 
does  not  ripen  much,  if  any,  earlier  than  Catawba.  It  is  a  very  vigor 
ous  vine,  requiring  much  room  and  long  pruning,  and  increases  in  pro- 
ductiveness and  good  quality  as  the  vines  get  age.  It  does  not  require 
a  very  rich  soil. 

Bunches  large,  very  compact,  and  heavy,  not  properly  shouldered, 
but  often  having  a  small  bunch  appended  by  a  long  branch  of  the 
peduncle. 

The  color  is  a  line  reddish  lilac,  thickly  covered  with  bloom.  The 
berries  round.  The  fruit  when  fully  ripe  abounds  in  fine  rich  juice, 
vinous,  and  aromatic,  from  which  all  the  offensive  native  odor  has  dis- 
appeared. It  hangs  long  on  the  vines,  is  not  injured  by  severe  frosts, 
and  keeps  aclmirably  for  winter  use. 

Diana  Hamburgh. 

Originated  from  seed  of  Diana,  crossed  with  Black  Hamburgh,  by 
Jacob  Moore,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Vine  a  fair  grower,  with  short-jointed 
wood,  tolerably  healthy,  sometimes  disposed  to  mildew.  We  have  seen 
but  little  of  it,  and  think  it  not  suited  for  out-door  culture. 

Bunch  large,  moderately  compact,  shouldered.  Berries  roundish 
oval,  rich  red,  with  a  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  sweet,  somewhat  aromatic, 
like  Diana.     Ripens  nearly  with  Isabella. 

Dracut  Amber. 

Originated  by  J.  W.  Manning,  Dracut,  Mass.  Vine  very  vigorous, 
of  the  Fox  Grape  class,  productive. 

Bunch  large,  compact,  often  shouldered.  Berry  large,  round.  Skin 
thick.     Flesh  quite  pungent  and  foxy.     Ripens  about  with  Concord. 

Early  Hudson. 

A  round  bin  ok  Grape,  early,  and  of  little  value,  except  as  a  cariosity, 
inasmuch  as  some  of  the  berries  contain  no  seed. 

Elizabeth. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Joseph  Hart,  near  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  and 
described  in  the  Rural  New  Yorker. 

Bunches  large,  compact.  Berries  large,  roundish  oval,  greenish 
white,  with  a  slight  purple  tinge  in  the  sun.     Flesh  rather  pulpy,  acid. 


540 


THE    GRAPE. 


Elsingburgh. 
Smart's  Elsingburg.  Elsenborough.  Elsinboro. 

A  very  nice  little  Grape  for  the  dessert,  perfectly  sweet  and  molt 
ing,  without  pulp,  originally  brought  from  a  township  of  this  name  in 
Salem  Co.,  N.  J.  It  is  not  a  great  deal  larger  than  the  common  Frost 
Grape  in  the  size  of  the  berry.  A  moderate,  but  regular  bearer,  ripens 
well,  and  much  esteemed  by  many  for  the  table. 

Bunches  pretty  large,  loose,  and  shouldered.  Berries  small,  round. 
Skin  thin,  black,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  entirely  without 
pulp,  melting,  sweet,  and  excellent.  The  leaves  are  deeply  five-lobed, 
pretty  dark  green,  and  the  wood  rather  slender,  with  long  joints. 

Emily. 

Raised  by  Peter  Raabe,  near  Philadelphia. 

Bunch  large,  not  very  compact,  occasionally  shouldered.  Berry  be- 
low medium,  from  three-eighths  to  one-half  an  inch  in  diameter,  round, 
pale  red.     Flesh  very  juicy,  with  little  or  no  pulp.     Tender  vine. 

Etjmelan. 

A  chance  seedling,  originated  at  FishkiU,  N.  Y.  Vine  hardy,  pro- 
ductive, and  ripens  early. 

The  bunch  of  good  size,  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  medium  size, 
nearly  round,  of  a  deep  purple  or  bluish  black  color,  covered  with  a 
light  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  melting,  ripening  to  the  centre,  sweet, 
sprightly,  vinous. 

Flora. 

Origin,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Bunch  small,  compact.  Berry  small,  roundish  oval,  purplish  red. 
Flesh  somewhat  pulpy,  acid  at  centre,  juicy,  vinous.  Bipens  about  with 
Isabella.     Vine  hardy  and  productive. 

Franklin. 

Vine  much  the  habit  and  growth  of  Clinton.     Not  as  good  a  bearer. 
Bunch   small,  not  very  compact.     Berry  small,   black,  juicy,  quite 
acid,  austere.     Unworthy. 

Garrigues. 

Raised  by  Edward  Garrigues,  Kingsessing,  Philadelphia.  A  vigor- 
ous grower,  hardy  and  productive,  very  much  resembles  Isabella,  and  no 
doubt  a  seedling  of  it.     Ripens  a  few  days  earlier. 

Goethe. 

Rogers'  No.  1. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Vine  vigorous,  productive, 
and  has  more  of  the  foreign  character  in  it  than  any  other  of  his  seed- 
lings. 1 1  does  not  ripen  here,  except  in  favorable  seasons.  It  is  said  to 
succeed  well  South  and  Southwest. 


THE    GRAPE. 


541 


Bunch  large,  moderately  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  very  large, 
aval,  yellowish  green,  often  blotched  with  dull  red.  Flesh  tender  to 
the  centre,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant,  slightly  aromatic. 

Golden  Clinton. 

King. 

A  seedling  of  Clinton,  and  resembles  that  variety,  except  in  color  of 
fruit,  which  is  yellowish  white.     Not  as  productive  as  Clinton. 

Graham. 

An  accidental  seedling,  introduced  by  William  Graham,  of  Philadel- 
phia. 

Bunch  of  medium  size,  shouldered,  not  compact.  Berry  half  an 
inch  in  diameter,  round,  purple,  thickly  covered  with  a  blue  bloom,  con- 
tains little  or  no  pulp,  and  abounds  in  juice  of  agreeable  flavor.  A 
poor  grower  and  bearer. 

Hall. 

A  variety  grown  by  David  Hall,  of  TJrbana,  O.  Berries  medium, 
dark,  almost  black,  better  than  Clinton,  not  equal  to  Isabella,  but  ear- 
lier.    May  be  better  South. 

Hartford  Prolific. 
Seneca  ?  Framingham. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Steel,  of  Hartford,  Conn.  Hardy,  vigorous,  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Bunch  large,  shouldered,  rather  compact.  Berry  large,  globular, 
with  a  good  deal  of  the  native  perfume.  Skin  thick,  black,  covered 
with  a  bloom.  Flesh  sweet,  moderately  juicy,  with  considerable  tough- 
ness and  acidity  in  its  pulp.  Ripe  among  the  very  earliest.  An  early 
variety  for  marketing,  but  too  liable  to  drop  its  fruit  from  the  bunch  as 
soon  as  fully  ripe. 

Hattie. 

There  are  two  Grapes  under  this  name.  One  originated  with  Mrs. 
N.  R.  Haskell,  Monroe,  Mich.  Is  a  medium-sized  bunch,  rather 
long  and  loose.  Berries  medium,  slightly  oval,  bright  clear  red,  trans- 
lucent, with  a  bloom.  Flesh  juicy,  with  little  pulp,  pleasantly  vinous, 
not  rich.  Ripens  with  Concord.  The  other  Hattie,  or  Hettie,  is  of  un- 
known origin.  Bunch  small.  Berry  black.  Flesh  somewhat  pulpy, 
a  poor  giower  and  bearer,  but  ripens  early. 

Herbemont. 

Warren.  Warrenton. 

Herbemont's  Madeira.  Neil  Grape. 

Origin  claimed  for  many  localities,  but  not  yet  fully  ascertained.  It  is, 
however,  a  Southern  Grape,  a  vigorous  grower,  a  good  bearer,  and  parti  cu- 


542  THE    GRAPE. 

larly  fitted  for  those  Southern  latitudes  that  are  liable  to  injury  from 
late  frosts  in  spring,  as  it  flowers  very  late.  It  is  highly  esteemed  as  a 
wine  grape  in  Missouri,  Tennessee,  and  other  Southern  and  Southwestern 
sections.  At  the  North  it  does  not  ripen  its  fruit  except  in  warm,  shel- 
tered situations. 

Bunch  large  and  compact,  shouldered.  Berries  below  medium, 
round,  dark  blue  or  violet,  covered  with  a  thick  light  bloom.  Skin 
thin,  which  is  filled  with  a  sweet,  rich,  vinous  aromatic  juice  of  so  little 
consistence  that  it  cannot  be  called  flesh. 

HlNE. 

Originated  with  Jason  Brown,  of  Put-in-Bay,  O.,  from  seed  of 
Catawba. 

Bunch  large,  compact,  slightly  shouldered.  Berries  medium,  round, 
irregular  in  size,  dark  claret  red.  Flesh  juicy,  rich  and  sweet,  slightly 
pulpy.     Ripens  about  with  Concord. 

Howell. 

Origin  unknown. 

Bunch  and  berries  medium,  oval,  black.  Skin  thick.  Flesh  with 
firm  pulp,  pleasant.     Good.     Middle  September. 

Hudson. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  Mr.  Calkins,  Hudson,  N.  Y.  Growth 
similar  to  Isabella. 

Bunch  and  berry  much  the  same,  but  less  sprightly  and  not  quite  so 
rich. 

Hyde's  Eliza. 

Originared  with  Eliza  Hyde,  Catskill,  N.  Y.  Vine  moderately 
vigorous,  and  productive. 

Bunch  medium,  compact,  often  with  a  small  shoulder.  Berry 
medium  size,  round,  black,  covered  with  a  thin,  light  bloom.  Flesh 
tolerably  juicy,  somewhat  buttery,  with  a  pleasant  vinous  flavor.  Ripe 
a  few  days  before  Concord. 

IONA. 

Originated  by  Dr.  C.  W.  Grant,  Iona  Island,  N.  Y.  Vine  vigorous, 
productive.     A  superior  grape  when  in  perfection. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  shouldered,  sometimes  double-shouldered. 
Berries  medium,  roundish  oval,  light  clear  red,  fine  bloom.  Skin  thin. 
Flesh  soft,  tender  to  the  centre,  juicy  sweet,  vinous.  Ripens  a  few 
days  after  Delaware,  and  continues  a  long  time  in  use. 

Isabella. 

Paign's  Isabella.  Christie's  Improved  Isabella. 

Woodward.  Sanbornton  ? 

Payne's  Early. 

This  very  popular  Grape,  a  native  of  South  Carolina,  was  brought 
to  the  North  and  introduced  to  the  notice  of  cultivators  about  the  year 


THX    ORATE. 


543 


^ 


# 


loim.' 


Mi 


THE    GRAPE. 


3 


IaraeUa. 


THE   GRAPE.  546 

1818,  by  Mrs.  Isabella  Gibbs,  the  wife  of  George  Gibbs,  Esq.,  in  honor 
of  whom  it  was  named.  Its  great  vigor,  hardiness,  and  productiveness, 
with  the  least  possible  care,  have  caused  it  to  be  most  widely  dis- 
seminated. It  is,  perhaps,  a  little  more  hardy,  and  ripens  earlier  than 
the  Catawba. 

Bunches  of  good  size — five  to  seven  inches  long,  rather  loose, 
shouldered.  Berries  oval,  pretty  large.  Skin  thick,  dark  purple, 
becoming  at  last  nearly  black,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  tender, 
with  some  pulp,  which  nearly  dissolves  when  fully  mature  ;  juicy,  sweet 
and  rich,  with  slight  musky  aroma. 

This  Grape  is  frequently  picked  as  soon  as  it  is  well  colored,  and 
long  before  it  is  ripe. 

Many  seedlings  of  the  Isabella  have  been  grown,  differing  very 
little  in  form,  size,  or  quality  of  fruit,  or  in  growth  and  productiveness, 
and  therefore  we  prefer  to  class  them  as  sub-varieties.  They  are  Clo- 
anthe,  Aiken,  Richmond,  Baker,  Bogue's  Eureka,  Sanbornton,  Wright's 
Isabella,  Lee's,  &c,  «tc. 

ISRAELLA. 

Originated  with  Dr.  C.  W.  Grant,  of  Iona  Island,  N".  Y.  Yine 
vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  shouldered,  compact.  Berries  large, 
slightly  oval.  Skin  rather  thin.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  free  from  pulp, 
Bweet.     Bipens  soon  after  Hartford  Prolific. 

Ives. 
Ives'  Seedling.  Ives'  Madeira.  Kittredge. 

Baised  by  Henry  Ives,  of  Cincinnati.  Yine  vigorous,  productive. 
Has  lately  come  into  pretty  high  repute  as  a  valuable  wine  Grape  in  its 
native  locality. 

Bunch  medium  size,  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  medium,  black, 
roundish  oval.  Flesh  with  some  pulp,  juicy,  sweet,  a  Little  too  harsh 
for  table  use.     Bipens  with  Isabella. 

Kilvington. 

Origin  unknown. 

Bunch  medium,  tolerably  compact.  Berry  small,  round,  dull  red, 
with  a  bloom.     Flesh  pulpy,  half  tender,  vinous. 

KlNGSESSING. 

Bunch  long,  loose,  shotildered.  Berry  medium,  round,  pale  red, 
with  a  bloom.     Flesh  pulpy. 

Kitchen. 

Seedling  from  Franklin. 

Bunch  and  berry  medium.     Berry  round,  black.       Flesh  acid,  juicy. 

La  be. 

Bunch  rather  small,  short,  oblong.  Berries  medium,  loosely  set, 
black.     Flesh  half  tender,  pulpy,  sharp  sweet. 

35 


546  the  grape. 

Lake. 
Idem 
Bunch  and  berry  small,  black,  early,  acid,  harsh. 

Lenoir. 

This  Grape  takes  its  name  from  Lenoir  Co.,  N.  C.  It  has  been  con« 
founded  with  Black  July,  but  is  distinct,  as  shown  in  foliage.  The 
foliage  of  this  has  lobed  leaves. 

Bunch  medium,  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  small,  round,  dark, 
almost  black.  Flesh  tender,  vinous,  juicy,  sweet.  A  good  variety 
South,  but  too  late  in  ripening  for  the  North. 

Lindley. 
Rogers'  No.  9. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Vine  vigorous,  very  pro- 
ductive. 

Bunch  medium,  rather  long,  compact.  Berry  medium,  roundish, 
red  or  reddish.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.  Ripens 
a  little  before  the  Concord. 

Logan. 

Supposed  origin,  Ohio.     Vine  a  moderate  grower  and  bearer. 
Bunches  medium,  shouldered.     Berries  roundish  oval,  black.     Flesh 
juicy,  sweet,  some  pulp  at  centre.     Ripens  just  after  Hartford  Prolific. 

Louisa. 

Raised  by  Samuel  Miller,  Calmdale,  Lebanon  Co.,  Pa. ;  hardy,  vig- 
orous grower. 

Bunch  medium,  rather  compact,  occasionally  shouldered.  Berry 
round,  incliuing  to  oval,  black,  with  a  blue  bloom  similar  to  Isabella, 
and  ripe  a  few  days  earlier. 

Louisiana. 

A.  variety  from  Louisiana,  by  some  considered  a  native  ;  others  say 
it  is  foreign.     George  Husman  says : 

"  It  can  hardly  be  distinguished  from  the  Rulander  in  appearance, 
but  has  a  more  sprightly  flavor.     Ripens  at  the  same  time." 

Lydia. 

A  chance  seedling,  originated  on  Kelly  Island,  and  introduced  by 
Chas.  Carpenter.  Vine  about  with  Isabella  in  growth  and  hardihood, 
"ut  not  a  good  bearer. 

Bunches  short,  compact,  roundish.  Berries  large,  greenish  white, 
inge  of  yellow  when  fully  ripe.  Skin  thick.  Flesh  juicy,  rich,  sweet, 
with  very  little  pulp,  and  free  of  native  aroma.     Ripens  with  Delaware. 


the  grape. 
Lyman. 


647 


Origin  unknown.     A  Northern  variety,  said  to  have  been  brought 
from  Quebec  upwards  of  fifty  years  ago.      Hardy  and  productive. 

Bunch  small,  rather  compact.      Berry  round,  medium  or  below,  black, 


©overed  with  a  thick  bloom,  similar  in   flavor  to  Clinton,  and  ripens 
about  the  same  time. 

Sherman  and  McNeil  are  varieties  grown  from  the  above,  but  hardlj 
to  be  distinguished  from  it.     McCoun  is  another  of  this  class. 


548  the  grape. 

Manhattan. 

Originated  near  New  York.     A  poor  bearer. 

Bunches  small.  Berries  medium,  round,  greerish  white,  with  a 
bloom.     Flesh  sweet,  rather  pulpy. 

Marion. 

Origin  unknown. 

Bunch  large,  compact.  Berries  roundish  oval,  purplish  black,  tough 
centre,  austere.     Colors  early,  but  ripens  late. 

Martha. 

Raised  by  Samuel  Miller,  Bluifton,  Mo.  The  habit  of  the  vine  is 
much  like  Concord,  but  it  has  not  yet  been  tested,  as  we  think,  sufficiently 
to  decide  on  its  productiveness. 

Bunches  medium,  not  very  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  large, 
roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  bloom.  Flesh  similar  to  Concord, 
perhaps  a  little  sweeter.  A  promising  new  sort,  ripening  a  few  days 
earlier  than  Concord. 

Mary. 

Raised  by  Charles  Carpenter,  Kelly  Island.  Vine  hardy,  strong 
grower.     Fruit  ripens  too  late  for  the  North. 

Bunch  medium,  moderately  compact.  Berries  medium,  round, 
greenish  white,  with  a  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  slight  pulp,  juicy,  sweet, 
brisk  flavor* 

Mary  Ann. 

Raised  by  J.  B.  Garber,  Columbia,  Pa.  An  early  Grape,  hardy. 
Not  equal  to  Isabella. 

Bunch  medium,  moderately  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  medium, 
oval,  black,  pulpy  acid,  foxy.     Ripens  about  with  Hartford. 

Massasoit. 
Rogers'  No.  3. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Vine  moderately  vigor- 
ous, productive. 

Bunch  medium,  rather  loose,  short,  shouldered.  Berry  large,  round, 
claret  red.     Flesh  tender,  juicy.     Ripens  before  Concord. 

Maxatawney. 

Originated  at  Eagleville,  Montgomery  Co.,  Pa.,  in  1844.  Vine 
healthy,  vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive.  Requires  a  warm  situation  at 
the  North,  but  Southwest  proves  one  of  the  finest  of  White  Grapes. 

Bunch  medium,  not  generally  shouldered,  somewhat  loose,  occasion- 
ally compact.  Berries  medium,  roundish  oval,  greenish  white,  with  an 
amber  tint  when  ripe.  Flesh  tender,  not  pulpy,  very  sweet  and  deli 
cious.     Ripens  last  of  September. 


THE   GRAPE.  549 

Merrimack, 

Rogers'  No.  19. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Salein,  Mass.     Vine  very  vigorous,  very 
productive. 

Bunch  rather  large,  short,  and  broad,  compact.     Berry  large,  round,, 


Mottled. 


black,  with  a  slight  bloom.     Flesh  tender  nearly  to  the  centre,  juicy, 
sweety  and  very  much  like  the  Wilder,  and  ripens  at  the  same  time. 


060  the  grape. 

Miles. 

Origin,  Westchester  Co.,  Pa.  Vine  a  moderate  grower,  hardy,  and 
productive. 

Bunch  small,  rather  compact.  Berry  small,  round,  black.  Flesh 
tender,  slight  pulp  at  centre,  brisk  vinous,  pleasant.  Ripens  among  the 
earliest,  but  does  not  hang  long. 

Missouri. 

Missouri  Seedling. 

A  native  sort,  with  short-jointed  wood,  and   only  moderate  grower 
Bunch  small,  moderately  compact.  Berries  small,  round,  nearly  black 

Flesh  juicy,  rather  pulpy,  vinous,  pleasant  when  well  ripened.     Ripens 

about  with  Isabella. 

Modena. 

A  new  variety,  raised  by  A.  J.  Caywood,  of  Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y., 
from  seed  of  the  Concord. 

Bunch  medium.  Berries  medium,  roundish,  black,  something  like 
Concord,  but  richer  in  saccharine.     Ripens  about  with  Concord. 

Montgomery. 
Merritt's  Seedling. 

A  variety  of  undoubted  foreign  parentage.  It  is  a  large,  showy 
bunch,  and  matures  tolerably  well  in  the  open  ground  while  the  plants 
are  young. 

Mottled. 

A  seedling  grown  by  Charles  Carpenter,  Kelly  Island,  O.  Vine 
hardy,  very  short-jointed.  A  profuse  bearer,  ripening  with  Delaware. 
It  will  hang  a  long  time  after  ripe,  and  keeps  unusually  well. 

Bunch  medium,  slightly  shouldered,  close,  compact.  Berries  round, 
medium  size,  maroon  red,  with  spots  that  when  held  to  the  light  give 
it  a  mottled  appearance,  hence  its  name.  Flesh  tender.  Pulp  small. 
Juice  sweet,  rich,  vinous,  abundant. 

Mount  Lebanon. 

Origin,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y. 

Bunch  larger  than  Northern  Muscadine.  Berry  round,  reddish 
Flesh  pulpy,  tough,  sweet,  perhaps  a  little  better  than  Northern  Mus- 
cadine. 

Nefp 
Keuka. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Neff,  near  Keuka,  on  Crooked  Lake, 
New  York. 

Bunch  medium.  Berry  medium,  dark  copper  red.  Flesh  pulpy, 
and  somewhat  foxy.     Good  native.     Early. 

Nonantuau 

A  new  seedling,  grown  by  Francis  Dana,  near  Boston,  and  de 
icribed  as : 


THE    GRAPE.  551 

"  Branch  small,  shouldered.  Berry  good  size,  oval,  similar  to  Tsa- 
Iw^kv     .Entirely  free  from  pulp.     Good  flavor." 

North  America. 

Vine  vigorous,  unproductive. 

Bunch  small,  shouldered.  Berry  round,  black,  juicy.  Ripens  about 
with  Hartford  Prolific. 

North  Carolina. 

North  Carolina  Seedling. 

Bunch  niedium  to  large,  shouldered,  compact.  Berry  large,  black, 
oblong,  pvilpy,  but  sweet  and  good.  Ripens  only  a  few  days  after 
Hartford  Prolific.  Vine  very  productive,  hardy,  and  healthy.  Strong 
grower.     (Husman.) 

Northern  Muscadine. 

Raised  by  the  Shakers,  at  New  Lebanon,  Columbia  Co.,  N.  Y. 

Bunches  small,  short,  compact.  Berry  large,  round,  chocolate  or 
brownish  red.  Skin  thick,  with  a  pungency  and  odor  common  to  the 
Wild  Fox  Grape,  and  is  a  very  little,  if  any,  improvement  on  it.  The 
berries  fall  from  the  bunch  as  soon  as  ripe,  which  is  about  two  weeks 
before  Isabella. 

Norton's  Virginia. 
Norton's  Seedling. 

A  variety  introduced  by  Dr.  D.  N.  Norton,  of  Richmond,  Va.  It  is  a 
most  productive  Grape  in  garden  or  vineyard,  bearing  very  large  crops 
(especially  at  the  South,  where  many  kinds  rot)  in  all  seasons.  It  is 
valued  for  making  a  red  wine. 

Bunch  niedium,  shouldered,  somewhat  compact.  Berries  small, 
round.  Skin  thin,  dark  purple.  Flesh  tender,  with  a  brisk,  rather 
rough  flavor.     Ripens  with  Catawba. 

Ohio. 

Cigar-Box  Grape.  Jack.  Black  Spanish  Alabama. 

Longworth's  Ohio.  McCandless.         Jacquez. 

The  origin  of  this  Grape  is  unknown.  It  is  said  to  have  been 
brought  from  the  Straits  of  Gibraltar,  in  1805,  to  Oakland,  Ala.  Vine 
vigorous,  long-jointed,  not  hardy  at  the  North. 

Bunches  large  and  long,  from  six  to  ten  inches,  and  often  fifteen 
inches  in  length,  rather  loose,  tapering,  shouldered.  Berries  small, 
round.  Skin  thin,  purple,  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  tender  and  melt- 
ing, without  any  pulp,  brisk  and  vinous. 

Onondaga. 

Originated  in  Fayetteville,. Onondaga  Co.,  N.  Y.,  with  Lewis  Hue- 
ber,  from  a  cross  between  Diana  and  Delaware. 

Bundles  about  the  size  and  form  of  Diana,  compact.     Berry  medium, 


652  THE    GRAPE. 

amber  color  when  ripe.     Flesh  delicate,  sweet,  rich,  without  any  of  th« 
native  aroma.     Ripens  with  Delaware.     (*W.  Brown  Smith,  MSS.) 

Oporto. 

A  strong,  vigorous  growing  vine,  should  be  long  pruned  to  produce 
well. 

Bunch  small,  slightly  shouldered.  Berries  medium,  round,  black. 
Flesh  purple,  pulpy,  austere. 

Osmond. 

A  seedling  from  the  Franklin,  by  O.  T.  Hobbs,  Randolph,  Pa. 
Bunch  and  berry  small,  round,  black,  blue  bloom.     Flesh  vinous, 
harsh. 

Othello. 
Canadian  Hamburgh.  Arnold's  No.  1.  Canadian  Hybrid. 

Raised  in  1859,  by  Charles  Arnold,  Canada  West.  A  good,  strong 
grower  and  very  productive.     Leaves  deeply  lobed,  smooth. 

Bunches  large,  shouldered,  compact.  Berries  large,  round.  Flesh 
solid,  crisp,  free  from  pulp,  juicy,  sprightly.     Ripens  with  Delaware. 

Pauline. 
Burgundy  of  Georgia.  Red  Lenoir. 

A  Southern  Grape,  of  little  value  at  the  North,  where  it  does  not 
ripen  or  grow  well. 

Bunch  large,  long,  tapering,  shouldered.  Berries  small,  very  com- 
pact, copper  color  or  violet,  with  a  lilac  bloom.  Flesh  brisk  vinous, 
sweet,  aromatic  at  the  South. 

Perkins. 

Vine  vigorous,  productive. 

Bunch  medium,  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  full  medium,  roundish 
oval,  light  red  at  first,  becoming  quite  copper  color  at  maturity, 
covered  with  a  light  bloom.  Flesh  rather  pulpy,  foxy,  showy.  Ripens 
before  Isabella. 

Pollock. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Pollock,  Tremont,  N.  Y. 

Bunches  large  as  Concord,  compact.  Berries  large,  dark  purple  or 
black.     Flesh  free  of  pulp,  vinous,  not  too  sweet.     (Strong.) 

Raabe. 

Raised  by  Peter  Raabe.     Vine  moderately  vigorous,  not  profitable. 

Bunches  small,  compact,  rarely  shouldered.  Berry  below  medium 
size,  round,  dark  red,  thickly  covered  with  bloom.  Flesh  very  juicy, 
with  scarcely  any  pulp.     Ripens  about  with  Concord. 


the  grape. 
Rebecca. 


553 


Originated  in  the  garden  of  E.  M.  Peake,  of  Hudson,  N.  Y.  Vine 
moderately  vigorous,  a  nice  amateur  Grape.  Succeeds  finely  in  some 
localities. 


Rebecca. 

Bunches  medium,  very  compact,  rarely  shouldered.  Berries  of  full 
medium  size,  roundish  oval,  strongly  adhering  to  the  peduncle.  Color 
light  green  in  the  shade,  auburn  or  golden  in  the  sun,  and  covered  wit' 
a  light  bloom,  considerably  translucent.  Flesh  of  some  consistence, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  delicious,  with  a  perceptible  native  perfume,  but  verv 
agreeable.     Ripens  with  Isabella,  and  keeps  well. 


&&*  the  grape. 

Rentz. 

Origin,  Cincinnati,  O. 

Bunch  large,  loose.  Berry  round,  purplish  red.  Flesh  pulpy,  foxy 
May  do  for  wine. 

St.  Catherine. 

Raised  by  James  W.  Clark,  Framingham,  Mass. 
Bunch  large,  rather  compact.     Berries  large,  chocolate  color,  rather 
gweet,  tough,  foxy.     Not  of  much  value. 

St.  Genevieve. 
Rulander.  Amoureux.  Red  Elben. 

An  old  Southern  variety,  and  valuable  in  the  South  and  South- 
west.    Vine  vigorous,  short-jointed,  does  not  succeed  North. 

Bunch  medium  to  small,  shouldered,  compact.  Berry  small,  round- 
ish oval,  dark  purple  or  black,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich  at  the  South, 
where  it  ripens  last  of  July. 

Salem. 
Rogers'  No.  22. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Salem,  Mass.  Vine  healthy,  vigorous, 
and  productive.  We  have  not  fruited  it  sufficient  to  express  a  decided 
opinion  of  it,  more  than  it  promises  well. 

Bunch  large,  short,  and  broad,  compact.  Berry  large,  round,  a  shade 
or  two  darker  in  color  than  Catawba.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  nearly  free 
from  pulp,  sweet,  aromatic,  and  well-flavored.  Ripens  soon  after  Dela- 
ware. 

Scuppernong. 

Bull  or  Bullet.  Roanoke.  Vitis  Vulpina. 

American  Muscadine.  Vitis  rotundif  olia. 

The  Scuppernong  Grape  is  a  very  distinct  Southern  species,  found 
growing  wild,  from  Virginia  to  Florida,  and  climbing  the  tops  of  the 
tallest  trees.  It  is  easily  known  from  every  other  Grape  by  the  small 
size  of  its  leaves,  which  are  seldom  over  two  or  three  inches  in  diameter, 
and  by  their  being  glossy  and  smooth  on  both  the  under  and  upper  sur- 
faces. These  leaves  are  roundish  and  coarsely  serrated,  and  the  young 
shoots  are  slender  ;  the  old  wood  is  smooth,  and  not  shaggy,  like  that  of 
most  vines. 

We  have  made  several  trials  with  the  Scu]rpernong  Grape,  but  find 
it  quite  too  tender  for  a  Northern  climate,  being  killed  to  the  ground  by 
our  winters.  At  the  South  it  is  a  very  hardy,  productive,  and  excellent 
wdne  grape.  The  White  and  Black  Scuppernong  scarcely  differ,  except 
in  the  color  of  the  fruit.  The  tendrils  of  each  correspond  in  hue  with 
the  fruit. 

Bunches  small,  loose,  seldom  composed  of  more  than  six  berries. 
Berries  round,  large.      Skin  thick,  light  green  in  the  white,  dark  red  in 


THE    GKAPE. 


555 


the  black   variety.     Flesh,  quite  pulpy,  except  when  very   thoroughly 
ripe,  juicy  and  sweet,  but  with  a  strong  musky  scent  and  flavor. 


Sheppard's  Delaware. 
Kaised  from  seed  of  Catawba  by  J.  N.  Sheppard,  in  1853,  from  whom, 


556  THE    GRAPE. 

with  its  history,  we  received  it.     The  vine,  and  fruit  are  similar  in  al 
respects  to  Delaware. 

Shurtleff's  Seedling. 

Raised  many  years  ago  by  Dr.  S.  A.  Shurtleff,  Brookline,  Mass.  W<i 
copy  Coles'  description : 

"  Bunches  large.  Berries  medium,  oval.  Skin  thick,  lilac.  Flesh 
of  a  sweet  rich  flavor.     Bipe  early  September." 

Taylor's  Bullet. 

A  variety  introduced  by  Judge  Taylor,  of  Henry  Co.,  Ky.  It  is 
a  very  strong,  rampant  grower,  and  requires  long  space  and  training 
to  produce  good  fruit.  Confined  to  single  stakes  or  low  trellis  it  does 
not  set  well  at  the  North,  but  does  better  South. 

Bundles  small,  short,  compact,  shouldered.  Berries  small,  greenish 
white  to  pale  amber,  round,  sweet,  and  nearly  free  from  pulp.  Ripens 
about  with  Isabella. 

Telegraph. 
Christine. 

This  variety  was  found  in  a  yard  near  Philadelphia,  Pa.  A  hardy 
and  vigorous  vine.  Fruit  of  fair  qiuxlity,  ripening  early  or  about  with 
Hartford  Prolific. 

Bunch  above  medium  to  large,  compact.  Berry  large,  round,  black. 
Flesh  juicy,  with  some  pulp,  similar  in  quality  to  Hartford  Prolific. 

To  Kalost. 
Wyman.  Carter.  Spofford  Seedling.  The  Beautiful. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Spofford,  of  Lansingburgh,  N".  Y.  Vine  vigorous, 
hardy,  and  productive,  but  is  inclined  to  rot,  and  does  not  ripen  well. 

Bunches  large  and  shouldered.  Berries  varying  in  form  from  oval 
to  oblate,  very  dark  in  color  and  profuselv  covered  with  bloom.  Its 
fruit,  when  ripe,  is  very  sweet,  buttery,  without  foxiness  in  its  aroma, 
or  but  little  toughness  or  acidity  in  its  pulp.  Ripens  a  little  earlier  than 
Catawba. 

Una. 

Origina-ed  with  E.  W.  Bull,  Concord,  Mass.,  who  describes  it  as 
hardy  and  prolific.  Earlier  than  Concord,  and  the  berries  pure  white, 
changing  to  golden  amber. 

Underhill. 
Underbill's  Seedling.  UnderMU's  Celestial 

Originated  at  Charlton,  Saratoga  Co.,  N.  Y.,  by  Dr.  A.  K.  Under 
hill.  It  is  an  improved  variety  of  Fox  Grape,  large  and  showv.  Vine 
hardy. 

Bunch  large.  Berries  large,  round.  Skin  thick,  clear  dark  red, 
without  bloom.  Flesh  pulpy,  hard  at  centre,  sweet.  Ripens  about  with 
Concord. 


the   grape.  557 

Union  Village. 
Shaker  Grape.  Ontario.  Imitation  Hambuigh. 

Origiu  claimed  among  the  Shakers  of  Union  Village,  O.  It  ia 
perhaps  the  largest  berry  of  any  good  native  Grape.  Vine  very  vigoi'- 
ous  and  coarse  grower,  but  a  little  tender  at  the  North — requires  pro 
tection. 

Bunches  large,  compact,  shouldered.  Berries  very  large,  round., 
deep  black,  slight  bloom.  Flesh,  when  fully  ripened,  without  any  hard- 
ness, juicy,  vinous,  pleasant,  not  rich.     Ripens  with  Isabella. 

Urbana. 

Bunch  medium,  short,  shouldered.  Berry  medium  to  large,  round, 
white,  yellowish  in  the  sun,  juicy,  vinous  acid,  hard  centre,  aromatic 
skin.     Ripens  about  with  Isabella. 

Venango. 
Miner's  Seedling. 

An  old  variety,  said  to  be  cultivated  by  the  French  at  Fort  Ve- 
nango, on  the  Alleghany  river,  some  eighty  years  since.  A  very  vigor- 
ous grower,  and  hardy. 

Bunch  compact,  of  a  fine  lilac  color,  with  the  toughness  of  pulp 
belonging  to  the  native  varieties,  but  with  a  peculiar  aromatic  flavor. 
Ripens  earlier  than  Catawba. 

Walter. 

Originated  with  A.  J.  Caywood,  Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y.,  from  seed  of 
Delaware  crossed  Avith  Diana.  As  yet  it  has  only  been  fruited  in  the 
hands  of  its  originator,  where  it  promises  to  be  valuable. 

Bunch  medium,  shouldered,  moderately  compact.  Berries  me- 
dium, round,  light  red.  Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  not  quite  tender  at  the 
centre.     Ripens  about  with  Concord. 

Wilder. 
Sogers'  No.  4. 

Raised  by  E.  S.  Rogers,  of  Saletn,  Mass.  Vine  vigorous,  very  pro- 
ductive. This  is  one  of  the  best  of  Rogers'  seedlings,  adheres  well.  The. 
bunch  keeps  well  after  it  is  gathered,  and  is  a  promising  variety  for 
market. 

Bunch  large,  compact,  shouldered,  sometimes  double-shouldered. 
Berry  large,  round,  black,  slight  bloom.  Flesh  tender  nearly  to  the 
centre,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  slightly  aromatic.  Ripens  about  the  time  of 
Concord. 

Wilmington. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Jeffries,  near  Wilmington,  Del.  Vine 
very  vigorous,  hardy. 

Bunches  large,  loose,  sometimes  shouldered.     Berries   large,  round, 


&58  THE    GRAPE. 

inclining  to  oval,  greenish  white,  or  when  fully  ripe,  yellowish.  Flesh 
acid,  pungent,  not  desirable  at  the  North,  may  be  better  South.  Ripens 
late. 

Winslow. 

This  originated  in  the  garden  of  Charles  Winslow,  Cleveland,  O 
The  vine  resembles  Clinton,  is  hardy  and  productive;  the  fruit  matuiea 
very  early,  and  is  less  acid  than  Clinton. 

Bunch  medium,  compact.  Berries  small,  round,  black.  Flesh  red- 
dish tinge,  some  pulp,  vinous,  sweet,  juicy. 

Wyoming  Red. 
Hopkins  Early  Red. 

The  origin  of  this  Grape  is  uncertain.  It  is  said  to  have  been  found 
in  the  Wyoming  Valley,  Pa.  The  leaf  and  wood  are  described  as  simi- 
lar to  Delaware,  only  more  vigorous.  The  fruit  is  also  similar  in  color, 
but  the  berries  are  larger,  and  by  some  thought  richer  in  quality. 

Another  Grape  has  been  described  as  Wyoming,  the  fruit  of  which  is 
black.     We  have  not  seen  either  of  the  above. 

York  Madeira. 

Canby's  August.  Large  German.  Marion  Port 

Black  German.  Small  German.  German  Wine. 

Wolfe.  Monteith.  Tryon. 

Supposed  origin,  York  Co.,  Pa.  Vine  hardy,  short-jointed,  mode- 
rately vigorous  and  productive. 

Bunch  medium,  compact,  shouldered.  Berry  medium,  roundish, 
black,  sweet,  sprightly,  pleasant.  Colors  early,  but  does  not  ripen  quite 
as  early  as  Isabella. 


SELECTION    OF    VARIETIES. 

The  Grape  varies  so  much  in  its  values  when  grown  in  different  lo- 
calities, that  it  is  difficult  to  make  a  selection  of  varieties.  The  Concord 
has  proved  almost  universally  successful,  but  is  not  a  grape  of  high  char- 
acter. Wilder,  or  Rogers'  No.  4,  is  a  better  grape,  and  so  far  a  suc- 
cess when  grown. 

Delaware  and  Mottled  are  two  sorts  of  fine  quality,  hardy  vines,  but 
the  Delaware  especially  requires  rich  soil  and  good  cultivation.  Rebec- 
ca and  Allen's  Hybrid  are  varieties  among  the  White  Grapes,  most  valua- 
ble, so  far  as  tested,  for  private  gardens. 

Adirondac,  lona,  Isabella,  Massasoit,  or  Rogers'  No.  3,  Crevelling, 
Catawba,  Isabella,  Elsingburgh,  Maxatawney,  are  valuable  fruits,  and 
where  they  are  found  to  succeed,  and  ripen  well,  should  be  freely  planted, 


THE    MELON. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


THE    MELON. 


569 


Cwumis  Melo,  L.    Cucurbitacew,  of  botanists. 

Melon,  of  the  French  ;  Melona,  German  ;  Meleon,  Dutch;  Mdone,  Italian, 

and  Melon,  Spanish. 

"The  Melon  (or  Muskmelon'i  is  the  richest  and  most  luscious  of  all 
herbaceous  fruits.  The  plant  which  bears  this  fruit  is  a  trailing  annual, 
supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Persia,  but  which  has  been  so  long  in  cultiva- 
tion in  all  warm  climates  that  it  is  quite  doubtful  which  is  its  native 
country. 

The  climate  of  the  Middle  and  Southern  States  is  remarkably  favor 
able  for  it — indeed  far  more  so  than  that  of  England,  France,  or  am 
of  the  temperate  portions  of  Europe.  Consequently  Melons  are  raised  as 
field  crops  by  market  gardeners,  and  in  the  month  of  August  the  finest 
citrons  or  green-fleshed  Melons  may  be  seen  in  all  the  markets  of  the 
States  in  immense  quantities.  Warm  dry  soils  are  peculiarly  favor- 
able to  the  growth  of  Melons,  and  even  at  low  prices  the  product  is  so 
large  that  this  crop  is  one  of  the  most  profitable. 

Culture.  The  culture  of  the  Melon  is  very  easy  in  all  except 
the  most  northern  portions  of  the  United  States.  Early  in  May  a 
piece  of  rich,  light  soil  is  selected,  well  manured,  and  thoroughly  dug  or 
prepared  by  deep  ploughing  aud  harrowing.  Hills  are  then  marked  out, 
six  feet  apart  each  way.  These  hills  are  prepared  by  digging  a  foot 
deep  and  two  feet  across,  which  are  filled  half  full  of  good,  well-rotted 
manure.  Upon  the  latter  are  thrown  three  or  four  inches  of  soil,  and 
both  manure  and  soil  are  then  well  mixed  together.  More  soil,  well 
pulvei-ized,  is  now  thrown  over  the  top,  so  as  to  complete  the  hill,  mak- 
ing it  three  inches  higher  than  the  surface.  Upon  this  plant  eight  or 
ten  grains  of  seed,  covering  them  about  half  an  inch  deep. 

When  the  plants  have  made  two  rough  leaves,  thin  vhem  so  as  to 
leave  but  two  or  three  to  each  hill.  Draw  the  earth  nicely  around  the 
base  of  the  plants  with  the  hoe.  In  case  the  striped  bug  (  Galereuaca 
vittala)  attack  the  plants,  which  it  often  does,  the  best  remedy  is  to 
hand-pick  them  early  in  the  morning  and  then  draw  earth  iTp  even  with 
the  base  of  the  leaves.  The  cucumber  Jlea-beetle  is  kept  off  by  dusting 
the  vines  early  in  the  morning,  daily,  for  a  period,  while  they  are  yet 
moist  with  dew,  using  either  dry  fine  soil,  soot,  or  plaster. 

As  soon  as  the  runners  show  the  first  blossom-buds,  stop  them  by 
pinching  out  the  bud  at  the  extremities.  This  will  cause  an  increased 
production  of  lateral  shoots,  and  add  to  the  size  of  the  fruit.  Nothing 
more  is  necessary  but  to  keep  the  surface  free  from  weeds,  and  to  stir 
the  soil  lightly  with  the  hoe,  in  field  culture.  In  gardens^  thinning  the 
fruit,  and  placing  bits  of  slate  or  blackened  shingles  under  each  fruit, 
improve  its  size  and  flavor. 

To  retain  a  fine  sort  of  Melon  in  perfection,  it  should  be  grown  at 
some  distance  from  any  other  sort,  or  even  from  any  of  the  cucumber 
family,  otherwise  the  seeds  of  the  next  generation  of  fruit  will  be  spoiled 
by  the  mixture  of  the  pollen. 

Varieties.     A  large  number  of  varieties  are  enumerated,  but  many 


560  THE    MELON. 

of  these  do  not  succeed  without  extra  care,  which  their  quality  is  not 
found  to  repay.  Indeed  what  is  popularly  known  as  the  Citron  Melon, 
one  of  the  finest  of  the  green-fleshed  class,  is  the  greatest  favorite  with  all 
American  gardeners.  It  is  high-flavored,  uniformly  good,  very  produc- 
tive, and  in  all  respects  adapted  to  the  climate. 

Melons  have  become  so  intermingled  during  the  past  ten  or  fifteen 
years  that  it  is  almost  impossible  at  this  time  to  classify  them,  as  was 
once  done.  As  before  said,  however,  the  Citron  or  Fine  Netted,  being 
types  of  the  Green-Fleshed,  are  among  the  highest  flavored  and  most 
delicate. 


s  •  Allen's  Supebb. 

A  variety  of  the  Nutmeg,  a  trifle  larger  than  the  old  Nutmeg,  round, 
considerably  netted.  Flesh  green,  and  sweet.  Esteemed  as  profitable 
for  market  growing. 

Alvord's  Hybrid. 

This  variety  varies  much  in  form,  from  round  to  oval.  Color  of 
skin  pale  whitish  green,  deeply  ribbed,  moderately  netted,  sometimes 
almost  smooth.  Rind  moderately  thick.  Flesh  whitish  green  Good 
but  not  rich.     Ripens  medium  season. 

Beechwood. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  qvrite  dark  green,  roundish  oval.  Skin 
greenish  yellow.  Flesh  green,  very  sweet.  A  fine  variety  for  growing 
in  frames  under  glass. 

Christiana. 

Originated  in  Beverly,  Mass.  Requires  a  little  extra  care,  but  when 
well  grown  one  of  the  finest. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  yellowish  green.  Flesh  yellow,  sweet 
rich,  juicy.     Ripens  early. 

Green  Citron. 

This  is  much  the  finest  Melon  for  general  culture. 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  end,  regularly  ribbed 
and  thickly  netted.  Skin  deep  green,  becoming  pale  greenish  yellow  at 
maturity.  Rind  moderately  thick.  Flesh  green,  firm,  rich,  and  high- 
flavored.     Ripens  pretty  early  and  bears  a  long  time. 

Ispahan. 

This  is  Jarge,  handsome,  with  flesh  of  a  light  sulphur  yellow,  not  rich 
or  sweet. 

Jenny  Lind. 

A  variety  somewhat  resembling  the  foregoing,  but  not  quite  as  large, 
of  a  rich,  delicious  sweet  flavor.     Ripens  quite  early  and  produces  abun* 

dantly. 


THE    MELON.  5ft  1 

Large  Musk  Cantelope. 

An  old  and  well-known  variety,  hardly  worth  growing  except  for 
its  size. 

Fruit  large,  long  oval,  deeply  ribbed.  Flesh  thick,  light  salmon 
color,  sweet,  juicy.  It  is  early  and  productive,  and  often  used  for  mak- 
ing mango  pickles. 

Nutmeg. 

An  old  variety,  often  seen  impure,  but  when  in  perfection  very 
melting  and  excellent. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Skin  very  thickly  netted,  pale  green, 
slightly  but  distinctly  ribbed.  Rind  rather  thin.  Flesh  pale  green, 
very  melting,  sweet  and  good,  with  a  high  musky  flavor.  Medium  sea- 
son. 

Persian. 

There  are  several  sorts  under  this  name.  The  best  among  them  has 
long  oval-shaped  fruit,  with  a  thin  and  delicate  skin,  and  flesh  quite 
tender,  juicy,  rich,  and  sweet.     Medium  season. 

Pine-Apple. 

A  dark-green  oval  Melon,  of  medium  size,  rough-netted.  Flesh 
thick,  firm,  juicy,  and  sweet. 

Skillman's  Fine  Netted. 

Earliest  of  the  green-fleshed  Melons,  small,  rough-netted,  flattened 
at  the  ends.  Flesh  green,  very  thick,  firm,  sugary,  and  of  the  most  deli- 
cious flavor. 

White  Japan. 

Comparatively  new.     Originally  from  Japan. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  ribbed,  sometimes  slightly  netted,  color 
creamy  white.     Flesh  thick,  juicy,  sweet,  and  well-flavored. 

Besides  the  foregoing  there  are  Winter  Melons  from  the  South  of 
Europe,  very  commonly  cultivated  in  Spain,  which,  if  suspended  in  a 
dry  room,  may  be  kept  till  winter.  The  Green,  Valencia,  and  the 
Dampsiia  are  the  three  principal  sorts ;  they  are  oval,  skin  netted,  flesh 
white,  sugaiv,  and  good. 


CHAPTER    XX. 

TOE    WATER-MELON. 


Cucurbita  citruUus,  L.    Cucurbit acece,  of  botanists. 
Pasteur,  of  the  French  ;    Wasser  Melone,  German  ;  Cocomero,  Italian. 

The  Water-melon  is  a  very  popular  and  generally  cultivated   fruit 
in  this  country.     The  vine  is  a  training  annual  of  the  most  vigorous 


662  THE    WATER-MELON. 

growth,  and  the  fruit  is  very  large,  smooth,  and  green,  with  a  led  or  yel 
low  core.  Though  far  inferior  to  the  Melon  in  richness,  its  abundant 
cooling  juice  renders  it  very  grateful  aud  refreshing  iu  our  hot  midsum- 
mer days.  Immense  fields  of  the  Water-melon  are  raised,  aud  their  cul- 
ture is  very  easy  throughout  all  the  Middle  and  Southern  States. 

The  cultivation  of  the  Water-melon  is  precisely  similar  to  that  of  the 
melon,  except  that  the  hills  must  be  eight  feet  apart.  The  tinest  crops 
we  have  eve*-  seen  were  grown  upon  old  pieces  of  rich  meadow  land, 
the  sod  well  turned  under  with  the  plough  at  the  last  of  April,  and  the 
melons  planted  at  once. 

The  following  are  its  best  varieties : — 


Apple-Seeded. 

Medium  roundish,  slightly  oval,  dark  rich  green.  Rind  thin.  Flesh 
Bcarlet,  crisp,  sweet,  and  very  good.  Early  and  prolific.  Seeds  very 
small,  dull  reddish  brown.  A  nice  little  melon,  but  only  desirable  for 
the  amateur. 

Baugh. 

Received  from  Kentucky. 

Fruit  large,  long  oval,  pale  green.  Flesh  red,  nearly  solid,  juicy, 
sweet.     Rind  thin.     Rather  early.     Seeds  reddish. 

Black  Spanish. 

A  rich  and  very  excellent  Water-melon. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong.  Skin  very  dark,  blackish  green, 
slightly  marbled.  Rind  moderately  thick.  Flesh  red,  solid,  rich,  and 
very  sweet.     A  late  variety. 

Bradford. 

Originated  in  South  Carolina. 

Fruit  large,  oblong.  Skin  usually  dark  green,  with  gray  longitudinal 
stripes,  mottled  and  streaked  with  green.  Rind  half  an  inch  thick. 
Flesh  red  to  the  centre,  with  a  fine  sugary  flavor,  of  the  best  quality. 

Carolina. 

The  large  common  variety. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong.  Skin  dark  green  and  white  marbled.  Rin  i 
;hick.  Flesh  deep  red,  hollow  at  the  centre,  sweet  and  good.  Seeds  large, 
black. 

There  is  also  a  sub-variety,  with  pale  yellow  flesh  and  white  seeds. 

Clarendon. 

Origin,  Clarendon  District,  South  Carolina. 

Large,  oblong.  Skin  mottled  gray,  with  dark -green  longitudinal 
s Tripes.  Rind  half  an  inch  thick.  Flesh  scarlet  to  the  centre,  with  a 
sugary  and  exquisite  flavor,  "  best "  quality.     Seeds  vellow,  with  a  black 


THE    WATER-MELON.  563 

Rcripe  around  tlu  edge,  and  fro  in  one  to  three  black  spots  on  each  side ; 
tae  form  and  number  corresponding  on  the  two  sides. 

Citron  Water-melon. 

This  is  a  small,  round,  pale  green,  marbled  sort,  ripening  late,  and 
-•eteerned  by  many  for  preserving. 

Ice-Cream. 

A  fine  variety,  large,  round,  early  and  prolific.  Skin  very  light 
green.  Rind  rather  move  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Flesh  white,  crisp, 
sugary,  and  excellent.     Seeds  white. 

Imperial. 

A  remarkably  fine- flavored  and  very  productive  sort,  from  the  Me- 
diterranean.    Keeps  a  long  time  after  it  is  ripe. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  nearly  round.  Skin  pale  green  and  white, 
marbled.  Rind  remarkably  thin.  Flesh  solid  to  the  centre,  light  red, 
crisp,  rich,  and  high-flavored.     Seeds  quite  small,  reddish  brown. 

Mountain  Sprout. 

Large,  long  oval,  striped  with  light  and  dark  green.  Flesh  scarlet, 
a  little  open  in  the  centre.  Rind  thin.  Seeds  light  fawn-color,  one  of 
the  best. 

Mountain  Sweet. 

Similar  to  the  above,  except  it  often  has  a  mammelonne  neck. 
Flesh  rather  more  solid,  and  of  excellent  flavor.  This  is  grown  exten- 
sively for  the  markets. 

Odell's   Large  White. 

Very  large,  round.  Skin  gray,  with  green  network.  Rind  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  -thick.  Flesh  pale  red,  of  a  very  good  quality. 
Keeps  a  long  time  after  being  gathered. 

Originated  with  Col.  A.  G.  Sumner,  South  Carolina. 

Orange. 

Peculiar  for  the  division  of  its  flesh  from  the  rind,  medium  size, 
roundish  oval,  tight  green,  with  shades  of  darker  green.  Rind  half  an 
inch  thick.  Flesh  red,  not  very  solid,  of  good  quality,  but  not  equal 
to  Mountain  Sweet  and  Imperial. 

Ravensoroft. 

Origin,  South  Carolina. 

Large,  oblong,  dark  green,  faintly  striped,  and  marked  with  lighter 
green.  Rind  half  an  inch  thick.  Flesh  red  bo  the  centre,  with  a  deli- 
cious sugary  flavor,  cf  the  best  quality.  Sicd  cream-color,  having 
a  brown  stripe  around  the  edge. 


564  THE  MULBERRY. 


SOUTER. 


Larg<;,  oblong,  sometimes  roundish.  Skin  peculiarly  narked  with 
grayish  dots,  and  pale  and  dark  green  stripes.  Rind  half  an  inch  thick. 
Flesh  deep  red  to  the  centre.  Flavor  sugary  and  delicious,  of  tbo 
best  qiiality.  Seed  cream  white,  with  a  faint  russet  stripe  around 
the  edge.     Yery  productive. 

Originated  in  South  Carolina. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

THE    MULBERRY. 


Morus,  Tourn.      UrticacecB,  of  botanists. 
Murier,  of  the  French ;  Maulbeerbaum,  German  ;  M&ro,  Italian  ;  Morel,  Spanish. 

The  Mulberry  is  a  hardy,  deciduous  fruit-tree,  but  little  cultivated 
in  this  country,  though  it  is  really  a  very  considerable  acquisition  to  our 
list  of  summer  fruits,  and  every  garden  of  considerable  size  ought  tc 
contain  one  or  two  trees.  The  fruit  ripens  in  July,  very  soon  after  the 
season  of  cherries.  It  is  rarely  picked  from  the  trees,  as  it  falls  as  soon 
as  ripe,  and  it  is  therefore  the  custom  to  keep  the  surface  below  it  in 
short  turf,  and  the  fruit  is  picked  from  tbe  clean  grass.  Or,  if  the  sur- 
face is  dug  ground,  it  may  be  sown  thickly  with  cress  seed,  six  weeks 
previously  to  the  ripening  of  the  fruit,  which  will  form  a  temporary 
carpet  of  soft  verdure. 

The  Black  Mulberry,  or  English  Mulberry  {Morus  nigra,  L.),  ia 
a  very  celebrated  old  fruit-tree,  originally  from  Asia,  more  or  less  com- 
monly cultivated  in  all  parts  of  Europe,  but  yet  quite  rare  in  this  country. 
Its  growth  is  slow,  and  it  seldom  attains  a  height  of  more  than  twelve 
or  fifteen  feet,  forming  a  low,  branching  tree,  with  lobed  leaves,  but  it  ia 
very  long  lived,  and  there  is  a  specimen  in  England,  at  the  seat  of  tho 
Duke  of  Northumberland,  300  years  old.  In  this  country  it  is  scarcely 
hardy  enough  north  of  New  York,  except  in  sheltered  situations.  An 
occasional  extreme  cold  winter  kills  them ;  they  are  also  subject  to 
canker  and  die  olf. 

The  fruit  is  incomparably  larger  and  finer  than  that  of  the  Red  Mul- 
berry, being  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  nearly  an  inch  across — black, 
and  of  delicious  flavor. 

Everbearing.  Originated  here  from  seed  of  the  Multicaulis.  Tree 
very  vigorous  and  very  productive,  an  estimable  variety,  and  surpassed 
by  none  except  the  Black  English,  and  possesses  the  same  rich  subacid 
flavor.     It  continues  in  bearing  a  long  time. 

Fruit  cylindric,  one  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  long,  and  nearly  half 
«n  inch  in  diameter.  Color  maroon,  or  an  intense  blue  black  at  full 
maturity.  Flesh  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  with  a  sprightly  vinous  flavor. 
Hick's  Everbearing,  from  Kentucky,  is  similar  to  the  above. 

Johnson,  a  seedling  from  Ohio.  Fruit  very  large,  oblong  cylindric ; 
blackish  color,  subacid,  and  of  mild,  agreeable  flavor.  Growth  of  the 
wood  strong  and  irregular.     Leaves  uncommonly  large. 


THE    NECTARINE.  665 

The  Red  MULBERRY  {Moraa  rubra,  L.)  is  a  native  species,  more  or 
less  common  in  our  woods,  with  large,  rough,  heart-shaped  or  lobed 
leaves.  The  fruit  is  about  an  inch  long,  and  very  pleasant  and  palatable, 
though  much  inferior  to  the  Black  English.  It  bears  transplanting 
well," or  is  easily  raised  from  seed,  and  may,  undoubtedly,  be  greatly  im- 
proved by  repeated  reproduction  in  this  way.  As  it  forms  a  large  orna- 
mental tree,  with  a  fine  spreading  head,  forty  feet  high,  it  is  well  deserv- 
ing a  place  on  the  lawn,  or  near  the  house,  in  ornamental  plantations. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  White  Mulberry,  commonly  cultivated 
for  silk,  but  which  produce  fruit  of  no  value. 

The  best  soil  for  the  Mulberry  is  a  rich,  deep,  sandy  loam.  The  tree 
requires  little  or  no  pruning,  and  is  of  very  easy  culture.  It  is  usually 
propagated  by  cuttings,  three  feet  long,  planted  in  the  spring,  half  their 
depth  in  the  ground ;  cuttings  made  of  pieces  of  the  roots  will  also  send 
up  shoots  and  become  plants. 


CHAFTER  XXII. 


THE    NECTARINE. 

Persica  vulgaris  (v.)  Lmvis,  Dec.     Rosacea,  of  Botanist*. 

The  Nectarine  is  only  a  variety  of  the  peach  with  a  smooth  skin 
(Peche  lisse,  or  Brugnon,  of  the  French).  In  its  growth,  habit,  and 
general  appearance,  it  is  impossible  to  distinguish  it  from  the  peach- 
tree.  The  fruit,  however,  is  rather  smaller,  perfectly  smooth,  without 
down,  and  is  one  of  the  most  wax-like  and  exquisite  of  all  productions 
for  the  dessert.  In  flavor  it  is  perhaps  scarcely  so  rich  as  the  finest 
peach,  but  it  has  more  piquancy,  partaking  of  the  noyau  or  peach-leaf 
flavor. 

The  Nectarine  is  known  in  Northern  India,  where  it  is  called  moondla 
aroo  (smooth  peach).  It  appears  to  be  only  a  distinct,  accidental  variety 
of  the  peach,  and  this  is  rendered  quite  certain  since  there  are  several 
well-known  examples  on  record  of  both  peaches  and  nectarines  having 
been  produced  on  the  same  branch — thus  showing  a  disposition  to  re- 
turn to  the  natural  form.  Nectarines,  however,  usually  produce  necta- 
rines again  oh  sowing  the  seeds ;  but  they  also  occasionally  produce 
peaches.     The  Boston  Nectarine  originated  from  a  peach-stone. 

The  Nectarine  appears  a  little  more  shy  of  bearing  in  this  country 
than  the  peach,  but  this  arises  almost  always  from  the  destruction  of 
the  crop  of  fruit  by  the  curcrdlo,  the  destroyer  of  all  smooth-skinned 
stone  fruit  in  sandy  soils.  It  is  quite  hardy  here  wherever  the  peach 
will  thrive,  though  it  will  not  generally  bear  large  and  line  fruit,  unless 
the  branches  arc  sliortenedr-in  annually,  as  we  have  fully  directed  for  the 
peach-+ree. 

With  this  easy  system  of  pruning,  good  crops  are  readily  obtained 
wherever  the  CUrculio  LS  not   very  prevalent. 

The  culture  of  the  Ned  nine  is  in  all  respects  precisely  similar  to 
that  of  the  peach,  and  its  habits  are  also  < ipletely  the  same. 


566 


THE    NECTARINE. 


VARIETIES. 


The  same  characters  are  used  as  in  describing  peaches,  for  which 
the  reader  is  referred  to  that  part. 

Albert. 

A  variety  raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth,  England. 
It  is  one  of  the  finest  of  Nectarines,  but  requires  a  warm  location  and 
soil  to  ripen  it  well. 

Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Skin  greenish  white,  with  a  pale  red  cheek. 
Flesh  pale  red  next  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  brisk,  vinous.  Separates 
freely  from  the  stone.     Season  middle  of  August. 

Balgowan. 
Balgone.  De  Balgone. 

A  variety  allied  to  Yiolette  HUive,  but  more  hardy  and  vigorous. 

Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  ovate.  Skin  pale  green, 
mottled  with  red  on  the  shaded  side,  covered  with  deep  bright  red  next 
the  sun.  Flesh  greenish,  veined  with  red  at  the  stone,  rich,  melting. 
Season  middle  August.     (Hogg.) 

Boston. 
Lewis's.  Perkins'  Seedling. 

This  American  seedling  was  raised  from  a  punch-stone  by  Mr.  T. 
Lewis,  of  Boston.  The  fruit,  though  not  of  high  flavor,  is  excellent,  the 
tree  very  hardy  and  productive,  and  one  of  the  best  for  general  standard 
culture.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large  and  handsome,  roundish  oval.  Skin  bright  yellow,  with 
very  deep  red  cheek,  shaded  off  by  a  slight  mottling  of  red.  Fh-sh  yel- 
low to  the  stone  (which  is  small  and  pointed),  sweet,  though  not  rich, 
with  a  pleasant  and  peculiar  flavor.  Separates  from  the  stone.  Ripe 
first  of  September. 

Broomfield. 

Lewis  (incorrectly  of  some). 

A  handsome  clingstone  Nectarine,  of  second  quality.  It  is  an  acci- 
dental seedling,  which  sprang  up  in  the  garden  of  Henry  Broomfield, 
Esq.,  of  Harvard,  Mass.  Leaves  with  obscure,  reniform  glands. 
Flowers  small 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Skin  rather  dull  yellow,  with  a  dull  or  rather 
dingy  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  and  adheres  closely  to  the  stone,  juicy, 
rather  pleasant,  but  not  high-flavored.  First  to  the  middle  of  Septem* 
>er. 

CHAUV  [ERE. 

A  variety  originated  in  France. 


THE    NECTARINE.  507 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  depressed  at  base.  Skin  smooth,  colored 
with  carmine  or  deep  purple  and  dotted  with  gray  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  firm,  juicy,  vinous,  aromatic,  freestone.  Season  last  of  August. 
(Alb.  Pom.) 

DOWNTON. 

The  Downton  is  a  seedling  raised  by  Mr.  Knight.  It  is  in  quality, 
appearance,  and  season,  an  intermediate  variety  between  the  Violette 
Hative  and  the  Elruge,  ripening  a  few  days  earlier  than  the  latter. 
Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Skin  pale  green,  with  a  deep  violet  rod 
<cheek.  Flesh  pale  green,  slightly  l'ed  at  the  stone  ;  melting,  rich,  and 
very  good.     Separates  from  the  stone.     Ripens  about  the  2oth  of  August. 

Due  du  Tellier's. 

Due  Tilliers.  Duke  de  Tilley. 

Due  de  Tello.  Du  Tilly's. 

A  very  excellent  Nectarine,  considerably  resembling  the  Elruge,  but 
a  much  greater  bearer.     Leaves  with  reuifoini  glands.      Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblong,  being  slightly  narrowed  at  the. 
top,  and  broad  at  the  base  or  stalk.  Skin  pale  green,  with  a  marbled 
purplish-red  cheek.  Flesh  greenish  white,  pale  red  at  the  stone,  melt- 
ing, juicy,  sweet,  and  good.     Separates  from  the  stone.    Last  of  August. 

Early  Newington. 

Early  Black  Newington.  Lucombe's  Black. 

New  Dark  Newington.  Lucombe's  Seedling. 

New  Early  Newiugtou.  Early  Black. 

Black. 

The  Early  Newington  is  one  of  the  best  of  clingstone  Nectarines.  It, 
is  not  only  a  richer  flavored  fruit  than  the  old  Newington,  but  it  is 
larger,  dark-colored,  and  earlier.  Leaves  serrated,  without  glands. 
Flowers  huge. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  ovate,  a  little  enlai-ged  on  one  side  of  the 
suture,  and  terminating  with  an  acute  swollen  point  at  the  top.  Skin 
pale  green  in  its  ground,  but  nearly  covered  with  bright  red,  much 
marbled  and  mottled  with  very  dark  red,  and  coated  with  a  thin  bloom. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  but  deep  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  sugary,  rich,  and 
very  excellent.     Beginning  of  September. 

Elruge. 

Common  Elruge.  Anderson's. 

Claremont.  Temple's. 

Oatlands.  Peterborough. 

Spring  Grove. 

The  Elruge  is  everywhere  esteemed  as  one  of  the  very  finest  Necta- 
rines. It  is  an  English  variety  which  has  been  a  good  while  cultivated, 
and,  with  the  Violette  Hative,  is  considered  indispensable  in  "very  col- 
lection. 1  n  this  country,  when  the  young  wood  is  annually  shortened-int 
it  bears  good  crops  on  standard  trees,  which  ripen  finely. 


068  THE   NECTARINE. 

Without  this  precaution,  like  almost  all  other  Nectarines,  the  fruii 
is  small,  poor,  and  ripens  imperfectly.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands. 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oval,  the  suture  slight  except  at  the 
top,  where  it  is  distinctly  marked.  Skin  with  a  pale-green  ground,  but 
when  fully  exposed  it  is  nearly  covered  with  deep  violet,  or  blood-red, 
dotted  with  minute  brownish  specks.  Flesh  pale  green  to  the  stone,  or 
slightly  stained  there  with  pale  red ;  melting,  very  juicy,  with  a  rich, 
high  flavor.  Stone  oval,  rough,  of  a  pale  color.  Separates  from  the 
stone.     Last  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

Fairchild's. 
Fairchild's  Early. 

A  very  small,  indifferent  sort,  only  valued  for  its  earliness,  and 
scarcely  worth  cultivating.  Leaves  with  renifoi'm  glands.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  small,  about  an  inch  and  a  fourth  in  diameter,  round,  slightly 
flattened  at  the  top.  Skin  yellowish  green,  with  a  bright  red  cheek. 
Flesh  yellow  to  the  stone,  rather  dry,  with  a  sweet,  but  rather  indiffer- 
ent flavor.     Separates  from  the  stone.     Beginning  of  August. 

Felignt. 
De  Feligny.  Du  Hainaut. 

Leaves  with  coarse  serratures  and  reniform  glands. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Skin  smooth,  carmine  red  on  rich 
yellow,  reddish  gray  in  sun.  Flesh  white,  shaded  with  purplish  red 
next  the  stone,  juicy,  vinous,  perfumed.     Early  September.  (An.  Pom.) 

Galopin. 

A  variety  from  Belgium. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened  next  the  stem.  Skin  thick,  firm,  yel- 
low, covered  with  violet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish,  tinted  with  red. 
juicy,  slightly  acid,  sugary.     August.     (Verg.) 

Gathoye. 

From  Belgium. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish.  Skin  yellowish  green,  marbled 
with  reddish  purple.  Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  August. 
(Verg.) 

Golden. 

Orange.  Fine  Gold-fleshed. 

An  old  English  variety.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  ovate.  Skin  of  a  fine  bright,  waxen 
yellow  color,  with  a  small  scarlet  cheek.  Flesh  orange  yellow,  firm, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  tolerably  good.  It  ripens  about  the  10th  of  Septem- 
ber.    Clinkstone. 


the  nectarine.  569 

Hardwic&e. 
Hardwicke's  Seedling. 

Was  raised  at  Hardwicke  House,  in  Suffolk,  England,  and  has  the 
reputation  of  being  "  one  of  the  best  and  hardiest  of  Nectarines,  and  a 
very  excellent  bearer."     Leaves  with  globose  glands. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  and  resembling  the 
Klruge.  Skin  pale  green,  with  a  deep  violet  red  cheek.  Flesh  pale 
green,  slightly  marked  with  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  and 
high-flavored.     End  of  August.     Freestone. 

Hunt's  Tawny. 
Hunt's  Large  Tawny.  Hunt's  Early  Tawny. 

This  is  the  best  very  early  Nectarine.  It  is  a  very  distinct  sort, 
with  serrated  leaves,  and  was  originated  in  England  about  fifty  years 
ago.  It  is  worthy  of  general  cultivation,  as  it  is  not  oidy  early  but  hardy, 
and  an  abundant  bearer.  Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  roundish  ovate,  being  considerably  nar- 
rowed at  the  top,  where  there  is  a  prominent  swollen  point ;  and  the 
fruit  is  slightly  enlarged  on  one  side  of  the  suture.  Skin  pale  orange, 
with  a  dark-red  cheek,  mottled  with  numerous  russety  speoks.  Flesh 
deep  orange,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  and  very  good.  Separates  from  the 
stone.     It  ripens  from  the  5th  to  the  15th  of  August. 

Lord  Napier. 

New.     Raised  by  Thomas  Pavers,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  pale  cream-color,  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  melting. 
Separating  from  the  stone.  Glands  kidney-shape.  Flowers  large.  Ripens 
first  week  in  August.     (Rivers.) 

Muffrum. 

Of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  deep  suture  half  round.  Skin  smooth,  golden 
yellow,  shaded  and  dotted  with  rich  purplish  red.  Flesh  yellow  rich, 
juicy,  sweet.  Separates  from  the  stone.  Early  September.  (Alb. 
Pom.) 

Murrey. 
rviurry.  Black  Murry. 

The  Murrey  is  an  old  English  Nectarine,  which,  though  of  good 
quality,  is  rather  a  poor  bearer.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  ovate,  slightly  swollen  on  one  side 
of  the  suture.    Skin  pair  green,  with  a  dark-red  cheek.     Flesh  greenish 
white,  melting,  sweet,  and  of  good  flavor.     Stone  almost  smooth.     Sepa 
lates  freely.      Kipens  about  the  20th  of  August. 


570  THE    NECTARINE. 

NEWINGTON. 

Scarlet  Newington.  Anderson's. 

Scarlet.  Anderson's  Roui  il. 

Old  Newington.  Rough  Roman. 

Smith's  Newington.  Brugnon  de  Newington. 

French  Newington.  D'Angleterre. 
Sion  Hill. 

A  very  good  clingstone  Nectarine,  of  English  origin.  Jt  should  l>e 
allowed  to  hang  on  the  tree  till  it  begins  to  shrivel,  when  the  flavor  ia 
much  improved.     Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.      Flowers  large. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  nearly  cov- 
ered with  red,  marbled  with  dark  red.  Flesh  firm,  pale,  but  deep  red 
next  the  stone,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich,  with  an  excellent  vinous  flavor. 
Ripens  about  the  10th  of  September. 

New  White. 

Neat's  White.  Flanders.   . 

Cowdray  White.  Emerton's  New  White. 

Large  White. 

The  New  White  is  a  fine  light-skinned  variety.  Leaves  with  reni 
form  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  rather  large,  nearly  round.  Skin  white,  with  occasionally  a 
slight  tinge  of  red  when  exposed.  Flesh  white,  tender,  very  juicy,  with 
a  rich,  vinous  flavor.  The  stone  is  small.  Separates  freely.  Ripens 
early  in  September. 

Old  White. 

This  Nectarine  is  supposed  to  have  been  introduced  from  Asia  into 
England  about  sixty  years  ago.  It  is  much  like  the  foregoing  in  flavor, 
perhaps  a  little  richer,  but  it  is  less  hardy  and  productive.  Leaves  with 
reniform  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oval.  Skin  white,  slightly  tinged  with 
red.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  and  rich.  Separates  freely  from  the 
stone.     Early  in  September. 

Peterborough. 
Late  Green.  Vermash. 

This  is  the  latest  Nectarine  known.  It  is  rather  small,  and  of  infe- 
rior quality,  and  scarcely  deserves  cultivation  except  to  make  complete 
a,  large  collection.     Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish.  Skin  mostly  green,  or  slightly  tinged 
with  dingy  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  whit-}  to  the  stone, 
«o  me  what  j  uicy,  and  of  tolerable  flavor.  Separates  freely  from  the  stone. 
[t  ripens  early  in  October. 

Pine- Apple. 
Kaised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England. 


THE    NECTARINE.  571 

Fruit  large,  nearly  oval,  pointed.  Color  deep  orange  and  crimson. 
Ripens  a  week  later  than  Pitmaston  Orange.     ^Rivers.) 

Pitmaston  Orange. 
Williams'  Orange.  Williams'  Seedling. 

The  Pitmaston  Orange,  which  is  considered  the  best  yellow-tleshed 
Nectarine,  was  raised  in  18 16  by  John  Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  near 
Worcester,  England.  The  tree  is  vigorous.  Leaves  with  globose 
glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  ovate,  the  base  (towards  the  stalk)  being  broad, 
and  the  top  narrow,  and  ending  in  an  acute  swollen  point.  Skin  rich 
orange  yellow,  with  a  dark  brownish-red  cheek,  streaked  at  the  union 
of  the  two  colors.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  but  red  at  the  stone ;  melting, 
juicy,  rich,  sweet,  and  of  excellent  flavor.  The  stone  is  rather  small, 
separates  freely.     Ripens  middle  and  last  of  August. 

Red  Roman. 

Old  Itoman.  Brugnon  Violette  Musquee. 

Roman.  Brugnon  Musquee. 

The  Red  Roman  is  a  very  old  European  variety,  having  been  enu- 
merated by  Parkinson  in  1629.  It  is  one  of  the  richest  and  best  of 
clingstone  Nectarines.  The  tree  healthy  and  productive.  Leaves  with 
reniform  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  a  little  flattened  at  the  top.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  brownish,  muddy  red  cheek,  which  is  somewhat  rough, 
and  marked  with  brown  russety  specks.  Flesh  firm,  greenish  yellow, 
and  deep  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  high  vinous  flavor.  Ri- 
pening early  in  September. 

Rivers'  Orange. 

New  variety,  produced  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England,  from  seed  of 
Pitmaston  Orange.  It  is  described  as  much  resembling  its  parent, 
but  higher  flavored,  and  ripening  a  week  or  so  later.  The  tree  is  a 
great  bearer,  robust,  and  hardy.  Leaves  with  uniform  glands.  Flow- 
ers large. 

Rivers'  White. 

Originated  in  1857,  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Skin  smooth,  whitish,  with  slight  shades  of  red 
in  sun,  white  bloom.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  vinous.  Glands  rerJi'orm. 
Flowers  large.     Earlier  than  New  White. 

Stanwick. 

A  new  late  variety.  At  the  South,  probably,  it  will  prove  an  ac- 
quisition. 

It  was  grown  in  England  from  a  stone  brought  from  Syria,  and  is 
described  in  the  Journal  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society  as  above 
medium  size,  roundish  oval,  slightly  heart-shaped  at  base.      Skin  pale 


672  nuts. 

greenish  white,  shaded  into  deep  rich  violet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  and  without  the  slightest  trace  of  prussic 
acid  flavor. 

Victoria. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth,  England,  from  seed 
of  Violette  Hative  fertilized  by  Stanwick. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened  at  top.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  crim- 
son on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  rich,  sweet,  one  of  the  best.  Glands  re 
inform.     Flowers  small.     Middle  of  August.     New. 

Violette   Hative. 

Early  Violet.  Petite  Violette  Hative. 

Violet.  Brugnon  Hatif. 

Early  Brugnon.  Violette  AngervimV-res. 

Brugnon  Red  at  the  Stone.  Violette  Musquee. 

Hampton  Court.  Lord  Selsey's  Elruge. 

Large  Scarlet.  Violet  Red  at  the  Stone. 

New  Scarlet.  Violet  Musk. 
Aromatic. 

The  Violette  Hative,  or  Early  Violet  Nectarine,  everywhere  takes 
the  highest  rank  among  Nectarines.  It  is  of  delicious  flavor,  fine  ap- 
pearance, hardy,  and  productive.  Externally  the  fruit  is  easily  con- 
founded with  that  of  the  Elruge,  but  it  is  readily  distinguished  by  its 
dark-colored  stone,  and  the  deep  red  flesh  surrounding  it.  The  fruit  is 
usually  rather  darker  colored.  It  is  of  French  origin,  and  has  been  long 
cultivated.    Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  rather  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  narrowed  slightly  at  the  top,  where  it 
is  also  marked  with  a  shallow  suture.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green  in  the 
shade,  but  when  exposed  nearly  covered  with  dark  purplish  red,  mot- 
tled with  pale-brown  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  but  much  rayed  with  red  at 
the  stone.  The  latter  is  roundish,  the  furrows  not  deep,  and  the  sur- 
face reddish  brown.  The  flesh  is  melting,  juicy,  rich,  and  very  high- 
flavored.     It  ripens  about  the  last  of  August. 

The  Violette  Grosse  (Thomp.)  resembles  the  foregoing  in  leaves  and 
flowers,  and  general  appearance.  The  fruit  is,  however,  larger,  but  not 
so  richly  flavored. 

Selection  of  choice  Jiardy  Nectarines  for  a  small  Garden. — Violet 
Hative,  Elruge,  Hardwicke,  Hunt's  Tawny,  Boston,  Roman,  New 
White. 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

MJTS. 


The  Chestnut  ( Castanea  vesca,  W. ;    Chdtaignier,  of   the  French ; 

JTastojiienbaum,    German ;    Castagno,   Italian)   is   one  of    our    loftiest 


nuts.  873 

forest-trees,  common  in  most  parts  of  the  United  States  and  Europe,  and 
bearing  excellent  Nuts.  The  foreign  variety  best  known  in  this  country 
is  the  Spanish  Chestnut,  with  fruit  nearly  as  large  as  that  (if  the  Horse- 
Chestnut,  and  which  is  excellent  when  boiled  or  roasted.  It  thrives 
very  well  here,  but  is  not  quite  hardy  to  the  north  or  east  of  this.  One 
or  two  English  varieties  have  been  produced,  of  considerable  excelh'iue, 
among  which  the  Downton  is  considered  the  best.  The  French  cultivate 
a  dozen  or  more  varieties  of  greater  or  less  excellence,  but  though  soma 
of  them  have  been  introduced,  we  have  not  yet  fairly  tested  them  in  this 
country. 

The  CHINQUAPIN,  or  Dwarf  Chestnut,  common  in  some  parts  of  the 
Middle  and  Southern  States,  is  a  dwarf  species  of  the  chestnut,  usually 
growing  not  more  than  six  to  ten  feet  high,  and  bearing  fruit  of  half 
the  size  of  the  common  chestnut,  with  the  same  flavor.  It  is  worth  a 
place  in  a  small  fruit-garden  as  a  curiosity. 

All  the  chestnuts  are  very  easily  cultivated  in  any  good,  light  soil, 
and  may  be  propagated  by  grafting  and  by  sowing  the  seeds. 

The  European  Walnut  (Juglans  regia,  L. ;  JVoyer,  of  the  French  ; 
Widnussbaivm,  German;  JVoce,  Italian;  and  JSFogal,  Spanish),  better 
known  here  as  the  Madeira  Ifut,  is  a  fine  lofty  growing  tree,  with  a 
handsome  spreading  head,  and  bearing  crops  of  large  and  excellent  nuts, 
enclosed  like  those  of  our  native  black  walnut  in  a  simple  husk.  It 
stands  the  winter  very  well  here,  and  to  the  south  of  this  it  would  un- 
doubtedly be  a  profitable  fruit  to  plant  for  the  market.  The  fruit  in  a 
green  state  is  very  highly  esteemed  for  pickling,  and  the  great  quantities 
of  the  ripe  nuts  annually  imported  and  sold  here,  prove  the  estimation 
in  which  they  are  held  for  the  table.  There  are  several  varieties  re- 
puted to  be  of  rather  finer  quality,  which,  however,  have  not  displaced 
the  original  species,  even  in  the  gardens  of  Europe,  and  have  not  yet 
borne  fruit  here. 

This  tree  is  usually  propagated  by  the  seed,  and  transplanted  from 
the  nurseries  when  from  three  to  six  feet  high.  But  it  may  also  be 
grafted,  with  due  care,  on  the  common  hickory-nut.  A  number  of  dis- 
tinct varieties  have  been  produced  from  seed  and  perpetuated  by  grafting. 
Among  them  the  following  are  regarded  as  of  the  most  value  : — 


Dwarf  Prolific. 

Early-Bearing.  Fertile.  Precocious. 

This  is  a  dwarf-growing  and  very  early  bearing  variety,  very  desi 
rable  for  small  fruit-gardens,  as  it  may  in  our  Northern  States  be  easily 
protected  in  winter.     The  trees  commence  bearing  when  not  more  than 
three  feet  high,  and,  like  the  common  walnut,  it  reproduces  itself  nearly 
always  from  seed. 

La  hoe-Fruited. 

Double.  French.  De  Jauge. 

This  is  the  largest  of  all,  and  of  little  value  except  as  its  size  makes 
it  attract i  ve.  or  its  shell  may  be  of  value  for  forming  toys. 


574  nuts. 

Thin-She  .led. 
A  Coque  Tendre. 

This  is  an  oblong-shaped  nut  with  a  tender  shell,  well  filled,  one  of 
the  best. 

The  Filbert  (JVoisette,  of  the  French ;  Jlaselstaude,  German ;  Ave- 
llano,  Spanish)  is  an  improved  variety  of  the  common  hazel-nut  of  the 
woods  of  Europe  ( Corylus  avellana,  L.).  The  fruit  is  three  or  four 
times  as  large  as  that  of  our  common  hazel-nut,  and  from  its  size  and 
excellent  flavor  is  admired  for  the  dessert.  The  old  Spanish  filbert, 
common  in  many  of  our  gardens,  is  a  worthless,  nearly  barren  variety  ; 
but  we  have  found  the  better  English  sorts  productive  and  excellent  in 
this  climate,  and  at  least  a  few  plants  of  them  should  have  a  place  in  all 
our  gardens.  They  are  generally  raised  from  layers,  made  in  the  spring, 
but  they  may  also  be  grafted  readily  on  the  common  hazel-nut,  or  the 
Spanish  nut.  When  planted  out  they  should  not  be  permitted  to  sucker, 
and  should  be  kept  in  the  form  of  bushes  with  low  heads,  branching 
out  about  two  feet  from  the  ground,  and  they  should  be  annually  pruned 
somewhat  like  the  gooseberry,  so  as  to  preserve  a  rather  thin,  open  head, 
shortening  back  the  extremities  of  the  young  shoots  one-half,  every 
spring. 

The  following  are  the  best  filberts  known  : — - 

Cosfokd.  Nut  large,  oblong.  Husk  hairy.  Shell  remarkably  thin, 
and  kernel  of  excellent  flavor.     A  good  bearer. 

Frizzled.  Easily  known  by  its  handsome,' deeply  cut  husk.  Nut 
of  medium  size,  oval,  compressed.  Husk  hairy.  Shell  thick.  Kernel 
sweet  and  good. 

Lambert  {Kentish  Cob,  Filbert  Cob).  This  is  perhaps  the  best  of 
all  the  nuts,  some  of  them  being  an  inch  or  more  in  length.  Husk 
nearly  smooth.  Nut  large,  oblong,  and  somewhat  compressed.  Shell 
pretty  thick,  of  a  brown  color.     Kernel  full  and  rich.     A  great  bearer. 

Pearson's  Prolific  {Dwarf  Prolific,  Nottingham  Prolific).  Nut 
medium  size,  obtusely  ovate.     Shell  rather  thick.     Kernel  full. 

Purple  Filbert  {Pimple-leaved).  This  is  an  ornamental  shrub,  as 
well  as  productive  of  excellent  fruit.  Its  fruit  is  much  like  the  Red 
Filbert,  but  the  foliage  is  of  a  deep  purple  or  red  color. 

Northamptonshire  Prolific.  Ripens  early.  Nut  of  medium  size, 
oblong.      Husk  hairy.     Shell  thick. 

Red  Filbert.  Easily  known  from  other  sorts  by  the  crimson  skin 
of  the  kernel.  Fruit  of  medium  size,  ovate.  Shell  thick.  Kernel 
with  a  peculiar,  excellent  flavor. 

White  Filbert.  Resembles  the  last,  but  with  a  light  yellow  or 
white  skin.  The  tree  is  also  quite  bushy.  Nuts  ovate.  Husk  long  and 
tubular. 

The  English  generally  call  those  varieties  with  long  husks,  filberts 
(full-bean/*),  and  those  with  short  husks,  simply  nuts. 

The  Hickory-Nut  {Carya  alba),  or  shell-nark,  the  Black  Walnut 
(Jugkms  nigra),  and  the  Butternut  {J~.  cinerea),  are  native  nut-bearing 
trees,  common  in  our  forests,  and  too  well  known  to  need  description 
here.  There  are  occasionally  found  in  the  woods  accidental  varieties 
of  the  shell-bark  hickory  of  much  larger  size  and  finer  flavor  than  the 


THE   OLIVB.  575 

common  species,  which  are  highly  worthy  of  cultivation,  as  we  confess, 
to  our  own  taste,  this  nut  is  much  superior  to  the  European  walnut. 
There  is  indeed  no  doubt  that,  with  a  little  care  in  reproduction  by 
seed,  the  shell-bark  may  be  trebled  in  size,  and  greatly  improved  in 
flavor. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 


THE    OLIVE. 

Olea  Europea,  L  ;  Oleince,  of  botanists. 
Olivier,  of  the  French  ;   Oeldbaum,  German  ;    Dlivo,  Italian  ;   OMvo,  Spanish 

The  Olive,  which,  as  Loudon  justly  remarks,  furnishes,  in  its  invalu- 
able oil,  the  cream  and  butter  of  Spain  and  Italy,  will  undoubtedly  one 
day  be  largely  cultivated  in  our  Southern  States. 

The  uses  and  value  of  the  olive-oil  are  still  comparatively  unknown 
in  this  country.  In  the  South  of  Europe  it  is  more  valuable  than  bread, 
as,  to  say  nothing  of  its  wholesomeness,  it  enters  into  every  kind  of 
cookery,  and  renders  so  large  a  quantity  of  vegetable  food  tit  for  use. 
A  few  olive-trees  will  serve  for  the  support  of  an  entire  family,  who 
would  starve  on  what  could  otherwise  be  raised  on  the  same  surface  of 
soil ;  and  dry  crevices  of  rocks,  and  almost  otherwise  barren  soils  in  the 
deserts,  when  planted  with  this  tree,  become  flourishing  and  valuable 
places  of  habitation. 

The  olive  is  a  native  of  the  temperate,  sea-coast  ridges  of  A_sia  and 
Africa;  but  it  has,  time  out  of  mind,  been  cultivated  in  the  South  of 
Europe.  It  is  a  low  evergreen  tree,  scarcely  twenty  feet  high,  its  head 
spreading,  and  clothed  with  stiff,  narrow,  bluish-green  leaves.  Its  dark 
green  or  black  fruit  is  oval,  the  hard  fleshy  pulp  enclosing  a  stone.  In 
a  pickled  state  the  fruit  is  highly  esteemed.  The  pickles  are  made  by 
steeping  tlnj  unripe  olives  in  lye-water,  after  which  they  are  washed 
and  bottled  in  salt  unci  water,  to  which  is  often  added  fennel,  or  some 
kind  of  spice.  The  oil  is  made  by  crushing  the  fruit  to  a  paste,  pressing 
it  through  a  coarse  hempen  bag  into  hot  water,  from  the  surface  of 
iwhich  the  oil  is  skimmed  off.  The  best  oil  is  made  from  the  pulp  alone  : 
when  the  stone  also  is  crushed,  it  is  inferior. 

Propagation  and  Culture.  A  very  common  mode  of  propagating 
the  olive  in  Italy  is  by  means  of  the  uovoli  (little  eggs).  Tb< 
knots  or  tumors,  which  form  in  considerable  numbers  on  the  bark  of 
the  trunk,  and  are  easily  detached  by  girdling  them  with  a  pen-knife, 
the  mother-plant  suffering  no  injury.  They  are  planted  in  the  soil  like 
bulbs,  an  inch  or  so  deep,  when  they  take  root  and  form  new  trees.  It 
is  also  propagated  by  cuttings  and  seeds.  The  seedlings  form  the 
strongest  and  thriftiest  trees;  they  are  frequently  some  months  in  vege- 
tating, and  should  therefore  be  buried  an  inch  deep  in  the  soil  as  soon 
as  ripe. 

The  wild  American  olive  (  Olea  Americana,  L.)  or  Devil-wood,  a  tree 


576  THE    OEANGE    FAMILY. 

that  grows  more  or  less  abundantly  as  far  north  as  Virginia,  wiL 
undoubtedly  prove  a  good  stock  on  which  to  ingraft  the  European 
olive.  It  is  of  a  hardier  habit,  and,  though  worthless  itself,  may  become 
valuable  in  this  way. 

The  olive-tree  commences  bearing  five  or  six  years  after  being 
planted.  Its  ordinary  crop  is  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds  of  oil  per  annum, 
and  the  regularity  of  its  crop,  as  well  as  the  great  age  to  which  it  lives, 
renders  an  olive  plantation  one  of  the  most  valuable  in  the  world. 
With  respect  to  its  longevity  we  may  remark,  that  there  is  a  celebrated 
plantation  near  Terni,  in  Italy,  more  than  five  miles  in  extent,  which, 
there  is  every  reason  for  believing,  has  existed  since  the  time  of  Pliny. 

The  Olive  is  not  a  very  tender  tree.  It  will  thrive  farther  north 
than  the  orange.  The  very  best  sites  for  it  are  limestone  ridges,  and 
dry,  crumbling,  limestone  rocky  regions  always  produce  the  finest  oil. 
The  t»ee,  however,  thrives  most  luxuriantly  in  deep,  rich,  clayey  loams, 
which  should  be  rendered  more  suitable  by  using  air-slaked  lime  as 
manure.  It  requires  comparatively  little  pruning  or  care  when  a  plan- 
tation is  once  fairly  established. 

Varieties.  There  are  numberless  varieties  enumerated  in  the 
French  catalogues,  but  only  a  few  of  them  are  worth  the  attention  of 
any  but  the  curious  collector.  The  common  European  Olive  is,  on  the 
whole,  much  the  best  for  general  cultivation,  yielding  the  most  certain 
and  abundant  crops. 

The  sub-variety  most  cultivated  in  France  is  the  Long-leaved  Olive 
(  Olea,  e.  longi folia),  with  lai-ger  and  longer  leaves  ;  the  fruit  nearly  of 
the  same  size  as  that  of  the  common  olive. 

The  favorite  sort  in  Spain  is  the  Broad-leaved  Olive  (  Olea  e.  lali- 
folia).  Its  fruit  is  nearly  double  the  size  of  the  common  Olive,  and 
yields  an  abundance  of  oil,  but  the  latter  is  so  strong  in  flavor  as  to  be 
more  relished  by  the  Spauiards  than  by  strangers. 

The  Olivier  a  Fruit  Arrondi  (  Olea  spherica,  N".  Dun.)  is  a  hardy 
Frencb  variety,  which,  in  a  moist,  rich  soil,  yields  most  abundant  crop? 
of  fine  oil. 

The  Olivier  Piciioline  ( Olea  oblonga,  N.  Dub.)  yields  the  fruit 
most  esteemed  for  pickling.  It  grows  quite  readily  in  any  tolerable  soil, 
and  is  one  of  the  hardiest  varieties. 

The  Olivier  Pleureur  ( Olea  eranimorpha,  N.  Duh.),  or  Weeping 
Olive,  is  one  of  the  largest  and  finest  trees.  Its  branches  are  pendent, 
its  fruit  excellent,  and  the  oil  pure  and  abundant.  It  is  a  very  hardy 
Bort,  and  grows  best  in  damp  valleys. 


CHAPTER    XXV. 

THE    ORANGE    FAMILY. 

Citrus,  L.     Aurantiacece,  of  botanists. 


The  Orange  family  includes  the  common  orange  (  Citrus  aurantium) ; 
iihe  Lemon    ( C.  iimonum)  ;  the  Lime  ( C.  limetta)  ;  the  Shaddock  ( C. 


THE    ORANGE    FAMILY.  577 

tecumana) ;  and  the  Citron  (  C  medico) ;  all  different  species,  with  the 
same  general  habit. 

The  Orange,  a  native  of  Asia,  is  the  most  attractive  and  beautiful 
of  fruit-trees,  with  its  rich,  dark  evergreen  foliage  and  its  golden  fruit  , 
and  it  may  well  therefore  enjoy  the  reputation  of  being  the  Golden  Ap- 
ple of  the  liespeiides.  When  to  these  charms  we  add  the  delicious  fra- 
grance of  the  blossoms,  surpassing  that  of  any  other  fruit-tree,  it  must 
be  conceded  that,  though  the  orange  must  yield  in  flavor  to  some  other 
fruits,  yet,  on  the  whole,  nothing  surpasses  an  orange  grove,  or  orchard, 
in  its  combination  of  attractions — rich  verdure,  the  delicious  aroma  of 
its  flowers,  and  the  great  beauty  of  its  fruit. 

The  south  of  Europe,  China,  and  the  West  Indies,  furnish  the  lar 
gest  supplies  of  this  fruit.  But  it  has,  for  a  considerable  time,  been  cul- 
tivated pretty  largely  in  Florida,  and  the  orange  groves  of  St.  Augustine 
yield  large  and  profitable  crops.  Indeed  the  cultivation  maybe  extended 
over  a  considerable  portion  of  that  part  of  the  Union  bordering  on  the 
Gulf  of  .Mexico ;  and  the  southern  part  of  Louisiana,  and  part  of  Texas, 
are  highly  favorable  to  orange  plantations.  The  Bitter  Orange  has  be- 
come quite  naturalized  in  parts  of  Florida,  the  so-called  Wild  Orange 
seedlings  furnishing  a  stock  much  more  hardy  than  those  produced  by 
sowing  the  imported  seeds.  By  continually  sowing  the  seed  of  these 
Wild  Oranges,  they  will  furnish  stocks  suited  to  almost  all  the  Southern 
States,  which  will  in  time  render  the  better  kinds  grafted  upon  them 
comparatively  hardy. 

North  of  the  latitude  where,  in  this  country,  the  orange  can  be 
grown  in  groves  or  orchards,  it  may  still  be  profitably  cultivated  with 
partial  protection.  The  injury  the  trees  suffer  from  severe  winters 
arises  not  from  their  freezing — for  they  will  bear,  without  injury,  severe 
frost — but  from  the  rupture  of  sap-vessels  by  the  sudden  thawing.  A 
mere  shed,  or  covering  of  boards,  will  guard  against  all  this  mischief. 
Accordingly,  towards  the  south  of  Europe,  where  the  climate  is  pretty 
severe,  the  orange  is  grown  in  rows  against  stone  walls  or  banks,  in 
raced  gardens,  or  trained  loosely  against  a  sheltered  trellis  ;  and  at  the 
approach  of  winter  they  are  covered  with  a  slight  movable  shed,  or 
frame  of  boards.  In  mild  weather  the  sliding  doors  are  opened,  and 
air  is  admitted  freely — if  very  severe,  a  few  pots  of  charcoal  are  placed 
within  the  enclosure.  This  covering  remains  over  them  four  or  five 
months,  and  in  this  way  the  orange  may  be  grown  as  far  north  as  Bal- 
timore. 

Soil  and  Culture.  The  best  soil  for  the  orange  is  a  deep  rich 
loam.  In  propagating  them,  sow,  early  in  the  spring,  the  seeds  of  the 
naturalized  or  wild  bitter  orange  of   Florida,  which  gives  much  the  har- 

-u>ek.  They  may  be  budded  in  the  nursery-ro'fl 
or  the  next,  and  for  this  purpose  the  earliest  time  at  which  the  opera- 
tion can  be  performed  (the  wood  of  the  buds  being  sufficiently  firm),  the 
greater  the  success.  Whip  or  splice  grafting  may  also  be  resorted  to 
early  in  the  spring.  Only  the  hardiest  sorts  should  be  chosen  for 
orchards  or  groves ;  the  more  delicate  ones  can  be  grown  easily  with 
slight  covering  in  winter.  Fifty  feet  is  the  maximum  height  of  tho 
orange  in  its  native  country,  but  it  rarely  forms  in  Florida  more  than  a 
compact  low  tree  of  twenty  feet.  It  is  better,  therefore,  to  plant  them 
so  near  as  partially  to  shade  the  surface  of  the  ground. 

Insects.     The   orange   plantations   of  Florida   have    suffered    verj 


378  THE    ORANGE    FAMILY. 

severely  from  the  attacks  of  the  scale  insect  (Coccut  Mspendum) ( 
which  in  some  cases  has  spread  over  whole  plantations,  and  gradually 
destroyed  all  the  trees.  It  is  the  same  small,  oval,  brownish  insect,  sc 
common  in  our  greenhouses,  which  adheres  closely  to  the  bark  and 
underside  of  the  leaves.  A  wash  of  sal  soda  or  potash  water,  applied  with 
a  brush  to  the  bodies  and  limbs  of  the  trees,  is  the  most  certain  and  sure 
remedy  for  destroying  this  insect  that  we  have  known.  Repeating  this 
once  or  twice  will  probably  effectually  rid  the  trees  of  the  scaled  insect. 
Varieties.  From  among  the  great  number  of  names  that  figure  in 
the  European  catalogues,  we  select  a  few  of  those  really  deserving  atten- 
tion in  each  class  of  this  fruit. 


The  Orange. 

The  Orange  (  Oranger,  French  ;  Pomeranzenbaum,  German ;  Arancio, 
Italian ;  and  JYaranjo,  Spanish)  is,  on  the  whole,  the  finest  tree  of  the 
genus.  Its  dark-green  leaves  have  winged  foot-stalks,  its  fruit  is  round, 
with  an  orange-colored  skin.  It  is  one  of  the  longest  lived  fruit-trees 
as  an  instance  of  which  we  may  quote  the  celebrated  tree  at  Versailles, 
called  "the  Grand  Bourbon,"  which  was  sown  in  1421,  and  is  at  the 
present  time  in  existence,  one  of  the  largest  and  finest  trees  in  France. 

The  fruit  of  the  orange  is  universally  esteemed  in  its  ripe  state. 
The  bitter  orange  is  used  for  marmalades ;  the  green  fruits,  even  when 
as  small  as  peas,  are  preserved,  and  used  in  various  ways  in  confection- 
ery ;  the  rind  and  pulp  are  used  in  cooking ;  and  the  orange  flowers,  dis- 
tilled, give  the  orange-flower  water,  so  highly  esteemed  as  a  perfume 
and  in  cookery. 

Besides  the  Common  Sweet  Orange,  the  most  esteemed  sorts  are 
the  Maltese  and  the  Blood-Red,  both  of  excellent  flavor,  with  red 
pulp.  The  Mandarin  orange  is  a  small,  flattened  fruit,  with  a  thin  rind 
separating  very  easily  from  the  pulp,  frequently  parting  from  it  of  itself, 
and  leaving  a  partially  hollow  space.  It  comes  from  China,  and  is 
called  there  the  Mandarin,  or  noble  orange,  from  its  excellent  quality. 
The  flesh  is  dark  orange-colored,  juicy,  and  very  rich. 

The  Bergamot  orange  has  small  flowers  and  pear-shaped  fruit.  The 
leaves,  flowers,  and  fruit  being  peculiarly  fragrant,  it  is  highly  esteemed 
by  the  perfumer,  and  yields  the  bergamot  essence.  "  The  rind,  first 
dried  and  then  moistened,  is  pressed  in  moulds  into  small  boxes  for  hold- 
ing sweetmeats,  to  which  it  communicates  a  bergamot  flavor." 

The  Havana  or  common  sweet  orange  is  a  well-known  fruit,  of  good 
size  and  moderately  rough  rind,  pulp  well  filled  with  delicious  juice. 

The  St.  Augustine  oranges  are  a  large  variety  of  the  Havana,  much 
better  than  those  brought  from  Cuba. 

The  St.  Michael's  orange  is  a  small  fruit,  the  skin  pale  yellow,  the 
rind  thin,  the  pulp  often  seedless,  juicy,  and  lusciously  sweet.  It  is 
considered  the  most  d-.  uciout  of  all  oranges,  and  the  tree  is  a  most 
abundant  bearer. 

The  Seville,  or  bitter  orange,  is  the  hardiest  of  all  the  varieties,  en- 
during very  hard  frosts  without  injury.  It  has  the  largest  and  most 
fragrant  flowers ;  the  pulp,  however,  is  bitter  and  sharp,  and  is  valued 
chiefly  for  marmalades.  The  Double  Bigarade  is  a  French  variety  of 
this  species,  with  fine  double  blossoms. 


THE    ORANGE   FAMILY.  579 

Besides  the  above,  the  Fingered,  Sweet-shinned,  Pear-shaped,  and 
Ribbed  oranges,  are  the  most  striking  sorts — all  chiefly  cultivated  by 
curious  amateurs. 


The  Lemon  {IAmonier,  of  the  French  and  German  ;  iAmone,  Italian  ; 
I/imon,  Spanish)  has  longer,  paler  leaves  than  the  orange,  the  footstalks 
of  which  are  naked  or  wingless  ;  the  flowers  tinged  with  red  externally, 
and  the  fruit  is  oblong,  pale  yellow,  with  a  swollen  point,  and  usually  an 
acid  pulp.  Its  principal  use  is  in  making  lemonade,  punch,  and  othei 
cooling  acid  drinks. 

Besides  the  common  Lemon,  there  is  an  Italian  variety,  called  the 
Sweet  Lemon,  the  pulp  of  which  is  sweet  and  good. 


THE  LIME. 

The  Lime  (Limettier,  of  the  French)  differs  from  the  Lemon  by  its 
smaller,  entirely  white  flowers,  and  small,  roundish,  pale  yellow  fruit, 
with  a  slight  protuberance  at  the  end.  The  acid,  though  sharp,  is  scarcely 
so  rich  and  high  as  that  of  the  lemon,  and  is  used  for  the  same  pmposes. 
The  green  fruit  is  more  esteemed  than  any  other  for  preserving.  The 
Italians  cultivate  a  curiously  marked  variety  called  Porno  oVAdamo,  in 
which  Adam  is  said  to  have  left  the  marks  of  his  teeth. 


THE    CITRON. 

The  Citron  (  Cedratier,  of  the  French ;  Citronier,  German ;  Cedrato, 
Italian)  is  one  of  the  finest  growing  trees  of  this  family,  with  large,  ob- 
long, wingless  leaves,  and  flowers  tinged  with  purple  externally.  The 
fruit,  shaped  like  that  of  the  lemon,  is  much  larger,  of  a  yellow  color, 
warted  and  furrowed  externally.  The  rind  is  very  fragrant  and  very 
thick,  the  pulp  is  subacid,  and  is  used  in  the  same  way  as  that  of 
the  lemon.  It  is  chiefly  valued,  however,  for  the  rich  sweetmeat  or  pre- 
Berve,  called  citron,  made  from  the  rind. 

The  Madras  citron  is  considered  the  largest  and  best  variety. 


THE    SHADDOCK. 

The  Shaddock  (Pampefmons,  French  ;  Arancio  massimo,  Italian) 
maybe  considered  a  monstrous  orange,  with  a  comparatively  tasteless 
pulp.  It  is  a  native  of  China  and  Japan,  and  has  its  name  from  Dr. 
Shaddock,  who  first  carried  it  to  the  West  Indies.  The  leaves  are 
winged,  like  those  of  the  orange,  the  flowers  white,  and  the  fruit  globu- 
lar. Its  size  is  very  large,  as  it  often  weighs  six  or  eight  pounds.  The 
Culp  is  sweetish,  or  subacid,  and  the  juice  is  rather  refreshing.  It  is, 
owever,  more  showy  than  useful,  and  certainly  makes  a  magnificent 
appearance  in  a  collection  of  tropical  fruits. 


680  THE    PEACH. 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

THE    PEACH. 

Persica  vulgaris,  Dec.    Bosrtcea;,  of  botanists. 
Pecker,  of  the  French  ;  PJirschbavm,  German  ;  Persickkeboom,  Dutch  ;  Persvx> 

Italian  ;  and  el  Melocoton,  Spanish. 

The  Peach-tree  is  a  native  of  Persia  and  China,  and  was  brought 
from  the  former  country  to  Italy  by  the  Romans  in  the  time  of  the  Emperoi 
Claudius.  It  was  considerably  cultivated  in  Britain  as  early  as  the 
year  1550,  and  was  introduced  to  this  country  by  the  early  settlers 
somewhere  about  16S0.  From  Persia,  its  native  country,  its  name  in  all 
languages — Persico — Pecher — Peach — has  evidently  been  derived. 

The  peach  is  a  rather  small  fruit-tree,  with  narrow,  smooth,  serrated 
leaves,  and  pink  blossoms.  It  is  more  tender  and  of  shorter  duration  than 
most  other  of  the  fruits  usually  grown  in  temperate  climates.  It  is  never 
raised  in  England,  and  not  generally  in  France,  without  the  aid  of  walls. 
Even  at  Montreuil,  near  Paris,  a  village  whose  whole  population  is 
mainly  employed  in  cultivating  the  peach  for  market,  it  is  grown  entire- 
ly upon  white-washed  walls.  China  and  the  United  States  are,  there- 
fore, the  only  temperate  countries  where  the  peach  and  the  apple  both 
attain  their  highest  perfection  in  the  open  orchard.  The  peaches  of 
Pekin  are  celebrated  as  being  the  finest  in  the  world,  and  of  double  the 
lsual  size. 

It  is  a  curious  fact  in  the  history  of  the  peach,  that  with  its  delicious 
flavor  were  once  coupled,  in  the  East,  certain  notions  of  its  poisonous 
qualities.  This  idea  seems  vaguely  to  have  accompanied  it  into  Europe, 
for  Pliny  mentions  that  it  was  supposed  that  the  king  of  Persia  had  sent 
them  into  Egypt  to  poison  the  inhabitants,  with  whom  he  was  then  at  war. 
As  the  peach  and  the  almond  are  closely  related,  it  has  been  conjectured 
by  Mr.  Knight  that  the  poisoLOUs  peaches  referred  to  were  swollen  al- 
monds, which  contain  a  considerable  quantity  of  prussic  acid.  But  it  is 
also  worth  remarking  that  the  peach-tree  seems  to  hold  very  much  the  same 
place  in  the  ancient  Chinese  writings  that  the  tree  of  knowledge  of  the 
old  Scriptures,  and  the  golden  Hesperides  apples  of  the  heathens,  do  in 
the  early  history  of  the  western  nations.  The  traditions  of  a  peach- 
tree,  the  fruit  of  which  when  eaten  conferred  immortality,  and  which 
bore  only  once  in  a  thousand  years — and  of  another  peach-tree  of 
knowledge,  which  existed  in  the  most  remote  period,  on  a  mountain 
guarded  by  a  hundred  demons,  the  fruit  of  which  produced  death — are 
said  to  be  distinctly  preserved  in  some  of  the  early  Chinese  writings. 
Whatever  may  have  been  the  nature  of  these  extraordinary  trees,  it  is  cer- 
tain that,  as  Lord  Bacon  says,  "  not  a  slip  or  sucker  has  been  left  behind." 
We  must  therefore  content  ourselves  with  the  delight  which  a  fine 
peach  of  modern  times  affords  to  the  palate  and  the  eye. 

We  believe  there  is  at  the  present  time  no  country  in  the  world 
where  the  peach  is  grown  in  such  great  quantities  as  in  the  Ignited 
States.  North  of  a  line  drawn  from  the  Mohawk  river  to  Boston, 
comprising  most  of  the  Eastern  States,  they  do  not  indeed  flourish  well, 
requiring  some  artificial  aid  to  produce  regular  crops  ;  but  in  all  the 
Middle,  Scuthern,  and  Western    States,  they  grow  and    produce    the 


THE    PEACH.  58 1 

heaviest  crops  in  every  garden  and  orchard.  Thousands  of  acres  are 
devoted  to  this  crop  for  the  supply  of  the  markets  of  our  la.-ge  cities-. 
The  market  price  usually  varies  according  to  the  abundance  of  the  crop, 
and  bj  the  earliness  or  lateness  of  the  season  at  which  they  are  offered. 
Many  growers  have  orchards  of  from  10,000  to  100,000  trees  of  dif- 
ferent ages,  and  send  to  market  in  good  seasons  as  many  bushels  of  fruit 
from  the  bearing  trees.  When  the  crop  is  not  universally  abundant, 
the  profits  are  very  large ;  if  the  contrary,  they  are  often  very  little. 

The  very  great  facility  with  which  the  peach  grows  in  this  country, 
and  the  numerous  crops  it  produces,  almost  without  care,  have  led  to  a 
carelessness  of  cultivation  which  has  greatly  enfeebled  the  stock,  and, 
as  we  shall  presently  show,  has  in  many  places  produced  a  disease  pecu- 
liar to  this  country.  This  renders  it  necessary  to  give  some  additional 
care  and  attention  to  the  cultivation  of  the  peach  ;  and  with  very  tri- 
fling care  this  delicious  fruit  may  be  produced  in  great  abundance  for 
many  successive  years. 

Uses.  Certainly  no  one  expects  us  to  write  the  praises  of  the  peach 
as  the  most  delicious  of  fruits.  "  To  gild  refined  gold  "  would  be  a 
task  quite  as  necessary,  and  if  any  one  doubts  the  precise  rank  which 
the  peach  should  take  among  the  different  fruits  of  even  that  cornuco- 
pian  month — September — and  wishes  to  convince  us  of  the  higher  flavor 
of  a  Seckel  or  a  Belle  Lucrative  pear,  we  will  promise  to  stop  his  mouth 
and  his  argument  with  a  sunny-cheeked  and  melting  "  George  the 
Fourth,"  or  luscious  "  Rareripe  !  "  No  man  who  lives  under  a  warm 
sun  will  hesitate  about  giving  a  due  share  of  his  garden  to  peaches,  if 
he  have  no  orchard;  and  even  he  who  lives  north  of  the  best  Indian  corn 
limits  ought  to  venture  on  a  small  line  of  espalier  for  the  sake  of  the 
peach.  In  pies  and  pastry,  and  for  various  kinds  of  preserving,  the 
peach  is  everywhere  highly  esteemed.  At  the  South  and  West  a  consid- 
erable quantity  of  peach  brandy  is  annually  distilled  from  them,  but  we 
believe  by  no  means  so  much  as  formerly.  Hogs  are  fattened,  in  such 
districts,  on  the  refuse  of  the  orchard  and  distillery. 

In  most  parts  of  the  country  where  peaches  are  largely  cultivated 
the  fruit  is  dried,  and  in  this  state  sent  to  market  in  very  large  quanti- 
ties. The  drying  is  performed,  on  a  small  scale,  in  spent  ovens ;  on  a 
large  scale,  in  a  small  drying-house  heated  by  a  stove,  and  fitted  up  with 
ventilated  drawers.  These  drawers,  the  bottoms  of  which  are  formed  of 
laths,  or  narrow  strips  sufficiently  open  to  allow  the  air  to  circulate 
through  them,  are  filled  with  peaches  in  halves.  They  are  cut  in  two 
without  being  peeled,  the  stones  taken  out,  and  the  two  halves  placed 
in  a  single  layer  with  the  skin  downward.  In  a  short  time  the  heat  of 
the  drying-house  will  complete  the  drying,  and  the  drawers  are  then 
ready  for  a  second  filling.  Farther  south  they  are  sjn-ead  upon  boards 
or  frames,  and  dried  in  the  sun  merely  ;  but  usually  with  the  previous 
preparation  of  dipping  the  peaches  (in  baskets)  for  a  few  minutes  in 
boiling  water  before  halving  them. 

The  leaf  of  the  peach,  bruised  in  water  and  distilled,  gives  the  peach 
water,  so  much  esteemed  by  many  for  flavoring  articles  of  delicate  cook- 
ery ;  and  steeped  in  brandy  or  spirits,  they  communicate  to  it  the  fla- 
vor of  Noyau.  Indeed  a  veiy  good  imitation  of  the  celebrated  Noyau 
is  made  in  this  way,  by  using  the  best  white  brandy,  which,  after  being 
thn-  flavored,  is  sweetened  with  refined  sugar  mixed  with  a  small  juan 
tity  of  milk,  and  afterwards  decanted. 


082  THE    PEACH. 

Propagation.  The  peach  is  the  most  easily  propagated  of  all  fruit- 
trees.  A  stone  planted  in  the  autumn  will  vegetate  in  the  ensuing 
spring,  grow  three  or  four  feet  high,  and  may  be  budded  in  August  ot 
September.  Two  years  from  this  time,  if  left  undisturbed,  it  will  usu- 
ally produce  a  small  crop  of  fruit,  and  the  next  season  bear  very  abun- 
dantly, unless  the  growth  is  over-luxuriant. 

In  nursery  culture  it  is  customary  to  bury  the  peach-stones  in 
autumn,  in  some  exposed  spot,  in  thick  layers  covered  with  earth. 
Here  they  are  allowed  to  lie  all  winter.  As  early  in  the  spring  as  the 
ground  is  in  line  friable  condition,  the  stones  are  taken  out  of  the  ground, 
cracked,  and  the  kernels  sown  in  mellow  prepared  soil,  in  the  nursexy 
rows  where  they  are  to  grow.  They  should  be  covered  about  an  inch 
deep.  Early  in  the  following  September  they  will  be  fit  for  budding. 
This  is  performed  with  great  ease  on  the  peach,  and  grafting  is  there- 
fore seldom  or  never  resorted  to  in  this  country,  except  at  the  South 
The  buds  should  be  inserted  quite  near  the  ground.  The  next  season 
the  stock  should  be  headed  back  in  March,  and  the  trees  will,  in  good 
soil,  grow  to  the  height  of  a  man's  head  in  one  year.  This  is  by  far 
the  best  size  for  transplanting  the  peach — one  year  old  from  the  bud. 

In  England  the  pluni  stock  is  universally  employed.  The  advantage 
gained  thereby  is,  a  dwarfer  and  neater  habit  of  growth  for  their  walls. 
In  France,  some  of  the  best  cultivators  prefer  the  almond  stock. 
Healthy  peach  stocks  afford  the  most  natural  foundation  for  the  growth 
of  standard  orchard  trees.  At  the  same  time  we  must  protest  against 
the  indiscriminate  employment  of  peach-stones  from  any  and  every  source. 
With  the  present  partially  diseased  state  of  many  orchards  in  this  coun- 
try, this  is  a  practice  to  be  seriously  condemned ;  and  moi'e  especially  as, 
with  a  little  care,  it  is  always  easy  to  procure  stones  from  sections  of 
country  where  the  Yellows  is  not  prevalent. 

For  rendering  the  peach  quite  dwarf,  the  Mirabelle  pluni  stock  is 
often  employed  abroad. 

Soil  and  Situation.  The  very  best  soil  for  the  peach  is  a  rich, 
deep,  sandy  loam ;  next  to  this,  a  strong,  mellow  loam ;  then  a  light, 
thin,  sandy  soil ;  and  the  poorest  is  a  heavy,  compact  clay  soil.  We  are 
very  well  aware  that  the  extensive  and  profitable  appropriation  of  thou- 
sands of  acres  of  the  lightest  sandy  soil  in  New  Jersey  and  Delaware, 
has  led  many  to  believe  that  this  is  the  best  soil  for  the  peach.  But 
such  is  not  the  fact,  and  the  short  duration  of  this  tree  in  those  districts 
is  unquestionably  owing  to  the  rapidity  with  which  the  soil  is  impover- 
ished. We  have,  on  the  contrary,  seen  much  larger,  finer,  and  richer 
flavored  peaches  produced  for  a  long  time  successively  on  mellow  loam, 
containing  but  little  sand,  than  upon  any  other  soil  whatever. 

It  is  a  well-founded  practice  not  to  plant  peach  orchards  successively 
upon  the  same  site,  but  alwajrs  to  choose  a  new  one.  From  sixteen  to 
twenty-five  feet  apart  may  be  stated  as  the  limits  of  distance  at  which 
to  plant  this  tree  in  orchards,  more  space  being  required  in  warm  cli- 
mates and  rich  soils  than  under  the  contrary  circumstances.  North  of 
New  York  it  is  better  always  to  make  plantations  in  the  spring,  and  it 
should  be  done  pretty  early  in  the  season.  South  of  that  limit  it  may 
usually  be  done  with  equal  advantage  in  the  autumn. 

In  districts  of  country  where  the  fruit  in  the  blossom  is  liable  to  be 
cut  off  by  spring  frosts,  it  is  found  of  great  advantage  to  make  plan  ta- 
tions  on  the  north  sides  of  hills,  northern  slopes  or  elevated  grounds,  in 


i 


THE    PEACH.  5&5 

secured  against  the  prevalent  evil,  an  over-crop,  wo  have  also  provi« 
ded  for  the  full  nourishment  of  the  present  year's  fruit,  and  induced  a 
supply  of  fipnit-bearing  shoots  throughout  the  tree  for  the  next  season. 

'Tins  course  of  pruning  is  followed  regu- 
larly, every  year,  for  the  whole  life  of  the 

tree.     It  is  done  much  more  rapidly  than  ,>  l*fV 

one  would  suppose ;  the  pruned  wounds  are 
Coo  small  to  cause  any  gum  to  flow;  and  it 
w  done  at  the  close  of  winter,  when  labor 
is  worth  least  to  the  cultivator. 

The  appearance  of  a  tree  pruned  in 
this  way,  after  many  years  of  bearing,  is  a 
very  striking  contrast  to  that  of  the  poor 

skeletons  usually  seen.  It  is,  in  fact,  a  tine  A  peach-tree  pruned  by  the  shorten- 
object,  with  a  thick,  low,  bushy  head,  tilled 

with  healty  young  wood,  and  in  the  summer  with  an  abundance  of  dark- 
green,  healthy  foliage  and  handsome  fruit.  Can  any  intelligent  man 
hesitate  about  adopting  so  simple  a  course  of  treatment  to  secure 
such  valuable  results  ?  We  recommend  it  with  entire  confidence  to  the 
practice  of  every  man  in  the  country  that  cultivates  a  peach-tree. 
x\.fter  he  has  seen  and  tasted  its  good  eilects,  we  do  not  fear  his  laj  ii  ig 
it  aside.* 

Training  the  peach-tree  against  walls  or  espaliers  is  but  little  prac- 
tised in  this  country.  Espalier  and  cordon  training,  on  a  small  scale, 
is,  however,  highly  worthy  of  the  attention  of  persons  desiring  this  fruit 

beauty  of  the  fruit  depend  on  the  size  and  vigor  of  the  leaves.  We  have  seen 
two  peach-trees  of  the  same  age  side  by  side,  one  unpruned,  and  the  other  regu- 
larly sJwrtenecl-iib.  and  both  bearing  about  four  bushels.  That  of  the  latter  was, 
however,  of  double  the  size,  and  incomparably  finer. 

:::  Our  attention  has  been  drawn  to  the  following  remarkable  examples  of  the 
good  effects  of  regular  pruning,  which  we  translate   from  the  leading  French 
journal  of  horticulture.     We  ask  the  attention  of  our  readers  to  these   i 
especially  after  perusing  our  remarks  on  the  Yellows  and  its  cause. 

"  ML  Duvilliers  laid  before  the  Royal  Society  of  Horticulture  an  account  of 
some  old  peach-trees  that  he  had  lately  seen  at  the  Chateau  de  Villiers,  near 
Pert  -Aleps  (Seine-et-Oise).     These  trees,  eight  in  number,  are  growing  upon  a 
terrace  wall,  which  they  cover  perfectly,  and  yield  abundant  crops.     The  gar- 
dener assured  M.  Duvilliers  that  they  had  been  under  his  care  during  the  thirty 
years  that  he  had  been  at  the  chateau  ;  that  they  were  as  large  \v\<*\  he  fn 
them  as  at  present,  and  that  he  supposed  them  to  be  at  least  sixty  yearsold.     We 
cannot  doubt  (says  the  editor)  that  it  is  to  the  annual  pruqring  that  these  peach- 
trees  owi  this  longlife ;  for  the  peach-trees  that  are  left  to  themselves  in  tht  Ic 
of  Paris  1,1 ,-,  r  ijrr  beyond  twi  My  or  thirty  years.     ML  Duvilliers  gave  the  accu- 
rate measurement  of  the  trunks  and  branches  of  these  trees,  an  :  what  it 
is  more  interesting  to  know,  that  although  all  their  trunks  are  hollow,  like  those 
of  old  willows,  yet  their  vigor  and  fertility  are  still  quite  unimpaired.1'  (<i  ■ 
de  la  Sod  t    tP  Horticulture,  tome  xxx.  p.  58. 1 

In  volume  2.3,  page  G7,  of  the  same  journal,  is  an  account  of  a  remarkable 
peach-tree  in  the  demesne  of  ML  Joubert,  near  Villeneuve  le  Roi  (d  partement 
de  l'Yonne).  It  is  trained  against  one  of  the  wings  of  the  mansion,  covers  a 
large  space  with  its  branches,  and  the  circumference  of  its  trunk,  taken  at  some 
distance  from  the  ground,  is  two  feet  and  a  half.  Jt  is  known  to  be,  actually,  of 
more  than  93  years'  y  owth,  and  is  believed  to  be  more  than  100  years  old.  It  is 
still  in  perfect  health  and  vigor.  It  is  growing  in  strong  soil,  but  it  has  been 
regularly  subjected  to  a  uniform  and  severe  system  of  pruning,  equivalent  tc 
our  shortening-in  mode.  Where  can  any  peach-tree  of  half  this  age  be  found 
in  the  United  States,  naturally  a  mucJ  more  favorable  climate  for  it  than  that 
of  France  ? 


686  THE   PEACH. 

in  the  colder  parts  of  the  country,  where  it  .lues  not  succeed  well  as  a 
standard.  Everywhere  in  New  England  excellent  crops  may  be  pro- 
duced in  this  way.  Full  directions  for  training  the  peach  en  espalier 
and  cordon,  with  illustrations,  are  given  in  pages  42  and  43. 

Cordon  or  low  fan  training  is  practised  by  some  cultivators  at  the 
North,  and  in  sections  where  the  crop  of  the  peach  is  uncertain  by  reason 
of  extreme  cold  in  winter  or  late  spring  frosts  destroying  the  buds. 
When  the  cordons  or  low  fans  are  kept  within  one  to  two  feet  from  the 
ground  the  trees  may  be  readily  protected  in  winter  by  covering  with 
corn-stalks,  straw,  or  brush  of  evergreens. 

Insects  and  Diseases.  For  a  considerable  time  after  the  peach  was 
introduced  into  America,  it  was  grown  everywhere  south  of  the  40°  of 
latitude,  we  may  say  literally,  without  cultivation.  It  was  only  necessary 
to  plant  a  stone  in  order  to  obtain  in  a  .few  years,  and  for  a  long  time, 
an  abundance  of  fruit.  Very  frequently  these  chance  seedlings  were  of 
excellent  quality,  and  the  liner  grafted  varieties  were  equally  luxuriant. 
Two  maladies  have  appeared  within  the  last  twenty  years,  which,  because 
they  are  little  understood,  have  rendered  this  fine  fruit-tree  compara- 
tively short-lived  and  of  little  value.  These  are  the  Peach-borer  and 
the  Yellows. 

The  Peach-borer  or  Peach-worm  (JEgeria  exitiosa,  Say)  does  great 
mischief  to  this  tree  by  girdling  and  devouring  the  whole  circle  of  bark 
just  below  the  surface  of  the  ground,  when  it  .soon  languishes  and 
dies. 

The  insect  in  its  perfect  state  is  a  slender,  dark-blue,  four-winged 
moth,  somewhat  like  a  wasp.  It  commences  depositing  its  eggs  in  the 
soft  and  tender  bark  at  the  base  of  the  trunk,  usually  about  the  last  of 
June,  but  at  different  times  from  June  to  October.  The  egg  hatches 
and  becomes  a  small  white  borer  or  grub,  which  eventually  grows  to  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  long,  penetrates  and  devours  the  bark  and  sap  wood, 
and,  after  passing  the  winter  in  the  tree,  it  enfolds  itself  in  a  cocoon 
under  or  upon  the  bark,  and  emerges  again  in  a  perfect  or  winged  form 
In  June,  and  commences  depositing  its  eggs  for  another  generation. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  rid  our  trees  of  this  enemy.  In  fact,  nothing  is 
easier  to  him  who  is  willing  to  devote  a  few  moments  every  season  to 
each  tree.  The  eggs  which  produce  the  borer,  it  will  be  recollected, 
are  deposited  in  the  soft  portion  of  bark,  just  at  the  surface  of  the 
earth.  Experience  has  conclusively  proved  that  if  a.  quantity  of  leached 
ashes,  charcoal,  or  even  common  soil,  be  heaped  to  the  height  of  one  foot 
around  the  trunk  of  each  tree  at  the  end  of  May,  and  suffered  to  remain 
till  October,  the  peach-borer  will  not  attack  it.  It  has  been  tried  most 
successfully  in  large  orchards,  where  the  protected  trees  have  long  re- 
mained sound,  while  those  unprotected  have  been  speedily  destroyed  by 
the  borer.  The  remedy  undoubtedly  lies  chiefly  in  covering  the  most 
vulnerable  portion  of  the  tree  from  the  attack  of  the  insect.  These 
mounds  or  heaps  of  earth,  ashes,  etc.,  should  be  spread  over  the  surface 
every  autumn  on  approach  of  winter,  thus  exposing  the  larva?  of  the  in- 
sect, if  any  have  entered  the  tree,  to  cold  and  destruction. 

Another  simple  remedy  is  in  spring  to  first  draw  away  a  little  earth 
from  the  crown  of  the  tree,  then  wrap  the  body  up,  one  foot  from  the 
ground,  with  strong  coarse  paper,  securing  it  with  tying,  and  replace 
the  earth. 

Many  careful  and  rigid  cultivators  prefer  a  regular  examination  of 


THE    PEACH.  0£j 

the  trees  every  spring  and  autumn.  On  removing  the  earth  for  n  few 
inches,  the  appearance  of  gum  or  castings  quickly  indicates  where  the 
borer  lias  made  his  lodging.  A  few  moments  with  the  knife  will  then 
eradicate  the  insect  for  the  season. 

The  Yellows.  This  most  serious  malady  seems  to  belong  exclu- 
sively to  tins  country,  and  to  attack  only  the  peach-tree.  Although  it 
has  been  the  greatest  enemy  of  the  peach-planter  for  the  last  thirty 
years, — rendering  the  life  of  the  tree  uncertain,  and  frequently  spreading 
over  and  destroying  the  orchards  of  whole  districts, —still  little  is 
known  of  its  nature,  and  nothing  with  certainty  of  its  cause.  Many 
slight  observers  have  confounded  it  with  the  effects  of  the  peach-borer, 
but  all  persons  who  have  carefully  examined  it  know  that  the  two  are 
totally  distinct.  Trees  may  frequently  be  attacked  by  both  the  yellows 
and  the  borer,  but  hundreds  die  of  the  yellows  when  the  most  minute 
inspection  of  the  roots  and  branches  can  discover  no  insect  or  visible 
cause.  Still  we  believe  proper  cultivation  will  entirely  rid  our  gardens 
aiid  orchards  of  this  malady  ;  and  this  belief  is  in  part  borne  out  by 
experiments  under  our  own  inspection.  In  order  to  combat  it  suc- 
cessfully, it  is  necessary  that  the  symptoms  should  be  clearly  under- 
stood. 

Symptoms.  The  Yellows  appears  to  be  a  constitutional  disease,  no 
external  cause  having  yet  been  assigned  for  it.  Its  infallible  symptoms 
are  the  following  : — 

1.  The  production  upon  the  branches  of  very  slender,  wiry  shoots,  a 
few  inches  long,  and  bearing  starved  diminutive  leaves.  These  shoots 
are  not  protruded  from  the  extremities,  but  from  latent  buds  on  the 
main  portions  of  the  stem  and  larger  branches.  The  leaves  are  very 
narrow  and  small,  quite  distinct  from  those  of  the  natural  size,  and  are 
either  pale  yellow  or  destitute  of  color. 

'2.  The  premature  ripening  of  the  fruit.  This  takes  place  from  two 
to  four  weeks  earlier  than  the  proper  season.  The  first  season  of  the 
disease  it  grows  nearly  to  its  natural  size  ;  the  following  season  it  is  not 
more  than  half  or  a  fourth  of  that  size  ;  but  it  is  always  marked  exter- 
nally (whatever  may  be  the  natural  color)  with  specks  and  large  spots 
of  purplish  red.  Internally  the  flesh  is  more  deeply  colored,  especially 
around  the  stone,  than  in  the  natural  state. 

Either  of  the  foregoing  symptoms  (and  sometimes  the  second  ap- 
pears a  season  in  advance  of  the  first)  are  undeniable  signs  of  the  Yel- 
lows, and  they  are  not  produced  by  the  attacks  of  the  worm  or  other 
malady.     We  may  add  to  them  the  following  additional  remarks  : — 

It  is  established  beyond  question,  that  the  Yellows  can  always  be 
propagated  by  budding  or  grafting  from  a  diseased  tree  ;  that  the  stock, 
whether  peach  or  almond,  also  takes  the  disease,  and  finally  peris 
and  that  the  seeds  of  the  diseased  trees  produce  young  trees  in  which 
the  Yellows  sooner  or  later  breaks  out.  To  this  we  may  add  that  the 
peach,  budded  on  the  plum  or  apricot,  is  also  known  to  die  with  the 
Yellows. 

Very  frequently  only  a  single  branch,  or  one  Bide  of  a  tree,  will  be 
affected  the  first  season.  But  the  uexl  year  it,  invariably  spreads 
through  its-whole  system.  Frequently  trees  badly  affected  will  die  the 
next  year.  But  usually  it  will  last,  growing  more  and  more  feeble 
every  year,  for  several  seasons.  The  roots,  on  digging  up  the  tree,  do  nof 
appear  in  the  least  d 


088  THE    PEACH. 

The  soil  does  not  appear  mateiially  to  increase  or  lessen  tlie  liabUitj 
to  the  Yellows,  though  it  first  originated,  and  is  most  destructive,  in 
light,  warm,  sandy  soils. 

Lastly,  it  is  the  nearly  universal  opinion  of  all  orchardists  that  the 
Yellows  is  a  contagious  disease,  spreading  gradually,  but  certainly,  from 
tree  to  tree  through  whole  orchards.  It  was  conjectured  by  the  late. 
William  Prince  that  this  takes  place  when  the  trees  are  in  blossom,  the 
contagion  being  carried  from  tree  to  tree  in  the  pollen  by  bees  and 
the  wind.  This  view  is  a  questionable  one,  and  it  is  rendered  more 
doubtful  by  the  fact  that  experiments  have  been  made  by  dusting  the 
pollen  of  diseased  trees  upon  the  blossoms  of  healthy  ones  without 
communicating  the  Yellows. 

We  consider  the  contagious  nature  of  this  malady  an  unsettled 
point.  Theoretically,  we  are  disinclined  to  believe  it,  as  we  know 
nothing  analogous  to  it  in  the  vegetable  kingdom.  But  on  the  other 
hand  it  would  appear  to  be  practically  true,  and  for  all  practical  pur- 
poses we  would  base  our  advice  upon  the  supposition  that  the  disease  is 
contagious.  For  it  is  only  in  those  parts  of  the  Atlantic  States  where 
every  vestige  of  a  tree  showing  the  Yellows  is  immediately  destroyed, 
that  we  <have  seen  a  return  of  the  normal  health  and  longevity  of  tho 
tree.  * 

Cause  of  the  YeUows.  No  writer  has  yet  ventured  to  assign  a 
theory,  supported  by  any  facts,  which  would  explain  the  cause  of  this 
malady.  We  therefore  advance  our  opinion  with  some  diffidence,  but 
yet  not  without  much  confidence  in  its  truth. 

We  believe  the  malady  called  the  Yellows  to  be  a  constitutional  taint 
existing  in  many  American  varieties  of  the  Peach,  and  produced,  in  the 
first  place,  by  bad  cultivation  and  the  consequent  exhaustion  arising 
from  successive  over-crops.  Afterwards  it  has  been  established  and 
perpetuated  by  sowing  the  seeds  of  the  enfeebled  tree,  either  to  obtain 
varieties  or  for  stocks. 

Let  us  look  for  a  moment  into  the  history  of  the  Peach  culture  in 
the  United  States.  For  almost  a  hundred  years  after  this  tree  was  in- 
troduced into  this  country  it  was  largely  cultivated,  especially  in  Vir- 
ginia, Maryland,  and  New  Jersey,  as  we  have  already  stated,  in  perfect 
freedom  from  such  disease,  and  with  the  least  possible  care.     The  great 

*  The  following  extract  from  some  remarks  on  the  Yellows  by  that  careful 
observer,  Noyes  Darling.  Esq.,  of  New  Haven,  Ct. ,  we  recommend  as  worthy  the 
attention  of  those  who  think  the  disease  contagious.  They  do  not  saem  to 
indicate  that  the  disease  spreads  from  a  given  point  of  contagion,  but-  breaks 
out  in  spots.  It  is  clear  to  our  mind  that  in  this,  and  hundreds  of  other 
•iimilar  cases,  the  disease  was  inherent  in  the  trees,  they  being  the  seedlings  of 
diseased  parents. 

"  When  the  disease  commences  in  a  garden  or  orchard  containing  a  consider- 
able number  of  trees,  it  does  not  attack  all  at  once.  It  breaks  out  in  patch  a 
which  are  progressively  enlarged,  till  eventually  all  the  trees  become  victims  tc 
the  malady.  Thus,  in  an  orchard  of  two  and  a  half  acres,  all  the  trees  wero 
healthy  in  1827.  The  next  year  two  trees  on  the  west  side  of  the  orchard,  within 
a  rod  of  each  other,  took  the  Yellows.  In  1829,  six  trees  on  the  east  side  of  the 
orchard  were  attacked  ;  five  of  them  standing  within  a  circle  of  four  rods 
diameter.  A  similar  fact  is  now  apparent  in  my  neighborhood.  A  fii  e  lot  of 
200  young  trees,  last  year  in  perfect  health,  now  show  disease  in  two  spots  neai 
the  opposite  ends  of  the  lot,  having  exactly  six  diseased  trees  in  each  patch  con- 
tiguous to  each  other ;  while  all  the  other  trees  are  free  from  any  marks  of  dis- 
ease. "-  -  Cultivator. 


THE    PEACH.  f)f«S 

natural  fertility  of  the  soil  was  unexhausted,  and  the  land  occupied  bj 
orchards  was  seldom  or  never  cropped.  Most  of  the  soil  of  these 
States,  however,  though  ai  first  naturally  rich,  was  light  and  sandy,  and 
in  course  of  time  became  comparatively  exhausted.  The  peach-tree. 
always  productive  to  an  excess  in  this  climate,  in  the  impoverished  soil 
was  no  longer  able  to  recruit  its  energies  by  annual  growth,  and  gra- 
dually became  more  and  more  enfeebled  and  short-lived.  About  1600, 
ur  a  few  years  before,  attention  was  attracted  in  the  neighborhood  of 
Philadelphia  to  the  sudden  decay  and  death  of  the  orchards  without 
apparent  cause.     From  Philadelphia  and  Delaware  the  disease  gradually 

extended    to    New    .Jersey,    where,    in    1814,  it  was    SO    prevalent    as  to 

destroy  a  considerable  part  of  all  the  orchards.  About  three  or  four 
years  later  it  appeared  on  the  banks  of  the  Hudson  (or  from  1812  to 
1815),  gradually  and  slowly  exten  ling  northward  and  westward  to  the 
remainder  of  the  State.  Its  progress  to  Connecticut  was  taking  place  at 
the  same  time,  a  few  trees  here  and  there  showing  the  disease,  until  it 
became  well  known  (though  not  yet  generally  prevalent)  throughout. 
most  of  the  warmer  parts  of  Xew  England. 

It  should  be  here  remarked,  that  though  the  disease  had  been  con- 
siderably noticed  in  Maryland  and  the  Middle  States  previously,  yet  it 
was  by  QO  means  general  until  about  the  close  of  the  war  of  18  1  2.  At  this 
time  wheat  and  other  grain  crops  bore  very  high  prices,  and  the  failing 
fertility  of  the  peach  orchard  soils  of  those  States  was  suddenly  still 
more  lowered  by  a  heavy  system  of  cropping  between  the  trees  without 
returning  anything  to  the  soil.  Still  the  peach  was  planted,  produced  a 
few  heavy  crops,  and  declined  from  sheer  feebleness  and  want  of  sus- 
tenance. As  it  was  the  custom  with  many  orchardists  to  raise  their 
own  seedling  trees,  and  as  almost  all  nurserymen  gathered  the  stones  in- 
discriminately for  stocks,  it  is  evident  that  the  constitutional  d 
the  parent  trees  would  naturally  be  inherited  to  a  greater  or  less  degree 
by  the  seedlings.  Still  the  system  of  allowing  the  tree  to  exhaust  itself 
by  heavy  and  repeated  crops  in  a  light  soil  was  adhered  to,  and  genera- 
tion after  generation  of  seedlings,  each  more  enfeebled  than  the  form  r, 
at  last  produced  a  completely  sickly  and  feeble  stock  of  peach-tr 
those  districts. 

The  great  abundance  of  this  fruit  caused  it  to  find  its  way  more  or 
less  into  all  the  markets  on  the  sea-coast.  The  stones  of  the  enfeebled 
Southern  trees  were  thus  carried  north,  and,  being  esteei  id  by  many 
better  than  hose  of  home  growth,  were  everywhere  aore  or  less 
planted.     They  brought  with  them  the  enf  istitu- 

tion  derived   from   the   parent  stock.     They  reproduced   almosl  always 
the  same  disease  in  the  new  soil;  and  thus,' little  by  1'    le,  the  Xellows 
I  from  its  original  neighborhood,  below  Philadelphia,  to  the  whole 
northern  and  eastern  sections  of  1  a.     At  this  moment,  1845,  it 

is  slowly  but  gradually  i.  Test  ;   though  the  rich  and  deep  soils  of 

the  Western  alluvial  bottoms  will, perhaps,  for  a  considerable  time, 
without   care,  overpower  the   original    taint  of  the  trees  and  stones  re- 
ceive! 1  from  the  East. 

us  now  look  a  little  more  closely  into  the  nature  of  this  enfeebled 
state  of  the  peach-tree  which  we  call  the  Yellows. 

Ev  aer  well  knows  that  if  he  desires  to  raise  a  healtny 

and   vigorous  seedling  plant,  he    must   select  the    seed    from  a   parent 
plant  that  is  itself  decidedly  healthy.      Lindley justly  and  concisely  re 


590  THE    PEACH. 

marks:  "  All  seeds  \\ ill  not  equally  produce  vigorous  seedlings  ,  but  lh« 
healthiness  of  the  new  plant  will  correspond  with  that  of  the  seed  from 
which  it  sprang.  For  this  reason  it  is  not  sufficient  to  sow  a  seed  to 
obtain  a  given  plant ;  but  in  all  cases,  when  any  importance  is  attached 
to  the  result,  the  plumpest  and  healthiest  seeds  should  be  selected,  if  the 
greatest  vigor  is  required  in  the  seedling,  and  feeble  or  less  perfectly 
formed  seeds,  when  it  is  desirable  to  check  natural  luxuriance."  * 

Again,  Dr.  Van  Mons,  whose  experience  in  raising  seedling  fruit-tree8 
was  more  extensive  than  that  of  any  other  man,  declares  it  as  his 
opinion  that  the  more  frequently  a  tree  is  reproduced  continuously  from 
seed,  the  more  feeble  and  short-lived  is  the  seedling  produced. 

Still  more,  we  all  know  that  certain  peculiarities  of  constitution 
or  habit  can  be  propagated  by  grafting,  by  slips,  and  even  by  seeds. 
Thus  the  variegated  fobage,  which  is  a  disease  of  some  soi't,  is  propagated 
forever  by  budding,  and  the  disposition  to  mildew  of  some  kinds  of 
peaches  is  continued  almost  always  in  the  seedlings.  That  the  peach- 
tree  is  peculiarly  constant  in  any  constitutional  variation,  the  Jsfectarinr 
is  a  well-known  proof.  That  fruit-tree  is  only  an  accidental  variety  of 
the  peach,  and  yet  it  is  continually  reproduced  with  a  smooth  skin  from 
seed. 

Is  it  not  evident,  from  these  premises,  that  the  constant  sowing  of 
the  seeds  of  an  enfeebled  stock  of  peaches  would  naturally  produce  a 
sickly  and  diseased  race  of  trees  ?  The  seedlings  will  at  first  often 
appear  healthy,  when  the  parent  had  been  only  partially  diseased,  but 
the  malady  will  sooner  or  later  show  itself,  and  especially  when  the  tree 
is  allowed  to  produce  an  over-crop. 

That  poor  soil  and  over-bearing  will  produce  great  debility  in  any 
fruit-tree,  is  too  evident  to  need  much  illustration.  Even  the  apple, 
that  hardiest  orchard  tree,  requires  a  whole  year  to  recover  from  the 
exhaustion  of  its  powers  caused  by  a  full  crop.  The  great  natural  luxu- 
riance of  the  peach  enables  it  to  lay  in  new  fruit-buds  while  the  branches 
are  still  loaded  with  fruit,  and  thus,  except  in  strong  soil,  if  left  to  itself, 
it  is  soon  enfeebled. 

There  are  some  facts  in  our  every-day  observation  which  may  be 
adduced  in  proof  of  this  theory.  In  the  first  place,  the  varieties  of  this 
tree  always  most  siibject  to  this  disease  are  the  yellow  jyeaches  •  and  they, 
it  is  well  known,  also  produce  the  heaviest  crops.  More  than  nine- 
tenths  of  the  victims,  when  the  disease  first  appeared,  were  the  yellow- 
fleshed  peaches.  On  the  other  hand,  the  white-fleshed  kinds  (those  white 
and  red  externally)  are  much  more  rarely  attacked ;  in  some  parts  of  the 
country  never.  They  are  generally  less  vigorous,  and  bear  more  mod- 
erate crops.  And  it  is  well  worth  remarking  that  certain  fine  old  sorts, 
the  ends  of  the  branches  of  which  have  a  peculiar  mildewed  appearance 
(such  as  the  old  Red  Rareripe,  the  Early  Anne,  &c),  which  seems  to 
check  the  growth  without  impairing  the  health,  are  rarely,  if  ever, 
attacked  by  the  Yellows.  Slow-growing  and  moderately  productive 
torts,  like  the  Nutmeg  peaches,  are  almost  entirely  exempt.  We  know 
Stn  ovchard  in  the  adjoining  county  where  every  tree  has  gradually  died 
with  the  Yellows,  except  one  tree  which  stood  in  the  centre.  It  is  the 
Red  Nutnicrg,  and  is  still  in  full  vigor.  It  is  certainly  true  that  these 
sorts  often  decay  and  suddenly  die,  but  we  believe  chiefly  from  the  neg 

*  Theory  of  Horticulture. 


/ 


THE    PEAC1I.  59 i 

iuct  which  allows  them  to  fall  a  prey  to  the  Peach-borer.  Lnieod  the 
frequency  with  which  the  Borer  has  been  confounded  with  the  Yellowg 
by  ignorant  observers,  readers  it  much  more  difficult  to  arrive  at  any 
correct  conclusions  respecting  the  contagious  nature  of  the  latter 
disi  ; 

ft  maybe  said,  in  objection  to  these  views,  that  a  disease  which  is  only 
an  enfeeblement  of  the  constitution  of  a  tree,  would  not  be  sufficient  to 
alter  so  much  its  whole  nature  and  duration  as  the  Fellows  has  done  that 
of  the  peach.  The  answer  to  this  is,  that  the  debility  produced  in  a 
single  generation  of  trees  probably  would  not  have  led  to  such  effects, 
or  to  any  settled  form  of  constitutional  disease.  But  it  must  be  borne 
in  mind  that  the  same  bad  management  is  to  a  great  extent  going  on  to 
this  day,  the  whole  country  over.  Every  year,  in  the  month  of  August, 
th<-  season  of  early  peaches,  thousands  of  bushels  of  fruit,  showing  the 
infallible  symptoms  of  the  Yellows, — a  spotted  skin,  &c, — -are  exposed 
and  sold  in  the  markets.  Every  year  more  or  less  of  the  stones  of  these 
peaches  are  planted,  to  produce,  in  their  turn,  a  generation  of  diseased 
.  and  eveiy  successive  generation  is  even  more  feeble  and  sickly 
than  the  last !  Even  in  the  North,  so  feeble  has  the  stock  become  in 
many  places,  that  an  excessive  crop  of  fine  fruit  is  but  too  frequently 
followed  by  the  Yellows.  In  this  total  absence  of  proper  care  in  the 
selection  both  of  the  seed  and  the  trees,  followed  by  equal  negligence 
of  good  cultivation,  is  it  surprising  that  the  peach  has  become  a  tree 
comparatively  difficult  to  preserve,  and  proverbially  short-lived  ? 

Abroad,  it  is  well  known  that  the  peach  is  always  subjected  to  a 
regular  system  of  pruning,  and  is  never  allowed  to  produce  an  over- 
crop. It  is  not  a  little  singular,  both  that  the  Yellows  should  never 
have  originated  there,  and  that,  notwithstanding  the  great  number  of 
American  varieties  of  this  fruit  that  have  been  repeatedly  sent  to  Eng- 
land and  are  now  growing  there,  the  disease  has  never  extended  itself, 
or  been  communicated  to  other  trees,  or  even  been  recognized  by  English 
or  French  horticulturists.  We  must  confess,  these  facts  appear  to  us 
strong  proofs  in  favor  of  our  opinion  as  to  the  nature  and  origin  of  the 
malady. 

Remedy  for  the  Yellows.  It  may  seem  to  many  persons  a  difficult 
task  to  rid  ourselves  of  so  wide-spread  a  malady  as  this,  yet  we  are  con- 
fident that  a  little  perseverance  and  care  will  certainly  accomplish  it. 
In  the  present  uncertainty  with  regard  to  its  contagious  nature,  it  is 
much  the  wisest  to  reject  "  the  benefit  of  the  doubt,"  and  act  upon  the 
principle  I  hat  it  is  so.  We  know  at  the  present  moment  several  gardens 
where  the  trees  are  maintained  in  good  health  by  immediately  rooting 
out  and  destroying  every  tree  as  soon  as  it  shows  marked  symptoms  of 
the  malady. 

1.  We  would  therefore  commence  by  exterminating,  root  and  branch, 
every  tree  which  has  the  Yellows.  And  another  tree  should  not  be 
planted  in  the  same  spot  without  a  lapse  of  several  years,  or  a  thorough 
r>  moval  of  the  soil. 

2.  The  utmost  care  should  be  taken  to  select  seeds  for  planting  from 
perfectly  healthy  trees.     Nurserymen,  to  secure  this,  should  gather  chem 

*  All  knowledge  relating  to  the  Yellows  appears  to  us  as  much  in  obscurity 
as  when  this  was  written.  In  our  experience  no  one  variety  seems  more  liahle 
to  be  attacked  than  another,  the  most  vigorous  trees  being  as  often  affected  aa 
liose  oi  moderate  growth. — C.  D. 


692  THE    PEACH. 

from  the  latest  ripening  varieties,  or  procure  them  from  districts  of  tLfe 
country  where  the  disease  is  not  known. 

3.  So  far  we  have  aimed  only  at  procuring  a  healthy  stock  of  trees. 
The  most  important  matter  remains  to  be  stated — how  to  preserve  them 
in  a  healthy  state. 

The  answer  to  this  is  emphatically  as  follows:  pursue  steadily,  from 
the  first  bearing  year,  the  shortening- in  system  of  pruning  already  ex 
plained.  This  will  at  once  secure  your  trees  against  the  possibility  of 
over-bearing  and  its  consequences,  and  maintain  them  in  vigor  and  pro- 
ductiveness for  a  long  time.*  It  will,  in  short,  effectually  prevent  the 
Yellows  where  it  does  not  already  exist  in  the  tree.  To  whoever  will 
follow  these  precautions,  pursue  this  mode  of  cultivation,  and  adopt  at 
the  same  time  the  remedy  for  the  Borer  already  suggested,  we  will  con- 
fidently insure  healthy,  vigorous,  long-lived  trees,  and  the  finest  fruit. 
Will  any  reasonable  man  say  that  so  fine  a  fruit  as  the  peach  does  not 
fully  merit  them  ? 

Whether  the  system  of  shortening-in  and  careful  culture  will  pre- 
vent the  breaking  out  of  the  Yellows,  when  constitutionally  latent  in 
the  tree,  we  will  not  yet  undertake  to  say.  In  slight  cases  of  the  dis 
ease  we  believe  that  it  may.  Of  one  thing,  however,  we  are  certain :  it 
has  hitherto  failed  entirely  to  reclaim  trees  in  which  the  malady  had 
once  broken  out.  Neither  do  we  know  of  any  well-attested  case  of  its 
cure,  after  this  stage,  by  any  means  whatever.  Such  cases  have  indeed 
been  reported  to  us,  and  published  in  the  journals,  but,  when  investi- 
gated, they  have  proved  to  be  trees  suffering  by  the  effects  of  the  borer 
only. 

A  planter  of  peach-trees  must,  even  with  care,  expect  to  see  a  few 
cases  of  Yellows  occasionally  appear.  The  malady  is  too  widely  ex- 
tended to  be  immediately  vanquished.  Occasionally  trees  having  the 
constitutional  taint  will  show  themselves  where  least  suspected  :  but 
when  the  peach  is  once  properly  cultivated  these  will  every  day  become 
more  rare,  until  the  original  health  and  longevity  of  this  fruit-tree  is 
again  established. 

The  Curl  is  the  name  commonly  given  to  a  malady  which  often  at- 
tacks the  leaves  of  the  peach-tree.  It  usually  appears  in  the  month  of 
May  or  June.  The  leaves  curl  up,  become  thickened  and  swollen,  with 
hollows  on  the  under  and  reddish  swellings  on  the  upper  side,  and 
finally,  after  two  or  three  weeks,  fall  off.  They  are  then  succeeded  by  a 
new  and  healthy  crop  of  foliage.  Although  it  does  not  appear  mate- 
rially to  injure  either  the  tree  or  the  crop,  yet  it  greatly  disfigures  it  for 
a  time. 

Innumerable  seedlings  have  been  produced  in  this  country,  and 
some  of  them  are  of  the  highest  excellence.  It  is  very  desirable  to  re- 
duce the  collection  of  peaches  to  reasonable  limits,  because,  as  this  fruit- 
neither  offers  the  same  variety  of  flavor  nor  the  extent  of  sea  sun  as  the 
apple  and  pear,  a  moderate  number  of  the  choicest  kinds,  ripening  from 

*  The  following  remarks,  directly  in  point,  are  from  Loudon's  last  work 
"The  effect  of  shortening  the  shoots  of  the  peach  is  not  merely  to  throw  more 
eap  into  the  fruit,  but  to  add  vigor  to  the  tree  generally  by  increasing  the 
power  of  the  roots  relatively  to  the  branches.  The  peach  being  a  short-lived 
tree,  it  has  been  justly  remarked  by  Mr.  Thompson,  were  it  allowed  io  expend  all  its- 
accumulninl  sap  every  year,  it  wouJA  noon  exhaust  itself  and  die  of  old  aye."1 — Sii- 
burban  Horticulturist 


THE    PEACH. 


593 


the  earliest  to  the  latest,  is  in  every  respect  better  than  a  great  >ariety, 
many  of  which  must  necessarily  be  second-rate. 

Tt  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  most  of  our  American  varieties  of  the 
first  quality  have  proved  second-rate  in  England.  This  is  owing  to  the 
comparative  want  of  sun  and  heat  in  their  climate.  Indeed,  our  finest 
late  peaches  will  not  ripen  at  all  except  under  glass,  and  the  early 
varieties  are  much  later  than  with  us.  On  the  other  hand,  many  of  the 
best  European  sorts  are  finer  here  than  in  England,  and  we  have  lately 
endeavored  to  introduce  all  of  the  foreign  sorts  of  high  quality. 

In  the  description  of  peaches  and  nectarines  the  form  and  outlines 
of  many  kinds  are  so  nearly  similar  that  we  are  obliged  to  resort  to  other 
characteristics  to  distinguish  the  varieties.  The  two  most  natural 
classes  into  which  the  kinds  of  this  fruit  are  divided  are  freestones  and 
clingstones  {inelters  and  pavies,  of  the  English)  ;  the  flesh  of  the  former 
parting  freely  from  the  stone,  that  of  the  latter  adhering. 

Next  to  this,  the  strongest  natural  distinction  is  found  in  the  leaves 
of  the  peach.  At  the  base  of  the  leaves  of  certain  kinds  are  always 
found  small  glands,  either  round  and  regular,  or  oblong  and  irregular, 
while  the  leaves  of  certain  other  kinds  have  no  glands,  but  are  more 
deeply  cut  or  serrated  on  the  margin.  These  peculiarities  of  the  foliage 
are  constant,  and  they  aid  us  greatly  in  recognizing  a  variety  by  forming 
three  distinct  classes,  viz.  : — 


Characters  in  the  leaves  of  poaohes. 


1.  Leaves  serrated  and  without  glands,  a.  2.  Leaves  with  small 
round  or  globose  glands,  b.  3.  Leaves  with  large,  irregular,  reniform 
glands,  c. 

This  distinction  of  leaves  is  valuable,  because  it  not  only  assists  us 

3* 


5)94  THF   PEACH. 

when  we  have  the  fruit  before  us,  but  it  maybe  referred  to,  for  ihe  sat* 
of  verifying  an  opinion,  at  any  time  during  the  season  of  foliage. 

There  is  also  another  class  of  characteristics  to  be  found  in  the  Wos- 
soms,  which  is  constant  and  valuable,  though  not  so  much  so  as  that  of 
the  leaves,  because  it  can  only  be  referred  to  for  a  few  days  in  the 
spring.  The  blossoms  afford  two  well-marked  subdivisions  :  1st. 
Large  flowers,  always  red  in  the  centre,  and  pale  at  the  margin  ;  2d. 
Small  flowers,  tinged  with  dark  at  the  margin.* 

The  most  desirable  peaches  for  market-growers  in  this  country  are 
very  early  and  very  late  kinds.  These  command  double  the  price  in 
market  of  kinds  ripening  at  the  middle  season.  For  New  England  and 
the  North  only  the  earliest  kinds  are  desirable,  as  the  late  ones  seldom 
mature  well. 

In  describing  peaches  we  have  embodied  their  character  as  Free- 
stones or  Clingstones  in  the  text  descriptive. 

Raising  Peaches  in  Pots.  The  uncertainty  of  peach  culture  in  the 
open  air  has  become  so  common  in  many  sections  where  once  the  crop 
was  as  sure  as  that  of  the  apple,  that  many  persons  are  resorting  to  or- 
chard houses,  or  artificial  in-door  culture,  both  for  supply  of  families  and 
also  as  a  profitable  item  of  fruit-growing  for  market. 

"  Two  inodes  are  adopted:  one  without  fire-heat,  the  crop  maturing 
a  little  earlier  than  in  common  orchards  ;  the  other,  where  by  the  use  of 
fire-heat  the  fruit  is  obtained  two  or  three  months  earlier  than  in  open 
ground."  The  former  mode  has  been  successfully  prosecuted  by  Messrs. 
Ellevanger  and  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  ;  and  the  following,  written  by 
P.  Barry  and  published  in  Thomas1  American  Fruit  C'ulturist,  we  copy  . 

"  We  have  now  fruiting  in  wooden  boxes,  ten  b}r  ten  inches,  fifty-three 
varieties  of  peaches,  eleven  varieties  of  nectarines,  and  seven  of  apricots. 

"  -Age,  Potting,  and  Soil.  The  trees  are  now  three  years  from  the 
bud.  They  were  taken  up  in  the  fall  of  1861  ;  heeled-in  and  covered 
during  winter  ;  potted  early  in  spring — March,  I  think ;  soil  a  mix- 
ture of  about  three  parts  yellow  sandy  loam  and  one  part  of  old  hot- 
bed manure. 

"  Summer  Care.  After  potting  they  were  kept  in  a  cool  houser 
partly  covered  with  glass,  until  they  had  made  shoots  four  or  five 
inches  long,  and  the  danger  of  cold  weather  over.  They  were  then 
plunged  to  the  rim  of  the  boxes  in  an  open  border  until  the  fall.  They 
were  carefully  watered  when  necessary  during  summer,  and  the  shootg 
kept  as  much  as  possible  in  uniform  vigor  by  pinching. 

"  Pruning.  When  potted  the  yearling  trees  were  cut  back  to  six  or 
eight  inches,  and  in  some  cases  to  four  inches,  or  only  two  or  three 
buds  above  the  union  of  bud  and  stock,  the  object  being  to  grow  them 
in  the  form  of  bushes.  We  now  find  that  those  cut  back  farthest  are 
the  best  trees.  [Fig.  350  represents  the  yearling  tree  ;  Fig.  351  the 
same,  cut  back ;  Fig.  352  the  tree  set  in  a  pot ;  and  Fig.  353,  the  same 
after  a  year's  growth.] 

"  Wintering.  On  the  approach  of  very  cold  weather,  or  just  before 
the  freezing  of  the  ground  so  as  to  prevent  out-door  work,  they  were 

*  Lindley  makes  a  third  division,  embracing  a  few  sorts  with  blossoms  of  an 
intermediate  size.  But  it  is  of  no  practical  value,  as  any  doubt  as  to  which  of 
the  two  divisions  any  blossoii  belongs  is  immediately  set  at  rest  by  the  :olo>  of 
the  blossom. 


THE    PEACH. 


595 


removed  tc  a  shed,  where  they  were  piunged,  as  they  had  been  during 
summer,  up  to  the  edges  of  the  tubs. 

u  Spring  Treatment.  On  the  return  of  mild  spring  weather 
abundance  of  air  was  admitted,  and  they  remained  there  (ill  1st  .May, 
when  they  were  placed  under  glass,  the  buds  at  this  time  being  about  to 
expand.  Here  they  were  kept  till  the  15th  of  June,  at  which  time  the 
fruits  were  set,  and  all  danger  of  cold  to  affect  the  foliage  past. 

"  Ventilation  and  Watering.     During  the  period  they  were  undet 


glass,  May  1st  to  June  15th,  the  principal  points  of  management  were 
VENTILATION,  which  was  ample,  and  watering — the  latter  being  one  of  the 
most  important  points  in  the  treatment  of  all  trees  and  plants  in  pots. 
Careless  watering  will  ruin  any  plant,  no  matter  how  skilfully  or  care- 
fully other  points  may  be  managed.  Daily  watering  is  nee  sssary,  and, 
sts  soon  as  out  of  bloom,  a  free  use  of  the  syringe  night  and  morning. 

"  Summn-  Treatment.  On  the  15th  June,  when  all  danger  of  cold 
was  over,  and  the  fruits  set,  they  were  removed  from  the  glass  cover- 
ing and  plunged  in  an  open  but  sheltered  border,  and  mulched  with 
old  hot-bed  manure.  Since  that  time  they  have  received  no  care  but 
watering,  except  an  occasional  pinch  to  regulate  the  growth  of  shoots. 

"  There  has  not  been  a  single  leaf  curled  on  any  one  of  all  these 
trees,  showing  conclusively  that  the  curl  is  due  to  unfavorable  changes 
of  weather.  Each  tree  now  is  a  b\ish  about  two  and  a  half  feet  high, 
and  occupies  about  three  feet  square  of  space. 

"  The  first  winter  we  had  putted  trees  we  kept  them  in  a  cellar,  but 
most  of  the  buds  dropped,  and  Ave  changed  to  the  cool  dry  shed,  the 
boxes  plunged,  and  this  has  been  successful." 

In  houses  where  fire-heat  is  used,  and  the  fruit  brought  forward  so 
as  to  ripeu  in  May  and  onward,  the  pots  are  either  immersed  in  beds 
of  tan  bark  over  the  flues  or  heating  pipes,  or  placed  on  platforms  or 
shelves,  the  pot   containing  the  tree  inside  of  one,   two,  or  thr**e  sizes 


296  THE    PEACH. 

larger,  and  the  space  between  filled  with  moss  ;  this  serves  to  keep  the 
roots  at  a  more  even  temperature  than  would  be  the  case  were  they  te 
stand  without  this  double  potting.  The  trees  are  generally  prepared  by 
training  one  or  two  years  before  being  brought  into  fruit,  forming  a  head 
at  about  one  foot  to  sixteen  or  eighteen  inches  of  stem.  This  is  done  by 
a  systematic  system  of  pinching  or  summer  pruning,  removing  the  end 
of  each  shoot  as  fast  as  it  grows  to  form  three  or  four  leaves.  Thia 
pinching  gives  to  the  head  a  compact  round  form,  and  supplies  it  with 
numerous  spurs  or  bearing  shoots.  The  trees  or  pots  are  kept  in  the 
house  all  winter,  and  the  thermometer  in  no  instance  allowed  to  go  be- 
low zero,  as  the  buds  are  more  easily  affected  than  those  of  out-door  cul- 
ture. It  is  usual  to  commence  heating  by  artificial  means  about  the 
middle  of  January,  increasing  it  as  the  season  advances  and  the  natural 
growing  season  and  influence  of  the  sun's  rays  are  increased,  giving 
all  the  time  attention  to  reducing  the  temperature  at  night  and  increas- 
ing it  by  day,  as  in  the  natural  life  out  of  doors.  Great  heat  may  be 
maintained  in  a  peach-house,  but  it  must  be  always  accompanied  by 
abundant  watering,  or  the  trees  will  be  liable  to  drop  their  fruit  before- 
mature.  Some  growers  place  their  trees  in  warm,  sheltered  situations 
out  of  doors  a  few  days  before  fall  ripening,  believing  it  affects  and  in- 
creases the  flavor  of  the  fruit. 

Growing  peaches  in  pots  without  the  aid  of  glass  structures  or  fire- 
heat  has  also  been  successfully  practised.  The  trees  are  prepared, 
pruned,  and  grown  the  same  as  for  house  culture,  and  during  the  grow- 
ing season  the  pots  are  plunged  in  the  open  ground  in  a  warm,  sheltered 
position  in  the  garden,  due  attention  being  given  to  watering.  Just 
before  the  approach  of  severe  winter,  say  about  the  middle  of  Xovem- 
ber,  they  are  removed  into  a  cool,  light  cellar  or  pit  frame,  there  to 
remain  during  winter.  In  spring  they  are  returned  to  the  garden,  and 
should  there  be  any  sign  of  frost  or  cold,  to  injure  the  blooms,  they  are 
protected  by  means  of  a  cloth  awning,  arranged  so  that  it  can  be  drawn 
over  them  at  a  moment's  notice. 


VARIETIES. 

The  varieties  of  peach  are  almost  innumerable,  new  seedlings  being 
produced  in  this  country  with  great  facility,  and,  after  being  heralded  for 
a  season,  are  suffered  to  pass  out  of  existence  and  their  places  occupied 
with  still  later  productions.  A  few  of  the  old  sorts  remain  as  good  to- 
day as  when  this  work  was  first  written,  and  occasionally  a  new  variety 
is  found  of  superior  merits.  In  the  following  pages  descriptive  we  have 
endeavored  to  record  all  of  much  value,  omitting  many  which  are  infe- 
rior, and  others  perhaps  that,  although  good,  were  not  sufficiently  so  to 
make  them  desirable,  and  therefore  they  are  rare  to  be  found  in  any  col- 
lection. 


A  Bec. 

Mignonne  a  Bec.  Pourprde  a  Bec. 

This  is  a  new  variety,  ripening  early  in  August.     The   leaves  havf 
globose  glands.     Flowers  large. 


THE   PEACH.  597 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  uneven  in  its  outline,  having  a  bold  blunt 
nipple  at  the  apex.  Suture  shallow,  highest  on  one  side.  Skin  thin, 
of  a  lemon  yellow,  with  crimson  cheek.  Flesh  white,  slight  tinge  of  red 
next  the  stone,  tender,  melting,  sweet.     Freestone.     (Hogg.) 

Abricotee. 

Yellow  Admirable.         Grosse  Jaune  Tardive.     D'Abricot. 

Apricot  Peach.  Admirable  Jaune.  D'Orange.  (Orange  Peach. ) 

The  Apricot.  Peach  (or  Yellow  Admirable,  as  it  is  more  frequently 
called)  is  an  old  French  variety,  but  little  cultivated  in  this  country, 
though  deserving  of  attention  in  the  Middle  States.  It  ripens  very  late, 
and  is  thought  to  have  a  slight  apricot  flavor.  It  grows  with  moderate 
vigor,  and  bears  abundantly.  Leaves  with  reniforin  glands.  Flowers 
large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  with  a  small  suture  running  on  one  side 
only.  Skin  clear  yellow  all  over,  or  faintly  touched  with  red  next  the 
sun.  Flesh  yellow,  but  a  little  red  at  the  stone,  Arm,  rather  dry,  with 
a  sweet  and  agreeable  flavor.  Stone  small.  Ripens  at  the  beginning  of 
October. 

Acton  Scott. 

The  Acton  Scott  is  an  English  Peach,  raised  by  Mr.  Knight.  It  is 
an  excellent  early  fruit,  and  will  thrive  and  ripen  well  at  the  North. 
Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  rather  narrow  and  depressed  at  the  top,  with 
a  shallow  suture.  Skin  rather  woolly,  pale  yellowish  white,  with  a  mar- 
bled bright  red  cheek.  Flesh  pale  quite  to  the  stone,  melting,  sugary, 
and  rich,  with  sometimes  a  slight  bitter  flavor.     Middle  of  August. 

Albert's  Late  Rareripe. 

A  Southern  variety.     Glands  globose. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  slight.  Skin  not  very  downy,  yellow- 
ish white,  sprinkled  with  red  dots  and  a  marbled  red  cheek.  Flesh  pale, 
light  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  sweet.     Freestone.     September.     (White.) 

Alexandra. 

Alexandra  Noblesse.  Seedling  Noblesse. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  from  the  Old  Noblesse, 
and,  unlike  the  old  variety,  the  tree  is  not  subject  to  mildew.  Glands 
globose.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  round,  and  marked  with  a  deep  suture. 
Skin  covered  with  a  rough  down,  pale,  with  a  few  clusters  of  red  dots 
on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  quite  pale  at  the  stone,  tender, 
melting,  juicy,  rich,  vinous.     Freestone.     Early  in  August.     (Hogg.) 

Alida. 

Originated  with  Charles  Carpenter,  Kelly  island,  O. 
Fruit  l«rge,  round,  dark  red.     Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  good.     September 
Freestone. 


598  the  peach. 

Allen. 

An  old  sort,  cultivated  in  Massachusetts.  It  has  the  habit  of  repro- 
ducing itself  true  from  seed. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  white,  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  juicy 
pleasant.     Freestone. 

Amelia. 

Stroman's  Carolina.         Rayzer's  June.  Nonesuch  of  North  Carolina. 

Orangeburg.  Sally's  Peach. 

This  Peach  originated  with  Mr.  Stroman,  in  Orangeburg  District, 
S.  C.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong.  Suture  large  and  deep,  extending  nearly 
round.  Skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded  and  marbled  with  crimson  in 
the  sun,  downy.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  vinous.  Free- 
stone.    Last  of  August.     Ripens  at  the  South  with  Early  York. 

Amelia. 

This  fine  large  Peach  originated  with  George  Husman,  Hermann,  Mo. 
It  is  much  like  Columbia,  but  later  in  ripening.  Leaves  with  indistinct 
globose,  almost  reniform  glands. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Suture  well  defined,  deepest  towards  the  apex, 
which  has  a  rounded  point.  Skin  rich  yellow,  marbled  with  dull  red. 
Flesh  thick,  rich,  juicy,  sweet.  Ripe  a  few  days  later  than  Columbia. 
Freestone.     (Hort.) 

Aremie. 

Origin,  Pomaria,  S.  C. 

Fruit  very  large.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  high-flavored.  10th  August. 
Clingstone.     (Sumner's  MS.) 

Astor. 

An  American  Peach,  which  originated  in  New  York.  It  is  good4 
but  hardly  first-rate;  not  very  productive.  Flowers  large.  Leaves 
with  globose  glands. 

Fruit  large,  rather  flattened  or  broad,  and  slightly  sunk  at  the  top. 
Suture  well  marked.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  with  a  deep  red  cheek. 
Stone  sniail.  Flesh  melting,  very  juicy,  sweet,  and  of  excellent  flavor. 
Ripens  the  last  week  in  August.     Freestone. 

Atwood. 

Originated  with  Roscius  Atwood,  Newberry,  S.  C. 

Fruit  large.    Quality  best,  productive.    Clingstone.    (Sumner's  MS.) 

Austin's  Late  Red. 

Glands  reniform.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  white,  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  juicy, 
vinous,  and  well-flavored.  Clingstone.  Ripens  middle  of  October.  (P 
J.  Berckman,  MS.) 


the  peach.  699 

Baldwin's  Late. 

Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  with  a  distinct  swollen  point.  Skin  greenish 
white,  with  a  slight  red  cheek.  Flesh  very  firm,  juicy,  melting,  and 
well-flavored.  Freestone,  liipe  the  last  of  October  at  the  South.  Dis- 
Beminated  by  Dr.  Baldwin,  of  Montgomery.     (White's  Gard.) 

Barrington. 
Buckingham  Mignonne.  Colonel  Ausley's. 

A  handsome,  very  fine,  and  very  hardy  English  Peach.  The  tree  ia 
vigorous  and  healthy.  The  fruit  ripens  at  the  medium  season,  about  a 
week  after  the  Royal  George.  Leaves  with  globose  glands.  Flowers 
large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  ovate,  and  rather  pointed  at  the 
top,  with  a  moderate  suture  on  one  side.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white, 
with  a  deep-red  marbled  cheek.  Flesh  but  slightly  tinged  with  red  at 
the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  very  rich,  and  of  the  first  quality.  Stone 
rugged,  dark  brown.     Beginning  of  September.     Freestone. 

Batchelder. 

Origin,  Haverhill,  Mass.  Hardy  and  productive  ;  said  to  produce 
the  same  from  seed. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Skin  white,  with  a  deep  blush.  Flesh  white, 
melting,  juicy,  very  pleasant  vinous  flavor.    Last  of  September.    (Cole.) 

Baugh. 

Leaves  with  reniform  glands. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  terminated  with  a  small  point.  Suture 
obscure.  Skin  pale  yellow,  almost  white,  with  a  slight  blush  towards 
the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  pure  white  at  the  stone,  melting  and 
juicy,  with  a  sweet,  pleasant  flavor.  Separates  from  the  stone.  Ripen? 
'he  first  of  October.     (White's  Gard.) 

Belle  Bausse. 

Belle  Bauce.  Pourprt e  Vineuse.  Vineuse  Hative. 

Pourpree  Hative  Vineuse.         Vineuse  de  Fromentin. 

This  delicious  Peach  is  a  variety  of  Grosse  Mignonne,  but  larger,  and 
ripens  ten  days  later.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  somewhat  flattened  at  extremities.  Suture  distinct, 
higher  on  one  side  than  the  other.  Skin  thin  and  delicate,  covered 
with  fine  down,  highly  colored  almost  over  the  entire  surface  with  deep 
ced.  Flesh  white,  with  a  rosy  tint  round  the  stone,  tender,  melting, 
rinous.     Freestone.     Early  Sejjtember. 

Belle  Chevreuse. 

Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  elongated,  with  a  bold  nipple  at  summit.     Skin  downy,  yel- 


600  THB   PEACH. 

lowish,  marbled  with  red  in  the  sun.     Suture  distinct.     Flesh  whitiab 
yellow,  red  at  stone,  sweet,  and  juicy.     September.     (Hogg.) 

Belle  de  Beaucaire. 

A  Southern  variety.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  with  protruding  point.  Suture  shallow.  Skin 
light  yellowish  green,  with  cheek  slightly  reddened.  Flesh  pale  greenish 
yellow,  ml  at  the  stone,  a  little  coarse,  melting,  rich.  Freestone.  Kipe 
last  of  July,  South.     (White's  Gard.) 

Belle  de  Doue. 

Belle  de  Douai. 

A  large  melting  Peach,  an  early  variety  of  Bellegarde.  Flesh  vinous, 
rich  flavored.  Freestone.  Glands  globose.  Flowers  small.  Middle 
August.     (Hogg.) 

Belle  de  la  Croix. 

A  new  Peach  raised  at  Bordeaux.  Glands  reniform.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  large,  round.    Flesh  sweet  and  rich.  Middle  August.    (Hogg.) 

Belle  de  Vitry. 
Admirable  Tardive.  Bellis. 

This  is  not  the  Belle  de  Vitry  of  most  of  our  gardens,  which  is  the 
Early  Admirable  ;  it  is  quite  distinct,  also,  from  the  Late  Admirable  ; 
but  is  the  Belle  de  Vitry  described  by  Duhamel,  and  is  a  very  firm- 
fleshed  and  excellent  French  variety,  little  known  in  this  country. 
Leaves  serrated  without  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  middle  size,  rather  broad,  with  a  deep  suture,  and  the  top 
depressed.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  tinged  and  marbled  with  bright 
and  dull  red.  Flesh  rather  firm,  red  at  the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  and 
rich.     Ripens  here  the  last  of  September.     Freestone. 

Belle  et  Bonste. 

A  foreign  variety.     Leaves  without  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  deep.  Skin  downy,  clear  yellow,  shade* 
with  bright  red  in  the  s\m.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  highly  perfumed. 
Freestone.     August.     (An.  Pom.) 

Bellegarde. 

Galande.  Red  Magdalen. 

Noix  de  Montreuil.  Brentford  Mignonne. 

French  Royal  George.  Ronald's  Mignonne. 

Smooth-leaved  Royal  George.  Early  Garlande. 

Early  Royal  George.  Belle  de  Fillemont. 

This  very  excellent  French  Peach  is  the  one  most  highly  esteemed 
by  tie   Montreuil  growers,  who  supply  the   Paris   markets,   and  it  is 


THE    PEACH.  G01 

equally  valued  by  the  English.  It  is  also  one  of  the  handsomest  and 
most  delicious  fruits  here.  Leaves  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small. 
Fruit  large,  round,  and  regular,  the  suture  shallow,  the  top  slightly 
hollowed,  and  having  a  little  projecting  point.  Skin  pale  yellowish 
green,  with  a  rich  red  cheek,  often  streaked  with  darker  purple.  Flesh 
slightly  marked  with  red  at  the  stone,  a  little  firm,  but  very  melting, 
juicy,  rich,  and  high-flavored.  Stone  rather  large.  End  of  August  and 
first  of  September.     Freestone. 

Bergen's  Yellow. 

One  of  the  best  of  the  yellow-fleshed  Peaches,  but  not  a  good  bearer, 
and  therefore  unprofitable.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  large  (often  measuring  nine  inches  in  circumference),  globular, 
depressed,  and  broad  ;  the  suture  well  marked,  and  extending  more  than 
half  round.  Skin  deep  orange,  dotted  Avith  some  red,  and  with  a  very 
broad,  dark-red  cheek.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  melting,  juicy,  and  of  rich 
and  luscious  flavor.  Ripens  at  the  beginning  of  September.  Free- 
stone. 

Blanton  Cling. 
Yellow  Blanton  Cling. 

Leaves  large.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  and  shaped  like  Lemon  Cling,  with  the  same  projecting, 
swollen  point.  Skin  rich  orange,  with  a  slightly  reddened  cheek.  Flesh 
orange  yellow,  firin,  but  full  of  a  delicious  vinous  juice.  Later  and 
better  than  Lemon  Cling.  Reproduces  itself  from  seed.  Ripens  10th 
August.      (White's  Gard.) 

Blood  Clingstone. 
Indian  Blood.  Claret  Clingstone.  Blood  Cling. 

The  Blood  Clingstone  is  a  very  large  and  peculiar  fruit,  of  no  value 
for  eating,  hut  esteemed  by  many  for  pickling  and  preserving ;  the  flesh 
very  red,  like  that  of  a  beet.  This  is  an  American  seedling,  raised  many 
years  ago  from  the  French  Blood  Clingstone — Sanguinole  a  Chair 
Adiierente.  It  is  a  much  larger  fruit  than  the  original  sort,  which  has 
large  flowers;  otherwise  they  are  the  same  in  all  respects.  Leaves  with 
reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  often  very  large,  roundish  oval,  with  a  distinct  suture.  Skin 
very  downy,  of  a  dark,  dull,  clouded,  purplish  red.  Flesh  deep  red 
throughout,  firm  and  juicy — not  fit  for  eating.     September  to  Octolnr. 

There  is  a  FRENCH  BLOOD  FREESTONE  (Sanguinole,  Sitii/iiinp.  Car- 
dinale,  or  Beto'ave,  Duh.,  Thomp.)  of  the  same  nature,  and  used  for  the. 
Same  purpose  as  this,  hut  smaller  in  size,  and  not  equal  to  it  for  cooking. 
Leaves  without  glands. 

There  is  also  a  Blood  Freestone,  raised  by  John  M.  Eves,  Salem, 
Mass.,  which  is  of  medium  size.  Blood  red  throughout.  Tree  hardy 
»jil  a  good  bearer. 

Bonne  Gros  de  Noisette. 
Originated  with  M.  Noisette,  Paris,  France. 


602  THE   PEACH. 

Fi.*uit  large,  roundish,  depressed.  Sutu  re  deep.  Skin  nearly  smooth, 
white,  with  faint  marb lings  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
red  at  the  stone,  j  uiey,  vinous,  aromatic.     Freestone.     September. 

Bordeaux  Cling. 

Raised  in  New  Bordeaux,  Abbeville  District,  S.  C,  from  a  stone 
brought  from  Bordeaux.     Glands  reniform.     Flowi  rs  large. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  or  oval,  a  little  one-sided.  Suture  shallow. 
Skin  very  downy,  lemon  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  red 
at  the  stone  (to  which  it  clings),  juicy,  melting.  A  showy  market  sort. 
First  of  August.     (Win,  N.  White,  MS.) 

Brevoort. 

Brevoort's  Morris.  Brevoort's  Seedling  Melter. 

One  of  the  richest  and  most  delicious  of  American  Peaches,  and  one 
of  the  favorite  sorts  for  garden  cultivation.  It  was  raised  by  Henry 
Brevoort,  of  New  York.  Bears  regular,  moderate  crops.  Leaves  with 
reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium  or  large,  round  and  rather  broad,  with  a  distinct  su- 
ture, deep  at  the  top.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  often  a  little  dingy, 
with  a  bright  red  cheek.  Flesh  rather  firm,  slightly  red  at  the  sto^e, 
rich,  sugary,  and  high-flavored.     Freestone.     First  of  September. 

Briggs. 

Origin,  Dedilam,  Mass.     Hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  continued  almost  round  it.  Skin  white, 
nearly  covered  with  bright  red.  Flesh  white,  tinged  with  red  at  the 
stone,  very  juicy,  of  a  rich,  sweet,  slightly  vinous  flavor.  Freestone. 
From  first  to  middle  of  September.     (Cole.) 

Cable's  Late. 

Cable's  Late  Melocoton. 

Originated  with  E.  Cable,  Cleveland,  O.  A  seedling  of  the  Red 
Cheek  Melocoton,  and  resembles  Crawford's  Late,  somewhat  larger,  and 
ripening  a  little  earlier.     Tree  a  good  bearer.     Freestone.     (Elliott.) 

Cambridge  Belle. 
Hovey's  Cambridge  Belle. 

Raised  by  Hovey  &  Co.,  Boston,  Mass. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  A  beautiful  Peach,  with  a  clear  waxen  skin, 
and  a  blush  on  the  exposed  side,  and  of  a  rich,  brisk,  delicious  flavor. 
Freestone.     Ripe  early  in  September.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Canary. 

An  American  variety.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong.  Skin  thin,  beautiful  bright  yellow 
Flesh  yellowish,  melting,  juicy,  rich,  and  good.  July,  Souta  ;  August, 
North.     Freestone. 


THE    PEA(TH.  t',03 

Carpenter's  White. 

Raised  by  William  S.  Carpenter,  New  York  City.  Tree  -vigorous 
and  productive,  with  globose  glands.      Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large  and  round.  Skin  white,  with  a  slight  shade  of  green. 
Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  and  of  good  flavor.  Sepa- 
rates from  the  stone.     Ripens  about  the  middle  of  October. 

Catherine. 
Congress. 

The  Catherine  Cling  is  an  old  English  variety,  of  excellent  quality, 
but  not,  we  think,  equal  to  the  Large  White  Clingstone,  a  native  seed- 
ling, so  much  esteemed  in  the  Middle  States.  Leaves  with  reniform 
glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  moi*e  swollen  on  one  side  than  the  other, 
and  terminated  by  a  small  swollen  point  at  the  top.  Skin  pale  yellowish 
green,  much  sprinkled  with  red  dots,  the  exposed  cheek  of  a  bright 
lively  redj  streaked  with  darker  red.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  but 
dark  red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  adheres  very  closely,  juicy,  rich,  and 
good.     Middle  and  last  of  September-. 

Chancellor. 

Chancelliere.  Stewart's  Late  Galande. 

Noisette.  Edgar's  Late  Melting. 

Late  Chancellor. 

The  Chancellor  is  said  to  have  been  originated  by  M.  de  Seguier, 
of  Paris,  then  Chancellor  of  France.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands. 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  with  a  well-marked  suture.  Skin  pale  yellowi?'> 
white,  with  a  dark  crimson  cheek.  Flesh  very  deep  red  next  the  stone, 
melting,  and  possessing  a  rich  vinous  flavor.  Stone  oblong.  Freestone. 
Middle  of  September. 

Chinese  Cling. 

Reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  globular.  Sides  compressed.  Suture  quite  shallow. 
Skin  creamy  white,  shaded  and  marbled  with  fine  red.  Flesh  white, 
red  at  the  stone  (which  is  adherent),  very  juicy,  melting,  with  a  rich, 
excellent  vinous  flavor.  Ripens  first  to  middle  of  September ;  at  the 
South,  from  the  middle  of  July  to  the  first  of  August. 

Christian  a. 

Originated  at  Pomaria,  S.  C. 

Fruit  large,  beautiful.  Flesh  white  to  the  stone.  Flavor  delicious. 
Freestone.     September.     (Sumner's  MS.) 

Clemence   Isaure. 

A  new  French  Peach.  Leaves  with  large  reniform  glands.  Flowen 
small. 


604  THE    PEACH. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  well  marked.  Skin  covered 
vrith  a  gray  down,  whitish  yellow,  deep  purple  in  the  sun.  Flesh  deep 
yellow,  purplish  next  the  stone.     Freestone.     September.     (Verg.) 

Clinton. 

A  native  variety,  of  second-rate  flavor.  Leaves  with  globose  glands. 
Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  depressed  at  the  top,  but 
nearly  without  suture.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  with  a  red  cheek 
marked  by  broken  stripes  of  dull  red.  Flesh  scarcely  stained  at  the 
stone,  juicy  and  good.     Last  of  August.     Freestone. 

Cole's  Early  Red. 

An  American  Peach,  which  is  a  very  fruitful  and  excellent  variety 
for  market  culture.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  with  but  little  suture.  Skin  pale 
in  the  shade,  but  nearly  all  covered  with  red,  becoming  dark  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  rich,  and  very  sprightly.  Beginning 
to  the  middle  of  August.     Freestone. 

Columbia. 
Indian  Peach.  Pace.  Mulatto. 

The  Columbia  is  a  singular  and  peculiar  Peach.  It  was  raised  by 
Mr.  Coxe,  the  author  of  the  first  American  work  on  fruit-trees,  from  a 
seed  brought  from  Georgia.  It  is  a  very  excellent  fruit,  which  every 
amateur  will  desire  to  have  in  his  garden.  The  tree  is  not  a  very  rapid 
grower,  and  bears  only  moderate  crops,  being,  of  course,  all  the  less 
subject  to  speedy  decay.  The  young  wood  is  purple.  Leaves  with 
reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  broad  and  much  depressed,  the  suture  distinct, 
extending  half  way  round.  Skin  rough  and  rather  thick,  dull  dingy 
red,  sprinkled  with  spots  and  streaks  of  darker  red.  Flesh  bright  yel- 
low, of  the  texture,  as  Coxe  remarks,  of  a  very  ripe  pine-apple,  rich, 
juicy,  and  of  very  excellent  flavor.  Ripens  from  the  beginning  to  the 
middle  of  September.     Freestone. 

Columbus,  June. 

Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  flattened  or  slightly  hollowed  at  the  apex. 
Suture  shallow.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  with  a  rich  red  cheek. 
Flesh  slightly  red  at  the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  and  high-flavored,  excel- 
lent.    Ripens  here  in  Georgia  20th  June.     Free.     (White's  Gard.) 

Comet. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  of  England,  from  the  Salway.  Glands 
reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  crimson  cheek.  Flesh 
pale  yellow,  separating  freely  from  the  stone,  juicy,  melting.  Earlv 
October.     (Hogg.) 


THE    PEACH.  600 

COMTESSE    DE    HAINAUT. 

Originated  in  Belgium.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  distinct,  not  deep.  Skin  covered  with 
a  light  down,  clear  yellow,  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  wnite,  red 
at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting.  Stone  large.  Freestone.  September. 
(An.  Pom.) 

Cooledge's  Favorite. 
Cooledge's  Early  Red  Rareripe. 

This  most  popular  early  New  England  Peach  was  raised  from  seed 
by  Mr.  J.  Cooledge,  of  Watertown,  Mass.  It  is  unusually  productive, 
and  a  very  bright-colored  handsome  Peach,  of  excellent  quality  ;  and  its 
hardiness  renders  it  valuable  at  the  North.  Leaves  with  globose  glands. 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  (the  suture  prominent  at  the  top  only),  but 
rather  the  largest  on  one  side.  Skin  clear,  smooth,  white,  with  a  fine 
crimson  mottled  cheek.  Flesh  very  melting  and  juicy,  with  a  rich, 
sweet,  and  high  flavor.     Middle  of  August.     Freestone. 

Counts'. 

Originated  with  H.  H.  Counts,  Lylesford,  S.  C. 
Fruit  large,  white,  with  red  cheek.     Flesh  white,  rich,  juicy,  supe« 
rior.     Clingstone.     (Sumner,  MS.) 

Crawford's  Early. 
Early  Crawford.  Crawford's  Early  Melocoton. 

This  is  the  most  splendid  of  all  early  yellow-fleshed  Peaches,  and  ia 
scarcely  surpassed  by  any  other  variety  in  size  and  beauty  of  appear- 
ance. As  a  market  fi'uit  it  is  perhaps  the  most  popular  of  the  day.  It 
was  originated  by  William  Crawford,  Esq.,  of  Middletown,  N.  J.  The 
tree  is  vigorous,  very  fruitful,  and  hardy.  Leaves  "with  globose  glands. 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong,  the  swollen  point  at  the  top  prominent ; 
the  sxiture  shallow.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  fine  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow, 
melting,  sweet,  rich,  and  very  excellent.  It  ripens  here  the  last  week 
in  August.     Freestone. 

Crawford's  Late. 
Crawford's  Superb  Malacatune. 

Crawford's  Late  Melocoton,  from  the  same  source  as  the  foregoing,  is 
one  of  the  most  magnificent  American  Peaches.  We  think  it  deserving 
of  universal  ciiltivation.  As  a  splendid  market  fruit  it  is  unrivalled, 
and  its  size  and  beauty  will  give  it  a  place  in  every  garden.  Leaves 
with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  with  a  shallow  but  distinct  suture. 
Skin  yellow,  with  a  fine  dark-red  cheek.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  but  red 
at  the  stone,  juicy  and  melting,  with  a  very  rich  and  excellent  vinous 
flsvcr.     Ripens  from  the  20th  to  the  last  of  September.     Freestone 


606  the  peach. 

Crimson  Galande. 

Crimson  Mignonne. 

Glands  globose.  Flowers  small.  Fruit  medium,  roundish,  faint 
suture,  pitted  at  apex.  Skin  almost  covered  with  dark  crimson,  nearly 
black.  Flesh  tender,  melting,  blood  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  rich.  Free 
stone.     (Hogg.) 

Crockett's  Late  White. 

A  late-maturing  white  Peach,  originated  in  New  Jersey,  where  it  is 
popular  as  a  market  sort.     Leaves  with  reniform  glands. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong.  Skin  greenish  white,  occasionally 
some  red  in  sun.  Flesh  pale,  sweet,  not  very  juicy.  Last  September. 
Freestone.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Dagmar. 

A  new  Peach  raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  Glands  globose* 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  round,  marked  with  a  shallow  suture,  deepest  at  apex.  Skin 
tender,  very  downy,  pale  straw-color,  nearly  covered  wijj.  minute  crim- 
son dots,  giving  a  mottled  appearance.  Flesh  white,  very  tender,  melt- 
ing, juicy,  rich,  vinous,  sweet.     Freestone.     August.     (Hogg.) 

De  Beurre. 

A.  French  Peach.     Leaves  without  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  depressed  at  apex.  Skin  easily  detached  from 
the  flesh,  covered  with  a  short,  fine  down,  whitish  yellow,  washed  with 
brownish  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  fine,  melting,  purplish  next  the  stone, 
sweet,  vinous.     August.     Freestone.     (Verg.) 

De  Bonlez. 

A  Belgian  variety.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  round,  depressed.  Suture  deep.  Skin  downy,  yellow- 
ish, deeply  colored  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish,  red  at 
the  stone.     September.     Freestone.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Desse  Tardive. 

Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  round,  flat  at  top,  deep  suture  next  the  6talk.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  faint  tinge  of  rosy  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  gi-eenish  white, 
slightly  tinged  with  red  next  the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  Sep  tern 
ber.     Freestone.     (Hogg.) 

De  Zelhern. 

Fruit  medium,  round.  Suture  deep,  large.  Skin  downy,  yellow,  more 
or  less  cflored  with  bright  red.  Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy,  sweet, 
August.     Freestone.     (Alb.  Pom.) 


the  peach.  607 

Doctor  Hogg. 

Originated  with  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  It  is  described  as  the 
largest  early  Poach  known.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Suture  distinct.  Skin  lemon  yellow,  dotted  with 
crimson,  and  a  crimson  cheek  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  some- 
what firm,  but  melting  and  juicy,  stained  with  red  at  the  stone.  Last 
of  July  or  early  August.     Freestone. 

D'OlGNES. 

Originated  in  Belgium.      Leaves  serrated. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish.  Suture  large  and  shallow.  Skin 
downy,  greenish  yellow,  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
much  colored  around  the  stone,  melting,  juicy.  September.  Freestone. 
(An.  Pom.) 

Donahoo  Cling. 

From  Mr.  Donahoo,  Clark  Co.,  Ga.  Glands  reniform.  Flowers 
small 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish.  Suture  quite  deep  on  one  side,  and  visi- 
ble entirely  around  the  fruit.  Apex  depressed.  Skin  creamy  white, 
dotted  and  tinged  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white  to  the  stone, 
exceedingly  juicy,  rich,  and  luscious.  Ripens  from  10th  to  20th  Sep- 
tember. 

Double  Montagne. 
Double  Mountain.  Montague.  Montauban. 

A  Peach  much  resembling  the  Noblesse,  of  French  origin.  Leaves 
serrated,  -without  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  but  somewhat  narrower  at  the  top. 
Skin  pale  greenish  white,  with  a  soft  red  cheek,  which  is  marbled  with 
darker  red  at  maturity.  Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  very  delicate  and 
melting,  with  a  plentiful  and  high-flavored  juice.  Stone  ovate  and 
rugged.     Middle  of  August.     Freestone. 


'oo 


Druid  Hill. 

Originated  by  Lloyd  N.  Rogers,  Esq.,  of  Druid  Hill,  near  Balti- 
more. The  tree  is  unusually  vigorous,  the  shoots  and  leaves  very  large, 
and  it  bears  abundantly.  The  very  late  season  of  its  maturity  renders 
it  valuable,  as  most  of  the  luscious  sorts  are  then  gone.  Leaves  with 
globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish;  the  cavity  of  the  stalk  rather  narrow,  the  su 
ture  very  slight,  and  the  swollen  point  distinct,  but  scarcely  prominent 
Skin  pale  greenish  white,  clouded  with  red  on  the  sunny  side  Flesh 
greenish  white,  purple  at  the  stone,  very  juicy  and  melting,  with  an 
exceedingly  rich,  high  vinous  flavor.  Stone  long  and  rather  compressed, 
much  furrowed.  Ripens  from  the  20th  of  September  to  the  let  of 
October.      Freestone. 


608 


THE    PEACH. 


Duff  Yellow. 


Glands  globose.     Flowers  small.     An  excellent  early  market  P  -ach. 

Fruit  very  large,  round,  with  a  sharp  point.  Skin  yellow,  with  a 
red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  and  pretty  well  flavored,  a  little  acid, 
red  at  the  stone.     Clingstone.     Ripens  early  in  July.     (P.  J.  B.,  MS.) 

Duperron. 

A  seedling  of  M.  Duperron.  Promises  of  value.  Leaves  with  glo 
bose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish,  depressed  at  end.     Suture  shal 
low.     Skin  downy,  golden  yellow,  more  or  less  washed  with  pale  red. 
Flesh  yellow.     Clingstone.     October. 

Dwarf  Orleans. 
Italian  Dwarf. 

This  variety,  introdiiced  many  years  since,  and  described  by  Wm. 
Prince,  in  1828,  has  recently  been  brought  out  anew  under  the  name  of 
Italian  Dwarf.  It  forms  a  diminutive  tree  of  about  two  feet  in  height, 
is  a  slow  grower,  with  short-jointed  wood,  suited  as  a  curiosity  for  pot- 
growing.     Leaves  long.     Flowers  large. 

The  fruit  is  nearly  as  large  as  the  Nutmeg  Peach.  White  flesh, 
juicy.     Freestone. 

Early  Admirable. 
Admirable.  Belle  de  Vitry.  L' Admirable. 

A  very  excellent  French  Peach,  wrongly  known  by  many  in  this 
country  as  the  Belle  de  Vitry,  which  is  a  distinct  variety.  We  find  it 
early,  and  very  prolific.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  not  quite  i-ound.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  with  a  lively  red 
cheek.  Flesh  red  next  the  stone,  melting,  and  juicy,  with  a  good,  rich, 
sweet  flavor.     Middle  of  August. 

Early  Albert. 

An  early  Peach  raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  of  England.  Glands  glo- 
bose.    Flowers  small. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  frequently  one  side  of  suture  higher 
than  the  other,  pitted  at  apex  Skin  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with  deep 
crimson.  Flesh  white,  tender,  melting,  with  a  faint  brick  red  tinge  next 
the  stone,  rich  juicy.     Freestone.     Last  of  July.     (Hogg.) 

Early  Alfred. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  from  seed  of  Hunt's  Tawny  Nectarine. 
Glands  globose.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  rather  large,  marked  with  a  deep  suture.  Skin  straw-color, 
mottled  with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  melting,  vinous,  rich 
Early  August.     (Hogg.) 


the  peach.  609 

Early  Anne. 
Anne.  Green  Nutmeg. 

The  Early  Anne  is  an  old  and  familiar  English  sort.  The  tree  i* 
of  slender  growth.  Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers  large, 
nearly  white. 

Fruit  rather  small,  round.  Skin  white,  with  a  faint  tinge  of  red 
next  the  sun.  Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  soft,  melting,  sweet,  and  of 
pleasant  flavor.     Last  of  July  and  first  of  August. 

Fay's  Early  Anne,  a  seedling  of  the  above,  by  Lincoln  Fay,  of  Chau- 
tauque  Co.,  N.  Y.,  is  larger  and  better.  Ripens  a  week  or  two  later, 
and  just  before  Early  York  (serrate).  Skin  whitish,  sometimes  slightly 
tinged  with  red.     Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  and  very  good. 

Early  Beatrice. 

This  Peach,  says  its  originator,  Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth, 
England,  is  the  earliest  sort  known,  ripening  from  5th  to  11th  of  July. 
Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium  size,  with  a  marbled  red  cheek.  Flesh  melting,  very 
juicy. 

Early  Chelmsford. 

Mammoth. 

Leaves  glandless. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  clear  round,  deep  on  one  side.  Skin 
white,  with  a  bright  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  very  melting  and  juicy, 
of  a  very  delicious,  slightly  vinous  flavor.  Freestone.  20th  to  last  of 
August. 

Early  Grosse  Mignonne. 
Grosse  Mignonne  Hative .  Mignonne  Hative. 

This  is  a  very  fine  Peach,  ripening  early  in  August.  Glands  globose. 
Flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pitted  at  apex.  Nipple  one  side,  and  shal- 
low suture.  Skin  with  a  pale  red  cheek  in  the  sun,  dotted  thickly  with 
bright  crimson  dots.  Flesh  white,  veined  with  red,  very  juicy,  vinous, 
sweet.     Freestone.     (Hogg.) 

Early  Louise. 

Seedling  of  Thomas  Rivers.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 
Fruit  medium,  bright  red.     Flesh  melting,  juicy,  excellent.     Free- 
stone.    July  12th  to  lGth.     (Rivers' Cat.) 

Early  Malden. 

Raised  by  James  Dougall,  Canada  West.  Flowers  small.  Leaves 
glandless. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  one  side  enlarged.  Suture  distinct  on  one 
side.  Skin  whitish,  mostly  shaded  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white, 
juicy,  melting,  sprightly.     Freestone.      Middle  of  August. 

39 


6iO  THE   PEACH. 

Earl?  Newington  Freestone. 

Newington  Peach.  Smith's  Early  Newington. 

Early  Newington.  Smith's  Newington. 

This  is  a  large  and  exceedingly  high-flavored  early  Peach  ;  indeed 
we  consider  it  without  a  superior  at  its  season.  It  is  quite  distinct 
from  the  other  Newingtons,  which  are  clings  and  rather  late,  wliile  this 
is  early  and  generally  parts  from  the  stone,  though  it  frequently  hap- 
pens that  some  of  the  fruit  on  the  same  tree  adheres  partially  or  wholly 
to  the  stone  ;  and  this  peculiarity  (common,  so  far  as  we  know,  to  but 
one  other  kind)  is  one  of  its  constant  characteristics.  The  tree  is  only  a 
moderate  bearer.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.      Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  round,  with  a  distinct  suture,  and  one-half  the 
fruit  always  the  larger.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  dotted  and  streaked 
with  red,  the  cheek  a  rich  red.  Flesh  white,  but  red  at  the  stone,  to 
which  many  particles  adhere.  If  not  fully  ripe  it  has  the  habit  of  a, 
cling.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor.  Ripens  directly 
after  the  Early  York,  about  the  24th  of  August. 

Early  Rivers. 

Glands  reniform.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  pale  straw-color,  with  a  delicate  pink  cheek.  Flesh 
melting,  remarkably  rich  and  racy.     Middle  July.     (Rivers'  Cat.) 

Early  Silver. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  in  1857,  from  seed  of  the  White  Nec- 
tarine.    Glands  reniform.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  ovate,  sometimes  a  nipple  at  the  apex. 
Skin  cream-color,  with  a  slight  blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  melting, 
juicy,  brisk.     Middle  August.     Freestone.     (Hogg). 

Early  Sweet  Water. 
Sweet  Water.  Large  American  Nutmeg. 

It  is  an  American  Peach,  raised  from  a  stone  of  the  Early  Anne. 
The  tree  is  thrifty  and  productive,  with  pale  shoots,  and  nearly  white 
blossoms.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  sometimes  large,  roundish,  with  a  slight 
suture.  Skin  pale  white,  very  seldom  with  a  faint  blush  when  fully 
exposed.  Flesh  white,  slightly  stained  at  the  stone,  melting,  juicy, 
sweet,  and  of  very  agreeable  flavor.  Ripe  about  the  8th  of  August. 
Stone  small. 

Early  Sweet  Water  (Prince's)  is  distinct  from  this,  and,  Mr. 
Prince  says,  equally  valuable. 

Early  Tillotson. 

The  Early  Tillotson  was  first  introduced'  to  notice  by  J.  J.  Thomas; 
of  Macedon,  Wayne  Co.  It  is  considered  a  native  of  that  part  of  the 
State. 

This  has  not  succeeded  well  here,  and  most  cultivators  at  the  North 
bavo  discontinued  it.     It  mildews  badly  grows  slowly,  and  is  not  pro- 


THE    PEACH.  Gil 

d  active.  At  the  South  it  is  one  of  their  very  best  early  peaches,  and 
in  many  localities  it  has  proved  fine.  Leaves  deeply  serrated,  without 
glands.      Flowers  small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  round.  Skin  nearly  covered  with  red,  the 
ground  color,  pale  yellowish  white,  being  thickly  dotted  with  red,  and 
the  exposed  cheek  being  a  dark  red.  Flesh  whitish,  but  red  at  the 
stone,  to  which,  though  a  freestone,  it  partially  adheres,  melting,  juicy; 
with  a  rich,  highly  excellent  flavor.     It  ripens  the  middle  of  August. 

Early  Victoria. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  Much  like  its  parent,  Early 
York. 

Early  York. 
Early  Purple.  Pourpr_e  Hative.  Serrate  Early  York. 

The  Early  York  has  long  been  the  most  popular  of  early  Peaches  in 
this  country.  It  is  at  least  a  week  earlier  than  the  (true)  Royal  George, 
more  melting  and  juicy,  though  not  quite  so  rich,  and  deserves  a  place 
in  every  garden.  In  unfavorable  soil,  the  ends  of  the  branches  are  a 
little  liable  to  mildew ;  but  the  tree  is  very  hardy  and  productive. 
There  are  one  or  two  newer  seedlings  raised  from  this,  and  bearing  the 
same  name,  in  New  Jersey,  which  are  rather  more  thrifty  for  the 
orchard,  but  do  not  possess  the  high  flavor  of  the  old  kind.  They  are 
easily  known  from  it  by  the  absencv  ii  glands  in  the  leaves  and  by  the 
large  flowers  of  the  true  sort.  It  is  quite  distinct  from  the  Red  Rare- 
ripe, which  is  large,  broader,  deeply  marked  with  a  suture,  later  in 
ripening  and  richer  flavored.  Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.  Flow- 
ers large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  inclining  a  little  to  ovate,  with  a 
slight  suture  only.  Skin  very  thin,  pale  red,  thickly  dotted  over  a  pale 
ground  in  the  shade,  but  quite  dark  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  remarkably  tender  and  melting,  full  of  rich,  sprightly  juice. 
Ripens  about  the  18th  of  August. 

Eastburn. 
Eastburn's  Choice. 
American. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  with  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  yellowish,  red  near  the  stone,  juicy.  Freestone.  September. 
(Elliott.) 

Eaton's  Golden. 

Origin,  North  Carolina.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  above  medium,  round.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  golden  yellow 
with  occasionally  a  few  faint  pink  spots  near  the  base.  Flesh  golden 
yellow,  sweet,  juicy,  with  a  marked  apricot  flavor.  Clingstone.  Pipe 
middle  of  September.     (P.J.  B.,  MS.) 

Eliza  Peach. 
Origin,  Plnladelplda.     Leaves  large,  with  reniform  glands 


612  THE   PEACH. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  terminating  in  a  nipple.  Skin  yellow,  will 
a  mottled  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  red  at  the  stone.  Last  of  Sep 
tcmber.     Freestone. 

Elmira  Cling. 

Originated  with  M.  W.  Phillips,  Mississippi.  Glands  reniform 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  depressed.     Suture  rather  shallow  on  one  side. 
Skin  white,  with  a  greenish  yellow  tinge,  quite  downy.     Flesh  whitei 
tinged  with  red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  adheres.     Sweet  and  good 
Early  in  August. 

Emperor  of  Russia. 
Cut-Leaved.  Serrated.  New  Cut-Leaved.  Unique. 

A  very  rich  and  fine-flavored  Peach,  raised  by  Mr.  Floy,  in  1812. 
Its  growth  is  slow,  and  its  shoots  are  inclined  to  become  mildewed.  It 
is  rather  a  shy  bearer.  The  leaves  are  very  deeply  cut,  or  serrated 
on  the  edges.     Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  and   broad,  with  one  half  more  swollen  than 
the  other.     Skin  downy,  dull  yellowish  white,  with  a  dark-red  cheek 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  rather  firm,  rich,  and  high-flavored.     Last  o' 
August. 

Ernoult. 

This  is  a  singularly  formed  and  colored  Peach,  from  Belgium.  Leave? 
with  globose  glands. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  depressed.  Suture  shallow  in  the  middle  of 
the  fruit,  deeper  at  ends,  and  peculiarly  wrinkled  pit  at  apex.  Skin 
downy,  clear  yellow,  shaded  with  deep  reddish  purple  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  some  red  next  the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  rich.  Freestone.  (An. 
Pom.) 

Exquisite. 

A  variety  that  originated  in  Georgia.  Glands  globose.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  distiuct.  Nipple  at  apex.  Skin 
yellow,  mottled  with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  red  at 
stone,  tender,  melting,  juicy,  vinous.     September. 

Favorite. 
Favorite  Red. 

A  capital  orchard  fruit,  of  large  size,  hardy,  and  a  most  abundant 
bearer.  It  is  a  very  good  native  Peach,  though  not  of  high  flavor. 
Leaves  with  obscure  globose  glands,  often  with  none.  Flowers 
fjmall. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  or  oval.  Skin  white,  rather  downy,  much  cov- 
ered with  red,  which  becomes  a  very  dark  red  when  fully  exposed  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  red  at  the  stone,  '<■  little  firm,  but  juicy,  with  a  good, 
vinous,  but  not  rich  flavor.     Second  week  in  September. 


613 


the  peach. 

Flater's  St.  John. 
Yellow  St.  John. 

A  new  variety,  of  Southern  origin,  said  to  be  one  of  the  mojt  pro- 
mising of  the  early  varieties. 

Fruit  large,  somewhat  resembling  Early  Crawford,  but  deeper  color. 
Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  sweet.  Freestone.  Ripens  a  little  before  Early 
Tillotson.     (R.  R.  Hunley,  MS.) 

Flewellen  Cling. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  depressed  at  the  apex.  Skin  downy,  yel 
lowish  white,  mostly  overspread  with  shades  of  red,  dark  dull  purplish 
red  in  the  sun,  the  lighter  tints  of  red  somewhat  in  stripes.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  firmly  adheres,  very  juicy, 
sweet,  and  high-flavored.  A  desirable  early  cling  for  the  South.  First 
of  August. 

Fox's  Seedling. 

A  good  and  productive  late  Peach,  a  native  of  New  Jersey.  Leaves 
with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  round,  a  little  compressed.  Cavity  at  the  stalk  narrow.  Skir. 
white  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  and  good.  Mid- 
dle of  September.     Freestone. 

Freeman. 

This  Peach  originated  in  South  Pass,  111.,  and  was  brought  to  no 
tice  by  Parker  Earle.  It  is  there  esteemed  as  highly  valuable  for  late 
market,  ripening  considerably  later  than  the  Smock.  Leaves  with 
globose  glands. 

Fruit  large,  round,  yellow,  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  red 
next  the  stone,  juicy.     Freestone. 

Fruitland. 
Fruitland  Seedling. 

A  new  variety,  originated  at  Augusta,  Ga. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  to  a  point,  greenish  white,  with  a  pale  mottled 
red  cheek.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very  juicy,  vinous,  a  little  red  at  the 
Btone.     Freestone.     Early  September.      (P.  J.  Berckman's  Cat.) 

Fulkerson. 
Fulkerson's  Early. 

Originated  with  R.  P.  Fulkerson,  Ashland,  O.  Hardy  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse,  rounded.  Sides  irregular,  unequal.  Sature 
half  round.  Skin  whitish,  rich  red  cheek.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tinged 
with  red  at  the  pit,  juicy,  rich,  sweot,  and  high-flavored.  Freestone, 
20th  August.    (Elliott.) 


614  the  peach. 

Gaylord. 

Originated  by  Dr.  M.  W.  Phillips,  Mississippi.  Glands  globose 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  round,  with  a  sharp  point.  Skin  roseate, 
with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  rich,  and  superior.  Freestone. 
Ripe  middle  of  August.     (P.  J.  B.,  MS.) 

George  the  Fourth. 

This  is  certainly  the  most  popular  Peach  for  garden  culture  in  the 
United  States.  It  is  large,  bears  regular  and  moderate  crops,  is  of  the 
highest  flavor,  and  the  tree  is  unusually  hardy  and  vigorous,  succeeding 
well  in  all  parts  of  the  country.  No  garden  should  be  without  it.  The 
original  tree  stood  in  the  garden  of  Mi*.  Gill,  Broad  Street,  New  York. 
Leaves  large,  with  globose  glands,  often  obscure.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  round,  deeply  divided  by  a  broad  suture,  and  one  half 
a  little  larger  than  the  other.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  finely  dotted 
with  bright  red,  and  deepening  into  a  rich  dark-red  cheek  on  one  side. 
Flesh  pale,  marked  with  red  at  the  stone  (which  is  small),  melting,  verv 
juicy,  with  a  remarkably  rich,  luscious  flavor.  Ripens  the  last  of 
August.     Freestone. 

Goode's  October. 

Belongs  to  the  Indian  type.     Origin,  South  Carolina. 

Fruit  large,  round  or  slightly  oblong.  Skin  white,  veined  with  red, 
and  quite  downy.  Flesh  white,  with  red  near  the  stone,  very  juicy, 
vinous  subacid.     Clingstone.     Ripe  early  October.     (P.  J.  B.,  MS.) 

Gorgas. 

Originated  with  Benjamin  Gullis,  Philadelphia.  Growth  vigorous. 
Leaf  gland  less.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  with  a  small  swollen  point  at  the  apex. 
Skin  yellowish  white,  clouded  and  blotched  with  red  on  the  exposed  sur- 
face ;  dull  greenish  on  the  shaded  parts.  Suture  indistinct.  Flesh  whitish, 
slightly  stained  at  the  stone,  juicy.     Freestone.     Middle  September. 

Great  Eastern. 

Origin,  Fruitland  Nursery,  Augusta,  Ga.  A  very  large  fruit. 
Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  round,  sometimes  a  little  flattened.  Skin  greenish 
white,  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  and  well -flavored.  Ripe 
middle  of  July.     (P.  J.  B.,  MS.) 

Gregory's  Late. 

A  very  late  variety.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 
Fruit  large,  ovate,  pointed.     Skin  pale  green,  with  a  dark  red  cheek, 
Flesh  melting,  vinous,  sweet.     Early  October.     Freestone.     (Hogg.) 

Green  Catharine. 
Origin  uncertain.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 


THE    PJiACH.  016 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Skin  pale  green,  with  a  red  cheek  only  when 
exposed  co  the  stm.  Flesh  greenish  white,  red  at  the  stone,  very  juicy 
melting,  and  very  good  flavor.  Freestone.  Requires  a  warm  season  tc 
bring  it  to  perfection.     Ripe  from  the  first  to  middle  of  Sej  teinber. 

Grosse  Mignonne. 

Royal  Kensington.  Neil's  Early  Purple. 

Grimwood's  Royal  George.  Johnson's  Early  Purple. 

New  Royal  George.  Mignonne. 


Large  French  Mignonne.  Veloutee  de  Merlet. 

French  Mignonne.  Pouvpr 'c  de  Novmandie. 

Swiss  Mignonne.  La  Royale. 

Purple  Avant.  Pourpr.  e  Hative. 

Early  Purple  Avant.  Ronald's  Seedling  Galande. 

Early  May.  Royal  Sovereign. 

Early  Vineyard.  Superb  Royal. 

The  Grosse  Mignonne  is  certainly  the  '•  world-renowned  "  of  Peaches. 
It  is  eveiywhere  esteemed  as  one  of  the  most  delicious  of  varieties. 
Leaves  with  globose  glands.      Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  always  somewhat  depressed,  and  marked  with 
a  hollow  suture  at  the  top.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  mottled  with 
red,  and  having  a  purplish-red  cheek.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  marked 
with  red  at  the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  with  a  very  rich,  high,  vinous  fla- 
vor. Stone  small,  and  very  rough.  Middle  of  August,  before  the 
Royal  George.     Freestone. 

Haines'  Early  Red. 

An  early  Peach,  originated  in  New  Jersey,  of  very  fine  flavor,  and 
so  hardy  and  productive  as  to  be  a  popular  orchard  fruit.  Leaves  with 
globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  round,  depressed  at  the  top,  with  a  well- 
marked  suture  extending  round  the  fruit,  which  is  always  one  half  larger 
than  the  other.  Skin  pale  white,  marked  with  red,  and  nearly  covered 
with  deep  red.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
and  well-flavored.      Middle  of  August. 

Hale's  Early. 
Early  German. 

This  very  early  and  profitable  market  Peach  was  originated  in  Sum- 
mit Co.,  (>.,  by  a  German,  and  was  first  distributed  under  the  name 
Early  German.  The  tree  is  quite  hardy  and  productive,  maturing  thn 
earliest  of  any  good  sort.      Leaves  with  globose  glands.      Flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium  size,  nearly  round.  Skin  greenish,  mostly  covered 
and  mott'ed  with  red  when  ripe.  Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy,  rich, 
Bweet.     Freestone.     Last  of  July. 

Barker's  Seedling. 

Origin,  New  Jersey.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  sirill. 
Fruit   large,  roundish,  mostly    covered   with    red.      F'"^  yellowish, 
sweet,  juicy.     Early  September.     Freestone.     (Elliott.) 


616  the  peach. 

Hastings'  Rareripe. 

Origin  unknown.     Globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fr'iit  above  medium,  round,  often  a  little  flattened.  Skin  yellowisi 
white,  having  a  purplish-red  cheek  on  the  sunny  side,  shaded  off  with 
specks  of  the  same  color.  Productive,  juicy,  and  of  delicious  flavor. 
IV]  iddle  of  September.     Freestone. 

Hatch. 

Originated  with  S.  O.  Hatch,  Franklin,  Conn.  Hardy  and  valuable 
at  the  North.     Glands  globose. 

Fruit  roundish,  pointed.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  deep  yellow  blush 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  melting,  sweet,  and  excellent.  Freestone. 
First  of  September.     (Cole.) 

Hative  de  Ferrieres. 

An  early  French  variety.     Leaves  without  glands. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Suture  shallow  ;  one  side  a  little  enlarged. 
Skin  white,  nearly  covered  with  rich  red.  Flesh  white,  slightly  tinged 
at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  sweet,  rich,  vinous  flavor.  Freestone. 
Ripe  last  of  August,  just  after  Early  York. 

Heath. 
Heath  Clingstone.  Fine  Heath.  White  English.  Red  Heath. 

The  most  superb  and  most  delicious  of  all  late  Clingstones.  It 
seldom  ripens  in  New  England,  but  here,  and  to  the  southward,  it  ia 
one  of  the  most  vahiable  kinds,  of  very  large  size,  and  the  very  finest 
flavor. 

Coxe  informs  us  that  this  is  a  seedling  produced  in  Maryland  from 
a  stone  brought  by  Mr.  Daniel  Heath  from  the  Mediterranean ;  and  it 
is  frequently  still  propagated  from  the  stone,  without  variation.  The 
tree  is  vigorous,  long-lived,  and  moderately  productive  ;  with  the  short- 
ening-in  mode  of  pruning,  the  fruit  is  always  large  and  fine,  otherwise 
often  poor.  This  tree  is  well  deserving  of  a  place  on  the  espalier  rail,  or 
wall,  at  the  North.  Leaves  nearly  smooth  on  the  edges,  with  reniform 
glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong,  narrowing  to  both  ends,  and  terminating  at 
the  top  with  a  large  swollen  point;  the  suture  distinct  on  one  side. 
Skin  downy,  cream-colored  white,  with  a  faint  blush  or  tinge  of  red  in 
the  sun,  or  a  brownish  cheek.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very  tendtr  and 
melting,  exceedingly  juicy,  with  the  richest,  highest,  and  most  luscious 
flavor,  surpassed  by  no  other  variety.  It  adheres  very  closely  to  the 
stone,  It  ripens  in  October,  and  frequently  keeps  for  a  month  after 
being  gathered. 

Henry  Clay. 

A  Southern  Peach,  introduced  and  described  in  the  Horticulturist  by 
Rev.  A.  B.  Lawrence,  Woodville,  Miss. 

Fruit  very  large.     Skin  deep  purpla  in  the  sun,  shading  to  bright 


THE    TEACH.  617 


pink  and  creamy  white.  Flesh  grayish  white,  delicate,  tender,  peculiar 
flavor,  partaking  slightly  of  pine-apple  and  strawberry.  First  of  August  ; 
September  at  the  North.     Freestone. 

HOFFNER. 

Hoffner's  Seedling. 

Originated  near  Cincinnati,  O.     Glands  globose. 
Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish.     Skin  greenish  white,  red  in  the 
sun.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy.     August.     Freestone. 

Honey. 
De  Montigny. 

This  is  undoubtedly  a  variety  that  reproduces  itself  from  seed  with 
great  exactness.  The  one  grown  mostly  in  this  country  was  raised  by 
Charles  Downing,  many  years  since,  from  seed  brought  from  China  and 
presented  to  him. 

Hogg  describes  a  Honey  as  having  originated  at  the  "  Jardin  des 
Plantes,"  and  from  Chinese  seed.     Glands  reniform.      Flowers  large. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  compressed,  with  a  pretty  deep  suture  along  one 
side,  and  turning  the  point  to  the  opposite  side,  giving  it  the  appearance 
of  a  beak.  Skin  whitish  yellow,  washed  and  marbled  with  fine  red  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  creamy  white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  peculiar 
honeyed,  rich,  delicious  sweet  flavor.     Freestone.     Last  of  August 

Horton's  Delicious. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  depressed  at  apex,  point 
very  small,  and  within  the  depression.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  mode- 
rately downy,  of  a  rich  creamy  white,  with  a  faint  blush  in  the  sun, 
Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  with  the  exact  flavor  of  a  Heath  Cling.  From 
first  to  middle  of  October.     (Clingstone.) 

Hull's  Athenian. 

From  Henry  Hull,  Jr.,  Athens,  Ga. 

_  Fruit  very  large,  oblong,  depressed  at  apex.  Suture  a  mere  line, 
Skin  very  downy,  yellowish  white,  marbled  with  dull  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  pale  red  at  the  stone,  rather  firm  and  rich.  October, 
Clingstone. 

Hyslop. 

Hyslop's  Clingstone. 

Origin  unknown.  An  American  variety,  hardy  and  productive, 
Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval.  Skin  white,  with  a  crim 
son  cheek.  Flesh  very  juicy,  melting,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor.  Ad- 
heres to  the  stone.      First  of  October. 


618  the  peach. 

Incomparable. 
Pavie  Admirable.  Late  Admirable  Cling. 

Larger  than  the  Catherine,  which  it  resembles.  Leaves  witt  reni 
form  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  one  side  enlarged.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white, 
light  red  on  the  exposed  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  red  at  the  stone, 
iuicy,  melting,  and  of  agreeable  flavor.     Last  of  September. 

Jackson  Cling. 

Raised  by  Mrs.  L.  A.  Franklin,  Athens,  Ga. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  with  a  very  large,  swollen  point.  Skin  rich 
dark  yellow,  covered  with  dark  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  rather  firm, 
orange  yellow,  and  dark  red  at  the  stone  ;  juicy,  sprightly.  Last  of 
August. 

Jacques'  Rareripe. 

Jacques'  Yellow  Rareripe. 

Origin,  Massachusetts.  A  large  yellow  Peach  of  medium  quality, 
and  productive.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  compressed.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  dark 
yellow,  mostly  shaded  with  dull  red.  Flesh  yellow,  red  at  the  stone, 
juicy,  slightly  subacid.     Freestone.     Middle  of  September. 

Jane. 

Baxter's  Seedling,  No.  1.  Irish  Jane. 

Origin,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellowish-white,  with  a  red 
cheek.     Good.     Last  of  September.     Freestone. 

Jones'  Early. 

Raised  by  S.  T.  Jones,  Staten  Island,  N.  Y.     Globose  glands. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Suture  shallow,  distinct,  extending 
around  the  fruit.  Skin  yellowish  white,  tinged  with  pale  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  slight  red  at  the  stone,  juicy.  Middle  of  August. 
Freestone. 

Jones'  Large  Early. 

Raised  by  S.  T.  Jones.     Glands  reniform. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened  at  each  end.  Suture  deep,  one  half 
<v  little  larger  than  the  other.  Skin  delicate  white,  broadly  shaded  with 
deep  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  pink  at  the  stone,  very  juicy, 
rich,  sprightly,  and  delicious.  Freestone.  Middle  of  August.  (Hov 
Mag,) 

Jose  Sweet. 

Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Suture  deep.  Skin  greenish  white,  witt 
a  dull  red  cheek,  juicy,  delicious.     Last  September.     Freestone. 


the  peach.  619 

Julia. 

Origin,  South  Carolina. 

Fruit  medium,  white,  with  a  slight  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  juicy, 
vinous.  One  of  the  best  late  sorts  for  the  South.  November.  Free- 
Btone.     (P.  J.  Berckman's  Cat.) 

Kenrick's  Heath. 
Freestone  Heath.  Heath  Free.  White  Heath. 

A  large,  showy,  oblong  Peach,  often  growing  to  the  largest  size,  and 
a  very  hardy  tree,  but  the  quality  of  the  fruit  is  only  second-rate. 
This  sort,  which  is  a  native  of  New  England,  is  vigorous,  and  bears 
large  crops.  It  is  quite  distinct  from  the  celebrated  Heath  Cling. 
Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong,  with  a  slight  suture,  and  a  small  swollen 
point  at  the  top.  Skin  pale  greenish  white,  with  a  purplish  red  cheek. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  deep  red  at  the  stone,  a  little  coarse,  melting, 
quite  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  subacid  flavor.     Middle  of  September. 

Lady  Palmerston. 

One  of  Thomas  Pavers'  new  varieties,  and  described  by  him  as  hav- 
ing reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  greenish  yellow,  marbled  with  crimson.  Flesh  pal6 
yellow,  melting.     Very  good.     Pipe  last  of  September. 

Lady  Parham. 

Originated  with  Thomas  Affleck.  Glands  reniform.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  one  side  larger  than  the  other,  depressed 
at  the  summit.  Suture  distinctly  marked,  the  swollen  point  small. 
Skin  yellowish  white,  downy.  Flesh  pale,  red  at  the  stone,  firm,  rich, 
vinous.     Middle  of  October.     Freestone. 

La  Grange. 

The  La  Grange  is  a  white  freestone  Peach,  of  very  late  maturity, 
large  size,  and  fine  flavor.  It  was  originated  from  seed  in  the  garden 
of  Mr.  John  Hulse,  Burlington,  N.  J. 

Its  late  period  of  maturity,  its  color,  its  productiveness,  and  size, 
have  given  it  quite  a  reputation  among  the  extensive  growers  of  New 
Jersey,  and  it  is  undoubtedly  a  most  valuable  fruit,  not  only  for  the 
tabic,  but  for  preserving  at  the  most  desirable  period  for  this  purpose, 
late  in  the  season.     Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  shaped  somewhat  like  the  Heath  Cling.  Skin 
greeni.^l:  white,  with  occasionally  some  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
pale,  juicy,  melting,  very  rich,  sweet,  high-flavored,  and  delicious.  Last 
of  September  and  beginning  of  October.      Freestone. 

Large  Early  York. 

Honest  John.  New  York  Rareripe. 

A  valuable  variety,  so  much   like  Haines'  Early  and  Walter's  Early 


620  THE    PEACH. 

that    t  is  difficult  to  decide  whether  they  are  not  identical.     Loavet 
with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish.  Skin  whitish,  with  marbhngs  and 
dots  of  red,  clear  rich  red-cheek  in  the  sun.  t  Flesh  almost  white,  fine- 
grained, juicy,  rich,  mild,  excellent.     Freestone.     Last  of  August. 

Large  White  Clingstone. 

New  York  White  Clingstone.  Williamson's  New  York. 

Selby's  Cling. 

The  Large  "White  Clingstone  is  one  of  the  most  popular  of  this  clas3 
of  Peaches.  AVe  think  it  superior  to  the  Catherine  and  Old  Newington, 
and  only  surpassed  in  flavor  by  the  Oldmixon  Cling  and  the  Heath 
Cliug. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  David  Williamson,  in  New  York.  The 
light  color  and  excellent  quality  of  this  fruit  render  it  the  greatest 
favorite  for  preserving  in  brandy  or  sugar.  It  bears  regular  and  good 
crops.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  round,  the  suture  slight,  and  the  swollen  point  at  the 
top  small.  Skin  white  (inclining  to  yellow  only  when  over-ripe),  dotted 
with  red  on  the  sunny  side,  or  with  a  light-red  cheek  when  fully  exposed. 
Flesh  whitish,  tender,  very  melting,  full  of  juice,  which  is  very  sweet, 
luscious,  and  high-flavored.     Beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

Late  Admirable. 

La  Royale.  Judd's  Melting. 

Peche  Royale  Motteux's. 

Teton  de  Venus.  Pourprte  Tardive,  )  incorrectly 

French  Bourdine.  Late  Purple,  )    of  some. 

u  The  Late  Admirable  "  is  one  of  those  delicious  sorts  that,  origina- 
ting a  long  time  ago  in  France,  have  received  the  approval  of  the  best 
cultivators  everywhere.  It  is  hardy  and  productive  in  this  climate. 
Leaves  with  globose  glands.      Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  with  a  bold  suture 
dividing  the  fruit  pretty  deeply  all  round,  and  a  small,  acute,  swollen 
point  at  the  top.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  with  a  pale  red  cheek,  mar- 
bled with  darker  red.  Flesh  greenish  white,  but  red  at  the  stone,  very 
juicy,  melting,  and  of  delicate,  exquisite  flavor.     Middle  of  September. 

Late  Red  Rareripe. 
Prince's  Red  Rareripe. 

This  American  fruit  is  one  of  the  finest  of  Peaches.  Its  large  size, 
and  its  productiveness  and  vigor,  unite  to  recommend  it  to  universal 
favor.  The  rather  grayish  appearance  of  the  fruit  serves  to  distinguish 
it,  at  first  sight,  from  all  others.  Leaves  with  globose  glands.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  large  and  heavy,  roundish  oval.  Suture  depressed  only  at  the 
top,  where  the  swollen  point  is  distinctly  sunken.  Skin  downy,  pale 
grayish  yellow,  thickly  marbled  and  covered  with  reddish  spots ;  the 
cheek  dull,  deep  red,  distinctly  mottled  with  fawn-colored  specks.  Flesh 
wldte,  but  deep  red  at  the  stone,  very  juicy,  melting,  and  of  rich,  high 
flavor.     First  to  the  10th  of  September.     Freestoae. 


the  peach.  621 

Late  Yellow  Alberge. 
October  Yellow.         Algiers  Yellow.         Algiers  Winter. 

A  very  late  Clingstone,  originally  introduced  from  the  S.  nth  of 
France,  but  now  abandoned.  Leaves  with  reniforru  glands.  Flower* 
large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oval.  Skin  downy,  green,  becoming 
yellow.  Flesh  yellow  to  the  stone,  very  firm,  rather  juicy,  swee' 
October. 

Lemon  Clingstone. 

Kennedy's  Carolina.  Long  Yellow  Pine-apple. 

Kennedy's  Lemon  Clingstone.  Pine-apple  Clingstone. 

Largest  Lemon.  Yellow  Pine-apple. 
Allison. 

The  Lemon  Clingstone  is  one  of  the  largest  and  most  beautiful  of  all 
the  yellow-fleshed  clings.  It  is  originally  a  native  of  South  Carolina. 
There  are  now  many  seedlings  reproduced  from  it.  This  is  a  vei-y  pro 
ductive,  hardy  tree.  Leaves  long,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowera 
small. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  narrowed  a,fc  the  top,  and  having  a  large,  pro- 
jecting, swollen  point,  much  like  that  of  a  lemon.  Skin  line  yellow, 
with  a  dark  brownish-red  cheek.  Flesh  firm,  yellow,  slightly  red  at  the 
stone,  adhering  firmly,  with  a  rich,  sprightly,  vinous,  subacid  flavor. 
Middle  and  last  of  September. 

Lenoir. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  with  one  side  projecting.  Skin  white,  smooth, 
washed  and  splashed  with  red.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  perfumed.  Free- 
stone.    Ripe  middle  August. 

Leopold  I. 

A  Belgian  Peach.  Leaves  seriated,  with  slight  reniform  glands. 
Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  well  marked.  Skin  downy,  clear 
yellow,  shaded  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  fine,  melting,  juicy.  Sep 
tember.     Freestone. 

Lincoln. 

Origin,  Lincoln,  Mass.    Yery  hardy  and  productive.     Glands  globose. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  large.  Skin  rich  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  dark  purplish  red,  much  downy.  Flesh  yellow,  with  a 
tinge  of  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  of  a  very  rich,  sweet,  and  excellent 
flavor.     Freestone.     From  first  to  last  of  September. 

Lord  Palmerston. 

This  is  another  of  Thomas  Rivers'  new  sorts,  grown,  as  he  says,  from 
seed  of  the  Princess  of  Wales,  and  resembling  in  size  its  grandparent^ 
the  Monstrous  Pa  vie  of  Pompone.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  very  large.  Skin  whitish,  with  a  pink  cheek.  Flesh  firm,  yet 
.melting,  juicy,  and  rich.     Middle  to  end  of  September. 


622  the  peach. 

Lyon. 

An  accidental  seedling,  originating  on  the  grounds  of  George  Hub* 
man,  Hermann,  Mo. 

Fruit  rather  large,  round,  somewhat  irregular,  largest  on  one  side. 
Suture  slight,  marked  with  a  red  streak.  Skin  smooth,  little  down,  yel- 
lowish white,  nearly  covered  and  marbled  with  beautiful  red,  becoming 
deep  purple  in  the  sun.  Flesh  veined  with  red,  deep  red  at  the  stone, 
juicy,  sweet,  vinous.  "  One  of  the  best  among  thirty  of  my  varieties." 
Early  August.     Freestone.     (Husman,  MS.) 

Madame  d'Andrimont. 

Originated  in  Belgium.     Leaves  glandless.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  depressed  at  ends.  Suture  shallow.  Skin 
downy,  pale  yellow,  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  marbled  with 
bright  purple  next  the  stone.     August.     Freestone.     (Verg.) 

Madeleine  de  Courson. 

Bed  Magdalen.  French  Magdalen.  Madeleine  Rouge. 

True  Red  Magdalen.         Rouge  Paysaune. 

The  Red  Magdalen  of  Courson  is  a  favorite  old  French  Peach.  Leavea 
serrated,  without  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  or  rather  below  it,  round,  flattened,  with  a 
deep  suture  on  one  side.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  with  a  lively  red 
cheek.  Flesh  white,  slightly  red  a.t  the  stone,  juicy,  and  melting,  with 
a  rich,  vinous  flavor.     Middle  and  last  of  August.     Freestone. 

Malta. 
Peche  Malte.        Malte  de  Normandie.        Italian.        Belle  de  Paris. 

An  old  European  Peach.  The  tree  is  not  a  great  bearer.  The  fruit 
of  the  Malta  keeps  well  after  being  gathered.  Leaves  serrated,  without 
glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  rather  large  size,  roundish,  flattened,  with  a  broad,  shallow 
suture  on  one  side.  Skin  pale  dull  green,  marked  on  the  sunny  side 
with  broken  spots  and  blotches  of  dull  purple.  Flesh  greenish,  with  a 
little  dark  red  at  the  stone,  very  juicy  and  melting.  Last  of  August. 
Freestone. 

Merriam. 

Glands  globose. 

Fruit  very  large,  short  oval.  Skin  light  yellow,  bright  red  cheeuc. 
flesh  yellow,  red  at  the  stone,  melting,  very  juicy,  of  a  sweet  luscioua 
flavor.     First  of  October.     (Cole.) 

MlGNONNE    PuBARLE. 

Glands  globose.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval.  Nipple  at  apex 
Suture  distinct.  Skin  nearly  covered  with  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
tender,  melting,  j  ucy,  rich.     Middle  August.     Freestone.     (Hogg.) 


Tire  rKAcn.  623 

Mrs.  Hunley. 

Origin,  Fruitland  Nuisery,  Augusta,  Ga.  Glands  reniform.  Flowers 
«nall. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  one-sided,  pale  yellow,  with  occasionally  a 
little  red  near  the  base.  Flesh  yellow,  rich,  melting.  Ripens  last  of 
September.     (P.  J.  B.,  MS.) 

Mrs.  Poinsette. 

Origin,  South  Carolina.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Globose 
glands. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  with  a  regular  suture.  Skin  yellowish,  inclin- 
ing on  the  exposed  side  to  a  brownish  tint,  veined  with  red.  Flush  of 
rich  yellow,  juicy,  melting,  and  of  first  quality,  partially  adherent. 
Ripens  from  1st  to  12th  of  August  in  South  Carolina.  (William 
Summer.) 

Montgomery's  Late. 

Southern  origin.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  round,  depressed  at  apex.  Suture  shallow,  but  distinct. 
Skin  downy,  yellowish  white,  dotted  with  red,  and  having  a  dull  red 
cheek.  Flesh  pale  white,  red  at  the  stone,  very  juicy,  melting. 
Ripens  the  first  of  September,  continues  nearly  all  the  month.  Free- 
stone. 

Molden's  White. 

Origin,  Molden  Mountain,  on  the  Chesapeake.  A  fine  white  Peach, 
valuable  for  its  lateness.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  distinct.  Skin  creamy  white, 
rarely  with  a  tinge  of  red.  Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  juicy,  sweet, 
melting.     Ripe  last  of  September.     Freestone. 

Moore's  Favorite. 

Origin,  garden  of  H.  R.  Moore,  Chelsea,  Mass.  Tree  hardy,  vigo- 
rous.    Glands  globose. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  round  the  fruit.  Skin  white,  with  a 
broad,  bright  blush.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  of  a  rich  vinous  flavor. 
Stone  small,  free.     September  1st  to  15th.     (Cole.) 

Moore's  June. 

Origin,  Athens,  Ga.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

.Fruit  below  medium,  globular.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  yellowish, 
with  red  dots  and  marblings,  and  deep  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white, 
marbled  with  red  from  the  skin  to  the  stone  in  the  darker-colored  ones, 
but  red  only  at  the  stone  where  grown  in  the  shade  ;  juicy,  vinous.  Last 
of  June  and  first  of  July      Freestone. 

Morrisania  Pound. 

Hoffman's  Pound.  Morrison's  Pound. 

A  very  large  variety,  originated  many  years  ago,  by  Martin  HofP 
man,  but  first  disseminated  from  the  garden  of  Gouvemeur  Morris,  of 


624  TIIE   PEACH. 

Morrisania,  near  New  York.  It  is  a  good  fruit,  but  its  place  has  been 
taken,  of  late,  by  other  more  popular  sorts.  Leaves  with  globose  glands 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  veiy  large  and  heavy,  nearly  round.  Skin  dull  greenisL 
white,  with  a  brownish-red  cheek.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  firm,  juicy, 
sugary,  and  rich  in  flavor.  Ripens  the  middle  and  last  of  September. 
Freestone. 

Morris's  Red  Rareripe. 
Morris  Red.  Red  Rareripe.  Large  Red  Rareripe. 

This  very  popular  and  well-known  American  Peach  has  been  justly 
esteemed  for  its  acknowledged  good  flavor,  beauty,  and  productiveness. 
Leaves  with  small  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  a  little  depressed  at  the  top,  with  a  moder- 
ately well-marked  suture.  Skin  fine  pale  greenish  white,  a  little 
dotted,  and  with  a  lively,  rich  red  cheek.  Flesh  pale  greenish  white, 
quite  red  at  the  stone,  very  melting  and  juicy,  with  a  sweet  and  rich 
flavor.     Last  of  August.     Freestone. 

Morris's  White  Rareripe. 

Morris's  White.  White  Melocoton 

White  Rareripe .  Cole's  White  Melocoton. 

Luscious  White  Rareripe.  Freestone  Heath 

Lady  Ann  Steward.  Morris's  White  Freestone. 

Morris's  White  Rareripe,  a  native,  is  the  most  popular  and  well- 
known  white  Peach,  and  is  everywhere  cultivated  in  this  country, 
either  under  this  or  some  of  the  other  names  quoted  above.  It  is 
a  rich  fruit  in  a  warm  climate,  but  is  not  quite  so  high  flavored  at  the 
North  or  East.  The  tree  is  vigorous  and  healthy,  and  bears  fair  crops. 
In  some  sections  tender  and  variable  in  quality.  Leaves  with  reniform 
glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oval.  Suture  only  of  moderate  depth,  swollen 
point  small.  Skin  rather  downy,  greenish  white  on  all  sides  at  first, 
but  white  with  a  creamy  tint  when  fully  ripe,  and,  when  fully  exposed, 
sometimes  with  a  slightly  purple  cheek.  Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  a 
little  firm,  melting  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich.     Middle  of  September. 


Napoleon. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  near  Macon,  Ga.  Glands  reniform. 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  round,  very  downy.  Skin  almost  dark 
red.  Flesh  pink,  veined  with  red,  juicy,  rich.  Freestone.  Ripens  last 
of  July.     (P.  J.  B.,  MS.) 

Nectarine  Peach. 

Raised  from  stone  of  a  Dutch  Nectarine,  by  Thomas  River?.  Glands 
reniform.     Flowers  large. 


THE    PEACH.  626 

Fruit  lurge.  Skin  smooth.  Flesh  melting,  rich,  peculiar,  fine  flavo* 
Middle  September.     (Rivers'  Cat.) 

Nivette. 
Nivette  Veloute'e.  Veloutee  Tardive.  Dorsetshire. 

The  Nivette  is  an  excellent  French  variety,  much  resembling  the 
Late  Admirable.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval.  Suture  shallow,  and  the 
top  slightly  depressed.  Skin  pale  green,  with  a  lively  red  cheek.  Flesh 
pale  green,  but  deep  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  and  very  rich* 
Beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

Noblesse. 
Vanguard.  Mellish's  Favorite.  Lord  Montague's  Noblesse. 

An  English  Peach,  esteemed  wherever  known,  as  one  of  the  largest 
and  most  valuable  varieties.  Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  a  little  narrowed  at  the  top,  and  ter- 
minated by  an  acute  swollen  point.  Skin  slightly  downy,  pale  green 
throughout,  marked  on  the  cheek  with  delicate  red,  clouded  with  darker 
red.  Flesh  pale  greenish  white  to  the  stone,  melting,  very  juicy.  Last 
of  August.     Freestone. 

Oldmixon  Clingstone. 
Oldmixon  Cling. 

The  Oldmixon  Clingstone  is  certainly  one  of  the  highest  flavored  of 
all  Peaches  known  in  this  country,  where  it  is  raised  in  perfection,  and 
should  have  a  place  in  every  good  gai'den.  Indeed  we  consider  this, 
the  Large  White  Cling,  and  the  Heath  Cling,  as  being  the  sorts  among 
the  most  desirable  of  this  class  of  Peaches  for  small  collections.  Leaves 
with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  The  suture  distinct  only  at  the  top,  on 
one  side  of  which  the  fruit  is  slightly  enlarged.  Skin  yellowish  white 
dotted  with  red,  or  with  a  red  cheek,  varying  from  pale  to  lively  red. 
Flesh  pale  white,  very  melting  and  juicy,  with  an  exceedingly  rich,  lus- 
cious, high  flavor.     First  of  September. 

Oldmixon  Freestone. 
Oldmixon  Clearstone. 

A  large  American  Peach,  of  late  maturity  and  rich  flavor.  It  was, 
we  believe,  raised  either  from  a  stone  of  the  Catherine  Cling  or  the 
Oldmixon  Cling,  the  latter  having  been  brought  to  this  country  many 
years  ago  by  Sir  John  Oldmixon.  It  bears  good  crops,  and  is  a  valuable 
variety  for  market  or  garden.  Leaves  with  globose  glands.  Flowers 
small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  or  slightly  oval,  one  side  swollen,  and  the 
Buture  visible  only  at  the  top.  Cavity  but  slightly  sunk  at  the  stalk- 
Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  marbled  with  red,  the  cheek  a  deep  red. 
Flesh  white,  but  quite  red  at  the  stone,  tender,  with  an  excellent  rich, 
sugary,  and  vinous  flavor.     Beginning  of  September. 

40 


626  the  peach. 

Old  Newington. 
Newington.  Large  Newii  gton. 

A  celebrated  English  Clingstone,  which  has  been  in  cultivation  more 
than  two  hundred  years,  and  still  is  perhaps  the  best  in  the  English  cli- 
mate. Although  excellent,  it  is  not  so  generally  esteemed  here  as  the 
Large  White  Cling  and  Oldmixon  Clingstone.  Leaves  serrated,  without 
glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  the  suture  slight.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white, 
with  a  fine  red  cheek,  marked  with  streaks  of  darker  red.  Flesh  pale 
yellowish  white,  deep  red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  always  adheres  very 
firmly;  melting,  juicy,  and  rich.     Ripens  about  the  15th  of  September. 

Okange  Clingstone. 

The  Orange  Cling  is  a  very  large,  handsome,  and  excellent  fruit, 
somewhat  resembling  the  Lemon  Cling  in  color,  but  globular  in  form, 
rather  richer  in  flavor,  and  quite  a  distinct  sort.  Leaves  large,  serrated, 
Without  glands     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  round,  the  suture  distinctly  marked,  and  extending 
nearly  round  the  fruit,  swollen  point  at  the  top,  none.  Skin  deep  orange, 
with  a  rich  dark-red  cheek.  Flesh  dark  yellow,  rather  firm,  juicy,  with 
rich,  vinous  flavor.     September. 

Osceola. 

Origin,  Macon  Co.,  Ga.    Belongs  to  the  Indian  type.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  round.  Suture  medium,  golden  yellow,  with  an 
orange  cheek,  and  a  few  reddish  veins.  Flesh  yellow,  stained  and 
streaked  with  dull  red,  sweet,  pleasant.  Freestone.  Last  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Owen. 

Owen's  Lemon  Rareripe. 

Origin,  garden  of  J.  Owen,  Cambridge,  Mass.  Glands  globose. 
Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  large.  Skin  rich  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  dark  red  or  purplish  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  red  at 
the  stone,  tender,  very  juicy,  of  a  delicious  saccharine  and  slightly  sub- 
acid flavor.     Freestone.     Middle  to  last  of  September. 

There  is  another  Owen,  originated  in  Habersham  Co.,  Ga.,  which  is 
described  as  having  globose  glands. 

Fruit  medium.  Skin  creamy  white,  downy.  Flesh  white  to  the 
stone, juicy,  melting,  sweet,  and  rich,     Freestone.     September. 

Pavie  de  Pom  pone. 

Monstrous  Pomponne.  Pavie  Rouge  de  Pomponno. 

Monstrous  Pavie.  Pavie  Camu. 

Pavie  de  Pomponne  Grosse.  Gros  Melocoton. 

Pavie  Monstrueux.  Gros  Persique  Rouge. 

A  large  old  French  Clingstone.  The  fruit  is  very  solid  in  flesh. 
The  tree  is  of  very  strong  growth.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands.  Flow 
era  large. 


THE    PEACH.  627 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oval,  with  a  well-marked  suture  extend 
ing  to  the  top,  and  terminating  there  in  an  obtuse  swollen  point.  Skin 
yellowish  white,  a  good  deal  covered  with  the  broad  very  deep  red  colot 
of  its  cheek.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  deep  red  at  the  stone,  to 
which  it  adheres  very  firmly,  and  which  is  rather  small,  juicy.  Flavor 
sweet  and  good.     First  of  October. 

Picquet's  Late. 

Originated  with  Antoine  Picquet,  Bell  Air,  Ga.  Glands  reniforrn. 
Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  round,  sometimes  a  little  flattened  and  one- 
Bided.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  melting,  sweet, 
rich,  and  perfumed.  Very  good.  Freestone.  Early  September.  (P. 
J.  B.,  MS.) 

Poole's  Large  Yellow. 
Poole's  Late  Yellow  Freestone. 

A  very  large  Peach,  of  the  Melocoton  family.  Leaves  with  reniform 
glands. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  with  suture.  Skin  deep  yellow,  dark-red 
cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  but  red  at  the  stone,  juicy.  Last  of  September. 
Freestone. 

President. 

One  of  the  best  of  our  Peaches,  and  a  capital  variety.  Originated, 
several  years  ago,  on  Long  Island.  Leaves  v.ith  globose  glands.  Flow- 
ers small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  the  suture  shallow.  Skin  very  downy, 
pale  yellowrish  green,  with  a  dull  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  but  deep  red 
at  the  stone,  very  juicy,  melting,  rich,  and  high-flavored.  Stone  very 
rough.     Middle  of  September.     Freestone. 

President  Church. 

Raised  by  the  Rev.  A.  Church,  President  of  Franklin  College,  Ga. 
Glands  reniform. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval.  Suture  shallow,  often  a 
mere  line,  with  a  small  point  at  the  apex,  which  is  rarely  depressed. 
Skin  pale  red  in  the  shade,  beautifully  mottled  and  washed  with  dark 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  pale  red  at  the  stone,  very  juicy,  melting. 
Freestone.     Ripe  middle  September. 

Prince  of  Wales. 

A  late  Peach  grown  from  seed  of  Pitmaston  Orange  Nectarine,  by 
Thomas  Rivers,  England.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  rather  flattened.     Skin  downy,  green  in 
shade,   but  dark   red   in  sun.     Flesh  greenish    white,  stained  with  red 
next  the  stone,  tender,  melting,  juicv.     Middle  September.      Fr< 
(Hogg.) 


628  the  peach. 

Prince's  Climax 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  George  Mitchell,  Flushing,  Long  Island  J 
very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  crimson  cheek,  and  two 
thirds  mottled  with  crimson.  Flesh  yellow,  very  rich,  aromatic,  pine 
apple  flavor ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Ripens  the  middle  and  end  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Prince's  Excelsior. 

Originated  with  William  R.  Prince,  Flushing,  Long  Island. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Suture  slight,  little  abortive  mamelon.  Skin 
creamy  white,  shaded  with  crimson.  Flesh  yellow,  rich,  aromatic,  sweet 
and  rich ;  separates  freely  from  the  stone.     Ripens  middle  of  October. 

Prince's  Paragon. 

Tree  very  vigorous  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Skin  yellowish  green,  shaded  with  red.  Flesh 
juicy,  luscious,  and  fine  flavor.  Separates  from  the  stone.  Ripena 
about  the  middle  of  September.     (Wm.  R.  Prince,  MS.) 

Princess  of  Wales. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  from  seed  of  Pavie  de  Pompone.  Glands 
globose.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  very  large,  round,  terminated  by  a  nipple.  Skin  cream-colored, 
very  slightly  shaded  with  blush.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  rich,  deep  red  at 
the  stone.     Freestone.     October.     (Hogg.) 

Pucelle  de  Malines. 

A  foreign  variety  not  much  known  here.  Leaves  without  glands. 
Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Suture  distinct.  Skin  downy,  yellow,  becom- 
ing red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  stained  with  red  round  the 
atone,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.     Early  September.     Freestone. 

Ray. 

Originated  by  Dr.  H.  Ray,  of  Yallobusha  Co.,  Miss.  Glands  reniform. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish,  with  a  nipple.     Skin  cream  white,  spotted 
with  purple.     Flesh  juicy.     Late  in  August.     South.     (Gar.  Mon.) 

Raymackers. 

A  foreign  variety.     Leaves  serrated. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Suture  deep  at  ends.  Skin  downy,  clear  yel- 
ow,  largely  colored  with  carmine.  Flesh  white,  melting,  vinous.  Sept. 
Freestone.     (Alb.  Pom.) 


THE    PEACH.  62fl 

Red-Cheek  Melocoton.* 

Malagatune.  Yellow  Malocoton. 

Malacatune.  Yellow  Malagatune. 

Hogg's  Melocoton.  Red  Cheek  Malocoton. 

The  Melocoton  (or  Malagatune,  as  it  is  commonly  called)  is  almost 
ioo  well  known  to  need  description.  Almost  every  orchard  and  garden 
in  the  country  contains  it,  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  bushels  of  the 
fruit  are  raised  and  sent  to  market  in  this  country  every  year.  It  is  a 
beautiful  and  fine  fruit  in  favorable  seasons,  though  in  unfavorable  ones 
the  acid  frequently  predominates  somewhat  in  its  flavor.  It  is  an 
American  seedling,  and  is  constantly  reproducing  itself  under  new  forms, 
most  of  the  varieties  in  this  section  having,  directly  or  indirectly,  been 
raised  from  it ;  the  finest  and  most  popular  at  the  present  time  being 
Crawford's  Early  and  Late  Melocotons,  both  greatly  superior,  in  every 
respect,  to  the  original  Melocoton. 

Pettit's  Imperial,  Middleton's  Imperial,  Scott's  Nonpareil,  and  Tice, 
are  seedlings  of  this  variety,  but  not  sufficiently  distinct  and  valuable 
to  merit  cultivation.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  with  a  swollen  point  at  the  top.  Skin 
yellow,  with  a  deep  red  cheek.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  red  at  the  stone, 
juicy,  melting,  with  a  good,  rich,  vinous  flavor.  First  of  September. 
Freestone. 

Red  Nutmeg. 

Avant  Rouge.  Red  Avant. 

Avant  Peche  de  Troyes.  Brown  Nutmeg. 

Early  Red  Nutmeg. 

The  Red  Nutmeg  is  a  very  small  and  inferior  Peach,  which  has  long 
been  cultivated  solely  on  account  of  its  earliness.  It  is  now  seldom 
seen  in  our  gardens,  being  abandoned  for  better  sorts.  It  is  desirable, 
however,  in  a  complete  collection.  The  tree  grows  slowly,  and  is  of 
dwarf  habit.     Leaves  small,  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  with  a  distinct  suture,  terminating  in  a  small, 
round,  swollen  point  at  the  top.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  bright,  rich 
red  cheek.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  red  at  the  stone,  with  a  sweet  and 
rather  pleasant  flavor.     Middle  and  last  of  July.     Freestone. 

Red  Rareripe. 
Large  Red  Rareripe,  of  some.  Early  Red  Rareripe. 

This  Peach  strongly  resembles  the  Royal  George,  and  we  believe  it 
an  American  seedling  from  that  variety,  which  is,  however,  distinct,  and 
superior  in  flavor. 

It  must  be  observed,  that  this  is  totally  different  both  from  the 
Early  York  and  Morris's  lied  Rareripe,  with  which  it  is  often  con- 
founded by  some.  The  fruit  is  larger,  broader,  and  a  week  later  than 
the  first;  and  its  serrated  leaves,  and  different  flavor,  separate  it  widely 
from  the  latter.  Ends  of  the  branches  sometimes  slightly  mildewed 
Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.      Flowers  small. 

*  Melocoton  is  the  Spanish  for  Teach. 


530  THE    PEACH. 

Fruit  rather  large,  globular,  but  broad,  depressed,  and  marked  with 
a  deep,  broad  suture,  extending  nearly  round  the  whole  fruit.  Skin 
white,  mottled,  and  marked  with  numerous  red  dots,  and  the  cbeek  of  a 
rich  dark  red.  Flesh  whitish,  but  red  at  the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  very 
rich  and  high-flavored.     Middle  and  last  of  August.     Freestone. 

Reeves'  Favorite. 

Raised  by  Samuel  Reeves,  Salem,  N.  J.  A  hardy  and  productive 
kind.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  with  a  swollen  point.  Skin 
yellow,  with  a  fine  red  cheek.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  red  at  the  stone, 
juicy,  melting,  with  a  good,  vinous  flavor.  Freestone.  Middle  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Reine  Des  Vergiers. 

Monstrueuse  de  Doue.  Orchard  Queen. 

An  old  French  Peach  but  little  known  in  this  country.  Leaves  with 
reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  narrowing  a  little  at  stem  end.  Suture  nearly 
round.  Skin  whitish,  mostly  covered  with  dull  deep  purplish  red  in  the 
sun.  Flesh  whitish  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  vinous.  Last  Sep- 
tember.    Freestone. 

Rivers'  Early  York. 

Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium.  Skin  marbled  with  red.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  Nec- 
tarine flavor.  Not  liable  to  mildew.  Early  August.  Freestone. 
(Rivers'  Cat.) 

Rodman's  Red. 
Rodman's  Cling. 

An  American  Clingstone,  not  of  the  richest  quality  but  very  showy 
for  market.     Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong.  Skin  mostly  covered  with  fine  red. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  rather  firm,  vinous.     Last  of  September. 

Rose  Aromatic. 

Originated  with  J.  F.  Nesmith,  Indian  Town,  S.  C. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong.  Suture  distinct,  one  side  enlarged.  Skin 
yellow  with  dark  orange  cheek,  washed  with  red,  very  downy.  Flesh 
white,  red  near  the  stone,  rather  dry,  with  a  peculiar  rose  aromatic  per- 
fume.    Freestone.     Ripe  last  of  July.     (P.  J.  B.,  MS.) 

ROSEBANK. 

Raised  by  James  Dougall,  Windsor,  Canada  West.  Tree  healthy, 
moderate  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  round.  Suture  deep.  Skin  greenish  white,  with  a 
beautiful  dark  red  mottled  cheek.  Flesh  whitish,  j  uicy,  melting,  rich, 
and  excellent.     Separates  from  the  stone.     Last  of  August. 


the  peach.  631 

Royal  Charlotte. 

New  Royal  Charlotte.  Lord  Fauconberg's  Mignonna 

Grimwood's  Royal  Charlotte.  Madeleine  Rouge  Tardive. 

New  Early  Purple.  Madeleine  Rouge  a  Moyenne  Fleui. 

Lord  Nelson's.  Madeleine  a  Petite  Flour. 

A  very  excellent  Peach,  and  a  favorite  variety  with  all  European 
gardeners.  Its  leaves  are  more  coarsely  and  deeply  serrated  than  those 
of  other  varieties.     Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  inclining  to  ovate,  being  rather  broader  at  the 
base  than  at  the  top  ;  the  suture  of  moderate  size.  Skin  pale  greenish 
white,  with  a  deep  red  marbled  cheek.  Flesh  white,  but  pale  red  at  the 
stone  ;  melting,  juicy,  rich,  and  excellent.  Beginning  of  September 
Freestone. 

Royal  George. 

Early  Royal  George.  Red  Magdalen. 

Millet's  Mignonne.  Madeleine  Rouge  a  Petite  Fleur 

Lockyer's  Mignonne.  French  Chancellor,  incorrectly,  of  some. 

Griffin's  Mignonne.  Early  Bourdine,  il  " 

Superb.  Double  Swalsh,  "  " 

Few  of  the  early  Peaches  surpass  in  flavor  and  beauty  the  Royal 
Geoi'ge.  It  is  one  of  the  finest  European  varieties.  It  is  a  regular  and 
moderate  bearer.     Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  or  rather  large,  globular,  broad,  and  de- 
pressed, the  suture  deep  and  broad  at  the  top,  and  extending  round  two- 
thirds  of  the  fruit.  Skin  pale  or  white,  thickly  sprinkled  with  red  dots, 
and  the  cheek  of  a  broad,  rich,  deep  red,  slightly  marbled.  Flesh  whit- 
ish, but  very  red  at  the  scone,  melting,  juicy,  very  rich,  and  of  the  high 
est  flavor.     From  the  20th  to  the  last  of  August.     Freestone. 

Scott's  Early  Red. 

Scott's  Early  Red  is  a  variety  of  a  very  excellent  flavor,  and  a  pro 
lific  bearer,  which  was  received  from  New  Jersey.  Leaves  with  ob- 
scure globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  depressed,  the  suture  dis- 
tinctly marked,  but  not  deep.  Skin  pale  greenish  white,  but  much 
covered  with  red,  which  is  mottled  with  fawn-colored  dots.  Flesh  whitish, 
very  juicy,  with  a  rich  and  luscious  flavor.    Middle  of  August.    Freestone. 

Scott's  Magnate. 

A  noble  variety  of  the  Eed  Rareripe.     Glands  reniform. 

Fruit  very  large,  round,  depressed.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  dark- 
red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  luscious,  and  well-flavored.  Ripens  early  in 
September.     (Prince's  MS.) 

Scott's  Nectar. 

.Another  very  fine  seedling  from  the  Red  Rareripe.     Glands  globose. 

Fruit  large,  round,  somewhat  depressed.  Color  red  shaded  on  pale 
yellow  ground,  and  bright  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  wliite,  very  sweet, 
and  of  the  highest  flavor.     Ripens  early  in  September.      (Prince's  MS.) 


632  the  peach. 

Scott's  October. 

Originated  with  Jacob  C.  Lyons,  Columbia,  S.  C. 
Fruit  medium  to  large,  pale  dingy  lemon  yellow.     Flesh  firm,  with  % 
lemon  flavor.     Last  of  October.     Clingstone.     (Sumner,  MS.) 

Shanghae. 

Trees  of  this  variety  and  Chinese  Cling  were  sent  to  this  country 
by  the  late  Mr.  Winchester,  while  British  Consul  at  Shanghae.  Tree 
vigorous.     Glands  reniform.      Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  OA'al,  truncate.  Suture  distinct,  extending  from  the  base 
to  beyond  the  apex,  deepening  very  much  at  the  apex,  so  as  to  form  quite 
a  cavity.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  quite  downy,  sometimes  a  little  mottled 
or  shaded  with  pale  red.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  very  melting,  juicy, 
adhering  to  the  stone,  with  a  high,  vinous  flavor.  Ripens  from  first  to 
middle  of  September.     At  the  South,  last  of  July  and  first  of  August. 

Smith's  Favorite. 

Grown  by  Calvin  Smith,  Lincoln,  Mass.     Glands  reniform. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  deep.  Skin  yellow,  mostly  covered 
with  deep  rich  red.  Flesh  yellow,  j  uicy,  sweet.  Freestone.  Middle  to 
last  of  September.     (Cole.) 

Smith's  Newington. 
Early  Newington.         Smith's  Early  Newington.         Early  Newington. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  early  Clingstone  Peaches.  The  Early  Newing- 
ton of  our  gardens  as  generally  known  (see  Early  Newington  Freestone), 
is  earlier  and  a  very  much  finer  variety,  with  reniform  glands  ;  being  a 
partial  Clingstone,  but  most  frequently  parting  from  the  flesh,  has  quite 
supplanted  it.     Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  rather  oval,  narrower  at  the  top,  and  one  half  a 
little  enlarged.  Skin  pale  straw-color,  with  a  lively  red  cheek  streaked 
with  purple.  Flesh  firm,  pale  yellow,  but  light  red  at  the  stone,  to  which 
it  adheres  closely;  juicy,  and  of  very  good  quality.     Last  of  August. 

Smock  Freestone. 
St.  George. 

This  was  originated  by  Mr.  Smock,  of  Middleton,  N.  J.  Lea-ves 
with  reniform  glands. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  narrowed  towards  the  stalk,  and  rather  compressed 
on  the  sides.  Skin  light  orange  yellow,  mottled  with  red,  or  often  with 
a  dark-red  cheek  when  fully  exposed.  Flesh  bright  yellow,  but  red  at 
the  stone,  moderately  juicy  and  rich.  Ripens  last  of  September  and 
first  of  October. 

Snow. 

The  snow  Peach  is  a  remarkably  fair  and  beautiful  fruit,  of  Ameri- 
can origin.  The  fruit  and  blossoms  are  white,  and  the  foliage  and  wood 
of  a  light  green.     Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  globular.     Suture  faintly  marked,  except  at  the  top. 


THE    PEACH.  633 

Bkin  thin,  clear,  beautiful,  white  on  all  sides.  Flesh  white  to  the 
stone,  juicy  and  melting,  with  a  sweet,  rich,  and  sprightly  flavor.  Be- 
ginning of  September.     Freestone. 

Stephenson  Cling. 

From  Thomas  Stephenson,  Clark  Co.,  Ga. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  distinct.  Skin  very  downy,  of  a 
creamy  tint,  shaded  with  flesh-color— the  tint  deepening  in  the  sun  to  a 
dark,  dull,  purplish  red  where  fully  exposed.  Flesh  white,  somewhat 
tinged  with  red,  and  deep  red  at  the  stone.  Flesh  very  tender,  melting, 
juicy.     September  first. 

Stetson's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  1ST.  Stetson,  Bridge  water,  Mass.    Globose  glands.     Flowers 

small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  indistinct.  Skin  greenish  white, 
marbled  and  shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  pink  at  the 
stone,  very  melting,  juicy,  brisk,  rich.  Freestone.  Ripens  from  iniddh 
to  last  of  September.     (Ho v.  Mag.) 

Strawberry. 
Rose. 

The  Strawberry  Peach  we  received  from  the  late  Thomas  Hancock, 
of  Burlington,  N.  J.  It  is  esteemed  one  of  the  very  finest  early 
varieties  for  orchard  culture  in  that  State.  It  is  quite  distinct  from 
the  Early  York.     Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval,  the  cavity  at  the  stem  deeply  sunk,  the 
suture  extending  half  round.  Skin  marbled  with  deep  red  over  almost 
the  whole  surface.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  juicy,  rich,  and  of  very  deli- 
'  cious  flavor.     Middle  of  August. 

Stump  the  World. 

A  native  of  New  Jersey,  large  and  showy,  and  profitable  for  market 
growing.     Flowers  small.     Glands  globose. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  a  little  oblong.  Skin  creamy  white,  with 
a  bright  red  cheek.  Suture  shallow,  rather  more  than  half  round. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  and  high-flavored.     Last  of  September.     Freestone. 

Sturtevant. 

Raised  from  seed  by  E.  T.  Sturtevant,  Cleveland,  O.,  in  1826.  It  is 
one  of,  if  not  the,  best  yellow-fleshed  Peaches  grown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  compressed.  Broad  shallow  su- 
ture half  round,  followed  by  a  dark  line.  Skin  downy,  rich  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  dark  rich  red,  very  dark  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellow, 
red  at  the  stone.  Stone  very  small.  Freestone.  Last  of  August  to 
Erst  of  September.     (Elliott.) 

Sumner's  Early. 
Fruit  medium  to  large,  beautiful  blush.     Flesh  white,  firm,  bean 


634  THE    PEACH. 

transportation   well.      Early   and   valuable    for    market.      Freestone. 
(Sumner's  MS.) 

Sumner's  White  Free. 

From  South  Carolina.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  round,  slightly  depressed.  Sides  unequal.  Suture 
large,  half  round.  Skin  whitish  green,  a  shade  of  red  in  sun,  downy. 
Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  juicy,  sweet.  Last  of  August,  early  Septem- 
ber. 

Susquehanna. 
Griffith  Malacotune.  Griffith.  Griffith  Mammoth. 

Originated  with  Mr.  Griffith,  on  the  banks  of  the  Susquehanna.  A 
large,  handsome  fruit,  and  a  favorite  in  that  section. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  globular.  Suture  half  round.  Skin  rich  yellow, 
with  a  beautiful  red  cheek,  nearty  covering  the  whole  surface.  Flesh 
yellow,  sweet,  juicy,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor  Ripens  from  the  first  to 
the  middle  of  September.     Freestone. 

Tinley's  October. 

Origin,  Macon,  Ga.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  slightly  oblong,  white,  with  a  light  wash  of  red. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  vinous,  very  good.  Ripe  middle  of  October.  (P. 
J.  B.,  MS.) 

Tippecanoe. 
Hero  of  Tippecanoe. 

A  large  and  handsome  Clingstone,  originated  by  George  Thomas,  of 
Philadelphia.  Its  lateness  and  beauty  render  it  a  valuable  kind. 
Leaves  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small.  The  shoots  dark  pur- 
plish red. 

Fruit  very  large,  nearly  round,  a  little  compressed  on  the  sides. 
Skin  yellow,  with  a  fine  red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  with  a  good 
vinous  flavor.     It  ripens  from  the  20th  to  the  last  of  September. 

Titus. 

Originated  with  Mrs.  S»rah  Titus,  Philadelphia. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  .Skin  fair  yellow,  with  a  rich  cheek.  Flesh 
yellow,  red  next  the  stone,  juicy.  Maturity  middle  to  last  of  Septem- 
ber.    Freestone. 

Troth's  Early  Red. 

A  New  Jersey  Peach,  valued  as  an  early  sort,  piofitable  for  market. 
Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  whitish,  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  sweet.  Freestone.  Ripens  early  in 
A  ugust. 


the  peaoh.  635 

Tufts'  "Rareripe. 

Originated  with  Bernard  Tufts,  Billcrica,  Mais.  Very  hardy,  vigtK 
runs,  and  productive.     Glands  globose. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  yellowish,  with  it  bright  red  cheek. 
Flesh  yellow,  melting,  very  sweet  and  luscious.  Freestone.  Middle  to 
last  of  September.     (Cole.) 

Van  Buren's  Golden  Dwarf. 

An  accidental  seedling  found  in  the  grounds  of  J.  Van  Buren,  Clarks 
ville,  Ga.  The  habit  of  this  is  somewhat  dwarfed,  and  it  is  well  suited 
for  pot  culture.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate,  pointed  at  apex.  Skin  golden  yel- 
low, with  a  crimson  chei-k  in  sun.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  sprightly. 
Clingstone.     September  to  early  October. 

Van  Zandt's  Superb. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  R.  B.  Van  Zandt,  Long  Island.  Flower? 
small. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oval.  Skin  nearly  smooth,  white,  delicately 
marbled  with  red,  giving  it  a  waxen  hue  ;  the  beauty  and  smoothness 
of  the  skin  approximate  in  appearance  to  that  of  a  nectarine.  Flesh 
melting  and  delicious ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Ripens  in  August. 

Walburton  Admirable. 

An  English  variety,  which  is  found  very  good  here.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Suture  medium.  Skin  greenish  white,  finely 
shaded  with  dark  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  a  little  stained  at  the 
stone,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  rich  sweet  flavor.  Middle  and  last  of  Sep- 
tember.    Freestone. 

Walter's  Early. 

Walter's  Early  is  esteemed  as  one  of  the  most  popular  early  varie- 
ties for  orchards  in  New  Jersey,  where  it  originated.  It  is  remarkably 
well  adapted  to  the  light  sandy  soil  of  that  State,  bearing  abundant 
crops  of  excellent  fruit.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Skin  white,  with  a  rich  red  cheek.  Flesh 
whitish,  a  Little  touched  with  red  at  the  stone,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  and 
of  very  agreeable  flavor.     Ripens  about  the  20th  of  August. 

Ward's  Late   Free. 

A  fine  late  American  variety,  vigorous  and  productive,  valuble  for 
market.     Glands  reniform.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval.  Skin  white,  with  a 
beautiful  crimson  cheek.  Flesh  white,  slightly  tinged  with  red  at  the 
stone,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  and  excellent.  Freestone.  First  of 
October. 

Washington. 

Washington  Red  Freestone. 

The  Washington  is  a  handsome  and  very  delicious  Peach,  of  American 
origin.     It  was  named  and  first  introduced  to  notice  by  Michael  Floy. 


636  THE   PEACH. 

New  York.  The  fruit  ripens  late  ;  the  tree  is  vigorous,  hardy,  and  pro* 
ductive,  and  it  is  altogether  a  valuable  variety.  Leaves  with  globose 
glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  broad,  depressed,  with  a  broad,  deep  suture  extending 
nearly  round  it.  Skin  very  thin,  yellowish  white,  with  a  deep  crimson 
cheek.  Flesh  pale  yellowish  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  and  melting, 
with  a  sweet,  rich,  and  luscious  flavor.  It  often  adheres  slightly  to  the 
stone,  which  is  quite  small.     Middle  of  September.     Freestone 

Washington  Clingstone. 

An  American  variety,  juicy  and  sweet.  It  is  neither  handsome  nor 
prepossessing  externally.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish.  Skin  yellowish  green,  marked  with 
gray  specks,  and  with  a  slight  tinge  of  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
very  juicy,  tender,  and  melting,  with  a  very  sweet  and  luscious  flavor. 
Last  of  September. 

White  Ball. 

Originated  in  Massachusetts.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
large. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  depressed.  Suture  medium,  half 
round.  Skin  greenish  white,  shaded  and  marbled  with  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.  Early  September. 
Freestone. 

White-Blossomed  Incomparable. 
White  Blossom.  Willow  Peach . 

This  is  a  native  fruit,  of  second  quality,  much  inferior  both  in  flavor 
and  appearance  to  the  Snow  Peach.  Leaves  with  reniform  glands. 
Flowers  large,  white. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Skin  fair,  white  throughout.  Flesh  white  to  the 
stone,  melting,  juicy,  pleasant.     September. 

White  Imperial. 

The  White  Imperial  is  a  fruit  of  most  estimable  quality.  This  fine 
Peach  originated  in  the  garden  of  David  Thomas,  of  Cayuga  Co.,  N.  Y  , 
long  known  for  his  skill  and  science  as  an  amateur  horticulturist. 
Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  rather  large,  broad,  depressed,  hollowed  at  the  summit,  with 
a  wide,  deep  cavity  at  the  stem  ;  the  suture  moderately  deep,  and  the 
fruit  enlarged  on  one  of  its  sides.  Skin  yellowish  white,  with  only  a 
slight  tinge  of  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  nearly  white,  very  melting  and 
juicy,  of  a  very  delicate  texture,  and  the  flavor  sweet  and  delicious. 
Ripens  last  of  August.     Freestone. 

White  Magdalene. 

Madeleine  Blanche.  Madeleine  Blanche  de  LoiseL  Montagne  Blanohe 

A  foreign  variety.     Leaves  without  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit   medium,   roundish,   flattened   at   base.     Suture  deep.     Skin 


THE    PEACH  637 

■dips  easily  from  the  flesh,  yellowish  white  in  the  shade,  marked  with 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  with  yellowish  veins,  and  red  next  the 
stone.    Juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous.     Ripe  middle  August.     Freestone. 

White  Nutmeg. 
Early  White  Nutmeg. 

The  White  Nutmeg  is  the  smallest  of  Peaches,  the  flavor  is  inferior, 
and  it  is  only  esteemed  by  curious  amateurs  as  ripening  a  few  davp 
earlier  than  any  other  variety.  Leaves  serrated,  without  glands.  Flow- 
ers large. 

Fruit  very  small,  rather  oval,  with  a  deep  suture  extending  a  little 
more  than  half  round.  Skin  white,  or  rarely  with  pale  blush. 
Flesh  white  to  the  stone,  with  a  sweet  and  slightlv  musky,  pleasant 
flavor.     Ripens  about  the  10th  or  15th  of  July.     Freestone. 

White    Pace. 

A  Southern  Peach,  a  variety  of  the  Indian  or  Pace  Peach,  but 
with  a  comparatively  white  skin.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  sweet. 
August.     Freestone. 

Violet  Hative. 

English  Galand.  Hardy  Galand. 

A  variety  of  Bellegarde.     Glands  globose.     Flowers  small. 
Fruit  similar  to  Bellegarde,  but  smaller  and  paler  in  color. 

Yellow  Alberge. 

Alberge  Jaune.  Gold-Fleshed.  Red  Alberge. 

Peche  Jaune.  Yellow  Rareripe.  Golden  Mignonne. 

Purple  Alberge. 

The  Yellow  Alberge  is  an  old  French  variety,  and  one  of  the  earliest 
of  the  yellow-fleshed  Peaches.  It  is,  no  doubt,  the  original  sort  from 
which  our  Melocotons  and  Yellow  Rareripes  have  sprung  in  this  coun- 
try. It  has  only  a  second-rate  flavor,  except  in  rich,  warm  soils,  and 
is  not  comparable  to  the  Yellow  Rareripe  in  size  or  quality.  Leaves 
with  globose  glands.      Flowers  small. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  with  a  well-marked  furrow  running 
half  round.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  deep  purplish-red  cheek.  Flesh 
yellow,  but  deep  red  at  the  stone,  soft,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  pleasant 
vinous  flavor.     Middle  of  August.     Freestone. 

The  Rosanna,  Alberge  Jciune  lardif  of  many  French  gardens,  and 
Yellow  Alberge  of  some  gardens  here,  dilfers  from  the  above  only  in 
having  reuiform  glands  and  ripening  ten  or  twelve  days  later.  Flavor 
second-rate. 

Barnard's  Early  and  Yellow  Honest  John  are  probably  identical 
or,  if  seedlings,  so  near  like  the  parent,  Yellow  Alberge,  as  to  be  un 
worthy  particular  attention. 


638  the  peach. 

Yellow  Rareripe. 

Large  Yellow  Rareripe.  Marie  Antoinette. 

Red  and  Yellow  Rareripe.  Cutter's  Yellow. 

One  of  the  finest  very  early  yellow-fleshed  Peaches.  It  is  an  Ameri- 
can seedling,  and  well  deserves  the  extensive  cultivation  it  receives  both 
in  the  orchard  and  garden.     Leaves  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  siuail. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  the  suture  slightly  depressed,  extending  more 
than  half  round,  the  swollen  point  at  the  top  small.  Skin  deep  orange 
yellow,  somewhat  dotted  with  red,  the  cheek  rich  red,  shaded  oif  in 
streaks.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  but  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  with  a 
rich  and  excellent  vinous  flavor.  Ripens  from  the  25th  to  the  30th  of 
August.     Stone  small.     Freestone. 

CURIOUS  OR  ORNAMENTAL  VARIETIES. 

Double-Blossomed. 

Double-Flowering  Peach.  Pecher  a  Fleurs  Doubles. 

Rose-Flowering.  Pecher  a  Fleurs  Serni-Doubles. 

The  Double-Blossomed  Peach  is,  when  in  full  bloom,  one  of  the  gay- 
est and  most  beautiful  of  fruit-trees,  and  blooming  with  its  lovely  com- 
panion, the  Double-Flowering  Cherry,  finds  a  place  in  all  our  pleasure- 
grounds  and  ornamental  plantations.  Its  flowers  are  of  a  lively  rose  color, 
nearly  full  double,  and  so  thickly  disposed  on  the  branches  as  to  be  very 
striking  and  showy.  They  are  produced  at  the  usual  season,  or  a  few 
days  later.  This  sort  is  rendered  more  dwarf  for  shrubberies  by  bud- 
ding it  upon  the  Mirabelle  or  the  Cherry  Plum  stock.  The  leaves 
have  reniform  glands. 

The  fruit,  which  is  sparingly  produced,  is  roundish  oval,  pale  green- 
ish yellow,  faintly  tinged  with  red.    Freestone,  and  of  indifferent  flavor. 

The  Crimson  or  Camellia-flowered,  with  large  double-flowers  of 
a  rich  crimson  hue,  especially  attractive  and  showy,  the  Carnat  ton- 
flowered,  with  flowers  striped  like  a  carnation,  and  the  Variegated- 
flowered,  with  flowers  of  different  hues  on  the  same  tree,  are  among 
the  more  recent  introductions,  and,  grouped  with  the  older  varieties,  are 
very  effective. 

Flat  Peach  of  China. 
Chinese  Peach.  Java  Peach.  Peen  To. 

A  very  singular  variety,  from  China,  where  the  gardeners  affect  all 
manner  of  vegetable  curiosities.  The  fruit  is  of  small  size,  about  two 
inches  in  diameter,  and  so  much  flattened  at  the  ends  that  only  the  skin 
and  the  flat  stone  remain,  the  fleshy  part  being  crowded  on  either  side. 
The  tree  is  of  rather  dwarfish  habit,  and  holds  its  leaves  very  late.  The 
fruit  is  of  very  good  flavor,  and  is  well  worthy  of  a  place  in  the  gardens 
of  the  curious.  *     Leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Flowers  large. 

Fruit  small,  so  much  flattened  as  to  form  a  deep  hollow  at  both  ends, 
tiaving  at  the  top  a  singular  broad,  rough,  five-angled  eye.     Skin  pale 

*  Should  any  one  of  our  amateurs  now  possess  it,  we  shall  be  much  gratified 
to  receive  buds  of  it. 


THE    PEAK. 


639 


yellowish  green,  mottled  with  red  on  one  side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  with 
a  circle  of  red  round  the  stone  (from  which  it  separates),  sweet,  juicy, 
with  a  slight  noyau  flavor.     "Beginning  of  September. 

Weeping  Peaoh. 
Reid's  Weeping  Peach. 

A  peculiar  variety,  with  pendent,  weeping  branches,  and  a  habit 
much  like  that  of  the  weeping  ash.  It  was  originated  by  the  late  Win. 
Reid.  To  display  itself  to  advantage  it  should  be  grafted  six  or  eight 
feet  high,  on  the  clean  stem  of  a  peach  or  plum  stock.  Reniform  glands. 
Flowers  large. 

Selection  of  choice  Peaches,  to  furnish  in  succession.  Freestones . 
Hale's  Early,  Early  York  (serrate),  Early  Newington,  Cooledgc's  Favor- 
ite, George  the  Fourth,  Grosse  Mignonne,  Crawford's  Early,  Crawford's 
Late,  Oldmixon  Free,  Morris'  White,  Van  Zandt's  Superb,  Ward's 
Late  Free,  Noblesse,  Late  Red  Rareripe,  Druid  Hill.  Clingstones  : 
Large  White,  Oldmixon  and  Heath  Clings. 


SELECTION  OF  VARIETIES  FOR  THE  SOUTH. 

With  no  actual  personal  knowledge  of  the  success  and  value  of 
varieties  at  the  South,  we  have  compiled  the  following  list  from  a 
summing  up  of  majorities  of  leading  Southern  pomologists  in  their 
favor. 


Amelia. 
Columbia. 
Crawford's  Early. 


Freestones. 

Early  Tillotson. 
Grosse  Mignonne. 
Lady  Parham. 
Stump  the  World. 


Picquet's  Late. 
President  Church. 
Susquehanna. 


Chinese. 
Eaton's  Golden. 


Clingstones. 

Heath. 

Lemon. 

Washington. 


Oldmixon. 
Tinley's  October. 


CHAPTER  XXYII. 


THE  pear. 


Pyrus  communis,  L.     Rosacea,  of  botanists. 
Poirier,  of  the   French;    Biruebaum,  German;    Peer,   Dutch;    Pero,  Italian ; 

and  Peru,  Spanish. 

The  Pear  is  undeniably  the    favorite  fruit  of  modern    times  and 
modern  cultivators.       Indeed,  we  believe  the  Pear  of  modem  times, 


HiO  THE    PEAR. 

thanks  to  the  science  and  skill  of  horticulturists,  is  quite  a  different 
morsel  for  the  palate  from  the  pear  of  two  or  three  centuries  ago.  In 
its  wild  state  it  is  one  of  the  most  austere  of  all  fruits,  and  a  choke- 
pear  of  our  fields,  really  a  great  improvement  on  the  wild  type,  seizes 
one's  throat  with  s\tch  an  unmerciful  gripe  as  to  leave  behind  it  no 
soothing  remembrances  of  nectar  and  ambrosia. 

So  long  ago  as  the  earliest  time  of  the  Romans  the  pear  was  con- 
siderably cultivated.  It  was  common  in  Syria,  Egypt,  and  Greece,  and 
from  the  latter  country  was  transplanted  into  Italy.  "  Theophrastus 
speaks  of  the  productiveness  of  the  old  pear-trees,  and  Virgil  mentions 
some  pears  which  he  received  from  Cato.  Pliny  in  his  15th  book  de- 
scribes the  varieties  in  cultivation  in  his  time  as  exceedingly  numer- 
ous ;  and  mentions  a  number  which  were  named  after  the  countries 
from  which  they  were  received.  Of  all  pears,  he  says,  the  Costumine 
is  the  most  delicate  and  agreeable.  The  Falernian  Pear  was  esteemed 
for  its  juice ;  and  the  Tibernian,  because  it  was  preferred  by  the  Em- 
peror Tiberius.  There  were  '  proud  pears,'  which  were  so  called  be- 
cause they  ripened  early  and  would  not  keep,  and  '  winter  pears,'  pears 
for  baking,  as  at  the  present  day."  None  of  these  old  Roman  varieties 
have  been  handed  down  to  us,  and  we  might  believe  some  of  them  ap- 
proached the  buttery  lusciousness  of  our  modern  pears,  did  not  Pliny 
pithily  add,  most  unfortunately  for  their  reputation,  "  all  pears  whatso- 
ever are  but  a  heavy  meat,  unless  they  are  well  boiled  or  baked." 

In  fact,  the  really  delicious  qualities  of  this  fruit  were  not  devel- 
oped until  about  the  seventeenth  century.  And  within  the  last  sixty 
years  the  pear,  subjected  to  constant  production  from  seed  by  Van 
Mons  and  his  followers,  and  to  hybridizing  or  crossing  by  Mr.  Knight 
and  other  English  cultivators,  appears  at  length  to  have  reached  almost 
the  summit  of  perfection  in  beauty,  duration,  and  flavor.  Of  Professor 
Van  Mons  and  his  labors  of  a  whole  life,  almost  devoted  to  pears,  we 
have  already  spoken  in  our  first  chapter.  From  among  the  80,000 
seedlings  raised  by  himself,  and  the  many  thousands  reared  by  other 
zealous  cultivators  abroad,  especially  in  Belgium — the  Eden  of  the  pear- 
tree — there  have  been  selected  a  large  number  of  varieties  of  high  excel- 
lence. In  this  country  we  are  continually  adding  to  the  number,  as, 
in  our  newer  soil,  the  pear,  following  the  natural  laws  of  successive  re- 
production, is  constantly  appearing  in  new  seedling  forms.  The  high 
flavor  of  the  Seckel  Pear,  an  American  variety,  as  yet  unsurpassed  in 
this  respect  by  any  European  sort,  proves  the  natural  congeniality  of 
the  climate  of  the  Northern  States  to  this  fruit. 

The  pear-tree  is  not  a  native  of  North  America,  but  was  introduced 
from  the  other  continent.  In  Europe,  Western  Asia,  and  China  it 
grows  wild,  in  company  with  the  apple,  in  hedges  and  woody  wastes. 
In  its  wild  state  it  is  hardier  and  longer  lived  than  the  apple,  making  a 
taller  and  more  pyramidal  head,  and  becoming  thick  in  its  trunk.  There 
are  trees  on  record  abroad  of  great  size  and  age  for  fruit-trees.  M. 
Bosc  mentions  several  which  are  known  to  be  near  400  years  old. 
There  is  a  very  extraordinaiy  tree  in  Holme  Lacy,  Herefordshire,  Eng- 
land— a  perry  pear — from  which  were  made,  more  than  once,  15  hogs- 
heads of  perry  in  a  single  year.  In  1805  it  covered  more  than  half  an 
acre  of  land,  the  branches  bending  down  and  taking  root,  and,  in  turn, 
producing  others  in  the  same  way.  Loudon,  in  his  work  on  trees,  says 
that  it  is  still  in  fine  health,  though  reduced  in  size. 


THE   PEAR.  641 

One  of  the  most  remarkable  pear-trees  in  this  country  is  growing 
in  Illinois,  about  ten  miles  north  of  Vinceimes.  It  is  not  believed  to 
be  more  than  forty  years  old,  having  been  planted  by  Mrs.  Ockletree, 
about  1805.  The  girth  of  its  trunk  one  foot  above  the  ground  is  twelve 
feet,  and  at  nine  feet  from  the  ground,  sice  and  a  half  feet  /  and  its 
branches  extend  over  an  area  ninety-four  feet  in  diameter.  In  1834 
it  yielded  18-i  bushels  of  pears;  in  1840  it  yielded  140  bushels.  It  is 
enormously  productive  always  ;  the  fruit  is  pretty  large,  ripening  in 
early  autumn,  and  is  of  tolerable  flavor. 

The  tree  came  into  bearing  at  the  fifteenth  year  from  its  planting, 
but  grafts  from  it  produce  in  about  four  or  five  years.  Like  the  Dix, 
it  is  almost  thornless,  and  it  is  remarkable  that  no  blight  of  any  kind 
has  ever  affected  it. 

The  Stuyvesant  Pear-Tree,  which  was  destroyed  in  1807,  was  ori- 
ginally planted  by  the  old  governor  of  the  Dutch  colony  of  New  York, 
more  than  two  hundred  years  ago,  on  what  was  once  his  farm,  but  is 
now  part  of  the  city,  quite  thickly  covered  with  houses. 

Along  the  St.  Clair  river,  below  Detroit,  and  on  the  banks  of  the 
Mississippi,  near  St.  Louis,  are  found  many  large  old  pear-trees  vying 
in  health  and  vigor  with  those  of  recent  planting. 

Uses.  The  great  value  of  the  Pear  is  as  a  dessert  fruit.  Next  to 
this,  it  is  highly  esteemed  for  baking,  stewing,  preserving,  and  marma- 
lades. In  France  and  Belgium  the  fruit  is  very  generally  dried  in 
ovens,  or  much  in  the  same  way  as  we  do  the  apple,  when  it  is  quite  an 
important  article  of  food. 

Dessert  pears  should  have  a  melting,  soft  texture,  and  a  sugary, 
aromatic  juice.  Kitchen  pears,  for  baking  or  stewing,  should  be  large, 
with  firm  and  crisp  flesh,  moderately  juicy. 

The  juice  of  the  pear,  fermented,  is  called  Perry.  This  is  made 
precisely  in  the  same  way  as  cider,  and  it  is  richer,  and  more  esteemed 
by  many  persons.  In  the  midland  counties  of  England,  and  in  various 
parts  of  France  and  Germany,  what  are  called  Perry  Pears — very  hardy 
productive  sorts,  having  an  austere  juice — are  largely  cultivated  for  this 
purpose.  In  several  places  in  our  Eastern  States,  we  understand,  perry 
is  now  annually  made  in  considerable  quantities.  The  fruit  should  be 
ground  directly  after  being  gathered,  and  requires  rather  more  isinglass 
(say  1^  oz.  to  a  barrel)  to  fine  it,  on  racking,  than  cider.  In  suitable 
soil  the  yield  of  perry  to  the  acre  is  usually  about  one-third  more  than 
that  of  cider. 

The  wood  of  the  Pear-tree  is  heavy  and  fine-grained,  and  makes,  when 
stained  black,  an  excellent  imitation  of  ebony.  It  is  largely  employ* 
ed  by  turners  for  making  joiners'  tools.     The  leaves  will  dye  yellow. 

Gathering  and  Keeping  the  Fruit,  The  pear  is  a  peculiar  fruit 
in  one  respect,  which  should  always  be  kept  in  mind:  viz.,  that  most 
varieties  are  much  finer  in  flavor  if  picked  from  the  tree  and  ripened  in 
the  house,  than  if  allowed  to  become  fully  matured  on  the  tree.  There 
are  a  few  exceptions  to  this  rule,  but  they  are  very  few.  And,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  know  a  great  many  varieties  which  are  only  second  or 
third-rate  when  ripened  on  the  tree,  but  possess  the  highest  and  rich' 
est  flavor  if  gathered  at  the  proper  time  and  allowed  to  mature  in  the 
house.  This  proper  season  is  easily  known,  first,  by  the  ripening  of  a 
few  full-grown  but  worm-eaten  specimens,  which  fall  soonest  from  the 
tree ;  ami ,  secondly,  by  the  change  of  color  and  the  readiness  of  the 

41 


642  THE    PEAR. 

stalk  to  part  from  its  branch  on  gently  raising  the  fruit.  The  frtut 
should  then  be  gathered — or  so  much  of  the  crop  as  appears  sufficiently 
matured — and  spread  out  on  shelves  in  the  fruit-room. 

So  important  is  the  ripening  of  pears  in  the  house,  that  most  ama- 
teurs of  this  fruit  find  it  to  their  advantage  to  have  a  small  room  set  apart 
and  fitted  up  with  shelves  in  tiers,  to  be  used  solely  as  &  fruit-room. 

In  absence  of  any  room  specially  devoted  to  the  purpose,  shallow 
drawers,  say  four  inches  deep,  and  from  one  and  a  half  to  two  feet 
in  diameter,  should  be  procured,  and  into  the  bottom  of  each  lay  a  soft 
woollen  cloth,  then  a  layer  of  pears,  but  so  that  they  may  not  touch  each 
other ;  then  over  them  lay  another  soft  woollen  cloth,  and  place  the  drawers 
in  a  cool  dry  room.  In  a  period  varying  from  three  days  to  as  many 
weeks,  according  to  the  variety,  the  fruit  will  be  found  to  have  ripened 
to  a  delicious  richness,  and  to  have  taken  on  a  high  golden  color,  seldom 
or  never  obtained  when  allowed  to  ripen  on  the  tree.  Some  persons  use 
the  common  husks  called  "  shorts,"  from  the  flouring-mills,  to  cover  the 
pears  in  place  of  the  woollen  cloths,  and  with  perhaps  equally  good  re- 
sults, but  it  is  not  as  neat  or  convenient  a  practice. 

Many  sorts  which,  ripened  in  the  sun  and  open  air,  are  rather  d  y, 
when  ripened  within  doors  are  most  abundantly  melting  and  juicy. 
They  will  also  last  for  a  considerably  longer  period  if  ripened  in  this 
way — maturing  gradually,  as  wanted  for  use,  and  being  thus  beyond 
the  risk  of  loss  or  injury  by  violent  storms  or  high  winds. 

"Winter  dessert  pears  should  be  allowed  to  hang  on  the  tree  as  long 
as  possible,  until  the  nights  become  frosty.  They  should  then  be  wrap- 
ped separately  in  paper,  packed  in  kegs,  barrels,  or  small  boxes,  and 
placed  in  a  cool,  dry  room,  free  from  frost.  Some  varieties,  as  th? 
D'Aremberg,  will  ripen  finely  with  no  other  care  than  placing  them  in 
barrels  in  the  cellar  like  appjes.  But  most  kinds  of  the  finer  winter 
dessert  pears  should  he  brought  into  a  warm  apartment  for  a  couple  of 
weeks  before  their  usual  season  of  maturity.  They  should  be  kept 
covered,  to  prevent  shrivelling.  Many  sorts  that  are  comparatively 
tough,  if  ripened  in  a  cold  apartment,  become  very  melting,  buttery,  and 
juicy  when  allowed  to  mature  in  a  room  kept  at  the  temperature  of  60 
or  70  degrees. 

Propagation.  The  finer  sorts  of  pears  are  continued  or  increased 
by  grafting  and  budding,  and  the  stocks  on  which  to  work  are  either 
seedlings  or  suckers.  Sucker  stocks  have  usually  such  indifferent  roots, 
they  are  so  Hable  to  produce  suckers  continually  themselves,  and  are  so 
much  less  healthy  than  seedlings,  that  they  are  now  seldom  used  by  good 
cultivators  ;  though,  if  quite  young  and  thrifty,  they  will  often  make 
good  stocks. 

Seedlings,  however,  are  by  far  the  best  stocks  for  the  pear  in  all 
cases ;  and  seedlin  gs  from  strong-growing,  healthy  pears,  of  common  quality 
— suo'i  as  grow  about  most  farmers'  gardens — are  preferable  for  stocks  to 
those  :aised  from  the  best  varieties,  being  more  hardy  and  vigorous. 

As  it  is  usually  found  moi-e  difficult  to  raise  a  good  supply  of  seedling 
pear-stocks  in  this  country  than  of  any  other  fruit-tree,  we  will  here  re- 
mark that  it  is  absolutely  necessary,  to  insure  success,  that  two  points  be 
observed.  The  first  is,  to  clean  and  sow  the  seed  as  soon  as  may  be  after 
the  fruit  is  well  matured ;  the  second,  to  sow  it  only  in  deep  rich  soil. 
It  should  be  previously  trenched — if  not  naturally  deep — at  least  twenty 
inches  or  two  feet  deep,  and  enriched  with  manure  or  compost  mixed 


THE   PEAR.  648 

with  ashes.  This  will  give  an  abundant  supply  of  nutriment  tc  the 
young  seedlings  the  first  year,  without  wldch  they  become  starved  and 
parched,  after  a  few  inches'  growth,  by  our  hot  and  dry  summer,  when 
they  frequently  fall  a  prey  to  the  aphis  and  other  insects  at  'be  root  and 
top.  A.  mellow,  rich  soil,  whose  depth  insures  a  supply  of  moisture, 
,\i!l  give  strong  seedlings,  which  are  always,  at  two  years'  growth,  fit  to 
go  into  the  nursery-rows  for  budding;  whilea  dry,  thin  soil  will  seld  >m 
produce  good  stocks,  even  in  half  a  do: 

The  seeds  should  be  sown  preei  of  the  apple,  in  broad 

drills,  and  tihe  treatmeni  ofth  .  nrhen  plained  in  the  rowsfoi  bud- 

ding, is  quite  similar.  Budding  isalmost  universally  preferred  by  usfot 
propagating  the  pear,  and  this  tree  takes  so  readily  that  very  few  failures 
can  happen  to  an  experienced  hand.  About  the  first  of  August,  in  this 
latitude,  is  the  proper  season  for  performing  this  operati 

We  may  add  here,  that  one-year-old  pear  seedlings  are  often  winter- 
killed when  the  autumn  has  uot  been  such  as  to  ripen  the  wood  tho- 
roughly. A  few  branches  of  evergreens,  or  some  slight  covering  laid 
along  the  rows  will  prevent  this.  Or  they  may  be  laid  in  by  the  heels 
in  a  sheltered  place. 

The  thorn  makes  very  pood  stocks  for  the  pear,  except  that  if  grafted 
above  ground  the  tree  is  often  apt  to  be  broken  off  at  the  point  of 
union  by  high  winds.  This  is  obviated  by  grafting  a  little  below  the 
surface. '  Grafting  on  the  thorn  is  a  very  useful  practice  for  strong 
clayey  soils,  as  on  such  stocks  the  pear  may  be  grown  with  sn 
when  it  would  not  otherwise  thrive.  It  also  comes  rather  earlier  into 
bearing.  The  mountain  ash  is  thought  by  some  to  be  a  valuable  stock 
for  light  sandy  soils,  but  care  should  be  taken  that  the  graft  or  bud  be 
inserted  low  down  near  the  crown  of  the  stock,  so  that  when  transplanted 
the  whole  of  the  stock  can  be  covered  with  soil,  otherwise  the  borer  will 
soon  destroy  it.  The  pear  is  sometimes  budded  on  the  apple,  but  it  i< 
then  usually  very  short-lived. 

For  rendering  the  pear  dwarf,  the  Quince  stock  isalmost  universal!) 
used,  as  the  pear  unites  readily  with  it,  becomes  quite  dwarf  in  habit, 
aud  bears  very  early.  Some  large-growing  pears — as  the  Duche 
Angouleme — extremely  liable  to  be  blown  off  the  tree,  bear  much  I 
on  the  quince  stock,  and  others  are  considerably  improved  in  flavor  by 
it.  The  dwarf  pear,  however,  it  must  be  confessed,  rather  belongs  to 
the  small  garden  of  the  amateur  than  to  the  orehardist,  or  him  who  de- 
sires to  have  regular  large  crops  and  long-lived  trees.  The  dwarf  tree 
is  usually  short  lived,  seldom  enduring  more  than  fifteen  or  twenty  years 
in  bearing — but  it  is  a  pretty  and  economical  way  of  growing  a  good 
many  sorts,  and  getting  fruit  speedily,  in  a  small  garde 

The  pear,  not  being  very  abundantly  supplied  with  fibrous  roots, 
should  never  be  transplanted,  of  large  size,  from  the  nursery.  Small 
thrifty  plants,  five  or  six  feet  high,  are  much  t"  be  preferred. 

Soil,  Situation,  and  e.     Thebes!  soil  for  this  fruit-tree  is 

a  Strong  loam  of  moderate  depth  on  a  dry  subsoil.      The  pear  will,  in- 

*  Whether  the  Pear  can  be  successfully  cultivated  on  the  Quince  for  market 
ia  yet  a  debatable  question  ;  some  growers,  owing  perhaps  to  soil  and  climate, 
having  succeeded  satisfactorily,  while  others  have  entirely  failed.  That  dwarfs 
are  a  great  acquisition  to  the  garden  where  large  standards  are  inadmissible  ia 
unquestioned.  We  believe  the  promise  of  some  varieties  on  quince  warrants  the 
expectation  that  they  will  he  found  profitable  for  general  cultivation. 


344  THE   PEAK. 

deed,  adapt  itself  to  as  great  a  variety  of  soils  as  any  fruit-tree,  but  ia 
unfavorable  soils  it  is  more  liable  to  suffer  from  disease  than  any  other. 
Soils  that  are  we ;  during  any  considerable  portion  of  the  year,  are  en- 
tirely unfit  for  the  pear-tree ;  and  soils  that  are  over-rich  and  deep,  like 
some  of  the  Western  alluvials,  force  the  tree  into  such  over-luxuriant 
growth  that  its  wood  does  not  ripen,  and  is  liable  to  be  killed  by  winter 
blight.  Soils  that  are  too  light,  on  the  other  hand,  may  be  improved  by 
trenching  if  the  subsoil  is  heavier,  or  by  top-dressing  with  heavy  muck 
and  river  mud  if  it  is  not. 

In  a  climate  rather  cold  for  the  pear,  or  on  a  cold  soil,  it  is  advan- 
tageous to  plant  on  a  Southern  slope;  but  in  the  Middle  States,  in  warm 
soils,  we  do  not  consider  a  decidedly  Southern  exposure  so  good  as  other 
rather  cooler  ones. 

The  Pear  succeeds  so  well  as  an  open  standard,  and  requires  so  little 
care  for  pruning — less,  indeed,  in  the  latter  respect  than  any  other 
fruit-tree — that  training  is  seldom  thought  of  except  for  dwarf's,  or  in  the 
gardens  of  the  curious  or  skilful.  The  system  of  quenouille  or  distaff 
training,  an  interesting  mode  of  rendering  trees  very  productive  in  a 
small  space,  we  have  already  fully  described  in  p.  40,  as  well  as  root- 
pruning  for  the  same  purpose  in  p.  36. 

The  manner  of  growing  and  training  dwarfs  in  this  country,  on  a 
large  scale,  for  orchards,  is,  however,  more  as  bushes  or  low-headed  tree? 
than  as  pyramids,  quenouille,  or  espalier  ;  and  while  the  same  general 
principles  are  maintained,  it  is  necessary  to  head  back  the  leading  shoot 
more  severely ;  and  unless  time  can  be  given  in  the  summer  season  to 
checking  the  growth,  and  forming  a  thick,  round,  open  head  by  means 
of  summer  pinching,  then,  in  order  to  maintain  health  and  vigor  in 
dwarfs,  they  must  be  annually  shortened  back  from  one-half  to  two- 
thirds  of  the  preceding  year's  growth.  The  best  time  for  tbis  is  imme- 
diately at  the  close  of  winter. 

In  orchard  culture  the  pear  is  usually  planted  about  thirty  feet 
distant  each  way  ;  in  fruit-gardens,  where  the  heads  are  somewhat  kept 
in  by  pruning,  twenty  feet  is  considered  sufficient  by  many. 

Pear-trees  in  a  bearing  state,  where  the  growth  is  no  longer  luxu- 
riant, should  have,  every  autumn,  a  moderate  top-dressing  of  manure, 
to  keep  them  in  good  condition.  This,  as  it  promotes  steady  and 
regular  growth,  is  far  preferable  to  occasional  heavy  manuring. 

Diseases.  As  a  drawback  to  the  otherwise  easy  cultivation  of 
this  fine  fruit,  the  pear-tree  is,  unfortunately,  liable  to  a  very  serious 
disease  called  the  pear-tree  blight  or  fire  blight,  appearing  irregularly, 
and  in  most  parts  of  the  country ;  sometimes  in  succeeding  seasons, 
and  again  only  after  a  lapse  of  several  years  ;  attacking  sometimes 
only  the  extremities  of*  the  limbs,  and  at  other  times  destroying  the 
whole  tree ;  producing,  occasionally,  little  damage  to  a  few  branches, 
but  often  also  destroying,  in  a  day  or  two,  an  entire  large  tree;  this 
disease  has  been,  it  different  times,  the  terror  and  despair  of  pear- 
growers.  Some  parts  of  the  country  have  been  nearly  free  from  it, 
while  others  have  suffered  so  much  as  almost  to  deter  persons  from 
extending  the  cultivation  of  this  fine  fruit.  For  nearly  a  hundred 
years  its  existence  has  been  remarked  in  this  country,  and  all  notions 
of  its  character  and  origin  have  been  so  vague  as  to  lead  to  little  prac- 
tical assistance  in  removing  or  remedying  the  evil. 

Car-eful  observations  for  several  years  past,  and  repeated  comparison 


THE    PEAR. 


641 


of  facts  -with  accurate  observers  in  various  parts  of  the  country,  have 
led  us  to  the  following  conclusions : — 

1st.  That  what  is  popularly  called  the  pear  blight,  is,  in  fact,  two 
distinct  diseases. 

•2d.  That  one  of  these  is  caused  by  an  insect,  and  the  other  by  sud- 
den freezing  and  thawing  of  the  sap  in  unfavorable  autumns.  The  first  we 
shall  therefore  call  the  insect  blight,  and  the  second  the  frozen-sap  blight. 

1.  The  Insect  Blight.  The  symptoms  of  the  insect  blight  are  as 
follows  :  In  the  month  of  June  or  July,  when  the  tree  is  in  full  luxuri- 
ance of  growth,  shoots  at  the  extremities  of  the  branches,  and  often 
extending  down  two  seasons'  growth,  are  observed  suddenly  to  turn 
brown.  In  two  or  three  days  the  leaves  become  quite  black  and  dry. 
and  the  wood  so  shrivelled  and  hard  as  to  be  cut  with  difficulty  with  a 
knife.  If  the  branch  is  allowed  to  remain,  the  disease  sometimes  extends 
a  short  distance  farther  down  the  stem,  but  usually  not  much  farther 
than  the  point  where  the  insect  had  made  his  lodgment.  The  insect 
which  causes  this  blight  was  first  discovered  by  the  Hon.  John  Lowell,  of 
"Boston,  in  1816,  and  was  described  by  Professor  Peck  under  the  name  of 
Scolytus  pyri.  It  is  very  minute,  being  scarcely  one-tenth  of  an  inch 
long;  and  it  escapes  from  the  branch  almost  as  soon  as,  by  the  wither- 
ing of  the  leaves,  we  are  aware  of  its  attack  ;  hence  it  is  so  rarely  seen 
by" careless  observers.  In  the  perfect  state  it  is  a  very  small  beetle, 
deep  brown,  with  legs  of  a  paler  color.  Its  thorax  is  short,  convex, 
rough  in  front,  and  studded  with  erect  bristles.  The  wing-covers  are 
marked  with  rows  of  punctured  points,  between  which  are  also  rows  of 
bristles,  and  they  appear  cut  off  very  obliquely  behind. 

This  insect  deposits  its  egg  some  time  in  July  or  August,  eithei  be- 
hind or  below  a  bud.  Whether  the  egg  hatches  at  once,  we  are  not 
aware,  but  the  following  spring  the  small  grub  or  larva  bores  through 
the  sap-wood  or  tender  alburnum,  beginning  at  the  root  of  the  bud,  and 
buiTows  toward  the  centre  of  the  stem.  Around  this  centre  or  pith  it 
forms  a  circular  passage,  sometimes  devouring  it  altogether.  By  thus 
perforating,  sawing  off,  or  girdling,  internally,  a  considerable  portion  of 
the  vessels  which  convey  the  ascending  sap,  at  the  very  period  when  the 
rapid  growth  of  the  leaves  calls  for  the  largest  supply  of  fluid  from  the 
roots,  the  growth  and  the  vitality  of  the  branch  are  checked,  and  finally 
extinguished.  The  larva  about  this  time  completes  both  its  transforma- 
tion and  its  passage  out,  and,  in  the  beetle  form,  emerges,  with  wings, 
into  the  air,  to  seek  out  new  positions  for  laying  its  eggs  and  continuing 
its  species.  The  small  passage  where  it  makes  its  exit  may  now  more 
easily  be  discovered,  below  or  by  the  side  of  the  bud,  resembling  a  hole 
bored  with  a  needle  or  pin. 

It  is  well  to  remark  here  that  the  attack  of  this  blight  insect  is  not 
confined  to  the  Pear,  but  in  some  parts  of  the  country  we  have  observed 
it  preying  upon  the  Apple  and  the  Quince  in  the  same  manner.  In  the 
latter*  tree,  the  shoots  that  were  girdled  were  shorter,  and  at  the  extremi- 
ties of  the  branches  only  ;  not  leading,  therefore,  to  such  serious  conse- 
quences as  in  the  Pear. 

The  ravages  of  the  insect  blight,  we  are  inclined  to  think,  do  not  ex- 
tend much  below  the  point  where  the  insect  has  deposited  its  egg> — C 
material  point  of  difference  from  the  frozen-sap  blight,  which  often 
poisons  the  system  cf  the  whole  tree  if  allowed  to  remain,  or  if  origin 
ally  very  extensive. 


a 


546  THE    I  EAR. 

The  remedy  for  the  insect  blight  is  very  distinct.  It  is  that  originally 
suggested  by  Mr.  Lowell,  which  we  and  many  others  have  pursued  with 
entire  success,  when  the  other  form  of  the  disease  was  not  also  present, 
The  remedy  consists,  at  the  very  first  indications  of  the  existence  of  th« 
enemy,  in  cutting  off  and  burning  the  diseased  branch,  a  foot  below  the 
lowest  mark  of  discoloratiou.  The  insect  is  usually  to  be  found  at  the 
oottom  of  this  blackened  point,  and  it  is  very  important  that  the 
branches  be  removed  early,  as  the  Scolytus  is  now  about  emerging  from 
his  burrow,  and  will  speedily  escape  us,  to  multiply  his  mischief  else- 
where. If  there  is  much  appearance  of  the  insect  blight,  the  tree 
should  be  examined  every  noon,  so  long  as  there  are  any  indications  of 
disease,  and  the  amputated  branches  carried  at  once  to  the  fire. 

2.  The  Frozex-sap  Blight.  We  give  this  term  to  the  most  for- 
midable phase  of  this  disease  that  affects  the  pear-tree.  Though  it  is  by 
ordinary  observers  often  confounded  in  its  affects  with  the  insect 
blight,  yet  it  has  strongly  characteristic  marks,  and  is  far  more  fatal  in 
its  effects. 

The  symptoms  of  the  frozen-sap  blight  are  the  following :  First. 
The  appearance,  at  the  season  of  winter  or  spring  pruning,  of  a  thick 
clammy  sap,  of  a  sticky  nature,  which  exudes  from  the  wounds  made 
by  the  knife ;  the  ordinary  cut  showing  a  clean  and  smooth  surface. 

Second.  The  appearance  in  the  spring,  on  the  bark  of  the  trunk  or 
branches,  often  a  considerable  distance  from  the  extremities,  of  black, 
shrivelled,  dead  patches  of  bark. 

Third.  In  early  summer  months  the  disease  fully  manifests  itself 
by  the  extremities  shrivelling,  turning  black,  and  decaying,  as  if  sud- 
denly killed.  If  these  diseased  parts  are  cut  off,  the  inner  bark  and 
heart-wood  will  be  found  dark  and  discolored  some  distance  below 
where  it  is  fresh  and  green  outside.  If  the  tree  is  slightly  affected 
only,  it  may  pass  off  with  the  loss  of  a  few  branches ;  but  if  it  has  been 
seriously  tainted,  the  disease,  if  not  arrested,  may,  sooner  or  later,  1$ 
carried  through  the  whole  system  of  the  tree,  which  will  gradually  de 
cline  or  entirely  perish. 

To  explain  the  nature  of  this  disease  we  must  first  premise  that,  in 
every  tree,  there  are  two  currents  of  sap  carried  on  :  1st,  the  upward 
current  of  sap,  which  rises  through  the  outer  wood  (or  alburnum),  to 
be  digested  by  the  leaves ;  2d,  the  downward  current,  which  descends 
through  the  inner  bark  (or  liber),  forming  a  deposit  of  new  wood  on  its 
passage  down.* 

Now  let  us  suppose,  anterior  to  a  blight  season,  a  very  sudden  and 
early  winter  succeeding  a  clamp  and  warm  autumn. f  The  summer  having 
been  dry,  the  growth  of  trees  was  completed  early,  but  this  excess  of 
dampness  in  autumn  forces  the  trees  into  a  vigorous  second  growth, 
which  continues  late.  While  the  sap-vessels  are  still  tilled  with  their 
fluids,  a  sharp  and  sudden  freezing  takes  place,  or  is,  perhaps,  repeated 
several  times,  followed,  in  the  daytime,  by  bright  sun.  The  descend- 
ing current  of  sap  becomes  thick  and   clammy,  so   as  to  descend  with 

*  Being  distributed  towards  the  centre  of  the  stem  by  the  medullary  rays 
which  communicate  from  the  inner  bark  to  the  pith. 

f  Which  always  happens  previously  to  a  summer  when  the  blight  is  very 
prevalent,  and  will  be  remembered  by  all  as  having"  been  especially  the 
case  in  the  autumn  of  1843,  which  preceded  the  extensive  blight  of  the  nexl 
season. 


THE    PEAR.  ^47 

difficulty ;  it  chokes  up  the  sap-vessels,  freezes  and  thaws  again,  loses  its 
vitality,  and  becomes  dark  and  discolored,  and  in  some  cases  so  poison- 
ous as  to  destroy  the  leaves  of  other  plants  when  applied  to  them. 
Here,  along  the  inner  bark,  it  lodges,  and  remains  in  a  thick,  stickj 
state  all  winter.  If  it  happens  to  now  down  till  h  meets  with  any  ob- 
struction, and  remains  in  any  considerable  quantity,  it  freezes  again 
beneath  the  bark,  ruptures  and  destroys  the  sap-vessels,  and  the  bark 
and  some  of  the  wood  beneath  it  shrivels  and  dies. 

In  the  ensuing  spring  the   upward  current  of  sap  rises  through  ifa 
ordinary  channel, — the  outer  wood  or  alburnum,  —the  leaves  expand,  and. 
for   some  time,  nearly  all  the  upward   current  being  taken  up  to  form 
leaves  and  new  shoots,  the  tree  appears  llonrishing.     Toward  the  begin 
ning  of  summer,  however,  the  leaves  commence  sending   the  downward 
current  of  sap  to  increase  the  woody  matter  of  the  stem.      This  curr 
it  will  be  remembered,  has  to  pass  downward  through  the  inner  bark  or 
liber,  along  which   still   remain  portions  of  the  poisoned  sap,  arr<    :  •  I 
in  its  course  the  previous  autumn.     This  poison  is  diluted,  and  taken  up 
by  the  new  downward  current,  distributed  toward  the  pith,  and  along 
the  new  layers  of  alburnum,  thus  tainting   all    the   neighboring  parts. 
Should  any  of  the  adjacent  sap- vessels  have  been  ruptured  by  frost,  so 
that  the  poison  thus  becomes  mixed  with  the  still  ascending  current  of 
sap,  the  branch  above  it  immediately  turns  black  and.  dies,  precisely  as 
if  poison  were   introduced  under  the  bark.     And  very  frequently  it  is 
accompanied  with  precisely  the  odor  of  decaying  frost-bitten  vegetation.* 
The  foregoing  is  the  worst  form  of  the  disease,  and  it   takes  place 
when  the  poisoned    sap,    stagnated   under  the   bark   in  spots,  remains 
through  the  winter  in  a  thick,  semi-iiuid  state,  so   as  to  be  capable  of 
being  taken  up  iu  the  descending  current  of  the  next  summer.     When, 
on  the  other  hand,  it  collects  in  sufficient  quantity  to  freeze  again,  burst 
the  sap-vessels,  and  afterwards  dry  out  by  the  influence  of  the  sun  ami 
wind,  it  leaves  the  patches  of  dead  bark  which  we  have  already  described. 
As  part  of  the  woody  channels  which  convey  the  ascending  sap  probably 
remain  entire  and  uninj tired,  the  tree  or  branch  will  perhaps  continue  to 
grow  the  whole  season  and  bear  fruit,  as  if  nothing  had  happened  to  it, 
drying  down  to  the  shrivelled  spots  of  bark  the  next  spring.     The  effect 
in  this  case  is  precisely  that  of  girdling  only,  and  the  branch  or  tree 
will  die  after  a  time,  but  not  suddenly. 

From  what  we  have  said,  it  is  easy  to  infer  that  it  would  not  be  diffi- 
cult, on  the  occurrence  of  such  an  autumn,  when  sudden  congelation 
takes  place  in  unripened  wood,  to  predict  a  blight  season  for  the  following 

*  We  do  not  know  that  this  form  of  blight  is  common  in  Europe,  but  the 
following:  extract  from  the  celebrated  work  of  Duhamel  on  fruit-trees,  published 
in  1768,  would  seem  to  indicate  something  very  similar  a  long  time 

"The  sap  corrupted  by  putrid  water,  or  the 
cellular  membranes  in  some  places,  extends  it  self  between  the  wood  an 
Dark,  which   it  separates,  and  curries   its  poisonous  acrid  influence  to  all  the 
neighboring  parts,  like  a  gangrene.     When  it  attacks  the 
should  be  cutoff  ;  if  it  appears  in  the  Large  branches  o:  d  the 

cankered  parts  must  be  cut  out  down  to  the  sound  wood,  and  the  wound  co 
with  composition.  If  the  evil  be  produced  by  manure  or  stagnant  water  and  it 
maybe  produced  by  other  causes),  the  old  earth  must  be  removed  from  the 
roots,  and  fresh  soil  put  in  its  place,  and  means  taken  to  draw  off  the  water 
from  the  roots.  But  if  the  disease  lias  made  much  progress  on  the  trunk,  the 
tree  is  lost." — Troth  des  Arbrei  1  .  vol.  II,  p.  100. 


648  THE   PEAR. 

summer.  Such  has  several  times  been  done,  and  its  fulfilment  miy  be 
looked  for  with  certainty  in  all  trees  that  had  not  previously  ripened 
their  wood.* 

So  also  it  would  and  does  naturally  follow,  that  trees  in  a  damp,  rich 
soil,  are  much  more  liable  to  the  frozen-sap  blight  than  those  upon  a 
drier  soil.  In  a  soil  over-moist  or  too  rich,  the  pear  is  always  liable  to 
make  late  second  growths,  and  its  wood  will  often  be  caught  unripened 
by  an  early  winter.  For  this  reason  this  form  of  blight  is  vastly  more 
extensive  and  destructive  in  the  deep  rich  soils  of  the  Western  States 
than  in  the  drier  and  poorer  soils  of  the  East.  And  this  will  always  be 
the  case  in  over-rich  soils,  unless  the  trees  are  checked  in  their  luxuri- 
ance by  root-pruning. 

Again,  those  varieties  of  the  pear  which  have  the  habit  of  maturing 
their  wood  early,  are  very  rarely  affected  with  the  frozen-sap  blight. 
But  late-growing  sorts  are  always  more  or  less  liable  to  it,  especially 
when  the  trees  are  young,  and  the  excessive  growth  is  not  reduced  by 
fruit-bearing.  Every  nurseryman  knows  that  there  are  certain  late- 
growing  sorts  which  are  always  more  liable  to  this  blight  in  the  nursery. 
Among  these  we  have  particularly  noticed  the  Passe  Colmar  and  the  Eo- 
relle,  though  when  these  sorts  become  bearing  trees  they  are  not  more 
liable  than  many  others.  The  Seckel  pear  is  less  subject  to  blight  than 
others,  which  we  attribute  entirely  to  its  habit  of  making  short-jointed 
shoots,  and  ripening  its  wood  very  early. 

To  distinguish  the  blight  of  the  frozen-sap  from  that  caused  by  the 
attack  of  the  Scolytus  pyri  is  not  difficult.  The  effects  of  the  latter 
cease  below  the  spot  where  the  insect  has  perforated  and  eaten  its  bur- 
row in  the  branch.  The  former  spreads  gradually  down  the  branch, 
which,  when  dissected,  shows  the  marks  of  the  poison  in  the  discolora- 
tion of  the  inner  bark  and  the  pith,  extending  down  some  distance  below 
the  external  marks  of  injury.  If  the  poison  becomes  largely  diffused  in 
the  tree,  it  will  sometimes  die  outright  in  a  day  or  two ;  but  if  it  is  only 
slightly  present,  it  will  often  entirely  recover.  The  presence  of  black, 
dry,  shrivelled  spots  of  bark  on  the  branches,  or  soft  sappy  spots,  as  well 

*  Since  the  above  was  written,  we  have  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  a  highly 
interesting  article  by  the  Rev.  H.  W.  Beecher,  of  Indiana,  one  of  the  most  in- 
telligent observers  in  the  country.  Mr.  Beecher  not  only  agrees  in  the  main 
with  us,  but  he  fortifies  our  opinion  with  a  number  of  additional  facts  of  great 
value.  We  shall  extract  some  of  this  testimony,  which  is  vouched  for  by  Mi. 
B. ,  and  for  the  publication  of  which  the  cultivators  of  pears  owe  him  many 
thanks. 

'•Mr.  R  Ragan,  of  Putnam  Co.,  Ind.,  has  for  more  than  twelve  years 
suspected  that  this  disease  originated  in  the  fall  previous  to  the  summer  on  which 
it  declares  itself.  During  the  last  winter  Mr.  Ragan  predicted  the  blight,  aa 
will  be  remembered  by  some  of  his  acquaintances  in  Wayne  Co. ,  and  in  his  pear- 
orchards  he  marked  the  trees  that  would  suffer,  and  pointed  to  the  spot  which 
would  be  the  seat  of  the  disease,  and  his  prognostications  were  strictly  verified. 
Out  of  his  orchard  of  200  pear-trees,  during  the  previous  blight  of  1832,  only 
four  escaped,  and  those  had  been  transplanted,  and  had,  therefore,  made  little 
Dr  no  growth. 

"Mr.  White,  a  nurseryman  near  Mooresville,  Ind.,  in  an  orchard  of  over 
150  trees,  had  not  a  single  case  of  blight  in  the  year  1844,  though  all  around 
him  its  ravages  were  felt.  What  were  the  facts  in  this  case  ?  His  orchard  is 
planted  on  a  mould-like  piece  of  ground,  is  high,  of  a  sandy,  gravelly  soil; 
earlier  by  a  week  than  nursery  soils  in  this  country  ;  and  in  the  summer  of  1 843t 
his  trees  grew  through  the  summer,  ripened  and  shed  their  leaves  early  in,  t,h« 
fall,  and  during  the  wa-  m  spell  made  no  second  growth." 


THE   PEAR.  649 

as  the  appearance  of  thick  clammy  sap  in  winter  or  spring  pruning,  ara 
the  infallible  signs  of  the  frozen-sap  blight. 

The  most  successful  remedies  for  this  disastrous  blight,  it  is  very  evi- 
dent, are  chieriy  preventive  ones.  It  is,  of  course,  impossible  for  us  to 
avoid  the  occasional  occurrence  of  rainy,  warm  autumns,  which  have  a 
tendency  to  urge  the  trees  into  late  second  growth.  The  principal 
means  of  escaping  the  danger  really  lies  in  always  studiously  avoiding  a 
wet  soil  for  the  fruit-tree.  Very  level  or  hollow  surfaces,  where  heavy 
early  autumnal  rains  are  apt  to  lie  and  saturate  the  ground,  should  also 
be  shunned.  And  any  summer  top-dressing  or  enriching  calculated 
to  stimulate  the  tree  into  late  growth  is  pernicious.  A  rich,  dry 
soil  is,  on  the  whole,  the  best,  because  there  the  tree  will  make  a  good 
growth  in  time  to  ripen  fully  its  wood,  and  will  not  be  likely  to  make 
second  growth.  A  rich,  wet  soil  will,  on  the  contrary,  serve  continu- 
ally to  stimulate  the  tree  to  new  growth.  It  is  in  accordance  with  this 
that  many  persons  have  remarked,  that  those  pear-trees  growing  in  com- 
mon meadow  land  were  free  from  blight  in  seasons  when  those  in  the 
rich  garden  soils  were  continually  suffering  from  it. 

The  first  point,  then,  should  be  to  secure  a  rich,  but  dry,  well-drained 
soil.  Cold  aspects  and  soils  should  be  avoided,  as  likely  to  retard  the 
growth  and  ripening  of  the  wood. 

The  second  is  to  reject,  in  blighted  districts,  such  varieties  as  have 
the  habit  of  making  wood  late,  and  choosing  rather  those  of  early  habit, 
which  ripen  the  wood  fully  before  autumn. 

Severe  summer-pruning,  should  it  be  followed  by  an  early  winter, 
is  likely  to  induce  blight,  and  should  therefore  be  avoided.  Indeed, 
we  think  the  pear  should  always  be  pruned  in  winter  or  early  spring. 

As  a  remedy  for  blight  actually  existing  in  a  tree,  we  know  of  no 
other  but  that  of  freely  cutting  out  the  diseased  branches  at  the  ear- 
liest moment  after  it  appears.  The  amputation  should  be  continued  as 
far  down  as  the  least  sign  of  discoloration  and  consequent  poisoning 
is  perceptible,  and  it  should  not  be  neglected  a  single  day  after  it  mani- 
fests itself.  A  still  better  remedy,  when  we  are  led  to  suspect,  during 
the  winter,  that  it  is  likely  to  break  out  in  the  ensuing  summer,  is  that 
of  carefully  looking  over  the  trees  before  the  buds  swell,  and  cutting  out 
all  branches  that  show  the  discolored  or  soft  sappy  spots  of  bark  that 
are  the  first  symptoms  of  the  disease. 

Finally,  as  a  preventive,  when  it  is  evident,  from  the  nature  of  the 
reason  and  soil,  that  a  late  autumnal  growth  will  take  place,  we  recom- 
mend laying  bare  the  roots  of  the  trees  for  two  or  three  weeks.  Root- 
pruning  will  always  check  any  tendency  to  over-luxuriance  in  particu- 
lar sorts,  or  in  young  bearing  trees,  and  is  therefore  a  valuable  assist- 
ance when  the  disease  is  feared.  And  the  use  of  lime  in  strong  soils, 
as  a  fertilizer,  instead  of  manure,  is  worthy  of  extensive  trial,  because 
lime  has  a  tendency  to  throw  all  fruit-trees  into  the  production  of  short- 
jointed  fruit-spurs,  instead  of  +he  luxuriant  woody  shoots  induced  by 
animal  manure. 

In  gardens  where,  from  the  natural  dampness  of  the  soil  or  locality, 
it  is  nearly  impossible  to  escape  blight,  we  recommend  that  mode  of 
dwarfing  the  growth  of  the  trees — conical  standards,  or  quenouilles, 
described  in  the  section  on  pruning.  This  mode  can  scarcely  f;iil  tc 
secure  a  good  crop  in  any  soil  or  climate  where  the  pear-tr  >-e  wih 
flourish. 


660  THE   PEAR. 

After  the  blight,  the  other  diseases  which  affect  the  pear-tree  are 
of  little  moment.  They  are  chiefly  the  same  as  those  to  which  the 
apple  is  liable,  the  same  insects  occasionally  affecting  both  trees,  and  we 
therefore  refer  our  readers  to  the  section  on  the  apple-tree. 

There  is,  however,  a  slug-worm,  which  occasionally  does  great  damage 
on  the  leaves  of  the  pear-tree,  which  it  sometimes  entirely  destroys.  This 
elug  is  the  Selandria  cerasi  of  Harris.  It  appears  on  the  upper  side  of 
the  leaves  of  the  pear-tree,  from  the  middle  of  June  to  the  middle  of 
July.  It  is  nearly  half  an  inch  long  when  fully  grown,  olive-colored, 
tapering  from  the  head  to  the  tail,  not  much  unlike  in  shape  a  minia- 
ture tadpole.  The  best  destructive  for  this  insect  is  ashes,  plaster,  dry 
dust,  or  quicklime,  sifted  or  sprinkled  over  the  leaves,  early  in  the 
morning.* 


VARIETIES. 

The  varieties  of  pear  have  so  multiplied  within  the  last  thirty 
years  that  they  may  almost  be  considered  endless-.  Of  the  new  vari- 
eties, Belgium  has  produced  the  greatest  number  of  high  quality ; 
England  and  France  many  of  excellence  ;  and,  lastly,  quite  a  number 
of  valuable  sorts  have  originated  in  this  country,  to  which  some  addi- 
tions are  made  annually.  The  latter,  as  a  matter  of  course,  are  found 
even  more  generally  adapted  to  our  climate  than  any  foreign  sorts. 
But  we  believe  the  climate  of  the  Middle  States  is  so  nearly  like  that  of 
Belgium,  that  the  pear  is  grown  here  as  a  standard  to  as  great  perfec- 
tion as  in  any  other  country. 

More  than  one  thousand  kinds  of  pears,  collected  from  all  parts  of 
the  world,  have  been  fruited  here,  but  only  a  small  proportion  of  these 
have  been  found  of  first-rate  quality,  and  a  very  large  number  of  them 
are  of  little  or  no  value.  The  great  difficulty  seems  to  be,  to  decide 
which  are  the  really  valuable  sorts,  worth  universal  cultivation.  We 
shall  not,  perhaps,  arrive  at  this  point,  in  this  country,  for  several  years, 
not  until  all  the  most  deserving  sorts  have  had  repeated  trials,  and  the 
difficulty  is  always  increased  by  the  fact  of  the  difference  of  climate  and 
soil,  and  the  continuous  increase  of  new  varieties.  A  variety  may 
prove  of  superior  merit  in  one  locality  and  quite  indifferent  in  another, 
owing  to  the  influence  of  soil  and  climate.  This,  however,  is  true  only 
to  a  very  limited  extent,  as  the  fact  that  most  sorts  of  the  first  character 
receive  nearly  the  same  praise  in  Belgium,  England,  and  all  parts  of 
this  country,  clearly  proves.  High  flavor,  handsome  appearance,  pro- 
ductiveness, and  uniformly  good  flavor  in  all  seasons — these  are  the  cri- 
t,erions  of  the  first  class  of  pears.f 

*  Many  theories  and  speculative  opinions  have  been  promulgated  luring  the 
past  twenty  or  more  years  since  these  remarks  on  blight  were  written,  but,  so  far 
^s  we  can  learn,  nothing  conclusive  is  yet  known.  There  are  many  persona 
holding  the  views  here  expressed,  while  others  support  a  theory  of  atmospheric 
fungoid  blight  with  equally  good  reasoning. 

f  The  most  successful  cultivator  of  pears  in  this  country,  whose  collection 
comprises  hundreds  of  varieties,  lately  assured  us  that  if  he  were  asked  to 
name  all  the  sorts  that  be  considered  of  unvarying  and  unquestionable  excellence 
in  all  respects,  he  could  not  count  more  than  twenty  !  It  may,  then,  be  asked, 
Why  do  all  cultivate  so  large  a  variety?  We  answer,  because  the  quality  of  many 
is  yet  not  fully  decided;  again,  there  is  a  great  difference  in  tas-e,  as  to  thf 


THE    TEAR.  651 

Most  of  the  finer  varieties  of  pears  have  not  the  necessary  haidi 
hood  to  enable  them  to  resist,  perfectly  uninjured,  the  violent  atmos- 
pheric changes  of  our  climate,  except  under  favorable  circumstances; 
consequently  the  fruit  is  more  or  less  variable  in  quality;  and  this  ia 
more  particularly  true  of  some  that  come  to  us  from  abroad  with 
promise  of  the  highest  excellence,  and  to  pronounce  an  abiding  judg- 
ment upon  their  merits  requires  many  years'  experience  and  careful  ob- 
servation under  different  circumstances  and  in  various  localities.  And  it 
must  be  borne  in  mind,  that  although  young  trees  give  fruit  of  nearly 
or  quite  full  size  and  beauty,  yet  perfection  of  flavor  is  only  to  be  ex- 
pected from  trees  of  more  mature  age.  The  inference  is  not  legiti 
mate  that  a  variety  which  exhibits  great  excellence  in  Belgium,  or  some 
of  the  districts  of  France,  will  exhibit  generally  in  all  localities  in  the 
United  States  the  same  excellence;  but  the  supposition  is  fair,  and 
borne  out  by  some  experience,  that  those  which  possess  excellence  of  a 
particular  character  in  an  eminent  degree  in  Europe,  will  generally  ex- 
hibit the  same  in  particular  localities  in  this  country.  We  would  in- 
stance such  vigorous  growers,  with  pretty  solid  flesh,  as  the  following  : — 
Belle  Lucrative,  Rostiezer,  Duchess  d'Angouleme,  Beurre  Hardy,  &c. 
To  produce  satisfactory  results  in  the  cultivation  of  pears,  some  of  ita 
wants  must  always  be  complied  with,  such  as  good  depth  of  soil,  suffi- 
cient drainage,  and  proper  enrichment. 

In  describing  pears,  we  shall,  as  usual,  designate  the  size  by  com- 
parison, as  follows: — Large,  as  the  Beurre  Diel  or  Bartlett;  medium,  as 
the  Doyenne  or  Virgalieu ;  small,  as  the  Seckel. 

With  regard  to  form,  these  are  so  numerous  and  complicated  that  it 
is  difficult  to  determine  upon  any  terms  that  can  be  always  preserved  ; 
but  with  a  view  to  unity,  and  with  a  belief  that  they  are  the  best  now 
in  use,  we  have  adopted  those  established  by  the  Massachusetts  Hor- 
ticultural Society.     (See  pages  652  and  G53.) 

As  w\th  apples  and  other  fruits,  we  continue  the  alphabetical  system 
of  arrangement,  it  being  the  most  readily  applicable  for  general  use  ;  and, 
as  with  apples,  have,  in  designating  the  quality  of  flesh,  continued  the 
terms  adopted  by  the  American  Pomological  Society,  as  "best"  "very 
good"  and  "  good."  The  latter  term,  although  in  many  cases  having  refer- 
ence only  to  the  quality  of  the  fruit  as  a  dessert  pear,  may  be  often 
found  attached  to  one  of  great  value  for  cooking,  or  highly  profitable  for 
market. 


Abbe  de  Beaumont. 

Originated  in  the  commercial  gardens  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angeis, 
France. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse,  pyriform.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large,  open. 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  marbled  with  fawn-color  and  washed  with  led  in 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  rough  or  gritty  at  core, 
vinous,  sweet.     August,  September.     (Leroy.) 

merits  oi  a  given  sort;  there   are  also  some  --r.rt^  ko  producMve,  or  handsome, 
&c  that  thej  are  highly  esteemi  only  second-rate.     In  a  work  like  the 

present.  wc  obliged  to  describe  m  of  second  quality,   m  onJe; 

to  assist  in  identifying  them,  a--  !  cultivation. 


6M 


THE   PEAK. 

SIMPLE   FORMS 


Globular. 


Ovate 


ObUta, 


Oblong. 


COMPOUND   FORMS. 


Globular,  obtuse  pyrif orm. 


Globular,  acute  pyriforao. 


THE   PEAK. 

COMPOUND   FORMS- Continued. 


653 


Orate,  pyrif  orm. 


Obovate,  acute  pyriform. 


Obovate,  obtuse  pyriform. 


Oblong  pyriform. 


Oblong,  ovate  pyriform. 


Oblong,  obovate  pyriform. 


654  THE   PfcAR. 

Abbe  Edouard. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  rich  clear  green,  be- 
coming yellow  at  maturity,  with  a  russet  cheek.  Flesh  white,  half  ten- 
der, melting,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant.     Ripens  in  November. 

Abbe  Perez. 

This  Pear  originated  in  Germany,  and  was  introduced  in  1862. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  oval  oblate.  Skin  yellowish  green,  splashed 
and  dotted  with  red,  shaded  with  fawn-color  at  the  apex.  Flesh  whitish, 
firm,  melting,  juicy,  harsh  at  the  core,  vinous,  sweet.  November,  Feb- 
ruary.    (Leroy.) 

Abbott. 

Origin,  Providence,  P.  I.,  on  the  farm  of  Mrs.  Abbott.  A  vigorous 
grower,  and  the  fruit,  although  not  of  first  quality,  is  uniformly  good 
and  beautiful.     Young  wood  reddish  olive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish, 
considerably  shaded  with  crimson,  sprinkled  with  gray  and  crimson  dots, 
and  having  a  few  russet  patches.  Stalk  medium,  inserted  by  a  lip  01 
ring  in  a  slight  depression  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  open,  with 
segments  persistent,  in  a  broad  open  basin.  Flesh  white,  granular, 
buttery,  juicy,  melting.  Flavor  sweet,  pleasant,  and  perfumed.  Ripens 
last  of  September. 

Abercromby. 
Abercromby's  Seedling. 

An  American  chance  seedling  that  was  found  in  Tallapoosa  Co., 
Ala.     Tree  a  vigorous,  stout  grower,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  globular  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greatest 
breadth  at  centre.  Skin  rather  rough,  greenish  yellow,  netted  and 
patched  with  russet,  and  with  a  mottled  red  cheek.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
large  and  open.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  granular,  moderately  juicy,  and 
sweet,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     Ripens  early  in  August. 

Adams. 

Raised  by  Dr.  H.  Adams,  of  Waltham,  Mass.  Tree  a  vigorous 
grower,  with  an  upright,  erect  habit,  making  a  pyramidal  head.  Young 
wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  jDyriform,  largest  at  centre.  Surface  uneven. 
Skin  pale  yellow  shaded  with  light  crimson  in  the  sun,  with  many  brown, 
green,  and  reddish  dots.  Stalk  short,  often  set  with  a  russeted  lip. 
Calyx  closed.  Basin  very  shallow.  Flesh  white,  very  juicy,  melting, 
vinous.     Very  good.     Ripens  early  September. 

Adelaide  de  Reves. 

Madame  Adelaide  Reves. 

From  Belgium.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  shoots  very  stout,  yellow- 
ish  brown  red. 


THE    PEAR.  656 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  yellowish  green  with 
a  (shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  russet  specks  and  blotches,  and  russet  at 
base  of  stalk.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet 
Good.     October. 

Adele  Lancelot. 

A  Belgian  Pear  of  recent  introduction.     Tret  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  pyriforin.  Skin  cleai  green  yellow,  shaaed 
with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  not  very  j  uic)  or  rich.  Good.  Oc- 
tober. 

Admirable. 
Dana's  Admirable. 

Originated  with  Francis  Dana,  Boston,  Mass.,  and  first  exhibited 
before  the  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society  in  1853.  Tree  a  vigo- 
rous grower,  somewhat  irregular,  and,  according  to  Hovey,  tardy  in 
coming  into  bearing.     Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  ovate,  narrowing  toward  the  stalk. 
Surface  uneven.  Skin  yellowish,  partially  russeted  and  thickly  sprinkled 
with  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium,  a  little  inclined,  planted  in  a  small 
cavity,  and  sometimes  with  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  erect. 
Basin  medium,  rather  abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  a 
little  astringent.     Good.     September. 

• 
Admiral  Farragut. 

This  new  American  Pear  originated  with  Dr.  Shurtleff,  Boston, 
Mass.,  who  describes  the  tree  as  strong,  vigorous,  productive.  Shoots 
long,  medium  size. 

Fruit  very  large,  long  pyriform,  green  with  many  dots,  and  blush 
in  the  sun.  Stalk  stout,  curved.  Calyx  medium.  Basin  shallow. 
Flesh  melting,  juicy,  fine-grained,  subacid,  pleasant.  Season  last  of 
September.     (J.  of  H.) 

Adolphe    Catchet. 

Origin,  gardens  of  M.  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  rich  yellow,  dotted  and  splashed 
with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet,  harsh  and  grit- 
ty at  core.     August,  September.     (Leroy.) 

Adolphixe  Richard. 

A  Belgian  Pear  of  recent  introduction. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriforin,  clear  yellow,  with  shades  and  patches  of 
brown  red.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet.  Good.  No- 
vember. 

Aglae    Gr6goire. 

A  Belgian  variety,  of  vigorous  and  productive  habit. 

Fiuit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.      Skin  yellow,  dotted  and  splashed 


666  THE    PEAR. 

with  reddish   brown.       Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine,  half  melting 
juicy,  perfumed.     Goo  I.     February,  March.     (Jardin  Van  Mons.) 

Ah  !   Mon  Dieu. 

Poire  d'Abondance.  Mandieu. 

Mod  Dieu.  The  my-God  Pear. 

Beurre  Sprin.  Esperine. 

An  old  French  Pear.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  acute  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  smoot> 
nearly  covered  with  red.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  slightly  vinous,  and  sww 
Good.     October. 

Alexander. 

Origin,  town  of  Alexander,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderate  growth  Yjvldi 
wood  light  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  somewhat  one-pidc^/.  Skin 
yellowish  green,  dotted,  netted,  and  splashed  with  russet.  Stalk 
slender,  rather  long,  curved,  fleshy  at  its  insertion.  CaJyx  large,  closed. 
Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse  and  gritty,  very  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  and 
rich.     Very  good.     Ripe  last  of  September  and  e£,J/  Ubcober. 

Alexandre  Bivort. 

A.  seedling  of  Esperen  in  1848.  Tree  vigorous,  of  a  bushy  habit. 
Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  few  patches 
and  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  rather  long,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx 
small,  open.  Segments  slender,  partly  lecurved.  Basin  large,  ab- 
rupt, corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  a  }\tiit  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  half 
tender,  sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good.     December  to  February. 

Alexandra  Lambre. 

One  of  Van  Mons' seedlings.  T»*se  vigorous,  spreading.  Branches 
long,  slender. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellowish,  netted  and  patch- 
ed with  russet,  brown  red  in  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  pinkish  white,  juicy, 
sweet,  a  little  astringent.     Good  to  very  good.     October,  December. 

Alexandrina. 
Alexandrina  Bivort. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  too  small  in  size  to  be  of  much  value  at  its  season 
of  ripening. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate  pyriform,  light  yellow,  shaded  with 
red  in  the  sun,  netted  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Alexandrine  Douillard. 

Douillard. 

This  conpar;  tively  new  Belgian  Pear  has  size  to  commend  it,  and 
may  prove  valuable.  Tree  vigorous,  productive,  and  comes  early  into 
bearing.     Young  wood  dull  yellowish  brown. 


THE    PEAR.  657 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly 
netted  and  traced  with  russet.  Stalk  varying  in  length,  inserted  in  a 
slight  cavity,  sometimes  with  a  lip.  Calyx  partly  closed.  Basin  ab- 
rupt, uneven.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.  Very 
good.     October. 

Alexandrine  Mas. 

A  seedling  of  M.  Mas,  France,  from  seeds  of  Passe  Colinar  in  1850. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform,  light  yellowish  green,  with  shades  and 
patches  and  dots  of  russet.  Stalk  stout,  set  without  depression.  Calyx 
large.  Segments  erect.  Flesh  white,  translucent,  j  uicy,  sweet,  perfumed. 
Late  winter.     (Verg.) 

Alpha. 

A  Belgian  seedling.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obovate,  slightly  oblong.  Skin  smooth,  pale, 
yellowish  green,  dotted  with  reddish  points,  and  having  a  thin,  pale 
brown  blush.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  slight  depression. 
Calyx  stiff,  open,  set  in  a  round  basin  of  moderate  size.  Flesh  white, 
fine-grained,  buttery.     Good.     October. 


Alphonse  Karr. 

Originated  with  M.  Louis  Berckmans.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood 
dull  olive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  golden  yellow,  netted,  mar- 
bled, and  dotted  with  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  fine,  melting,  juicy, 
slightly  vinous,  sweet.     November,  December. 

Althorpe  Crassane. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate.  Skin  pale  green.  Flesh  white, 
buttery,  and  quite  juicy,  not  rich,  slightly  perfumed.  Good.  October, 
November. 

Amadotte. 

Madotte.  Autumn  Superb.  De  Graine  Damadote. 

Beiirre  Knox  ?  Dame  Houdotte.  Beurre  Blanc  des  Capucins. 

Fruit  rather  large,  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow.  Stalk  medium. 
Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow  and  uneven.  Flesh  whitish, 
coarse,  juicy,  vinous,  variable,  sometimes  astringent.  Hardly  good. 
Ripe  October. 

Amandine  de  Rouen. 

A  new  French  Pear,  as  yet  little  known. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  splashes  ot 
fawn  russet.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  Good 
September,  October.      (Leroy.) 

42 


658  THE   PEAK. 

Ambrette 

Ambrette  d'Hiver.  Trompe-valet  Thcrny  Ambrette. 

Ambre  Gris.  Ambret.  Ambrette  avec  epinea. 

Ambrette  Gris.  Winter  Ambret.  Ambrette  Opineuse 

Belle  Gabrielle.  Cheat  Servant.  De  Chine. 

Tilton. 

A  very  old  Pear-tree,  very  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  small,  roundish  oval,  yellowish  green,  with  russet 
spots  and  black  blotches.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  melting,  sweet. 
Good.     December  to  March. 

Ambrosia. 

Early  Beurre. 

A  French  Pear  of  medium  size,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  a  little  russeted.  Flesh  buttery,  without  much  flavor.  Hardly 
good.     September. 

America. 

An  American  Pear,  originated  with  Francis  Dana,  Boston,  Mass. 
Tree  a  strong  vigorous  grower. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin 
yellow,  with  traces,  dots,  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  in  a  small 
cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  half  melting,  sweet,, 
sugary,  pleasant.     Good.     November,  December. 

Amelie  Leclerc. 

A  seedling  of  the  late  Leon  Leclerc,  of  Laval,  France.  Tree  mod- 
erately vigoroxis,  spreading,  with  long  slender  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  green- 
ish yellow,  with  a  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  slight  nettings  of  russet. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.  Good  to  very  good. 
October. 

Amiral  Cecil. 

Originated  in  France,  of  moderate  growth,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  ovate,  yellowish,  with  fawn-color 
marbliugs  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  harsh  and  gritty 
at  centre.     Good.     October,  December. 

Amire  Joannet. 

St.  Jean.  St.  John's  Pear.  Amire  Johannet. 

Joannette.  Petit  Johannet.  Petit  St.  Jean. 

This  fruit  is  one  of  the  earliest,  ripening  at  the  beginning  of  July 
— in  France,  whence  it  originally  comes,  about  St.  John's  day,  whence 
the  name  Joannet.  It  is  a  pleasant  fruit,  of  second  quality,  and  lasts 
but  a  few  days  in  perfection.  It  opens  the  pear  season,  with  the  Little 
Muscat,  to  which  it  is  superior. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  regularly  pyriform,  tapering  to  the 
•rtalk,  which  is  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  thickest  at  the  point  of 
junction.     Skin  very  smooth,  at  first  light  green,  but  becomes   bright 


THE    TEAK. 


o£9 


»emon-color  at  maturity  —very  rarely  with  a  faint  blush.  Calyx  large, 
with  reflexed  segments,  even  with  the  surface.  Flesh  -white,  sugary, 
delicate  and  juicy  at  first,  but  soon  becomes  mealy. 


Tresor. 

Tri'sor  d' Amour. 


Amour. 

Poire  d'Amour. 
Treasure. 


Love  Pear. 


An  old  Fear,  valued  only  for  cooking. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  dull  yel- 
lowish green,  brownish  in  sun.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  harsh,  astringent 
Good  for  stewing.     December  to  March. 

Ananas  de  Courtrai. 
Ananas  de  Courtray. 

What  we  have  received  as  Ananas  de  Courtrai  from  three  or  four 
sources,  both  here  and  in  Europe,  have  proved  to  be  Ananas  d'Ete  ;  and 


AniiLM  d'Et6. 


as  there  is  said  to  be  a  distinct  Ananas  de  Courtrai,  we  insert  Leroy'i 
deocription. 


660  THE    PEAR 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  slightly  obtuse,  surface  uneven.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  -with  a  warm  brown  red  cheek  in  the  sun,  more  or  leis  marbled, 
some  dots  and  patches  of  russet  brown.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  mild, 
sweet,  musky,  delicate  perfume.  Very  good.  Last  of  August  and  earl* 
in  September. 

Ananas  d'Ete. 

Ananas  (of  Manning  and  of  Leroy).  Ananas  Francais. 

Du  Bouchet.  Summer  Pine-apple. 

Favori  Musque. 

An  old  variety,  from  Holland,  which  here  is  one  of  our  best  late 
summer  or  early  autumn  Pears.  Tree  very  vigorous.  Young  shoot? 
strong,  of  a  rich  reddish-yellowish  brown,  with  prominent  sharp-pointed 
buds,  and  oblong  white  specks. 

Fruit  rather  large,  pyriform,  or  occasionally  obtuse  at  the  stalk. 
Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  little  brown  on  one  side,  and  much  covered 
with  large,  rough,  brown  russet  dots.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long, 
inserted  sometimes  in  a  blunt  cavity,  sometimes  without  depression,  by 
the  side  of  a  lip.  Calyx  open,  with  short  divisions.  Basin  shallow. 
Flesh  fine-grained,  buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  sweet,  perfumed,  and 
high  flavor.     Very  good.     September  and  October. 

Andre  Desportes. 

Originated  in  the  gardens  of  M.  Andre  Leroy,  in  France,  1854. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  oblique.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  with  patches  of  fawn  and  bronze  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  granulous  at  the  core,  sugary  acid.  July. 
(Leroy.) 

Andrews. 
Beurre  Oudinot  ?  Amory.  Gibson. 

The  Andrews  is  a  favorite  native  seedling,  found  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  Dorchester,  and  first  introduced  to  notice  by  a  gentleman  of 
Boston,  whose  name  it  bears.  It  is  of  excellent  flavor,  but  variable  and 
subject  to  rot  at  the  core. 

Fruit  rather  large,  pyriform,  one-sided.  Skin  smooth,  and  rather 
thick,  pale  yellowish  green,  with  a  dull  red  cheek,  and  a  few  scattered 
dots.  Stalk  about  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  curved,  and  set  in  a  very 
shallow,  blunt  depression,  or  often  without  depression  Calyx  open, 
placed  in  a  small  basin.  Flesh  greenish  white,  full  of  juice,  melting, 
with  a  fine  vinous  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  Early  in  September. 
The  Beurre  Oudinot,  as  we  have  received  it,  has  always  proved  identical 
with  our  Andrews,  but  Leroy  claims  it  a  distinct  sort. 

Angelique  de  Bordeaux. 

Gros  Franc  Beal  d'Hiver.  St.^Martial. 

Cristalline.  MoUe  Bouche  d'Hiver. 

A  variety  from  France. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish  green  in  the  shade, 
brownish  red  in  the  sun,  with  brown  dots.     Stalk  fleshy  at  insertion. 


THE   PEAR.  661 

Calyx  small.     Flesh  tender,  juicy,  buttery,  melting.     January  to  April 
(Hogg.) 

Angelique  Leclerc. 

Originated  with  Leon  Leclerc,  of  Laval.     Tree  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Stalk  short.  Ca- 
lyx small,  open.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  shaded  and  dotted  with  red  in  tho 
sun.  Flesh  white,  very  close,  melting,  juicy,  rough  at  the  core,  sweet, 
aromatic.     October,  December.      (Leroy.) 

Angleterre. 

English  Beurre.  Monkowthy. 

Beurre  d' Angleterre.  Longue  de  Narkouts. 

Beurre  Amande.  Beurre  Judes. 

Almond  Pear.  Amande  Double. 

An  old  Fi'ench  fruit  of  unknown  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  acute  pyriform.  Skin  dull  light  green,  slight  net- 
tings of  russet.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  fleshy  at  its  junction  with 
the  fruit.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  melting,  full  of  juice,  and  of 
pleasant  though  not  high  flavor.     Good.     Middle  of  September. 

Angleterre  D'Hiver. 
Angoisse  blanche. 

An  old  Pear  of  little  value,  except  as  a  keeper  and  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  brownish  red 
tint  in  sun,  many  small  russet  and  black  specks.  Flesh  firni,  rather 
dry,  slightly  acid.     February  to  April. 

Angleterre  Nain. 
Angleterre  Parfume. 

Origin,  Paris,  France. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Stalk  long. 
Calyx  half  closed.  Skin  rough,  dull  green,  dotted  with  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  whitish,  fine,  juicy,  harsh  near  the  core,  musky.  September, 
October.     (Leroy.) 

Angobert. 

Mansuette.  Gros  Angobert.  Beurre  de  Semur.  Dagobert. 

Solitaire.  De  Sainte  Catherine.  Double  Mansuette.         A.  Gobert. 

A  very  old  variety,  described  in  1660,  and  then,  as  now,  considered 
one  of  the  best  of  cooking  Pears. 

Fruit  large,  or  very  large,  irregular  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yel 
low.  Flesh  half  melting,  juicy,  somewhat  astringent.  A  cooking  pear 
September. 

Anna  Audisson. 

Doyenne!  Anna  Audisson.  Beurr6  Anna  Audisson. 

Originated  at  A.ngers,  France. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  yellowish  green,  with 
patches  of  russet  and  brownish  red  in  the  sun.      Stalk  short  and  stout. 


fi62  THE   PEAK. 

Cavity  slight,   sometimes  a  lip.      Calyx  open.      Fesh  whitish,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Apple  Pear. 
Pomoire.  Poire-Pomme.  Beurre  de  Rackenheim. 

Fruit  below  medium,  round  or  roundish  oblat<\  Skin  covered  with 
cinnamon  russet,  unless  in  the  shade,  when  it  is  a  dirty  yellow  green, 
with  russet  marblings.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  melting,  juicy.  Good. 
October. 

Arbre  Courbe. 
Amiral.  Colmar  Charnay. 

Tree  vigorous,  with  irregular  crooked  branches.  Young  wood  yeh 
lowish  brown,  with  many  specks,  angled  or  bent  from  joint  to  joint. 

Fruit  medium  or  large,  oval  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with 
patches  and  russet  dots.  Stalk  large  and  fleshy.  Calyx  open.  Basin 
broad  and  shallow.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  half  butteiy,  melting,  juicy, 
slightly  astringent.     Good.     Pipe  last  of  September. 

Arlequin  Musque. 

An  old  Pear,  but  little  known. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish  green,  with  mar- 
blings and  dots  of  brown.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  white,  buttery, 
melting,  sweet.     Good.     Last  of  September. 

Arthur  Bivort. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  green,  becoming  yel- 
lowish at  maturity,  dotted  with  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  curved  in  a 
slight  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  vi- 
nous.    October.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Aston  Town 

Fruit  small,  roundish  turbinate.  Skin  pale  yellowish,  with  brown 
specks.  Flesh  soft,  buttery,  moderately  sweet,  perfumed.  Hardly 
good.     Middle  and  last  of  September. 

Audibert. 
Belle  Audibert. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  orange  in  sun. 
Flesh  white,  breaking,  granulated,  acidulous.  Good  for  stewing  only. 
November. 

AUGUSTE    JURIE. 

A  seedling  of  M.  Fortune,  Willermoz,  France.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  oblate  pyriform,  yellow,  shaded  with  dark  red  in  the 
gun.  Flesh  white,  half  melting,  juicy,  slightly  vinous,  and  slightly 
musky.     Good.     August. 


THE    PEAR.  663 

AUGUSTE    KOYER. 

Tree  very  vigorous  and  productive,  and  promises  to  be  a  valuable 
orchard  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  rus- 
set-fawn. Flesh  whitish,  half  melting,  juice  abundant,  sugary,  and 
pleasantly  perfumed.     Good.     Ripe  October. 

Augustine  Lelieur. 
Auguste  Lelieur. 

A  vai'iety  from  Belgium,  but  of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblong  ovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish,  with 
patches  and  nettings  of  nisset,  russet  dots,  and  a  blush-red  cheek  in  sun. 
Stalk  long,  curved.  Calyx  closed,  basin  small,  corrugated.  Flesh 
white,  buttery,  juicy,  half-melting,  sweet,  and  pleasant.  Good.  Octo- 
ber, November. 

Augustus  Dana. 

An  American  Pear,  originated  with  Francis  Dana,  Boston,  Mass. 
The  tree  is  a  good  but  not  strong  or  a  handsome  grower.  Young  shoots 
of  a  light  reddish  brown  color. 

Fruit  medium,  varying  in  form  from  acute  pyriform  to  obtuse  pyri- 
form. Skin  yellow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  russet  dots. 
Stalk  often  one  side  of  a  true  axis,  curved,  and  set  with  slight  depression. 
Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Aurate. 

An  old  variety. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  pale  yellowish  green.  Flesh  juicy,  rich 
Very  good.     Last  of  July. 

Autumn  Bergamot. 

English  Bergamot.  York  Bergamot. 

Common  Bergamot.  English  Autumn  Bergamot. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  and  flattened.  Skin  roughish  green.  Flesh 
greenish  white,  coarse-grained  at  the  core,  juicy,  sugary.     September. 

The  Bergamotte  d'Automne  of  the  French  is  a  distinct  fruit  from 
this.  Skin  light  yellowish  green,  brownish  red  cheek.  Flesh  breaking, 
juicy,  and  refreshing,  but  not  high-flavored.     A  second-rate  fruit. 

Autumn  Colmar. 

A  French  Pear,  of  fair  quality  and  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  or  obtuse  pyriform,  a  little  uneven. 
Skin  pale  green,  dotted  with  numerous  russety  specks.  Stalk  about  an 
inch  long,  straight,  planted  in  a  small,  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  small,  c'osed, 
set  in  a  slight  basin,  a  little  furrowed.  Flesh  a  little  gritty  at  the  core, 
battery,  with  a  rich  and  agreeable  flavor.     Good.     October. 


664  THE   PEAR. 

Autumn  Nelis. 
Graham's  Autumn  Nelis.  Graham's  Bergamot. 

An  English  Pear.  Tree  much  the  habit  of  Winter  Nelis,  very 
hardy  and  productive.     Young  wood  light  olive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  mostlj 
overspread  and  netted  with  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine-grained,  melt- 
ing, rich  aromatic.     Very  good.     October. 

Avril. 
D'Avril.  Poire  d' Avril. 

Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
slightly  shaded  and  somewhat  spotted  with  russet,  and  thickly  covered 
with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long  and  curved,  inserted  usually  in  a  depres- 
sion. Calyx  closed,  basin  deep  and  irregular.  Flesh  whitish,  compact, 
coarse,  granular,  juicy,  half-melting,  sweet,  and  agreeable.  A  good  bak- 
ing pear.     November  to  February. 

Barbancinet. 

Origin,  Nursery  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree  vigorous, 
spreading,  upright,  productive.     Young  wood  light  brown. 

Fruit  medium  oblong  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  brown- 
ish shade  in  the  sun,  sometimes  slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet, 
and  sprinkled  with  dots.  Stalk  medium,  fleshy  at  junction.  Calyx 
partially  open.  Segments  short.  Basin  small.  Flesh  white,  jnicy, 
melting,  sbightly  vinous.     Very  good.     September. 

Barbe  Nelis. 

Raised  by  Gregoire,  of  Belgium.  Tree  very  vigorous,  moderately 
productive.     Young  wood  stout,  Light  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  small,  oblare  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  and 
marbled  with  dull  red  in  the  sun,  many  green  dots,  and  a  few  nettings 
and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  often  with  bracts 
in  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  juicy,  half-melt- 
ing, sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Baron  Deman  De  Lennick. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  too  small  to  be  of  great  value  at  its  season. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  to  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  with  net- 
tings and  traces  of  russet,  especially  near  the  calyx,  and  many  russet 
dots.^  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  white,  coarse  at  centre,  juicy,  half- 
melting.     Good.     November,  December. 

Baronne  de  Mello. 

Adele  de  St.  Denis.  St.  Cerran. 

Adele  de  St.  Cerras.  Beurre  Van  Mono. 

A.  Belgian  Pear,  first  described  by  Bivort,  in  Album  Pomology.   Tree 


THE    PEAR.  665 

hardy,  vigorous  grower,  and  productive.     Young  wood  light  olh  e  brown 
with  many  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  irregular  in  form,  varying  from  curved  pyriform  tc 
long  acuto  pyriform,  occasionally  roundish  acute  pyriform.     Skin  yel- 


Baronne  de  Mello. 

lowish,  nearly  covered  with  brown  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved,  inclined,  fleshy  at  base,  and  often  with 
i  lip.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  short,  erect.  Flesh  whitish,  a 
ittle  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  vinous  subacid.     Very  good.     October. 

Barry. 
De  Lestumieres.  Doyenne  Barry. 

An  Old  variety,  lately  introduced  and  renamed. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted  and 
shaded  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  short,  obliquely  inserted,  short. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good  tc 
very  good.     October. 


666 


THE    PEAR. 


Bartlett,  or  Williams'  Bonchretien. 


Bartlett.  of  all  American  Gardens. 
Williams'  Bonchretien. 
Clement  Doyenne. 
Poire  Guillaume,  of  the  French. 


Barnett's  William. 
Bonchretien  Barnett 
Delavault. 


This  noble  Pear  is,  justly,  one  of  the  most  popular  of  all  the  sum  met 
varieties.  Its  size,  beauty,  and  excellence  entitle  it  to  this  estimation, 
apart  from  the  fact  that  it  bears  very  early,  regularly,  and  abun- 
dantly. It  is  an  English  variety,  originated  about  1770,  in  Berkshire, 
and  was  afterward  propagated  by  a  London  grower  by  the  name  of  Wil. 


Bartlett,  or  Williams'  Bonchrfitien. 


liams.  When  first  introduced  to  this  country  its  name  was  lost,  and 
having  been  cultivated  and  disseminated  by  Enoch  Bartlett,  Esq.,  of 
Dorchester,  near  Boston,  it  became  so  universally  known  as  the  Jhirtleti 


THE   PEAK.  667 

Pear,  that  it  is  impossible  to  dispossess  it  now.  It  suits  our  climate 
admirably,  ripening  better  here  than  in  England,  and  has  the  unusual 
property  of  maturing  perfectly  in  the  house,  even  if  it  is  picked  beforw 
it  is  full-grown.  It  has  no  competitor  as  a  summer  market  fruit 
The  tree  grows  upright,  with  thrifty,  yellowish  brown  shoots,  and  nar- 
row, folded  leaves. 

Fruit  of  large  size,  oblong,  obtuse  pyriform.  Surface  uneven. 
Skin  very  thin  and  smooth,  clear  yellow  (with  a  soft  blush  on  the 
sunny  side  in  exposed  specimens),  rarely  marked  with  faint  russet 
Stalk  one  to  one  and  a  half  inches  long,  stout,  inserted  in  a  shallow 
cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  erect,  set  in  a  very  shallow,  ob- 
scurely plaited  basin.  Flesh  white,  and  exceedingly  tine-grained  and  but- 
tery ;  it  is  full  of  juice,  sweet,  with  a  highly  perfumed  vinous  flavor. 
(In  damp  or  unfavorable  soils  it  is  sometimes  slightly  acid.)  Ripens 
from  last  of  August  to  middle  and  last  of  September. 

Bartram. 

Origin,  an  accidental  seedling  on  the  premises  of  the  late  Miss  Anna 
Bartram,  near  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Tree  an  irregular  grower.  Young 
wood  slender,  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  lemon  yellow,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  brown  gray  dots  and  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  inclined  in 
a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  partially  open.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained 
juicy,  melting,  rich,  slightly  vinous.     Very  good.     September. 

Bead  nell. 
Beadnell's  Seedling. 

Foreign.     Tree  vigorous.     Shoots  long,  bright  chestnut. 
Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  pale  yellowish  green,  blushed   red  in  tie 
ran.     Flesh  melting,  juicy.     Good.     Last  September.     (Elliott.) 

Beau  Present  d'Artois. 
Present  Royal  de  Naples.  Present  Royal  de  Nantes. 

A  foreign  variety,  by  some  persons  highly  esteemed.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, with  long  branches.  Young  wood  dull  brown,  with  white  oblong 
specks. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  dotted  and  patched 
with  russet.  Stalk  long,  rather  stout,  inclined,  little  or  no  depression. 
Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  buttery,  juicy, 
meling.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Beauvalot. 
Augiere.  Augert.  Anger. 

A  foreign  variety  of  indifferent  quality. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow 
iprinkled  and  patched  with  russet  and  many  russet  dots.  Flesh  juicyt 
vinous,  pleasant.     November,  December. 


668  TEE   PEAK. 

Belle   de   Bruxelles. 

Belle  d'Aout.  Gros  Muscadille.  Beurre  de  Bruxellea, 

Petit  Certeau.  Bellisime  d'Automne.  Muscat  Rouge. 

Beauty  of  Brussels-  Muscadille.  Vermilion  des  Dames. 

De  Coq.  Vermilion  Vermilion  d'Automne. 

Des  Dames. 

A  large  and  handsome  fruit,  of  poor  quality. 

Fruit  medium,  acute  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  soft  red 
cheek  when  fully  exposed.  Flesh  white,  sweet,  and  slightly  perfumed. 
Middle  of  August. 

Belle  de  Figuier. 

Originated  at  Angers,  France,  in  1860. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  globular  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  greenish 
red,  with  fawn-colored  spots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet  aromatic  acid,  gritty  at  core.  December, 
January.     (Leroy.) 

Belle  de  l'Orient. 

A  foreign  variety,  showy  but  of  poor  quality. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted  and 
dotted  with  russet.  Flesh  white,  tender,  rots  at  core  before  ripe.  Oc- 
tober. 

Belle  de  Thouars. 

Coulon  de  Saint  Mare.  Belle  de  Thouarse. 

Belle  de  Troyes.  Saint  Marc. 

Belle  de  Prague.  Belle  de  Jersey 

A  foreign  variety,  of  indifferent  or  poor  qualitv. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  covered 
with  a  thin  cinnamon  russet.  Flesh  white,  dry,  sweet.  December, 
January. 

Belle  Epine  Dumas. 

Due  de  Bourdeaux.  Beurre  Rochechourt 

Epine  du  Rochoir.  Beurre  St.  Louis. 

Epine  de  Limoges.  Colmar  de  Lot. 

Epine  Dumas.  Comte  de  Limoges. 

Beurre  de  Rochoir.  Emile  de  Rochois. 

Beurre  d'Elberg. 

Tree  vigorous,  pyramidal  form,  good  bearer.  Young  wood  dull  yel- 
low brown,  with  sharp-pointed  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  green,  becoming 
greenish  yellow  when  ripe,  with  small  russet  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  set 
in  a  very  small  depression.  Calyx  partially  closed,  in  a  shallow,  regular 
basin.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  and  of  a  peculiar 
flavor.     Very  good.     November  and  December. 

Belle  Julie. 

Tilloy .  St.  Germain  Dutilleul. 

Alexandre  DTelie.  St.  Germain  du  Tillay. 

St.  Germain  du  Tilloy.  St.  Germain  de  Graines. 

A  Belgian  Pear.  Tree  very  vigorous,  and  productive.  Young  wood 
rather  slender,  light  yellowish  brown. 


THE   PEAB.  669 

Fruit  medium,  globular  obtuse  pyriform,  sometimes  inclined.  Skin 
rather  rough,  greenish  yellow,  considerably  netted  aud  patched  with 
russet,  especially  around  the  stalk  and  calyx.  Stalk  generally  curved, 
set  in  a  slight  depression,  often  without  and  sometimes  with  a  lip. 
Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous. 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Belle  Moulinoise. 

Originated  at  Moulins,  France,  and  introduced  in  1864. 

Fruit  largo,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  greenish,  dottpd 
and  marbled  in  the  sun,  with  fawn-color  near  the  stalk.  Stalk  long, 
large,  curved.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  fine,  firm,  juicy,  crisp, 
sweet,  musky.     February,  March.     (Leroy.) 

Belle  Rouennaise. 

A  French  Pear,  introduced  in  1856. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblique  acute  pyriform.  Skin  lemon  yel- 
low, covered  with  russet  dots.  Calyx  large,  half  open.  Stalk  stout. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  melting,  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  with  a  delicate  aroma. 
Early  in  October.     (Hogg.) 

Belle  Williams. 

A  foreign  variety  little  known.  Tree  a  veiy  erect,  vigorous  grower. 
Young  wood  olive,  slightly  yellow,  glossy. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  pyriform,  with  a  groove  or  sunken 
line  from  stem  to  calyx,  yellowish,  with  traces  -and  nettings  of  russet. 
Stalk  long,  curved,  set  in  a  slight  depression  by  a  lip.  Calyx  partially 
closed.  Flesh  whitish,  not  juicy  or  rich.  Good  for  cooking.  Decem- 
ber to  March. 

Bellissime  d'Hiver. 

VermilloD  d'Hiver  des  Dames.  Du  Bur. 

Bellisime  du  Bur.  Belle  Noisette. 

An  old  Pear,  valuable  only  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  shade  of 
red  in  the  sun,  and  many  russet  dots.  Flesh  white,  fine,  sweet,  break- 
ing, not  gritty.     November,  January. 

Belmont. 

An  English  kitchen  Pear. 

Fruit  rather  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish  green,  a  lit- 
tle brownish  next  the  sun.  Flesh  rather  coarse,  juicy,  and  sweet. 
October. 

Bergamotte  Boussiere. 

One  of  Tan  Moms'  seedlings. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate  pyriform,  yellowish  green 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  harsh  at  centre.     Good.     October,  December. 


670  THE   PEAK. 

Bergamotte  Bufo. 
Bergamotte  Capraud.  Crapaud. 

An  old  French  Pear,  heretofore  confounded  with  Bergamotce  Cadet 
Free  vigorous,  productive.     Young  wood  light  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  netted  and  patched 
with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  in  a 
broad,  rather  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     October. 

Bergamotte  Cadet. 
Poire  de  Cadet.  De  Cadet.  Milan  de  Bourdeaux. 

A  good  Bergamot  from  France.  Productive.  Young  wood  clear 
light  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish  inclining  to  oblate.  Skin  smooth,  pale 
yellow,  rarely  with  a  pale  red  cheek.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  thick  set  in 
an  angular,  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  nearly  flat.  Flesh 
buttery  and  juicy,  sweet  and  rich.     Good.     October  and  November. 

Bergamotte  d'Esperen. 

A  seedling  of  Esperin,  in  1830.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young 
wood  warm  rich  dark  yellow  brown,  with  small  white  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  exceedingly  depressed,  sides  often  unequal. 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  thick  and  rough,  covered  with  russet  dots  and 
patches.  Stalk  long  and  stout,  thickened  at  its  insertion  in  a  small 
cavity,  at  an  inclination.  Calyx  small,  closed  in  a  rather  deep 
slightly  furrowed  basin,  surrounded  by  russet.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
juicy,  buttery,  sweet,  and  rich.     Good.     December  to  February. 

Bergamotte  de  Millipieds. 

Said  to  have  originated  by  Goubalt,  at  Millipieds,  France,  and  first 
fruited  in  1852. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate,  ribbed  at  apex,  pale  yellow,  moderately 
sprinkled  with  small  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  stout.  Cavity  small.  Calyx 
op«n.  Segments  erect.  Basin  deep,  abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh  white, 
a  little  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  Novem- 
ber. 

Bergamotte  Dussart. 

A  Belgian  variety,  described  by  various  authors. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  gray  dots 
ind  traces  of  russet.  Flesh  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous.  Good. 
December,  January. 

Bergamotte  Gaudry. 

Gaudry. 

A  foreign  Pear  of  little  value. 

Fruit  small,  romdish  oval   oblate,  greenish  yellow,  partially  netted 


THE   PEAR.  671 

and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  long.  Flesh 
whitish,  coarse,  breaking,  gritty  at  core,  pleasant,  vinous.  Hardly  good. 
October. 

Bergamotte  Heimbourg. 

Raised  by  M.  Bivort.     Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  Bergamotte-shaped.  Skin  rough,  green,  changing  to 
lemon-yellow  when  ripe,  dotted  with  brown,  and  tinged  with  red  next 
the  sun.  Flesh  white,  very  fine,  somewhat  buttery,  juice  abundant, 
sugary,  peifumed.     Ripe  early  in  October.     (Gard.  Chron.) 

Bergamotte  Leseble. 

A  Pear  of  French  origin,  only  good  in  quality.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  or  Bergamotte-shaped.  Skin  yellow,  with  a 
sunny  cheek,  numerous  small  dots,  and  russeted  patches.  Stalk  long, 
ourved,  inserted  in  a  depression.  Calyx  open,  broad.  Basin  irregular 
Flesh  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  sweet,  and  pleasant.     October. 

Bergamotte  Parthenay. 

Bergamotte  de  Parthenay.  Poire  Poriault.  Parthenay 

Beurre  Parthenay.  Bergamotte  Stoffels.  Poireau. 

Bergamotte  Poireau. 

An  old  French  Pear,  large,  and  valuble  only  for  cooking. 
Fruit  large,  oblate   obtuse  pyramidal,  olive  yellow,  with  fawn-colored 
specks.     Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  subacid,  astringent.  January  to  May. 

Bergamotte  Piquot. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  broad  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  tinge 
of  red  in  the  sun,  traces  of  russet  and  russet  dots.  Flesh  white,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     Rots  at  core.     September. 

Bergamotte  Sageret. 
Sageret. 

A  French  Pear,  of  vigorous  growth  of  tree. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish,  very  thickly  sprinkled  with 
brown  and  russet  dots.  Stalk  fleshy  at  insertion.  Calyx  large,  open. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     October. 

Bergamot   Seckel. 

Raised  by  "William  Pitmaston,  England.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  regular.  Skin  reddish-brown, 
russet  specks.  Stalk  short,  thick,  inclined  without  depression.  Calyx 
short,  stiff.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  sugary,  -with  all  the 
3picy  flavor  of  the  Seckol.     (Gard.  Ckrou.) 

Bergen. 
A  chance  seedling  found  in  a  hedge  on  land  formerly  belonging  to 


672  THE   PEAR. 

Simon  Bergen,  of  New  Utrecht,  Long  Island.  Tree  moderately  vigo 
rous,  upright.  Young  wood  reddish,  an  early  and  good  bearer,  but 
not  profuse. 

Fruit  large,  elongated,  obtuse  pyriform,  often  with  sides  not  sym 
metric,  angular.  Skin  waxen,  lemon  yellow,  finely  shaded  with  crim- 
son and  fawn  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
brown  and  crimson  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  stout,  curved,  inserted  in 
a  moderate  depression  by  a  fleshy  ring.  Calyx  small,  open.  Segments 
6tiff.  Basin  small,  surrounded  by  a  wavy  border.  Flesh  whitish, 
veined  with  yellow,  a  little  coarse  and  gritty,  buttery,  juicy,  melting, 
with  a  sweet  aromatic  flavor,  delicately  perfumed.  Good  to  very  good. 
Ripe  last  of  September  and  beginning  of  October. 

Berriays. 
Poire  de  Berriays. 

This  is  a  new  French  variety,  obtained  from  seed  in  1861,  by  M.  Bois- 
bunel.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive.     Young  shoots  reddish, 

Fruit  medium,  surface  a  little  uneven,  roundish  obovate  obtuse. 
Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  a  shade  of  brown  in  the  sun,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  and  green  dots.  Stalk  long,  set  in  a 
small  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Segments  short.  Basin  small,  uneven. 
Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse  at  the  core,  juicy,  melting,  refreshing,  slightly 
vinous.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Beurre    Antoine. 
Saint  Germain  Fondant. 

Originated  in  1822,  and  was  rebaptized  in  1849,  under  name  of  the 
present  synonym.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblong  pyriform,  sometimes  with  a  suture 
one  side.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  with  green  and  brown 
dots.  Stalk  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open. 
Flesh  white,  buttery,  not  very  juicy  or  melting,  but  sweet.  Good.  Last 
September. 

Beurre  Antoinette. 

A  Belgiar  Pear,  originated  in  1846.  Tree  vigorous  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  meaium,  roundish  acute  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
slightly  netted  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots. 
Stalk  long,  slender,  inserted  generally  with  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Flesh 
yellowish,  juicy,  buttery,  sweet,  pleasant,  a  little  perfumed.  Slightly 
vinous.     Good.     September. 

Beurre  Assomption. 
Beurre  de  1' Assomption. 

Originated  near  Nantes,  in  France.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  irregular,  generally  oblong  pyriform,  obtuse,  yellow, 
doited,  marbled,  and  splashed  with  red  in  sun.  Stalk  shor+.  Calyx 
large,  open.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  rough  next  the  core, 
acid  sweet.     July,  August.      (Leroy). 


THE    PEArt.  67S> 

Beurre  Auneniere. 

Origin,  supposed  France.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood 
doll  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  with  a  few 
traces  of  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  stout.  Calyx 
partially  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  aromatic.     Good      Last  September. 

Beurre  Bachelier. 
Bachelier .  Chevalier. 

A  French  Pear,  introduced  in  1845.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood 
rich  dark  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  with  brown  dots  and  patch  of  russet  next  the  stalk.  Stalk  short- 
ish, very  much  inclined  in  a  moderate  depression  by  a  lip.  Calyx  partial- 
ly closed,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  with  a 
brisk,  vinous,  aromatic  flavor.     Very  good.     November  and  December. 

Beurre  Bailey. 

A  variety  that  originated  in  France,  and  first  fruited  in  1848. 

Fruit  large,  irregular,  elongated  pyriform,  yellow,  dotted  with  green- 
ish gray,  and  with  fawn  color  next  the  calyx.  Flesh  white,  fine,  halt 
melting,  juicy,  sugary,  rough  near  the  core.  Octobei-,  November. 
(Leroy.) 

Beurre  Beauchamps. 

Beauchamps.  Hag-kens  d'Hiver. 

Biemont.  Bergamotte  Beauchamp. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  shoots  stout, 
dark  dull  olive  yellow,  many  long  white  specks,  and  patches  of  whitish  gray. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  rough,  light  yellow,  slightly 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  with  many  brown  and  crimson 
dots.  Stalk  pretty  stout,  long  and  curved,  set  in  a  moderate  cavity, 
sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Basin  rather  narrow,  abrupt,  and 
uneven.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  a  little  buttery,  very  sweet, 
gritty,  pleasant.     Good.     November. 

Beurre  Beaulieu. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  russet.  Stalk  short,  inclined,  without  cavity.  Calyx 
open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  whitish,  somewhat  coarse,  buttery,  melt- 
ing, with  a  brisk  vinous  flavor,  resembling  Brown  Beurre\  Good. 
October. 

Beurre  Beguines. 

A  small  but  very  rich  Pear,  one  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  too  small 
for  the  season. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  oblate.  Skin  rough,  nearly  covered  with  dull 
russet.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  coarse,  melt 
ing,  sweet.     Good.     October. 

43 


674  THE   PEAR. 

Beurre  Bennert. 

From  Belgium. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate  pyriform,  palt  yellow,  sometime! 
shaded  and  mottled  with  fawn  and  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  often  net- 
ted and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  open.  Flesh 
whitish  or  light  rose  color,  juicy,  melting,  a  little  coarse,  sweet,  per 
fumed.     Good.     November,  December. 

BeurrS  Benoist. 
Beurre  Auguste  Benoit.  Benoist.  Beurre  Benoist  Nouveau. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  very  productive.  Young  wood 
reddish,  with  sharp  spur-like  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  inclining  to  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellow, 
spotted  and  shaded  with  brown  russet,  red  cheek  in  sun.  Stalk  of 
moderate  length,  inserted  by  a  fleshy  ring  or  lip.  Calyx  open,  in  a 
regular  basin.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juice-  abundant,  sugary,  and 
well  perfumed.     Very  good.     Bipe  end  of  September. 

Beurre  Berckmans. 
Alexandre  Berckmans. 

One  of  Major  Esperen's  seedlings,  dedicated  to  M.  Louis  Berckmans, 
once  a  colaborer  in  pomology.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  very  productive. 
Young  wood  very  stout,  blunt  at  ends,  yellowish  olive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  pjTriform,  sometimes  obovate  acute 
pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  rough,  chiefly  covered  with  russet.  Stalk 
of  medium  length,  fleshy,  very  much  inclined.  Calyx  small,  open,  in  a 
shallow  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  very  buttery,  melting,  with 
a  rich,  highly  perfumed  flavor.     Very  good.     October,  November. 

Beurre  Boisbunel. 

Originated  with  L.  M.  Boisbunel,  at  Bouen,  France,  in  1835.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  wood  dull  yellowish 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  traces 
of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender, 
curbed,  set  in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  small,  open. 
Flerfh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  perfumed 
Good.     September. 

Beurre  Bollwiller. 

A  winter  cooking  Fear,  of  good  quality. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  with  spots 
of  grayish  brown  and  russet  near  the  calyx,  shade  of  -red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  half  fine,  j  licy,  sweet,  agreeable.     Good.     January,  March, 

Beurre  Bosc. 
Bosc's  Flasch  anbirne.  Calebasse  Bosc.  Cannelle. 

The  Beurre  Bosc  is  a  Fear  to  which  we  give  our  vinqualified  praise 


THE    PEAR.  675 

It  is  large,  handsome,  a  regular  bearer,  always  perfect,  and  of  the  high 
eat  flavor.  It  bears  singly,  and  not  in  clusters,  looking  as  if  thinned  on 
the  tree,  whence  it  is  always  of  line  size.  It  was  raised  in  1807,  by  Van 
Mons,  and  named  Calebasse  Bosc  in  honor  of  M.  Bosc,  a  distinguished 
Belgian  cultivator.     Having   also  been  received   at  the   garden  of  the 


Benn-6  Bosc. 

Horticultural  Society  of  London  under  the  name  of  Beurre'  Bosc,  Mr. 
Thompson  thought  it  best  to  retain  this  name,  as  less  likely  to  lead  to  a 
confusion  with  the  Calebasse,  a  distinct  fruit.  The  tree  grows  vigor- 
ously.    Shoots  long,  brownish  olive. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  a  little  uneven,  often  tapering  long  and  gra- 
dually into  the  stalk.  Skin  pretty  smooth,  dark  yellow,  a  good  deal  cov- 
ered with  streaks  and  dots  of  cinnamon  russet,  anil  slightly  touched 
with   red   on  one  side.     Stalk   one   to  two   inches  long,  rather   slender 


676  THE   PEAR. 

curved.  Calyx  short,  set  in  a  very  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  melt 
ing,  very  buttery,  with  a  rich,  delicious,  and  slightly  perfumed  flavor, 
Best.  Ripens  gradually  from  the  last  of  September  to  the  last  of  Octx> 
ber. 

Beurre  Brettouneau. 
Docteur  Brettouneau.  Brettouneau. 

One  of  Major  Esperen's  seedlings,  originated  in  1818.  Tree  vigorous, 
but  comes  late  into  bearing.     Young  wood  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  variable  in  form,  generally  obovate  pyrifonn.  Skin 
rough,  light  green,  golden  yellow  at  maturity,  reddish  brown  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  fine,  yellowish  white,  not  juicy,  half  melting,  sugary,  vinous,  plea- 
santly  perfumed.     Good.     March  and  April. 

Beurre  Bruneau. 

Crassane  d'Hiver  de  Bruneau.  De  Saint  Herblain. 

Bergamotte  Crassane  d'Hiver.  Crassane  Bruneau. 

Crassane  d'Hiver.  Bergamotte  Crassane  de  Bruneau. 

This  variety,  we  believe,  was  originally  figured  and  described  in  the 
Annals  of  Pomology  as  Bergamotte  Crassane  d'Hiver,  but  having  re- 
ceived it  as  Beurre  Bruneau,  we  prefer  to  continue  that  name  as  the 
most  simple.  It  is  not  a  variety  of  much  excellence,  although  the  tree 
is  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  short  obtuse  pyriform,  dull  yellow,  spotted  and  shaded 
with  grayish  brown.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  vinous  a  little  acid.  Good 
November,  December. 

Beurr£  Burnicq. 

Originated  and  first  fruited  with  Major  Esperen,  in  1846.  Tree  vig- 
orous,  spreading,  irregular,  productive.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  globular  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  partially 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
medium,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Calyx  generally  open.  Basin  small,  un- 
even. Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  slightly  astringent.  Good. 
October. 

Beurre  Charron. 

Originated  at  Angers,  France,  in  1838. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish,  with  many  gray  dots.  Stalk 
long.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Basin  deep.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  buttery. 
Very  good.     October. 

Beurre  Chatenay. 

A  French  Pear,  too  small  for  profit,  but  very  good  in  quality. 

Fruit  small,  varying  in  form  from  obovate  to  ovate  pyriform,  pale 
yellow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  occasionally  a  red  cheek  in  the 
Bun.  Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx  partially  open.  Flesh*  white,  half  fine, 
juicy,  sweet,  vinous.     October. 

Beurre  Citron. 

From  Belgium,  one  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  vigorous.  Young 
wood  reddish  brown. 


THK    PEAR. 


677 


Fruit  medium  or  below,  obovate  oblate.  Skin  whitish  yelh/w,  shade 
of  red  or  crimson  in  the  sun,  traces  of  russet  and  many  russet  dots. 
Stalk  long,  a  little  curved,  set  in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  with  a  slight 
Up.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  a  little  per- 
fumed.    Good  to  very  good.     Last  September  and  October. 

We  have  received  another  and  quite  dilierent  pear  under  this  name, 
the  wood  of  which  is  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  irregular,  sometimes  obovate  obtuse  pyri- 
form,  and  again  ovate  acute  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly  netted 
with  russet,  and  with  small  brown  or  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium,  fleshy 
at  insertion.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  not  juicy  or  melt- 
ing.    Hardly  good.     November,  December. 

Leroy  makes  General  Lamoriciere  identical  with  Beurre  Citron,  bm 
as  we  have  received  them  they  are  quito  distinct. 


B«urr6  Clairgcan. 


•78  THE   PEAR. 

Beurre  Clairgeau. 
Clairgeau.  Clairgeau  de  Nantes. 

Raised  by  Pierre  Clairgeau,  of  Nantes,  France.  Tree  very  vigorous. 
forming  a  beautiful  pyramid.  Young  wood  reddish  brown,  very  produc- 
tive. 

The  size,  early  bearing,  productiveness,  and  beauty  of  this  Pear  ren- 
der it  a  profitable  market  sort. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  but  with  unequal  sides.  Skin  warm  yellow, 
inclining  to  fawn,  shaded  with  orange  and  crimson,  thickly  covered  with 
russet  dots,  and  sometimes  sprinkled  with  russet.  Stalk  short,  stout,  and 
fleshy,  inserted  by  a  Up  at  an  inclination  almost  without  depression ; 
when  the  lip  is  absent  the  cavity  is  uneven.  Calyx  open.  Segments 
stiff,  in  a  shallow  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  buttery,  juicy,  some- 
what granular,  with  a  sugary,  perfumed,  vinous  flavor.  Good.  October 
to  January. 

Beurre  Colmar. 
Beurre  Colmar  d'Automne.  Beurre  d'Enghien  of  France. 

It  is  one  of  Dr.  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  and  is  quite  distinct  from  the 
Autumn  Colmar. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval  obovate,  regularly  formed.  Skin  smooth, 
Dale  green,  becoming  yellowish  at  maturity,  with  a  blush  next  the  sun, 
and  thickly  sprinkled  with  dots.  Stalk  an  inch  long.  Calyx  expanded, 
and  set  in  a  very  shallow,  narrow,  irregular  basin.  Flesh  very  white, 
slightly  crisp  at  first,  but  becoming  very  juicy  and  melting,  with  a 
slightly  perfumed  flavor.     Good.     October. 

Beurre  Coloma. 
Beurre  dn  Coloma.  Capucine  d'Automne  Coloma. 

The  trees  of  this  foreign  Pear  are  good  growers. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  long  oval  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  a 
tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  many  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  me- 
dium, inserted  without  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish  yellow, 
juicy,  melting,  slightly  astringent.     Good.     October. 

Beurre  d'Albret. 

Poire  d'Albret.  Beurre  Delbret. 

Dalbret.  Calebasse  d'Albret 

A  foreign  variety.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  wood  reddish. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  elongated  pyriform,  angular,  often  with  a 
3uture  on  one  side.  Skin  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  cinnamon  russet. 
Stalk  short,  thick,  and  fleshy,  much  inclined  at  its  insertion  by  a  lip. 
Calyx  small,  open,  or  partially  closed.  Basin  small  and  uneven.  Flesh 
greenish  white,  exceedingly  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  with  a  rich  vinous 
flavor,  highly  perfumed.     Very  good.     October. 

Beurre  d'Amanlis. 

Hubard.  Beurr  -  d'Amalis.  Kaissoise. 

Beurre  d'Amanlis.        Kessoise.  Tbiessoise. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  very  productive,  variable.  Succeeds  best  in  cold 
latitudes. 


THE    PEAK. 


679 


fruit  large,  obovate,  not  very  regular,  a  little  swollen  on  its  sides 
fikin  rather  thick,  dull  yellowish  green,  with  a  pale  reddish  brown  cheek 


Beurrd  d'Albret. 

overspread  with  numerous  brown  dots  and  russet  streaks  and  patches*. 
Stalk  a  little  more  than  an  inch  long,  set  rather  obliquely  in  a  shallow,  ir- 
regular cavity.  Calyx  open,  with  broad  divisions.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh 
yellowish,  somewhat  coarse,  but  buttery,  melting,  abundant,  rich,  with 
slightly  perfumed  juice,  often  astringent  and  poor.     September. 

Beurre  d'Amanlis  Panachee  differs  from  the    above  only  in  its  skin, 
having  green  and  greenish  yellow  shades  and  stripes. 


Beurre  d'Anjou. 
Ne  Plus  Meuris  of  the  French. 

A  noble  fruit,  said  to  be  of  French  origin.     Tree  vigoroiis.     Young 
shoots  yellowish  brown,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Stem  short,  thick,  and  fleshy,  inserted  in 
A  cavity,  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  very  small,  open,  stiff,  in  an  exceed- 
ingly small  basin,  surrounded  by  russet.  Skin  greenish,  sprinkled  with 
russet,  sometimes  shaded  with  dull  crimson,  and  sprinkled  thickly  with 
brown  and  crimson  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  not  very  fine,  melting,  juicy 
with  a  brisk  vinous  flavor,  pleasantly  perfumed.  Very  good  to  beat 
Oct  >bor,  November. 


680 


THE    PEAK. 


This  is  one  of  the  most  profitable  varieties  foi  orcharding,  bearing 
abundantly  and  evenly,  whether  grown  on  quince  or  pear  stocks. 


Benrrt  d' Anjou. 


Beurre  d'Aremberg. 


Due  d'Aremberg. 
Deschamps. 
Colmar  Deschamps. 
D'Aremberg  Parfait. 
L'Orpheline. 


Beurr6  des  Orphelines. 
Beurre  Burchardt. 
Orpheline  d'Enghien. 
Beurre  Deschamps. 
Delices  des  Orphelins. 


The  Beurre  d'Aremberg  is  a  fine  fruit,  high-flavored,  bears  most 
abundantly,  and  always  keeps  and  matures  with  perhaps  less  care  than 
most  other  winter  fruits  in  the  house. 

The  Beurre"  d'Aremberg  was  raised  by  the  Abb6  Deschamps,  in  the 
garden  of  the  Hospice  des  Orphelines,  at  Enghien.  The  Beurre  d'Arem- 
berg  of  many  French  catalogues  is  the  Glout  Morceau.  The  two  sorts 
are  easily  distinguished.  The  fruit  of  the  d'Aremberg  has  a  short,  or 
thicker  stalk,  usually  bent  to  one  side ;  its   flavor  is  vinous  instead  of 


THE    PEAK. 


681 


sugary,  and  its  wood  not  so  strong,  with  more  deeply  serrated  leaves. 
Branches  clear  yellowish  brown,  dotted  with  pale  specks.  Tree  un 
healthy  and  subject  to  canker. 

Fruit  obovate,  but  narrowing  a  good  deal  to  the  stalk.  Skin  thick, 
rather  uneven,  pale  greenish  yellow,  becoming  yellow  at  maturity,  with 
many  tracings  and  spots  of  fight  russet.  Stalk  short,  half  an  inch  to  an 
inch  long,  thick,  and  very  fleshy,  especially  where  it  joins  the  fruit,  and 
usually  planted  very  obliquely.  Calyx  short  and  small,  set  in  a  deep 
basin.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  melting,  with  an  abundant,  rich,  deli- 
cious vinous  juice.     Very  good.     December. 

Beurre  d'Avoine. 

A  variety  of  comparatively  recent  introduction  from  Belgium. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate.     Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  a  few  patches 
and  nettings  of  russet,  and  some  russet  dots.     Stalk  medium.     Calyx ' 
closed.     Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  and   pleasant.     Good   to 
very  good.     October. 


Beurr6  de  Brignaia. 


Beurre  de  Brignais. 
Dm  Nonnes.  Poire  dea  Nonnes.  Nun's  Pear.  De  Nonne. 

A  valuable  variety,  the    origin   of  which   we   cannot  learn.     Tree 


682  THE   PEAR. 

vigorous,  hardy,  and   productive.     Young   wood  rich   dark   yellowiafc 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish,  with  numerous  gray 
dots.  Stalk  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  narrow,  uneven  cavity.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  with  a 
brisk,  perfumed,  high  flavor.  Very  good.  Ripe  middle  and  last  of 
September.     Core  small,  continues  a  long  time  ere  it  decays. 

Beurre  de  Capiaumont. 

Capiumont.  Beurre  Aurore.  Calebasse  Vasse. 

Aurore.  De  la  Glaciere. 

A  Flemish  Pear,  very  fair  and  handsomely  formed,  and  a  capital 
bearer,  hardy  in  all  soils  and  seasons  ;  sometimes  first-rate ;  but  when 
the  tree  is  heavily  laden,  it  is  apt  to  be  slightly  astringent.  It  grows 
freely.     Branches  a  little  pendent,  grayish  yellow. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  long  turbinate,  very  even,  and  tapering  regu- 
larly into  the  stalk.  Skin  smooth,  clear  yellow,  with  a  light  cinnamon- 
red  cheek,  and  a  few  small  dots  and  streaks  of  russet.  Calyx  large,  with 
spreading  segments  prominently  placed,  and  not  at  all  sunk.  Stalk 
from  three-fourths  to  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  curved.  Flesh  fine-grain- 
ed, buttery,  melting,  sweet,  and,  when  not  astringent,  of  high  flavor. 
September  and  October. 

Beurre  Defais. 
Beurre  Audusson  d'Hiver.  Beurr6  Defays. 

A  French  Pear.  Tree  productive,  and  a  strong,  vigorous  grower. 
Young  shoots  rich  clear  reddish  brown,  with  a  large  pointed  bud  at 
end. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblique  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  fine  yellow, 
slightly  netted  with  russet,  and  a  few  russet  dots.  Stalk  varying  in 
length,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  small,  partially  open.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.     Good.      October. 

Beurre  de  Fevrier. 

This  winter  Pear  originated  in  Rouen,  France,  and  is  classed  as  a 
Buperior  variety ;  we  have  not  fruited  it,  and  give  our  description  from 
Leroy. 

Fi-uit  medium,  oblong  obtuse  ppiform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with 
clear  spots  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  slightly 
granulous,  juicy,  sweet  with  a  vinous  perfume.     January,  February, 

Beurre  de  Ghelin. 
Beurre  Fromentel. 

Raised  by  M.  Fontaine  de  Shelin,  near  Mons,  Belgium.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, productive. 

Fruit  large,  very  irregular  in  its  outline,  often  roundish  oblong 
oval,  yellowish,  with  some  few  marblings  of  russet.  Stalk  short.  Ca\  - 
ity  irregular.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine,  juicy,  sweet,  agreeabji 
October,  December.     (Leroy.) 


THE    PEAK.  ggj 

Beurrb  d'Hardenpont  d'Automne. 
Wilfred? 

Tree  upright,  vigorous.     Young  wood  grayish  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yel 
low,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  large  russet  dots 
Stalk  long,  curved.  Calyx  open.  Basin  narrow,  abrupt.  Flesh  yel 
lowish,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good.  Octo 
ber. 

Beurrb  de  Johnge. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  M.  Gambier,  near  Brussels.  Tree 
hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  fleshy  next  the 
stem.  Skin  pale  yellow,  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  considerably  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  short,  inclined 
lip  at  base.     Calyx  open.     Segments  short.     Basin  rather   small  and 


BeorrA  de  Konln«. 


jmeven.     Flesh  whitish,  juicy,   melting,  swe  i    rich,  a  little  perfumeo. 
Good  to  very  good.     December,  January. 


684  THE    PEAR. 

Beuiire  de  Xomng. 

Benrre  Koninck.  Beurre  de  Conick.  Beurre  Conning 

Auguste  de  Maraise  ? 

A  Belgian  Pear.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  shoots  slen^ 
der,  olive  reddish  yellow. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  slightly  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish 
green,  with  russet  and  brown  dots  and  marblings.  Stalk  medium,  si  out. 
Calyx  open,  in  a  broad  basin.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  vinous 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Beurre  Delannoy. 
«De  Launay. 

Originated  with  Alexander  Delannoy,  of  Tournai.  Tree  vigorous, 
productive.     Young  shoots  dull  reddish-yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  a  lit- 
tle brownish  in  the  sun,  with  patches  and  traces  of  i-usset  and  many  rus- 
set dots.  Stalk  varying,  a  little  curved  and  inclined.  Calyx  open 
Flesh  whitish,  melting,  refreshinglv  sweet.  Very  good.  October,  No- 
vember. 

Beurre  Delbecq. 

Delbecque.  Fleur  de  Mars. 

Fondante  Delbecq.  Beurre  Delberg. 

A  Belgian  variety.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oval  obovate,  golden  yellow,  splashed  and  dotted 
with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  Good. 
September,  October. 

Beurre   Delfosse. 

Beurre  Philippe  Delfosse.  Delfosse  Bourgmestre. 

Delfosse.  Philippe  Delfosse. 

Bourgmestre  Delfosse. 

Raised  by  M.  Gregoire,  of  Belgium.  Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Young  shoots  very  stout,  rich  warm  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  sometimes  only 
obovate.  greenish  yellow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many 
russet  dots.  Stalk  curved,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     October,  November. 

Beurre  de  Mons. 
Beurr6  de  Mans. 

A  foreign  Pear  of  little  value,  as  it  rots  at  the  core. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obovate,  yellowish,  with  a  shade  of  brownish 
red  in  the  sun,  many  green  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx 
open.     Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  juicy,  astringent.     Poor.     August. 

Beurre  de  Montgeron. 

New  Frederick  of  Wurtemburg.  De  Montgeron, 

Beurre  de  Montigeron. 

A  variety  obtained  by  M.  Guyot,  of  Villeneuve,  in  1830.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, moderately  productive.     Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 


THE    PEAR.  G81 

Fruit  medium,  broad  pyriiorni.  Skin  yellow,  shaded  with  fine  rich 
red  in  the  sun,  and  sprinkled  with  minute  light  brown  dots,  Stalk  long, 
curved.  Calyx  open.  Basin  furrowed.  Flesh  whitish  yeilow,  juicy, 
melting,  with  a  pleasant  vinous  flavor.     Good  to  very  good.     August. 

Beurre  de  Nantes. 
Beurre  Nantais.  Beurre  Blanc  de  Nantes. 

Raised  by  Francois  Maisonneuve,  at  Nantes,  France.  Tree  very  vig- 
orous, upright,  healthy,  and  comes  early  into  bearing.     Young  wood  olive. 

Fruit  large,  elongated  pyriforin  or  pyramidal.  Skin  greenish  yel- 
low, with  a  red  cheek  and  minute  dots.  Stalk  rather  long  and  large, 
inserted  by  a  lip  almost  without  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open.  Basin 
broad  and  furrowed.  Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  melting,  and  pleasantly  per- 
fumed.    Very  good.     October. 

Beurre  de  Nivelles. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  as  yet  but  little  known. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  brownish  red 
in  the  sun,  netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  set  in  a 
small  cavity.  Calyx  small,  nearly  closed.  Basin  small,  narrow,  abrupt. 
Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  vinous.     Good.     October. 

Beurre  de  Quenast. 

We  have  received  several  Pears  tinder  this  name,  one  of  which  has 
proved  identical  with  Louise  Bon  de  Jersey,  and  as  we  have  doubts  of 
the  others,  we  copy  description  from  the  Annals  of  Pomology,  as  fol- 
lows :  — 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong  pyriform,  slightly  acute,  greenish 
yellow,  with  patches  of  russet,  and  russet  next  the  stalk  and  calyx. 
Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasantly  perfumed.     October 

Beurre  Derouineau. 

A  French  Pear  of  small  size  and  poor  quality. 

Fruit  small,  obovate,  yellowish,  sprinkled  with  russet  patches.  Flesh 
white,  sweet.     October,  November. 

Beurre  de  Saixt  Arnaud. 
Beurre  de  Saint  Arnaud. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  originated  in  1S">3.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  obovate,  yellow,  becoming  brownish 
red  in  the  suu.  Flesh  white,  fine,  buttery,  juicy,  agreeable.  Good. 
October. 

Beurre  des  Mouchouses. 

Origin,  France. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  obovate,  yellow,  with  many  gray  dots 
Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  vinous.     July,  August.     (Leroy.) 

Beurr6  de  Wettkrex. 
This  Pear  was   discovered   by  Louis    Berckmana,  in   his  garden  at 


886 


THE    PEAR. 


Heyst-op-den-Berg,  among  a  number  of  wild  pear-trees  of  his  sowing. 
Tree  vigorous,  very  thorn)',  suitable  for  a  pyramid. 

Fruit  middle  size,  turbinate.  Stalk  medium,  with  some  small  plaita 
around  its  insertion.  Eye  in  a  wide  even  cavity.  Skin  completely 
covered  with  russet,  and  slightly  colored  next  the  sun.  Flesh  fine,  yel- 
lowish white,  half  melting,  buttery,  with  an  abundant  sugary,  agreeably 
perfumed,  musky  iuice.     February.     (An.  Pom.) 


Beurr6  DieL 


Beurre  Diel 

Dillen. 

Des  Trois  Tours. 

Mabille. 

Beurrt'1  d'Yelle. 

De  Melon. 

Melon  de  Kops. 

Beurru  Mag-nifique. 

Beurre  Incomparable. 


Diel's  Butterbirne. 
DieL 

Dorothee  Royale. 
Grosse  Dorothee. 
Sylvanghe  vert  d'hiver. 
Beurre  Royale. 
Dorothee  Royale. 
Gros  Dillen 

A  chance  seedling  near  Brussels,  Belgium,  dedicated  by  Van  Mona, 


Beurre  de  Gell«t 
Dillen  d'  Hi  ver. 
Dry  Toren. 
Gracioli  d'Hiver. 
Fourcroy. 

Guillaume  de  Nassau. 
Beurre  Vert. 


THE    PEAR.  687 

and  named  in  honor  of  his  friend  Dr.  Augustus  Frederick  Adrien  Diel, 
»  distinguished  German  pomologist.  Its  vigor,  productiveness,  and 
beauty  have  made  it  already  a  general  favorite  with  our  planters.  It 
is  in  every  respect  a  first-rate  fruit  in  favorable  situations,  but  on  very 
young  trees  and  in  cold  soils  it  is  apt  to  be  rather  coarse  and  astringent. 
The  tree  has  long,  very  stout,  twisting  branches,  and  is  uncommonly 
vigorous.      Young  shoots  reddish  yellow  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  varying  from  obovate  to  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rather 
thick,  lemon  yellow,  becoming  orange  yellow,  marked  with  large  brown 
dots,  and  marblings  of  russet.  Stalk  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  three-quar- 
ters long,  stout,  curved,  set  in  a  rather  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  nearly 
closed,  and  placed  in  a  slightly  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
a  little  coarse-grained,  especially  at  the  core,  but  rich,  sugary,  half  melt- 
ing, and,  in  good  specimens,  buttery  and  delicious.  Very  good.  In 
eating,  in  this  country,  from  September  to  December,  if  picked  and 
ripened  in  the  house. 

Beurre  du  Cercle. 
Beurre  de  Cercle.  Pratique  de  Rouen. 

A  new  French  Pear  little  known.     Tree  moderately  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  very  irregular  in  form,  varying  from  obovate 
to  oblong  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  golden 
russet,  and  shade  of  red  in  sun,  and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather 
short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
slightly  vinous.     Good.     October. 

Beurre  Duhaume. 

Tree  a  moderate  grower,  productive.  Young  wood  yellowish 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  turbinate,  very  much  depressed,  with  a  suture 
along  one  side.  Skin  rough,  covered  with  thin  russet,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  short,  thick,  and  fleshy,  inserted  by  a 
lip  at  an  inclination.  Calyx  open.  Segments  stiff.  Basin  irregular. 
Flesh  coarse,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  pleasant  vinous  flavor. 
Good.     November  to  February. 

Beurre  Dumont. 
Beurre  Dumon. 

A  Belgian  variety,  raised  by  Joseph  Dumont.  Tree  a  vigorous 
grower,  with  rather  slender  branches. 

Fruit  rather  large,  obovate  pyriform  obtuse.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
with  a  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  a  few  nettings  and  patches  of  rus- 
set and  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  stout,  set  in  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx 
open.  Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  refreshing,  sweet. 
Good.     September  and  October. 

Beurre  Dumortier. 

Du  Mortier.  Dumontier.  Dumoustier. 

A  Belgian  Pear. 

Fruit    medium,  roundish    obovate   pyriform,    often    with    unequal 


688  THE   PEAS. 

sides  Skin  rough,  greenish,  partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet, 
and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  generally  inclined  and  without  depression. 
Calyx  open.  Segments  long,  recurved.  Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy, 
sweet,  melting,  a  little  vinous.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Beurre  Durand. 

Originated  at  Angers,  France,  and  introduced  in  1855. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  dotted  and  mar- 
bled with  fawn-color  and  splashed  with  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  half  closed.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  sugary,  vinous.  Sep- 
tember, October.     (Leroy.) 

Beurre  Duval: 
Duval.  Dwael.  Roi  Louis  Nouveau.  Audibert. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  raised  by  M.  Duval.  Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Young  wood  pretty  stout,  grayish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  varying  in  form  from  obovate  to  oblong 
obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  warm  yellow,  dull  brown  in  the  sun,  and  with 
patches  and  nettings  of  russet  and  many  brown  dots.  Stalk  mode- 
rately stout,  with  little  or  no  depression.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Beurre  Duvivier. 
Duvivier.  General  Duvivier. 

A  coarse,  poor  French  Pear. 

Fruit  small,  obovate,  greenish  with  russet.  Flesh  white,  coarse, 
sweet,  pleasant,  hardly  good.     Rots  at  core.     September. 

Beurre  Flon. 

Originated  near  Angers,  France,  in  1852. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Sides  unequal.  Skin 
rough,  thick,  citron  yellow,  mostly  overspread,  marbled,  splashed,  and 
dotted  with  red.  Stalk  short,  set  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  open. 
Flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  a  little  rough,  sweet,  aromatic. 
September,  October.     (Leroy.) 

Beurre  Fougiere. 

A  foreign  Pear,  introduced  by  J.  C.  Lee. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  patches 
and  uoints  of  light  russet,  and  some  dark  green  spots.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  coarse-grained,  a  little  gritty  at  the  core,  melting,  juicy,  sweet, 
and  good.     October.     (Rob.  Manning's  MS.) 

Beurre  Gendron. 
Poire  Gendron. 

A  large  foreign  Pear,  fine  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  irregular,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellowish, 
with  a  shade  of  brownish  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  breaking 
juicy,  sweet,  vinous.     Januarv,  March. 


THE   PEAR. 


6«g 


Beurre  Gens. 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 


Young  wood  yel- 


A  Belgian  Pear, 
lowish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate,  obscurely  pyriform.  Skin  yellow 
shaded  with  bright  red  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots,  and  netted  and 
patched  with  russet.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  partially  closed.  Basir 
narrow.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous,  aromatic,  a 
little  gritty  at  the  core.     Very  good.     October. 


Beurr£  Giffard. 
Poire  Giffard. 


Giffart. 


A   chance    seedling,  originated  with   M.    Giffard,  Angers,  France. 
Tree  of  moderate  growth,  with  slender  reddish-colored  shoots. 


Benrre  Giffard. 


Fruit  medium  in  sue,  pyriform,  tapering  to  the  stem,  which  is  rather 
long.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  marbled  with  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Calyx  closed.  Segments  stiff,  set  in  a  very  small  basin.  Flesh  white, 
melting,  juicy,  with  an  excelh  nt  vinous  flavor,  delightfully  perfumed. 
An  early  Pear  of  value,  but  requires  to  be  gathered  early,  and  does  not 
continue  long.     Very  good.     Ripening  middle  of  August. 

44 


6i)0  THE   PEAK. 

Beurre  Goubalt. 
Poire  Goubalt. 

Originated  in  France,  in  1842.  Tree  vigorous,  an  early  bearer,  an<? 
productive. 

Fruit  small,  irregularly  obovate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  gray 
lines.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  large.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  pleasant,  but 
not  rich.     Good.     September. 

BeurrE  Gris  d'Hiver  Nouveau. 

Beurre  Gris  d'Hiver.  Beurre  de  Fontenay. 

de  Lucon.  d'Hiver. 

Superieur.  de  Lu^-on. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood  dark  yellow- 
ish-reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  golden  russet,  with 
a  fine  sunny  cheek,  and  sprinkled  with  dots.     Stalk  very  stout,  rathe"' 


Beurr6  Gris  d'Hiver  Nouveau. 


short,  inclined,  sometimes  inserted  in  a  large  cavity,  at  otners  witn  a 
lip.  Calyx  very  small  and  open.  Segments  small,  slightly  recurved. 
Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  somewhat  granular,  juicy,  buttery,  melt- 
ing. Flavor  rich  and  sugary,  with  a  very  peculiar  aroma.  Very  good 
November,  February. 


THE    FEAR.  691 

Beurr£  Haffner. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  by  some  confounded  with  Flemish  Beauty,  from 
vhich  it  is  entirely  distinct.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood 
clear  reddish  yellow  biown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  often  with 
a  shade  of  red,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots 
Stalk  rather  long,  curved,  set  in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  with  a  lip. 
Calyx  large  and  open.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  pleasant.     Very  good.     September,  October. 

Beurrf.  Hamecher. 

A  Pear  from  Belgium. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow.  Stalk  large, 
long,  curved.  Calyx  small  and  closed.  Flesh  dry,  sugary.  Poor.  Oc 
tober,  November. 

Beurr£   Hardy. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive.      Young  wood  dark  grayish  olive  brown. 
Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.      Skin  greenish,  covered  with 


Brairv  BhAr 

light  russet,  considerably  shaded  with  brownish  red,  and  sprinkled  wito 
brown  dots.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  a  little  swollen  at  its  insertion, 
al  an  inclination,  in  a  small,  rather  uneven   cavity.     Calyx  open.     Seg 


'592  THE    PEAR. 

ments  long,  recurved  in  a  I  road,  shallow  basin.  Flesh  buttery,  melt 
ing,  juicy,  brisk,  vinous,  and  highly  perfumed,  slightly  astringent  nert 
the  skin.     Very  good.     September  and  October. 

Beurre  Jalais. 

Originated  in  1848  with  M.  Jacques  Jalais,  of  Nantes.  Tree  very 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obovate  pyriform,  golden  yellow,  with  marbling* 
and  veins  of  reddish  brown  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short,  curved.  Calyx 
small,  half  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  fine,  melting,  rough  at  the  core, 
juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     September,  October.     (Leroy.) 

Beurre   Jean  Van  Geert. 

Originated  in  Belgium  with  M.  Jean  Van  Geert,  and  introduced  in 
1864. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  dotted  an  J  marbled  with 
fawn,  and  washed  with  vermilion  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
half  closed.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  rough  at  the  core, 
sweet,  aromatic.     October,  November.     (Leroy.) 

Beurre  Kennes. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  a  seedling  of  Van  Mons,  introduced  and  described 
by  Bivort  in  1846.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood  brownish 
red. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  acute  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  thin  russet,  shaded  with  crimson,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  russet  and  crimson  dots.  Stalk  of  medium  length, 
thick,  and  inclined,  fleshy  at  its  insertion,  by  a  large  ring  or  lip.  Calyx 
partially  closed,  set  in  a  broad,  shallow  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery, 
juicy,  melting,  with  a  very  sweet,  rich,  perfumed  flavor.  Very  good. 
October. 

Beurre  Kenrick. 

No.  1599  of  Van  Mons. 

A  Flemish  seedling,  of  medium  size.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  russe* 
spots.     Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  and  buttery.     Poor.     September. 

Beurre  Knox. 

A  Flemish  variety,  of  vigorous  growth,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate.  Skin  pale  green,  russet  on  one  side. 
Flesh  tender  and  soft,  juicy  and  sweet,  but  not  high-flavored,  hardly 
good.     Last  of  September. 

Beurre  Kossuth. 

A  variety  from  Belgium.     Tree  of  moderate  vigor,  productive. 
Fruit  large,  very  variable  in  form,  generally  pyriform  obtuse.    Surface 
aneven.    Stalk  long,  curved.     Caly*   small.    Basin  moderately  deep  and 


THE   PEAR.  691 

roim  J.  Skin  dull  yellowish  green,  traced  and  freckled  with  gra^  or  bronze^ 
dotted  with  specks  of  the  same  color,  shade  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
very  fine,  melting,  buttery,  sugary,  a  little  vinous.  Good.  September, 
October. 

Beurre  Langelier. 
Langelier's  Beurre. 

Raised  by  M.  Langelier  of  Jersey.  Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriforni.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly 
shaded  with  crimson  and  blotched  with  russet,  and  covered  with  russet 
dots.  Stalk  short  and  fleshy,  inserted  often  by  a  lip  without  depression. 
Calyx  open  or  partially  closed.  Segments  persistent.  Basin  somewhal 
irregular,  shallow,  and  open.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  somewhat 
granular,  with  a  very  brisk,  rich,  vinous  flavor.  Very  good.  Novembei 
to  January. 

Beurre  Le  Fevre. 
Beurre  de  Mortefontaine.      Lefevre. 

A  French  Pear  of  large  size,  roundish  or  roundish  obovate,  greenish 
yellow,  with  brownish  orange  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  gritty,  coarse. 
October. 

Beurre  Leon  le  Clerc. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive.     Young  wood  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet 
dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  curved.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Seg- 
ments broad.  Basin  abrupt,  furrowed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  buttery, 
melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  aromatic.     Very  good.     October. 

Beurre  Luizet. 

Originated  with  M.  Luizet,  France,  in  1847.     Tree  very  productive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriforni.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
shades  of  red  in  the  sun,  fawn- color  next  the  stalk.  Flesh  white,  fine, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous.     October,  November.     (Leroy.) 

Beurre  Mauxion. 

Tree  vigorous.     Young  wood  grayish  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  pyriform.  Skin  yellow  russet, 
with  a  bright  red  cheek.  Stalk  short,  moderately  stout,  swollen  at  the 
extremities,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  open,  stiif,  set  in  a  very 
shallow  basin.  Flesh  fine,  buttery,  melting,  abounding  in  juice,  sugary, 
with  a  spicy  vinous  flavor,  pleasantly  perfumed.  Very  good,  Ripe  in 
September. 

Beurre  Mexaud. 

Beuriv  Menand. 

A  French  Fear  of  recent  origin. 

Fruit    meclirm   to    large.    ].,n      olmvato.     Skin    pale   lemon    yellow 


694 


THE    PEAR. 


Stalk  stout.     Calyx  open. 
brisk.     October.     (Hogg.) 


"Flesh  tender,  buttery,  melting,  very  juicy 


Beurre  Millet  of  Augers. 

Origin,  Angers,  France.  Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive.  Young 
■wood  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  greenish,  covered  witr 
russet  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  minute  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium, 
stout,  curved,  inserted  in  a  rather  abrupt  cavity.  Calyx  open,  set 
in  a  deep  irregular  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  somewhat  buttery,  juicy, 
melting,  with  a  brisk  vinous  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  November  to 
January. 


Benrr6  Moire. 


Benrr6  Moiret 


Beurre  Moire. 
Moire. 


A  French  Pear  of  vigorous  and  productive  habit, 
reddish  yellc**'  olive  brown. 


Bell*  da  Mob* 

Young  wood 


THE    PEAR.  695 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  vellow,  pro- 
fusel  v  sprinkled  with  yellow  dots,  sometimes  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun. 
Stalk  medium,  stout,  curved,  inserted  in  an  uneven  depression.  Calyx 
small.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish,  a  little  granular,  buttery 
melting,  with  a  fine  rich  brisk  flavor,  highly  perfumed.  Good  to  very 
good.     October. 

Beurre  Mondelle. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  but  little  known. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  obovate,  or  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  netted  and  patched  and  mostly  covered  with  cinnamon  russet, 
and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved,  sometimes  set  in  a  small  cavity 
sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Basin  broad,  uneven.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, coarse,  juicy,  melting,  aromatic.     Good.     October. 

Beurre  Navez. 

Beurre  de  WaeL  Beurre  Noisette. 

Colmar  Navez.  Due  de  Nemours. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  introduced  first  by  M.  Bouvier.  Tree 
vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  inclining  to  cin- 
namon, with  numerous  gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  thick,  fleshy,  inserted  in 
an  inclined  cavity.  Calyx  small,  open,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  pleasant.     Good.     October. 

Beurre  Paimpol. 

A  French  Pear,  recently  introduced,  of  only  good  quality.  Tree  vigo- 
rous and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  patches  nettings 
and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet.  Good. 
September. 

Beurre  Pointelle  de  Roux. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  showy,  but  of  second  quality. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish,  dotted, 
splashed,  and  shaded  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  half  tender, 
melting,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     October.     (Leroy.) 

Beurre  Preble. 

A  Pear  named  by  Mr.  Manning  in  honor  of  Commodore  Edward 
Preble,  U.S.N.,  and  raised  from  seed  by  Elijah  Cooke,  of  Raymond, 
Me. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  mottled  with 
russet  and  green  spots.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  very  stout,  set  in  a 
moderate  hollow.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  rich,  high 
flavor.     Good.     October  and  November. 

Beurre  Precocee. 

Precocee  Goubault.  Bezi  Precocee. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Goubault,  Angers,  France.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
productive. 


696  THE   PEAR. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  inclining  to  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yel 
low,  slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  long,  curved.  Calya 
nearly  closed.  Basin  abrupt,  corrugated.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melt 
ing,  vinous,  a  little  astringent.     Good.  Middle  of  August. 

BeurrS  Rance. 

Beurre  Ranse.  Bon  Chretien  de  Rans» 

Hardenpont  du  Printemps.  Beurre  de  Noirchain. 

Beurre  Epine.  Beurre  de  Rhin. 

Beurr''  de  Flandre.  Beurre  d'Hiver. 

Josephine,  incorrectly  of  some.  Beurre  Bon  Chretien. 

Beurre  de  Ranz.  Gastelier. 

Noirchain.  Jenart. 
Beymont. 

The  Beurre  Rance  is  considered  by  all  English  cultivators  the  best 
very  late  Pear  yet  generally  known.  The  wood  is  dull  grayish  brown- 
ish yellow,  straggling  in  growth,  and  rather  pendulous  when  in  bearing, 
and  when  the  tree  has  attained  a  moderate  size  it  bears  well. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  dark  green,  even  at 
maturity,  rather  thick,  and  dotted  with  numerous  russet  specks.  Stalk 
rather  slender,  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  set  in  a  slight  blunt  depression, 
or  often  without  any  cavity.  Calyx  quite  small,  and  set  in  a  basin  very 
little  sunk.  Flesh  greenish  white,  melting,  a  little  gritty  at  the  core, 
full  of  sweet,  rich  juice,  of  excellent  flavor.  Succeeds  in  England,  Bel- 
gium, and  France,  but  does  not  in  this  country,  except  at  Vhe  South,  or 
in  warm  soils  and  particular  localities. 

Beymont  is  doubtless  a  seedling  of  Beurre  Rance,  but  so  identical  in 
every  respect  except  its  wood  as  to  make  a  second  description  unneces- 
sary. 

Beurre  Richelieu. 

Tree  vigorous.     Young  shoots  dull  olive  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform  truncate.  Skin  greenish,  inclining  to 
yellow,  sprinkled  with  dots.  Stalk  short,  inserted  by  a  slight  lip  in  a 
broad  depression.  Calyx  firmly  closed,  set  in  a  broad,  shallow^  furrowed 
basin.  Flesh  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  fine  sweet,  aromatic  flavor^ 
sometimes  astringent.     Good  to  very  good.     December. 

Beurre  Robert. 

Originated  near  Angers,  France,  in  1860  or  1861.  The  tree  is  vigo- 
rous and  promising  of  considerable  value. 

Leroy  describes  the  fruit  as  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin 
greenish  yellow,  covered  with  small  gray  dots,  and  with  a  brownish  red 
next  the  stalk  and  calyx.  Flesh  white,  melting,  fine,  juicy,  sweet,  vi- 
nous, delicate  perfume.     November,  December. 

Beurre  Romain. 

Fondante  de  Rome .  Beurre  de  Rome.  La  Reine. 

An  old  variety,  variable  in  quality.     Tree  moderately  vigorous. 
Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate  pyriform.     Skin  pale  yellowish  green 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  sweet,  and  agreeable.     Good.     September  to  October 


THE    PEAR.  697 

Beurre  Rouge  d'Anjou. 
Rouge  d'Anjou. 

A  French  Pear.  Tree  a  good  grower  and  productive.  Young  wood 
dull  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below  in  size,  roundish  obovate  pyrifoini.  Surface 
uneven.  Skin  yellow,  partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  a  tinge 
of  crimson  in  the  sun,  sprinkled  with  many  green  and  brown  dots. 
Stalk  medium,  set  in  an  acute  cavity,  sometimes  with  a  lip.  Calyx 
open.  Basin  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  half  melting,  not  juicy,  sweet 
GoocL     October. 

Beurre  Scheidweiler. 
Grosse  Sucre. 

Tree  stout  and  vigorous,  inclining  to  a  pyramid,  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriforni.  Skin  green  or  dull  green,  with  a 
few  traces  of  russet,  changing  very  little  at  maturity.  Flesh  buttery, 
sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good.     September  and  October. 

Beurr£  Seutin. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  inclining  to  oval,  irregular  or  angulai. 
Color  green,  sprinkled  with  russet,  sometimes  shaded  with  dull  crimson. 
A  late-keeping,  dry,  cooking  pear. 

Beurre  Six. 
Poire  Six. 

Originated  in  Belgium.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  pyriform,  pale  greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  with 
green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  stout,  little  or  no  depression. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  small.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  vinous.  Good. 
September. 

Beurre  Soulange. 

Size  medium  to  large.  Form  acute  pyriform.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more 
in  length,  fleshy  at  its  junction.  Color  pale  clear  yellow,  with  occasional 
traces  of  russet.  Flesh  melting  and  very  juicy,  favor  rich,  sugary, 
with  a  peculiarly  pleasant  aroma.  Season — October,  November.  (Wil- 
der's  Rep.) 

Beurre  Spae. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  figured  and  described  in  the  Illustration  Horticole, 
from  which  we  copy.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellowish,  spotted  and  mottled 
with  brown  in  the  sun.  Stalk  curved,  inserted  in  a  furrowed  cavity. 
Flesh  very  juicy,  fine,  sugary,  melting,  perfumed.  Very  good.  No- 
vember. 

Beurre  Spence. 

Many  varieties  having  been  received  from  Europe  for  Beurre"  Spence 
and  proved  incorrect,  w«give  description  of  one  which  we  have  received, 


698  THE   PEAR. 

and  presume  to  be  the  true  variety,  originated  by  Van  Mons.     Tre* 
moderately  vigorous.     Young  shoots  reddish.     Very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  short  pyriform,  inclining  to  turbinate.  Skin  green- 
ish, becoming  yellow  at  maturity,  shaded  with  dull  crimson,  thinly 
sprinkled  with  russet,  and  thickly  covered  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long, 
fleshy  at  its  insertion,  which  is  often  at  an  inclination  by  a  lip.  Calyx 
small,  closed,  in  a  deep,  rather  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  with 
a  fine  rich,  vinous  flavor.      Good  to  very  good.    Core  small.     September 

Beurre  Sterkmans. 
Doyenne  Sterkmans.  Belle  Alliance.  Calebasse  Sterkmans. 

A  Belgian  Pear.  Tree  vigorous,  with  stout  yellowish-brown  shoots, 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  remotely  pyriform.  Skin  green,  speckled  with 
russet,  and  shaded  with  crimson.     Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  stout, 


Benrre  Sterkmans. 

inserted  in  a  small,  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  stiff,  set  in  a 
broad,  uneven  basin,  slightly  russeted.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine,  very 
melting,  juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  pleasantly  perfumed.  Good  to  very  good. 
October  and  November. 

Beurre   Superfin. 
This  really  good  Pear  originated  in  France,  in  1837.     The  tree  is 


THE    PEAR.  69P 


very  healthy,  hardy,  and  moderately  vigorous,  not  an  early,  but  a  good 
bearer  when  at  full  age.     Young  shoots  slender,  li^ht  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.      Skin  yellow,  slightly  shaded 
with  crimson  on  the  sunny  side,  and  partially  covered  with  russet,  and 


Beurr6  Superfin. 

thickly  sprinkled  with  minute  dots.  Stalk  stout,  rather  long,  inserted 
without  depression  by  a  fleshy  enlargement.  Calyx  partially  closed,  in 
an  abrupt,  small  basin.  Flesh  exceedingly  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  with 
a  brisk  vinous  or  subacid  flavor.  Very  good  to  best.  Ripe  all  of  Octo- 
ber. 

Beurre  Van  Driessche. 

Originated  in  Belgium,  and  but  recently  introduced.  We  find  no 
description  of  it  except  in  Leroy,  which  we  copy. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  dull  yellow,  dotted 
with  clear  brown,  and  shaded  with  the  same  next  the  stem.  Flesh 
whitish,  half  fine,  half  melting,  rough  at  centre,  juicy,  sweet,  rinous. 
Excellent.     February,  May. 

Bezi  de  Caen. 

This  Pear  is  of  recent  introduction,  and  promises  to  be  valuable  as  • 
midwinter  variety.     Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 


700  THE    PEAK. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform.  Skin  dull  brown,  with,  smooth  russet  on 
greenish  yellow.  Stalk  set  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Segments 
shor*".,  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous.  Very 
good      December,  January. 

Bezi  de  Caissoy. 

Bezy  do  Quessoy.  Nutmeg  Pear. 

Roussette  d'Anjou.  De  Quessoy. 

Petite  Beurre  d'Hiver.  •  Small  Winter  Beurr6. 

Wilding  of  Caissoy.  Besi  de  Quassoy. 

Terreneuvaise.  Besi  de  Bretagne. 

An  old  Pear,  said  to  have  been  discovered  in  the  forest  of  Caissoy, 
in  Bretagne.  Tree  hardy  and  very  productive.  Young  wood  slender, 
dull  olive  yellow. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  reddish  brown  in  sun 
and  numerous  russet  specks.  Stalk  short,  set  in  a  rather  deep  cavity. 
Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  tender,  buttery,  sweet  and  aromatic.  Verv 
good.     November  to  February. 

Bezi  de  Caissoy  d'!£t£. 
Bergamotte  Quessoy  d'fite*.  Besi  Quessoy  d'£te. 

This  variety  resembles  in  all  respects  the  preceding  Bezi  de  Caissoy, 
only  in  maturing  its  fruit  early  in  September  instead  of  winter. 

Bezi  d'Heri. 

Bezi  Royal.  Wilding  of  Hery. 

Franzosische  Rumelbirne.  Besi  d'Airy. 

Besidery.  De  Henri. 

Bezi  de  Hery.  De  Bordeaux. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  winter  stewing  pear,  which  bears  most 
abundantly.     It  is  of  no  value  for  the  dessert. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  a  reddish 
blush.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  free  from  grit,  with  an  anise-like  flavor. 
Fit  for  cooking  from  October  to  January. 

Bezi  de  la  Motte. 
Bein  Armudi.  Beurre  blanc  de  Jersey. 

The  tree  is  exceedingly  vigorous  and  productive,  arid  the  grayish 
olive  shoots,  like  the  fruit,  have  a  peculiarly  speckled  appearance.  It 
ripens  gradually,  and  may  be  kept  a  good  while. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  bergamot-shaped,  roundish,  flattened  at  the 
eye.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  thickly  sprinkled  with  conspicuous 
russet  green  dots.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  green,  slightly  curved,  and 
inserted  in  a  slight  flattened  hollow.  Calyx  small,  open,  set  in  a  shal- 
low, rather  abruptly  sunken  basin.  Flesh  white,  very  fine-grained,  but 
tery,  juicy,  with  a  sweet,  delicate  perfumed  flavor.     Good.     October. 


THE    PEAK  701 

Bezi    DE  LA  Piekre. 
Besi  de  la  Pierre. 

Originated  at  Auvergne,  France.  Introduced  in  1862.  Tree  prcx 
ductive. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  oval,  citron-yellow,  marbled,  dotted,  and 
splashed  with  fawn-color.  Stalk  short,  curved.  Calyx  half  closed. 
Flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  rough  at  core,  vinous.  Octo- 
ber, November.     (Leroy.) 

Bezi*  de  Montigny. 

Trouvt'-  de  Montigny.  Beurre  Cullem. 

Doyenne  Musque.  De  Montigny. 

Louis  Bosc.  Comptesse  de  Lunay. 

A  pleasant  juicy  fruit,  with  a  musky  flavor,  but  not  first-rate.  The 
skin  is  remarkably  smooth,  and  the  pear  is  evenly  formed.  It  is  a  gooa 
bearer.     Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  very  regularly  obovate.  Skin  pale  yellowish 
green,  with  numerous  gray  dots.  Stalk  stout,  thickest  at  the  point  of  in- 
sertion, an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  small, 
half  open,  reflexed,  in  a  very  smooth  basin,  scarcely  sunk.  Flesh 
white,  melting,  juicy,  half  biittery,  with  a  sweet,  musky  flavor.  Good 
First  of  October. 

Bezi  des  Veterans. 
Banueau.  Des  Veterans. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  of  vigorous  thrifty  habit,  and  productive.  Young 
wood  olive  brown,  with  many  specks. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  light  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  gray  dots,  and  slight  patches  of  russet.  Flesh  firm,  not  tender; 
chiefly  for  cooking.     December  to  February. 

Bezi   Esperen. 

Bezy  d'Esperen.  Besi  Esperen. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen.  Tree  a  moderate  grower  and  good  bearer. 
Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  dull  yellow,  sprinkled 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  covered  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
rather  long,  stout,  inserted  by  a  ring  or  lip,  at  an  inclination,  in  a  small, 
irregular  cavity.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  deep,  acute  basin,  surrounded  by 
russet.  Flesh  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  vinous  flavor.  Good.  October, 
November. 

Bezi  Goubault. 

A  French  Pear,  originated  in  1845. 

Fruit  medium  size,  irregular  in  form,  generally  roundish  obovate. 
Skin  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  cinnamon  russet,  and  many  russet  dots. 
Flesh  tender,  half  melting,  gritty  at  core.     Good.     February,  March. 

*  Ben  signifies  wilding,  i.  e. ,  natural  seedling  found  near  Montigny,  a  town  U 
France. 


702  THE   PEAS. 

Bezi  Mai. 
Besi  de  Mai. 

Raised  by  J.  De  Jonghe,  Brussels,  and  first  fruited  in  1856.  It  if 
a  winter  fruit,  said  to  mature  from  April  to  May.  As  yet  it  has  not 
fruited  here.  The  tree  is  hardy,  a  good  grower,  and  described  as  produc- 
tive.    Young  wood  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  oval,  dull  yellowish  green,  with  brown  dots. 
Stalk  nearly  an  inch  long.  Calyx  small,  with  short,  stiff,  erect  seg- 
ments. Flesh  buttery,  juicy,  sugary,  rich,  very  firm.  February, 
April 

Bezi  Vaet. 

Beurre  de  Beaumont.  Besi  Va.  De  Saint  Waast. 

Besi  Vaat.  Besi  Vath.  Besi  Waet. 

Besi  de  St.  Waast. 

The  Bezi  Yaet  has  been  considerably  cultivated  in  this  country,  but 
is  not  generally  considered  more  than  a  good  second-rate  Pear.  The 
young  shoots  are  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  narrowing  to  the  stalk.  Skin  rough- 
ish,  pale  green,  becoming  yellowish,  with  many  russety  spots  and  a 
brownish  cheek.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more  long,  inserted  in  a  slight  cavity. 
Calyx  set  in  a  small  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  melting,  juicy,  with 
a  sweet,  somewhat  perfumed  flavor.     Good.     November  to  January. 

Bezy  Sanspareil. 

Bergamotte  Sanspareil.  Nonpareille.  Sans  Pareille. 

Besi  Incomparable.  Sans  Pair. 

An  old  French  Pear,  of  little  value  and  only  good  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  obscurely  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish  green,  covered 
with  numerous  brown  dots.  Stalk  fleshy  at  its  insertion,  in  a  slight 
cavity,  at  an  inclination.  Calyx  open  in  a  moderate  uneven  basin. 
Flesh  coarse  and  granular,  buttery,  j  uicy,  melting,  with  a  brisk  vinous 
flavor.     October  to  December. 

Bishop's  Thumb. 

A  long,  oddly  shaped  English  Pear. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  and  narrow,  and  tapering  irregularly. 
Skin  dark  yellowish  green,  having  a  russet  red  cheek.  Flesh  juicy, 
melting,  with  a  vinous  flavor,  somewhat  astringent.     Good.     October 

Black  Worcester. 
Black  Pear  of  Worcester.  Parkinson's  Warden.  Iron. 

A  market  fruit  esteemed  for  cooking.  The  branches  incline  down 
wards  with  the  weight  of  the  fruit.  Young  shoots  dark  yellow  olive, 
diverging. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  or  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  thick,  rough,  green, 
nearly  covered  with  dark  russet.  Flesh  hard  and  coarse,  but  Btews  and 
bakes  well.     November  to  February. 


THE   PEAR.  703 

Blanquet  Anastere. 
Blanquet  Anasterque.  Blanquet  d'Austrada. 

A  French  Pear,  of  poor  quality. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  yellowish  green,  with  a  tinge  of  brown  in  the 
sun.     Flesh  white,  coarse,  breaking,  rots  easily.     August. 


Large  SeckeL 
Feaster. 


Bleecker's  Meadow. 

Heidelberg. 
Spice  Butter. 


Meadow  Feaster. 
Frankford. 


A  native  fruit,  said  to  have  been  found  in  a  meadow  in  Pennsylva 
nia.  It  is  a  handsome,  hardy  fruit,  and  bears  large  crops,  but  it  has 
been  overpraised  as  to  quality. 

Fruit  small,  roundish.  Skin  bright  clear  yelloAv,  with  crimson  dots 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  very  white,  firm,  with  a  peculiar  musky  or 
wasp-like  aroma  and  spicy  taste,  but  mostly  remains  crisp  and  hard. 
Stalk  straight  and  stiff.  Basin  shallow.  Calyx  open  and  reflexed. 
Good.     October  and  November. 


Bloodgood. 


Bloodgood. 
Early  Beurre. 
The  Bloodgood  is  the  highest  flavored  of  all  early  Pears,  and  de- 


704  THE   PEAK. 

serves  a  place  even  in  the  smallest  garden.  It  was  named  from  the  cir- 
cumstance of  its  having  been  brought  into  notice,  about  1835,  by  the 
late  James  Bloodgood,  nurseryman,  Flushing,  L.  I.  The  sort  waa 
brought  to  that  nursery  as  a  new  variety,  without  a  name,  however,  by 
some  person  on  Long  Island,  unknown  to  Mr.  B.,  who  was  never  able 
afterward  to  trace  its  history  further.  The  tree  is  rather  short-jointed, 
with  deep  reddish  brown  wood,  grows  moderately  fast,  and  bears  early 
and  regularly.  The  fruit,  like  that  of  all  early  pears,  is  better  if  ripen- 
ed in  the  house.  It  surpasses  every  European  variety  of  the  same  sea- 
son, and  together  with  the  Dearborn's  Seedling,  another  native  sort,  wi] 
supplant  all  inferior  early  pears. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  turbinate,  inclining  to  obovate,  thickening  very 
abruptly  into  the  stalk.  Skin  yellow,  sprinkled  with  russet  dots  and 
network  markings,  giving  it  a  russety  look  on  one  side.  Calyx  strong, 
open,  set  almost  without  depression.  Stalk  obliquely  inserted,  withou. 
depression,  short,  dark  brown,  fleshy  at  its  base.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  rich  sugary,  highly  aromatic  flavor 
The  thin  skin  has  a  musky  aromatic  perfume.  Yery  good.  Core  smalL 
Ripe  from  the  5th  of  July  to  the  10th  of  August. 

Bon  Chretien   Fondante. 

Bon  Chretien  de  Bruxelles.  Bon  Chretien  Masque  Fondante. 

Pioulice.  Bugiarda. 

Bon  Chretien  Fondante  Musque.  Petit  Musqu6. 
Bon  Chretien  d'Ete  Musque. 

A  Flemish  Pear,  abounding  with  juice,  and  having  a  refreshing, 
agreeable  flavor.  In  good  seasons  it  is  first  in  quality,  and  it  bearg 
early  and  abundantly.     Young  shoots  slender,  diverging,  olive  gray. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  roundish  obovate,  regularly  formed.  Skin  pale 
green,  sprinkled  with  small  russet  dots,  and  considerably  covered 
with  russet.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a 
slight  depression.  Calyx  small,  set  in  a  narrow  hollow.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish white,  gritty  round  the  core,  exceedingly  juicy,  tender,  and  melting, 
with  a  rich  and  pleasant  flavor.     Yery  good.     October. 

Bon  Chretien  Joseph  Lamarque. 

Originated  in  Liege,  Belgium.       Tree  very  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  yellowish,  with 
a  shade  of  brown  red,  and  spotted  and  dotted  with  black  and  dai-k 
brown  specks.  Stalk  rather  stout,  curved,  set  in  deep  furrowed  cavity. 
Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  melting,  juicy,  delicate  perfume. 
October.     (An.  Pom.) 

Bon  Gustave. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen.     Tree  very  vigorous,  with  stout  shoots. 

Fruit  middle  size,  regular,  pyriform.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  open. 
Basin  shallow.  Skin  light  green,  covered  with  russet.  Flesh  white, 
fine,  b  ittery,  juicy,  sugarv,  and  perfumed.  Ripe  December,  Jannarv. 
(Card.  Chr.) 


THE    PEAR.  700 

Bonne  Antoine. 

Fruit  very  large,  conical  or  pyriform  obtuse,  yellowish  green,  with 
spots,  marblings,  and  patches  of  brown.  Flesh  white,  fine,  slightly  gra- 
nulous,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.  First  quality.  October,  November. 
(Leroy.) 

Bonne  Charlotte. 

Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  of  moderate  size,  variable  in  form,  generally  resembling  Doy 
enne.  Skin  smooth,  pale  yellow,  with  green  dots.  Stalk  long.  Calyx 
open.  Flesh  moderately  fine,  more  buttery  than  melting,  sugary,  and 
strongly  perfumed.  Good.  Should  be  gathered  early.  Middle  of 
A  ugust. 

Bonne  d'Ezee. 

Bonne  des  Haies.  Bonne  de  Longueval. 

Bonne  de  Zees.  Belle  et   bonne  d'Eze"e. 

A  French  Pear.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive.  Young 
wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  light  yellowish  green, 
with  russet  patches  and  dots.  Stalk  large,  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a 
broad  cavity.  Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  narrow,  of  little  depth.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  brisk,  rich.  Good  to  very  good.  Sep 
tember  and  October. 

Bonne  de  Jalais. 
Beurre  de  Jalaise. 

A  French  Pear,  originated  at  Nantes  in  1857. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  golden  yellow,  washed, 
splashed,  and  dotted  with  red.  Stalk  rather  long,  largest  at  junction 
with  the  tree,  inclined,  and  set  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  white,  fine, 
melting,  juicy,  aromatic,  sweet.     Good.     October. 

Bonne  de  la  Chapelle. 
Beurr*'  de  la  Chapelle. 

This  variety  was  found  by  a  gardener  in  the  wood  of  La  Chapelle- 
sur-Erdre,  near  Nantes,  in  1845.  Tree  moderately  vigorous  and  pro. 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium,  varying  in  form  from  roundish  oblate  to  oblate  pyri- 
form. Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  and  dis- 
tinct brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, moderately  j uicy,  rather  coarse.     Good.     November,  December. 

Bonneserre  de  Saint  Denis. 

Originated  with  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France,  in  18G3.  Tree  very 
productive.     Young  wood  reddish  brown  grayish. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obovate,  yellowish  green,  dotted 
and  splashed  with  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  large,  half  closed.  Flesh 
white,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  rough  at  the  core,  sweet,  vinous,  delicious 
perfume.     December,  January.     (Leroy.) 

45 


706 


THE    PEAR. 


Bonne  de  Soulers. 


De  Soulers. 
Beurre  de  Soulers. 


Bergamotte  de  Soulera. 
Soleure. 


An  old  variety,  described  in  1675.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  dull  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.  Good.  Jan- 
uary to  March. 

Bonne  Sophia. 

Bonne  Saplier. 

Fruit  medium,  acute  pyriform.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  with  a 
shade  of  crimson,  a  few  patches  and  nettings  of  rasset,  and  many  small 


Bonne  Sophia. 


brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  inclined,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Calyx  open, 
Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  perfumed.  Yery  good, 
New  and  promising.     October. 


TBX    PEAR-  7)7 

Bonne  Therese. 

Originated  in  Marines,  France. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  marbled  with 
red  at  the  stalk.  Stalk  short,  straight.  Calyx  small,  open.  Flesh  very 
white,  hne,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     October.     (Leroy.) 

Boucquia. 

Beurre  Boucquia. 

A  Flemish  Pear. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oval  turbinate.  Skin  pale  yellow.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  rather  astringent,  and  liable  to  rot  at  the  core.     October. 

BOURGEMESTER. 
Bouvier  Bourgemestre. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  large  gray  dots,  rus- 
eeted  around  the  eye.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  and  astringent.  November. 
Wood  cracks  and  cankers  badly. 

Braconot. 
Poire  Braconot  d'Epinal. 

Originated  in  1840  or  1841,  with  M.  Leclerc-Epinal,  France.  A 
new  Pear,  very  showy  and  promising.     Young  wood  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  very  large.  Skin  pale  yellow,  washed  with  a  brown  shade  in 
sun.  Stalk  long  and  stout.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
fine,  crisp,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     October. 

Brande's  Saint  Germain. 
Brande's.  Bran  de  St.  Germain. 

Origin  uncertain,  said  to  be  a  seedling  of  Van  Mons.  Tree  a  slow 
grower,  with  slender  branches,  spreading. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval,  narrowing  towards  both  ends.  Skin 
yellowish  green.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  with  a  rich  and  excellent  flavor. 
Good.     November  and  December. 

Brand  ywine. 

Found  on  the  farm  of  Eli  Harvey,  on  the  banks  of  the  Brandy  wine, 
Delaware  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  uniformly  productive. 
Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  varying  in  form  from  oblate  depressed  pyriform  to 
elongated  pyriform.  Skin  dull  yellowish  green,  considerably  dotted  and 
somewhat  sprinkled  with  russet,  having  a  warm  cheek  on  the  side  of  tlio 
svin.  Stalk  is  fleshy  at  its  junction  with  the  fruit,  and  generally  sur- 
rounded by  folds  or  rings.  Calyx  open.  Basin  smooth  and  shallow. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  and  vinous,  somewhat  aromatic 
Good  to  very  good.     Ripe  last  of  August  and  first  of  September. 


70S 


IBE    PEAR. 


Brewer. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  lemon-yellow,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  minute  brown  dots.  Stalk  very  long,  curved,  set  in  a 
small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Basin  rather  small,  slightly  corrugated. 
Flesh  white,  coarse,  not  juicy  or  melting,  but  sweet  and  pleasant.  Good, 
October. 


Brandywine 


Brialmont. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  of  recent  introduction  and  good  promise.  Young 
wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate,  greenish  yellow,  with  traces  of  russet  and  mauy 
green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx 
open,  with  long  recurved  segments.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  buttery,  melting, 
pleasant.     Very  good.     October. 

Briffaut. 

Originated  with  M.  Briffaut  of  Sevres.     Tree  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  acute  pyriform.  Skin  greenish,  with  fawn 
tolored  shades,  especially  around  the  stalk,  bright  red  cheek  in 
sun.  Stalk  long,  straight,  without  depression.  Calyx  large  and  open. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  rough  at  the  core.     July,  August.     (Xeroy.) 


PKAS. 


709 


Brialmont 


Brind  amour. 


An  old  variety,  which  originated  in  Vienne,  France.  Tree  vigorous 
and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  bronzed,  marbled,  and 
shaded  with  fawn  and  green.  Stalk  short,  set  without  depression. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  fine,  fibrous,  melting,  watery,  sugary 
acid,  perfumed.     November,  December.     (Leroy.) 

Bringewood. 

A  foreign  Pear,  described  in  Hovey's  Magazine,  from  which  we 
copy,  not  having  seen  the  fruit : — 

u  Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  yellowish  brown  and  russet.  Stalk  long 
and  slender.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  gritty  at  core,  the 
rest  buttery.     Very  good.     November." 


British  Queen. 

An  English  Pear,  raised  at  Frogmore,  supposed  from  seed  of  Maris 
Louise.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower.  Young  wood  very  strong,  clear  rich 
reddish  brown.     It  is  described  in  Hogg  as  follows  : — 


710  THE   PEAR. 

"  Fruit  large,  obovate  pyriform,  the  outline  undulating  and  bossed 
Skin  smooth,  and  almost  entirely  covered  with  a  thin  coat  of  cinnamon 
colored  russet,  but  on  the  side  next  the  sun  it  has  a  blush  of  rosy  crim- 
son. Calyx  rather  small,  with  short,  narrow  segments.  Stalk  stout, 
obliquely  inserted  in  a  round,  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
very  fine-grained,  buttery,  melting,  rich,  sugary.     October,  November.'' 

Bronx. 

A  new  American  Pear,  raised  in  1850,  by  James  P.  Swain,  of  Bronx- 
▼ille,  N.  Y.  The  tree  is  an  upright  pyramidal  grower,  with  reddish 
brown  young  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  dull  greenish  yellow,  par- 
tially netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet 
and  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  curved,  and  set  in  a  small 
cavity.  Calyx  small,  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  small,  uneven, 
and  much  russeted.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  a  little  per- 
fumed.    Good  to  very  good.     Early  September. 

Brougham. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  some  russet.  Fleat 
coarse,  astringent.     November. 

Brown  Beurr£. 

BeurrS  Gris.  Red  Beurre\ 

Beurre  Rouge.  Badham's. 

Beurre  d'Or.  Gray  Beurre. 

Beurre  Doree.  Beurre  Verfc. 

Beurre  d'Amboise.  Red  Butter. 

Beurre  d'Ambleuse.  Beurre  Rousse. 

Beurre  du  Roi.  Beurre  Roux. 

Poire  d'Amboise.  Gisambert. 

Isambert.  Beurre  d'Isambert  le  Bon. 

Isambert  le  Bon.  Beurre  Gris  d'Automne. 

Beurre.  Eisenbart. 

Golden  Beurre.  Beurre  de  Caen. 

The  Brown  Beurre,  almost  too  well  known  to  need  description,  was 
for  a  long  time  considered  the  prince  of  Pears  in  France,  its  native 
country,  and  for  those  who  are  partial  to  the  high  vinous  flavor— a  rich 
mingling  of  sweet  and  acid — it  has,  still,  few  competitors.  It  is,  how- 
ever, quite  variable  in  different  soils,  and  its  variety  of  appearance  in 
different  gardens  has  given  rise  to  the  many  names — gray,  brown,  red, 
and  golden — under  which  it  is  known.  Shoots  diverging,  dark  reddish 
brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate,  tapering  convexly  quite  to  the  stalk. 
Skin  slightly  rough,  yellowish  green,  but  nearly  covered  with  thin  rus- 
set, often  a  little  reddish  brown  on  one  side.  Stalk  from  one  to  one  and 
a  half  inches  long,  stout  at  its  junction  with  the  tree,  and  thickening 
obliquely  into  the  fruit.  Calyx  nearly  closed  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
greenish  white,  melting,  buttery,  extremely  juicy,  with  a  rich  subacid 
flavor.      Very  good.     September. 


THE    PEAK. 


BUPFUM. 
Buffam. 


711 


The  Buffam  is  a  native  of  Rhode  Island,  and  from  its  general  resem 
blance  to  the  Doyenne,  it  is,  no  doubt,  a  seedling  of  that  fine  sort.  II 
is  an  orchard  Pear  of  the  first  quality,  as  it  is  a  very  strong,  upright 
grower,  with  reddish  or  reddish  brown  young  shoots,  bears  large,  regular 
crops,  and  is  a  very  handsome  and  salable  fruit.  It  is  a  little  variable 
in  quality.  We  have  frequently  eaten  them  so  fine  as  scarcely  to  be 
distinguished  from  the  Doyenne,  and  again  when  rather  insipid.  It 
may  be  considered  a  beautiful  and  good,  though  not  first-rate  variety. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  obovate,  a  little  smaller  on  one  side. 
Skin  fair,  deep  yellow   (brownish  green  at  first),  finely  suffused   over 


fiaffum. 


half  the  fruit,  with  bright  red,  sprinkled  with  small  brown  dots,  oi  a 
little  russet.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  very  slight  cavity. 
Calyx  with  small  segments,  and  basin  of  moderate  size.  Flesh  white, 
buttery,  not  so  juicy  as  the  Doyenne,  but  sweet,  and  of  excellent  flavor 
The  strong  upright  reddish  brown  shoots,  and  peculiar  brownish  green 
appearance  of  the  pear  before  ripening,  distinguish  this  fruit.  Very 
good.     September. 

BuiJLINGAME. 

A  Pear  of  quite  indifferent  quality  that  originated  in  Ohio. 


fl2  THE    PEAK. 

Fruit  small  or  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded  with  rod  il 
the  sun.     Flesh  coarse,  not  juicy,  sweet.     Poor.     September. 

Burnett. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Joel  Burnett,  of  Southborough,  Mass. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  a  little  coarse-grained,  but  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  Fiist  of  Octo 
ber. 

Cabot. 

Originated  from  the  seed  of  the  Brown  Beurre,  by  J.  S.  Cabot,  Esq., 
of  Salem,  Mass.  It  has  a  good  deal  of  the  flavor  of  its  parent,  and  is 
an  agreeable  subacid  fruit.  The  tree  grows  upright  and  very  strong, 
and  produces  amazing  crops. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  turbinate,  narrowing  rather 
abruptly  to  the  stalk,  which  is  bent  obliquely,  and  inserted  on  one  side 
of  a  taperiug  summit.  Skin  roughish,  bronze  yellow,  pretty  well  cov- 
ered with  cinnamon  russet.  Calyx  small,  open,  set  in  a  round,  smooth 
basin.  Flesh  greenish  white,  breaking,  juicy,  with  a  rich  subacid  flavor. 
Good  to  very  good.     Middle  and  last  of  September. 

Cadet  de  Vaux. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  very  productive.  Young  wood  yellow 
brown. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform,  irregular.  Skin  ochre  yellow,  dotted 
with  brown,  and  shaded  with  fawn  and  pale  red  in  the  sun  Stalk  short, 
large,  curved.  Calyx  large.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine,  almost  melting, 
sweet,  juicy,  perfumed.     Good.     December  to  March. 

Caen  de  France. 
Doyeiin6  de  Bruxelles,  erroneously. 

A  foreign  Pear  promising  great  value.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  regular,  ovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  yellow, 
overspread  with  a  dull  russet,  and  with  many  rough  russet  dots.  Stalk 
rather  short  and  stout,  a  little  inclined,  and  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx 
closed,  or  partially  open.  Segments  short.  Basin  rather  small,  uneven. 
Flesh  whitish,  fine-grained,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  slightly  aromatic 
Very  good.     December,  February. 

Calebasse. 
Calebasse  Double  Extra         Calebasse  d'Hollande.        Calebasse  MusquSe. 

The  Calebasse  is  a  very  grotesque-looking  Belgian  fruit,  named  from 
»ts  likeness  to  a  calabash  or  gourd. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong,  a  little  crooked  and  irregular  or 
knobbv  in  its  outline.     Skin  rough,  dull  yellow,  becoming  orange  russet 


THE    PEAR.  713 

on  the  sunny  side.    Flesh  juicy,  crisp,  a  little  coarse-grained,  but  Bugarv 
and  pleasant.     Good.     Middle  of  September. 


Oaen  de  France. 

Calebasse  d'Ete. 
Belle  de  ForSts. 

A  variety  raised  from  seed  by  Major  Esperen.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous.     Not  desirable. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  mostly  cov- 
ered, netted,  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  long, 
stout,  fleshy  at  base.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  vinous,  astrin- 
gent.    Poor.     Early  September. 

Calebasse  Delvigne. 

Origin  uncertain.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  broad  at  calyx.  Skin  yellow,  slightly  rus 
Beted,  sometimes  shaded  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  short,  thick  at  its 
junction  with  the  fruit.  Calyx  open.  Segments  stiif,  in  a  very  shallow, 
uneven  basin.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  perfumed, 
slightly  astringent.     Good.     October. 

Calebasse  Tougard. 
A  Belgian  Pear  raised  by  Van  Mans.     Tree  vigorous,  productive 


714  THE   PEAR. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  pyriform,  sometimes  acute,  sometimes  obtuae. 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  rough  russet,  and  tlrickly 
sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  curved.  Calyx  open.  Basin  small, 
uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Calhoun. 

Raised  by  the  late  Governor  Edwards,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  obliquely  oblate.  Skin  yellowish,  shaded 
with  dull  crimson,  sprinkled  with  russet,  russet  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  granular,  buttery,  melting,  pleasant. 
Good.     October. 

Camerling. 
Camerlyn.  Camerlingue.  Camerling  d'Allemagne. 

A  Flemish  Pear.      Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  numerous  brown  dots 
and  a  slightly  marbled  cheek.  Stalk  long,  slightly  inclined,  in  a  small 
cavity  surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  sugar y% 
with  a  peculiar  aroma.     Good.     September,  October. 

Camille  de   Rohan. 
Prince  Camille  de  Rohan. 

A  foreign  Pear,  with  thorny  yellow  olive  brown  shoots,  hardy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  yellow,  considerably  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  large  russet  dots.  Stalk 
long,  slender.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  medium.  Flesh  white, 
fine-grained,  melting,  vinous.     Good.     November,  January. 

\  Canandaigua. 

Catherine. 

Origin  uncertain,  supposed  to  have  been  brought  from  Connecticut 
to  Canandaigua  about  the  year  1806,  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  irregular,  elongated  acute  pyriform.  Surface  un- 
even, resembling  Bartlett.  Skin  lemon-yellow,  sometimes  a  shade  of  red 
in  the  sun.  Stalk  medium,  or  rather  short,  inclined.  Calyx  open.  Basin 
narrow  and  deep.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  melting,  vinous.  Good.  Sep- 
tember. 

Cantelope. 

A  seedling  of  the  late  Gov.  Edwards.     Not  valuable. 

Fruit  below  medium,  nearly  globular,  pale  yellow,  sometimes  a  blush 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  breaking,  dry  Good  only  for  cook- 
ing.    October. 

Capsheaf. 
Cops  Heat. 

A  native  of  Rhode  Island.  It  is  a  very  agreeable  fruit.  Young 
ehoots  stout,  upright,  yellowish  brown. 


THE   PEAR.  715 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  obovate  pyriforni.  Skin  deep  yellow, 
with  patches  and  traces  of  cinnamon  russet.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  stoat, 
inclined,  inserted  in  a  shallow  hollow.  Calyx  small.  Basin  slightly 
gunk.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  and  melting,  very  sweet  and  pleasant.  Good. 
October. 

Capucin. 
Capuchin.  Capucin  Van  Mons. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  a  moderate  grower. 

Fruit  medium,  oval  pyriforni,  greenish  yellow,  marbled  and  shaded 
in  the  sun  with  fawn  and  red,  slightly  netted  with  russet,  and  with 
many  russet  crimson  dots.  Stalk  slender,  set  in  a  slight  depression  by 
a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  juicy,  vinous.  Good  to 
very  good.     October  to  December. 

Cassante   de  Mars. 

A  variety  from  Malines,  said  to  be  a  seedling  of  Major  Esperen.  It 
may  be  a  distinct  sort,  but  as  we  have  received,  it  has  proved  identical 
with  Winter  Nelis.     We  copy  description  from  the  Album  Pomology  : — 

"  Tree  vigorous. 

"  Fruit,  which  is  borne  in  clusters,  resembles  Doyenne  blanc.  Skin 
smooth,  bright  green,  becoming  golden  yellow  at  maturity,  striped  and 
shaded  with  fawn.  Flesh  when  in  full  perfection  is  half  melting,  juicy, 
sugary,  vinous,  and  well  perfumed.     Ripe  December  to  April." 

Casserule. 

Of  foreign  origin.     We  have  fruited  it  but  once. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  rough 
Color  yellowish,  covered  with  a  dull  yellow  brown  russet.  Stalk  short, 
without  depressions,  often  oblique.  Calyx  large,  open,  round,  with  con- 
nected segments.  Basin  medium,  regular.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  granu- 
lated, especially  next  the  ^ore,  dry,  and  without  flavor.  Good.  De- 
cember, January. 

Castelline. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  described  by  foreign  authors  as  first  quality,  here  it 
has  only  proved  good. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  greenish  yellow,  with 
slight  nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  dots.  Stalk 
long,  largest  at  junction  with  the  tree,  curved,  set  in  a  shallow  cavity. 
Calyx  open,  with  long  recurved  segments.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh 
yellowish,  juicy,  buttery,  melting, sweet.    Good.    .November,  December. 

Catharine  Gakdette. 

Raised  by  Dr.  W.  IX  Brinckle,  of  Philadelphia.  Young  shoots  short 
jointed,  yellow  brownish  olive 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.     Skin  fair,  yellow,  with  r.umeroua 


716  THE    PEAR. 

small  carmine  dots  on  the  exposed  side.  Stalk  curved,  inserted  by  a 
fleshy  termination  into  a  slight  depression.  Calyx  small,  set  in  a  rather 
deep  basin.     Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Catherine  Lambre. 

One  of  the  new  Belgian  Pears  that  promises  to  sustain  here  its 
foreign  reputation.  It  originated  with  Van  Mons,  and  was  named  and 
introduced  by  Bivort.  The  tree  is  very  vigorous  and  hardy,  and  a  good 
bearer,  with  long,  strong,  dark  rich  yellow  brown  shoots. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  smooth, 
greenish  yellow,  shaded  in  the  sun  with  red,  and  dotted  with  bronze 
specks.  Stalk  medium,  set  without  depression,  inclined.  Calyx  large, 
open.  Flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.  Very  good. 
October,  November. 

Catillac. 

Grand  Monarque.  Grand  Mogrol. 

Cadillac.  Gros  Thomas. 

Katzenkop.  De  Bell  Argentine. 

Groote  Mogul.  Tete  de  Chat. 

40  Ounce.  Gros  Rateau. 

Bon  Chretien  d' Amiens  Chartreuse.  Grand  Tamerlan. 

Monstrueuse  de  Landes.  De  Gros  Rateau  Raisenette  ? 

Cotillard  de  Livre.  Roi  de  Louvain. 

Besi  de  Maraise.  Gros  Rateau  gxis. 

De  Citrouille.  Misporde  Benoist  ? 

De  Tout  Temps. 

The  Catillac  is  an  old  French  baking  and  stewing  Pear,  of  very  large 
size,  and  of  good  quality  for  these  purposes.  In  rich  soil  the  fruit  is 
often  remarkably  large  and  handsome. 

Fruit  very  large,  broadly  turbinate  (flattened-top  shaped).  Skin 
yellow,  dotted  with  brown,  and  having  sometimes  a  brownish  red  cheek 
at  maturity.  Stalk  stout,  about  an  inch  long,  curved,  and  placed  in  a 
very  narrow,  small  cavity.  Calyx  short  and  small,  and  set  in  a  wide, 
rather  deep  plaited  basin.  Flesh  hard  and  rough  to  the  taste.  Novem- 
ber to  March. 

Catinka. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen.  Tree  of  vigorous  growth.  Branches 
rather  slender,  productive.     Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Stalk  very  long,  inserted 
by  a  ring  in  an  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  large  and  open,  with  segments 
persistent.  Basin  shallow.  Skin  pale  yellow,  netted,  patched,  and 
lhickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Flesh  coarse,  granular,  buttery, 
melting,  juicy,  with  a  refreshing  vinous  flavor.  Good  to  very  good. 
October  to  December. 

Cedarmere. 

Originated  in  the  grounds  of  W.  C.  Bryant,  Roslyn,  Long  Island. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  with  rus« 
set  nettings  and  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  curved.  Calyx  open, 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.     Good.     August. 


THE    PEAR.  717 

Certeau  d'Et£. 

Gros  Certeau  d'Ete.  Conrte  de  Ersol. 

Rouges  des  Vierges.  Coloree  d'Aout. 

Emmanuel.  De  Champagne  d'Et& 

Tliis  showy  Pear  is  by  some  authors  attributed  to  Van  Mons.  Others 
say  it  was  described  in  1540.  Tree  vigorous  aud  productive.  Young 
wood  reddisli  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  acute  pyriform.  Skin  smooth,  almost  waxen 
yellow,  shaded  with  brigh  tcrimson  over  most  of  the  surface,  and  sprin- 
kled with  light  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved,  fleshy  at  its  insertion.  Calyx 
small, open.  Basin  small.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  pleasant,  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  August. 

Chancellor. 

Supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Germantown,  Penn.,  on  the  grounds  of 
Mr.  Chancellor.  Branches  horizontal,  not  very  vigorous,  spreading. 
Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  lai"ge,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow  t 
sometimes  red  in  sun,  rough,  somewhat  inclining  to  russet,  thickly 
covered  with  dots.  Stem  medium,  curved,  rather  stout,  fleshy  at  its 
insertion  by  a  lip,  inserted  in  a  rather  broad  cavity.  Calyx  small,  set 
in  a  moderate  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  sugary, 
perfumed.     Good.     October,  November. 

Chapman. 

An  American  Pear  of  poor  quality,  unworthy. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  dotted  with  brown  and 
green.     Flesh  white,  half  melting,  astringent.     September. 

Chaptal. 
Beurre  Chaptal. 

An  old  French  Pear,  that  sometimes  is  very  good  but  often  only 
good. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish 
yellow.  Stalk  stout,  in  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  white, 
breaking,  juicy.     December. 

Charles  Basiner. 

A  foreign  Pear  which  we  have  not  yet  fruited.  Young  wood  Light 
yellow.     Buds  projecting,  prominent.     Hogg  describes  it  as  : — 

"  Fruit  obovate,  pale  yellowish  green.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx 
small,  open.     Flesh  white,  juicy,  sweet.     October." 

Charles  Bivort. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  an  early  bearer,  but  only  good  in  quality.  Young 
nhoots  dark  rich  yellow  brown. 

Fruit    medium,  obovate    obtuse,  pale  whitish    yellow,  with    a    few 


718  .THE    PEAK. 

patches  and  nettings  of  russet,  and  conspicuous  russet  dots.  Stalk 
rather  short,  curved,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  •white, 
coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good.     October. 

Charles  Frederick. 

One  of  Van  Mons1  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate  pyriform,  sometimes  obtuse  oblong. 
Skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  r<  d  in  the  sun,  patches,  net- 
tings and  dots  of  russet.  Stalk  short  to  medium,  sometimes  in  a  small 
cavity,  others  without.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white, 
buttery,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     September. 

Charles  Smet. 
Charles  Smith. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower.  Young 
wood  dull  olive  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  broad  at  the  crown.  Skin  yellowish,  con 
siderably  russeted.  Stalk  long,  curved,  fleshy  at  its  insertion.  Calyx 
open,  small.  Basin  narrow.  Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  and  highly  perfumed. 
Good  to  very  good.     January,  February. 

Charles  Van  Hooghten. 

Fruit  large,  varying  in  form  from  obovate  acute  pyriform  to  round- 
ish obtuse  obovate.  Skin  yellow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and 
with  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  varying,  always  fleshy  at  insertion. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  rather  coarse,  sweet.  Good.  Early 
October. 

Charlotte  de  Brower. 

One  of  Esperen's  seedlings.  Tiee  of  moderate  vigor,  and  of  great 
productiveness. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  yellow, 
slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  with  many  russet  dots,  and 
slightly  shaded  in  the  stm  with  crimson.  Stalk  stout  and  fleshy  at  its 
insertion.  Calyx  open.  Basin  medium.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting, 
.vinous.     Good.     October. 

Chaumontel. 

Bezi  de  Chauraontelle.  Oxford  Chaumontel. 

Winter  Beurn-.  Bon  Chretien  de  Chaumontel. 

Beurre  d'Hiver.  Beurre  de  Chaumontel. 

Shaumontel.  Shaw-montel. 

This  old  French  Pear  takes  its  name  from  the  village  of  Chaumon 
telle,  in  France,  and  succeeds  well  in  Europe,  but  has  not  proved  good 
here,  except  in  very  favorable  situations.  It  may  be  valuable  South. 
Tree  a  good  and  vigorous  grower.  Young  shoots  yellow  brown  grayish 
olive. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform.  Skin  a  little  rough,  yellowish  in  the  shade, 
dotted  with  many  brownish  russet  dots,  and  brownish  red  or  rich  deep 


THE    PEAR.  71S 

red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  inserted  moderately  deep,  in 
an  angular  basin.  Flesh  buttery  and  melting,  sugary,  with  a  peculiar 
and  agreeable  perfume.     Good.     November  to  Februaiy. 

Chelmsford. 

Tynsboro'.  Mogul  Summer. 

Origin,  Chelmsford,  Mass.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  red  cheek.      Flesh 
coarse,  sweet,  good  for  cooking.     Last  of  September. 

Choisnard. 

Originated  with  M.  Choisnard,  Ormes,  France. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  dull 
yellow  brown  in  the  sun,  and  with  man}-  fawn-colored  dots.  Stalk 
rather  long.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  crisp,  half 
fine,  rough  at  centre,  juicy,  delicate  musky  flavor.  January,  March. 
(Leroy.) 


Church. 

Church. 
Clarke  ? 

This  really  good  Pear  originated  on  land  belonging  to  the  Tnmty 
Church,  at  New  Rochelle,  N.  Y. ;  hence  its  name.  The  habit  of  the 
Church  Fear  is  somewhat  spreading  in  its  growth,  uniformly  productive^ 


f20  THE   PEAR. 

and  the  fruit  unvarying  in  its  quality.     Young  wood  dull  yellow,  ot 
brown. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium  size,  generally  depressed,  somewhat  an- 
gular. Stalk  rather  long,  stout  at  its  insertion,  in  a  small  cavity 
surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  small  and  closed,  in  a  broad,  rather  shal- 
low basin.  Skin  green,  becoming  yellow  at  maturity.  Flesh  white, 
very  buttery,  j  uicy,  melting,  with  an  exceedingly  rich,  sweet,  and  highly 
perfumed  flavor.  Very  good.  Core  small.  Ripens  slowly,  and  con- 
tinues in  use  all  of  September. 

Citrina. 

Originated  with   Dr.  Shurtleff,  Boston,  Mass.,  first  fruited  in 

1862.     Tree  productive.     Wood  slender,  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  bright  yellow.  Surface  slightly  knobby 
and  uneven.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  small.  Basin  corrugated.  Flesh 
nearly  white,  rather  coarse.  Gritty  at  the  core.  September.  (Journal 
of  H.) 

Citron. 

A  seedling  of  the  late  Governor  Edwards,  a  vigorous,  upright  grower, 
producing  large  crops,  but  inclined  to  rot  at  the  core. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular,  approaching  turbinate.  Stalk  short, 
rather  stout,  set  in  an  abrupt,  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  closed.  Basin 
broad,  shallow,  irregular.  Skin  greenish,  slightly  shaded  with  dull 
crimson.  Flesh  greenish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  vinous, 
with  a  musky  perfunie.  Good.  Ripe  from  middle  of  August  to  mid- 
dle of  September. 

Clara. 
Claire. 

Une  of  Yan  Mons'  seedlings.  It  is  of  medium  size,  oval  pyriform. 
Skin  clear  yellow,  dotted  with  red.  Flesh  white,  melting,  very  juicy, 
and  sweet,  relieved  by  a  slight  acid.  Hardly  good.  September  and 
October. 

Clap. 

This  variety  was  raised  from  seed,  by  Capt.  William  Clap,  of  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Fruit  below  medium,  acute  pyriform,  yellowish  green,  with  a  brown- 
ish blush  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  j  uicy,  aromatic.  Middle 
of  August.      (Prince.) 

Clapp's  Favorite. 

This  extremely  fine  and  valuable  Pear  was  raised  from  seed  by  the 
late  Thaddeus  Clapp,  of  Dorchester,  Mass.  The  tree  is  an  upright 
Bpreading,  vigorous  grower,  forming  an  open,  well-shaped  head,  on  which 
the  fruit  is  evenly  distributed  and  almost  uniform  in  size.  Verv  pro 
ductive.     Young  shoots  dark  reddish  brown. 


THE    PEAK. 


721 


Fruit  large,  oboate  ovate,  slightly  obtuse  pyriform.  Surface  un 
even.  Skin  thin,  pale  lemon  yellow,  marbled  and  faintly  splashed  with 
crimson  and  fawn  when  fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  thickly  sprinkled  with 
brown  dots,  and  sometimes  patches  and  traces  of  russet.     Stalk  nearlj 


Clapp's  Favorite. 


an  inch  long,  a  little  inclined,  stout,  and  somewhat  fleshy,  inserted  in  a 
Blight  depression.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  stiff,  erect.  Basin 
shallow,  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  juicy,  buttery, 
melting,  rich,  Bweet,  vinous,  a  little  perfumed.  Very  good.  Last  of 
August  or  early  September. 


Clay. 

Sponge. 

Raised  by  the  late  Governor  Edwards. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  pyriform.  Skin  waxen 
yellow,  shaded  with  crimson,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  or  crimson 
dots.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse, 
granular,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     October. 

46 


722  THE    TEAK. 

Clemence. 

Clementine. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons,  originated  in  1833.  Young  wood  olive 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  acute  pyriform,  sometimes  obovate  acate  pyriform, 
pale  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  crimson,  and  patched  and  netted 
with  russet,  few  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  curved,  fleshy  at  insertion. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  sweet, 
melting,  pleasant.     Very  good.     September. 

Clement  Bivokt. 

A  Belgian  Pear  that  we  have  not  yet  fruited.  Young  shoots 
Bmooth,  short-jointed,  yellow  brown.  It  is  described  by  the  Societe 
Van  Mons  as  : — 

"  Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  golden  yellow,  shaded  with 
red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed. 
November." 

Clinton. 

Van  Mons,  No.  1238. 

A  poor  fruit,  of  medium  size,  light  yellow  skin.  Flesh  soft,  butte-y, 
and  good,  but  not  high-flavored.     Middle  of  November. 

Coit's  Beurre. 
Beurre  Coit. 

Originated  with  Col.  Coit,  Collamer,  near  Cleveland,  O.  Tree  a 
healthy,  good  grower,  productive.  Young  wood  brownish  olive,  wiih 
rough  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  inclining  to  russet, 
sometimes  with  a  sunny  cheek,  thickly  covered  with  dots,  which  become 
crimson  on  the  exposed  side.  Stalk  short,  rather  stout,  set  in  a  small 
cavity,  sometimes  inclined  by  a  lip.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  white,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  vinous.  Very  good.  September, 
October. 

Collins. 

Watertown.  Colin  Noir.  Meconnaitre. 

Charbonniere.  Malconnaitre. 

Raised  by  A.  Collins,  of  Watertown,  Mass.,  and  first  exhibited  be- 
fore the  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society  in  1848.  Tree  of  moderate 
growth,  with  reddish  brown  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  acute  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  with  russet  spots,  and  frequently  a  blush  on  the  sunny  side. 
Stalk  short,  thick,  inserted  at  an  inclination  without  cavity.  Calyx 
tmall,  and   very  little   sunk.     Flesh  fine,  melting,  juicy,  with  a  brisk, 


THE    PEAR. 


723 


sugary  flavor,  resembling  white  Doyenn6.    Very  good.     Kipens  first  of 
October. 


Coit's  Beurr6. 


COLMAR. 


De  Maune. 
Incomparable. 
Winter  Virgalieu. 
Bergamotte  Tardive. 
Colmar  Doree. 


Belle  et  Bonne  d'Hiver. 
Colmar  d'Hiver. 
Commodore. 
Bergamotte  Royal  d'Hiver 


An  old  Belgian  Pear.  The  tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive. 
Valuable  for  cooking,  often  very  good  in  quality. 

Fruit  medium  or  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  light  yellow.  Flesh 
melting,  half  buttery,  juicy,  sweet.     December,  February. 


Colmar  Artoisenet. 


young 


A  Belgian  Pear  of  vigorous  growth,  and  a  good  bearer, 
shoots  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  oblate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
often  with  a  brownish  cheek,  netted  and  patched  with  cinnamon  russet, 
and  with  many  russet  dots.      Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  slight  de[  tvsi  ion, 


l'2i  THE    PEAK. 

often  with  a  lip.    Caljx  small,  closed.    Basin  furrowed.     Flesh  whitish, 
coarse,  juicy,  melting,  brisk,  vinous.     Good.     September,  October. 

COLMAR   d'AlOST. 
Delices  d'Alost. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  said  to  have  originated  with  M.  Hellinck  in  1840 
Young  wood  dark  olive  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  brown 
ish  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  half  melting,  juicy,  gritty  at  core,  sweet, 
vinous.     Good.     October,  November. 

COLMAR    d'ArEMBERG. 

Kartofel.  Cartofel. 

A  large  Belgian  Pear,  mainly  to  be  valued  for  its  size  and  for  cook- 
ing. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  green, 
becoming  yellow  at  maturity,  with  nettings  of  russet  and  dots.  Flesh 
whitish,  half  fine,  granulous,  sweet,  vinous.  Good.  November,  De- 
cember. 

COLMAR    D'AUTOMNE    NOUVEAU. 

Received  from  France.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  shoots  light  yellow 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  sometimes  inclined.  Skin  pale  yel- 
low, sometimes  a  shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  partially  patched  and  net- 
ted with  traces  of  russet,  and  russet  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  inclined, 
set  in  a  small  cavity,  often  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long,  recurv- 
ed. Basin  rather  abrupt.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  vinous. 
Very  good.     Last  September. 

Colmar  d'Ete. 
Colmar  Precoce.  Autumn  Colmar. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  originated  in  1825,  and  ranked  high  among  foreign 
pomologists ;  here  it  proves  only  good,  or  rather  poor,  and  rots  at  the 
core. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
sometimes  a  slight  blush  in  sun,  patches  of  russet,  and  brown  dots. 
Stalk  long,  a  little  inclined,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  white,  coarse, 
astringent.     Early  in  September. 

Colmar  de  Jonghe. 

Originated  with  M.  J.  De  Jonghe,  Belgium,  and  not  having  fruited 
it,  we  copy  from  his  description  : — "  Tree  hardy,  robust,  vigorous,  and 
productive,  rather  upright.  Young  wood  nut  brown,  with  a  few  gray 
specks. 

"  Fruit  inecuum,  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  mostly  covered  with 
reddish  brown  blotches.  Stalk  thick,  set  without  depression.  Calyx 
open.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet,  and  aromatic.  Septem- 
oer." 


THE   PEAR.  72fi 

COLMAR   DE   MEESTER. 
Demeester. 

Originated  in  Belgium. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  a  few 
nettings  of  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  many  brown  and  green  dots.  Stalk 
long,  a  little  inclined.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  juicy 
half  melting,  slightly  vinous.      Scarcely  good.     October. 

COLMAR    DES    InVALIDES. 

Poire  des  Invalides.  Va  Deux  Ans. 

Beurre  de  Printemps.  Colrnar  Van  Mons. 

Gros  Colmar  Van  Mons. 

This  Belgian  Pear  is  said  to  have  been  raised  at  Enghien  in  1808. 
It  is  large  and  showy,  but  only  valuable  for  cooking.  Young  wood  red- 
dish olive  yellow  brown. 

Frviit  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  slightly  marbled  with 
crimson  in  the  sun,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  and  brown  dots  and  traces. 
Stalk  rather  short,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  large  and  open.  Seg- 
ments long,  recurved.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  juicy,  breaking,  sweet. 
November  to  February. 

Colmar  Epine. 

An  agreeable  juicy  Pear,  sent  to  this  country  by  Van  Mons,  and 
originated  by  him.     Young  shoots  stout,  upright,  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  tapering  gradually  to  an  obtuse  point 
at  the  stem,  which  is  one  inch  long.  Color  greenish  yellow.  Flesh 
white,  sweet,  melting,  juicy,  and  good.     Middle  of  September. 

Coloree  de  Juillet. 

Originated  in  Rouen,  France. 

Fruit  below  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  with 
a  shade  of  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  and  small  patches  and  dots  of  brown 
russet.  Stalk  medium  or  stout,  set  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  white, 
half  tender,  juicy,  a  little  gritty  at  core,  sweet,  perfumed.     Good.     July 

Columbia. 
Columbian  Virgalieu.  Columbia  Virgalouse. 

The  original  tree  grows  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Casser,  in  Westchester 
Co.,  N.  Y.  The  tree  grows  upright.  Young  wood  stout,  upright,  olive 
brown. 

Fruit  large,  regularly  formed,  obovate,  usually  a  little  oblong,  and 
always  broadest  in  the  middle.  Skin  smooth  and  fair  pale  green  in  au- 
tumn, but  when  ripe  of  a  fine  golden  yellow,  with  occasionally  a  soft 
orange  tinge  on  its  cheek,  and  dotted  with  small  gray  dots.  Stalk 
rather  more  than  an  inch  long,  slightly  curved,  placed  towards  one  side 
of  a  narrow  depression.  Calyx  of  medium  size,  partially  open,  get  in  a 
very  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  not  very  fine-grained,  but  melting, 
juicy,  with  a  sweet  aromatic  flavor.  Good.  November  to  January 
Very  apt  to  drop  fiom  the  tree  previous  to  ripening. 


726 


THE    PEAR. 
COMMISSAIRE    DELMOTTE. 


Originated  in  Belgium  by  Gregoire. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  a 
shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet. 
Stalk  medium,  curved,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open,  or  partially 
closed.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  half  melt 
ing,  sweet.     Good.     January  to  March. 

Comprette. 

A  Flemish  seedling  of  little  value. 

Fruit  small,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish  green.  Flesh  white, 
buttery,  with  a  sugary  perfumed  j  uice.     October,  November. 

Comte  d'Egmont. 

Fruit  small,  obovate,  lemon  yellow,  covered  with  dots  of  reddish 
brown  russet,  forming  almost  a  patch.  Stalk  stout,  inserted  without 
depression.  Calyx  small,  open.  Flesh  yellow,  melting,  slightly  gritty> 
very  rich,  sugary,  and  delicious.     Last  of  October.     (Hogg.) 


Comte  de  Flandre. 


THE    PEAR.  727 

Cjmte  be  Flandre. 
8t.  Jean  Baptiste.  St.  Jean  Baptiste  d'Hiver. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Foung 
wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Friut    large,    elongated    pyriform,    obtuse.       Skin    yellowish,    con- 
siderably covered  with  russet.       Stalk  long,  much  inclined,  and  insert- 
ed by  a  lip  in  a  small  cavity.     Calyx  open,  set  in  a  shallow,  corrugated 
basin.     Flesh   very  buttery,  melting,  juicy,   granular,  sweet,  and  rich 
Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 

Comstock. 
Comstock  Wilding. 

A  coarse  cooking  Pear  that  originated  in  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  regularly  formed,  obovate.  Skin  smooth  and 
glossy,  bright  yellow,  with  a  crimson  cheek.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  and,  if 
well  ripened,  with  a  sweet  and  sprightly  flavor.     November. 

COMTE    DE    LAMY. 

Beurre  Curtet.  Beurre  Quitelet.  Comte  Lamay. 

Dingier.  Bis  Curtet.  Beurre  Cutter. 

Henri  Van  Mons,  erroneously. 

Originated  in  Belgium  in  1828.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  a 
brownish  red  cheek,  and  sprinkled  with  patches  and  small  russety  dots. 
Stalk  au  inch  long,  straight,  obliquely  inserted  under  a  lip,  or  planted 
in  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white, 
fine-grained,  buttery,  melting,  sweet.  Good.  Last  of  September  tc 
middle  of  October. 

Comte  de  Paris. 

One  of  "Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  pyramidal,  very  vigorous. 
Young  shoots  reddish  brown  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  often  elongated.  Skin  greenish  yel- 
low, a  little  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  dotted  with  conspicuous 
russet  and  green  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  set  in  a  shallow 
cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  large,  open.  Segments  long.  Basin 
small.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  juicy,  melting,  brisk,  slightly  vinous, 
musky.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Comte  Lelieur. 
Frederick  Lelieur. 

Of  Belgian  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  moderately  productive. 
Young  wood  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  large,  pyriforru.  Skin  yellowish  green,  with  a  brownish-red 
cheek,  speckled  with  gray,  netted  and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  short, 
curved,  inclined,  set  by  a  lip.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  a  little  coarse- 
grained, melting,  juicy,  sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 


728  THE   PEAR. 

COMTESSE    d'AlOST. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  highly  commended  abroad,  but  here  proves  onlj 
good.     Tree  vigorous.     Young  wood  dull  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  sometimes  acute.  Skin  pale  yel- 
low, slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  brown  dots, 
shade  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  half  melting,  vinous, 
astringent.     Scarcely  good.     November. 

COMTESSE    DE    ChAMBORD. 

Originated  at  Poictiers,  France.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young 
wood  olive  yellow  brown.     Leroy  describes  the  fruit  as  follows  : — 

"  Fruit  small  to  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.      Skin  yellowish  green  in 
the  shade,  bright  golden  in  the  sun,  veined,  dotted,  and  marbled  with 
yellowish  gray.     Stalk  short.     Calyx  large,  half  closed.     Flesh  yellowish 
white,  melting,  rough  at  centre,  sweet,  vinous,  delicate  aroma.,r    Novem 
ber,  December. 

Congress  Pomologique. 
Triomphe  de  Pomologique. 

Originated  with  M.  Boisbunel,  at  Rouen,  in  1856.  Tree  a  vigorous 
grower,  with  moderate-sized  young  shoots,  long-jointed,  and  of  a  dull 
yellowish-brown  color,  with  many  rough  specks.     Productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rather  rough,  greenish  yellow, 
with  traces  of  yellow,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  slen- 
der, with  bracts,  set  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open.  Segments 
long,  recurved.  Basin  broad,  shallow,  uneven,  russeted.  Flesh  whitish, 
butteiy,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good  to  very  good.  October, 
November. 

Conklin. 

Originated  in  Westchester  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  or  pale 
yellow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  dotted  with  green  and  brown 
dots.  Stalk  medium,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Calyx  partially  closed  in  a 
deep,  abrupt  basin.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet. 
Good.     September. 

CONSEILLER   RaNWEZ. 

One  of  Yan  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 
Young  wood  dull  olive  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  very  irregular  in  form,  obovate  obtuse,  obscurely  pyri- 
form. Skin  greenish  yellow,  rough,  with  a  few  patches  of  russet,  and 
many  brown  clots.  Stalk  inserted  in  a  broad  cavity,  by  a  slight  lip  or 
fleshy  ring.  Calyx  open,  stiff,  set  in  a  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  coarse,  a 
little  granular,  juicy,  melting,  perfumed,  sweet,  vinous,  slightly  astrin 
gent.     Good.     October. 


THE    PEAR.  72& 

COPIA. 


A  Philadelphia  seedling. 

Fruit  large.     Skin  yellow.     Flesh  rather  coa-se,  but  sugary.     Poor 


September  to  October. 


Cornwell. 
Cluster  ? 


An  old  Pear,  origin  unknown,  transferred  by  travelling  grafters  from 
the  New  England  States,  and  may  yet  prove  some  named  sort. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular,  greenish  yellow,  netted  and  patched 
with  light  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  vinous,  a  little  astxin- 
gent.     Good.     Early  September. 

Coter. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  of  moderate  growth  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  irregular  in  form,  varying  from  obtuse  to 
acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  with  numerous  russet  dots,  some 
patches  of  russet,  and  russet  around  the  calyx  and  stem.  Stalk  slightly 
curved,  and  enlarged  at  its  insertion,  without  cavity,  and  inclined. 
Calyx  open,  set  in  an  abrupt,  not  very  deep  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  not 
very  fine,  j  uicy,  vinous.     Good.     December. 

Crassane. 

Bergamotte  Crassane.  Cresane.  Bergamotte  Crassane  d'Automne. 

Beurre  Plat.  Flat  Butter.         Crassane  d'Automne. 

An  old  variety,  cultivated  as  long  ago  as  1667.  Tree  hardy,  vigo- 
rous, and  productive.     Young  wood  Light  reddish. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  yellow,  rarely  with  a 
blush,  dotted  with  russet  dots.  Flesh  coarse,  rather  dry,  sweet,  plea- 
Bant.     Good.     October,  November. 


Crawford. 

Bancrief.  Lammas  of  the  Scotch. 

A  Scotch  fruit,  of  second  quality ;  the  chief  merit  of  which  is  its 
hardiness  La  a  cold  climate. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  obovate.  Skin  light  yellow,  tinged  with  browu 
Ln  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  sweet,  and  of  a  tolerably  pleasant 
flavor.     August. 

Croft  Castle. 

An  English  variety,  peculiar  in  its  shape,  and  especially  so  in  its 
flavor  ;   very  productive 

Fruit  medium.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  juicy,  crisp,  and 
3W3«'t.      Scarcely  good.      October. 


730  THE    PEAR. 

Cross. 

Originated  on  the  premises  of  Mr.  Cross,  of  Newbuiyport,  Ma*s, 
.Branches  rather  slender,  of  slow  growth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  smooth,  deep  yellow, 
with  a  red  cheek,  and  marked  with  numerous  russet  dots,  and  patches 
of  russet  around  the  eye.  Stalk  planted  in  a  slight  depression.  Flesh 
coarse,  white,  melting,  juicy,  and  sweet.  Good.  In  eating  from  the 
last  of  November  to  the  middle  of  January,  but  chiefly  in  December. 

Crouch. 

Originated  at  Colchester,  Conn.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood  dull 
yellow  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  roundish  inclining  to  oblate.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  considerably  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  many  russet  dots. 
Stalk  slender,  curved.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     Early  September. 

Cumberland. 

A  native  fruit,  in  Cumberland,  Rhode  Island. 

Fruit  rather  large,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  orange  yellow,  pale  red 
cheek.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  tolerably  juicy.  Good.  September 
and  October. 

Cushing. 

The  Cushing  is  a  native  of  Massachusetts,  having  originated  on  the 
grounds  of  Colonel  Washington  Cushing,  of  Hingham,  about  forty  yeara 
ago.  It  is  a  very  sprightly  Pear,  and,  like  many  of  our  native  varieties, 
it  produces  most  abundant  crops.  Branches  rather  slender,  diverging 
olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  obovate,  tapering  rather  obliquely  to  the  stem 
Skin  smooth,  light  greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  with  small  gray  dots,  ana 
occasionally  a  dull  red  cheek.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  planted  in  an  abrupt 
cavity.  Calyx  rather  small,  set  in  a  basin  of  moderate  size.  Flesh  white, 
fine-grained,  buttery,  melting,  sweet,  sprightly,  perfumed.  Good. 
Middle  of  September. 

Dallas. 

Raised  by  Governor  Edwards,  of  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  upright, 
vigorous.  Young  wood  reddish  brown.  A  profitable  Pear  to  grow,  aa 
it  produces  abundantly  and  keeps  long  after  gathering. 

Fruit  rather  large,  ovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  a 
sunny  cheek,  thickly  sprinkled  with  crimson  and  russet  dots.  Stalk 
large,  long,  inserted  by  a  slight  lip  in  a  very  moderate  cavity.  Calyx 
open.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh  buttery,  juicy,  with  a  sweet,  rich, 
pleasant  aromatic  flavor.     Very  good.     Ripe  October  and  November. 

Dana's  Hovey. 
Raised  by  Francis  Dana,  of  Roxbury,  Mass.     Tree  vigorous,  hardy, 


THE    PEAR.  731 


and  productive.  Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown,  retains  its  foliage  late 
in  season.  This  is  one  of  the  highest-flavored  Pears,  next  to  the 
Seckle,  that  we  have  known.  It  lacks  in  size  for  a  market  variety, 
but  as  an  amateur  sort  is  one  of  the  most  desirable. 


Dana's  Hovey. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  regular.  Skin  greenish  yei- 
low  or  pale  yellow,  considerably  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and 
sprinkled  with  many  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  a  little  curved, 
set  in  a  slight  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Basin  snialh' 
uneven,  and  slightly  russeted.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicv,  melting,  with 
a  sugary,  rich,  aromatic  flavor.     Best.     November  to  January. 

Darlington. 

An  American  variety,  the  origin  of  which  we  have  been  unable  tc 
learn.  Tree  very  vigorous,  upright  grower,  productive.  Youn"  wood 
yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  with  sometimes 
a  shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  nettings  and  patches  of  iusset,  and 
russet  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  sweet.  Not  quite  good.  Rots  at 
core.     Early  September. 

Davis. 

Introduced  from  Delaware  Co.,  Pa.  The  only  claim  this  Pear  hai 
is  that  some  specimens  are  almost,  or  entirely,  seedless. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  obtuse,  yellowish,"  netted  and  patched  with 
russet    dots.     Stalk  short,  in    a  small  cavity.      Calyx  partially    open. 


732 


THE    PEAR. 


Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  not  juicy,  melting,  sweet.     Good.     Sep 
tember.     This  is  similar  to  and  may  be  identical  with  Elton. 


Dearborn's  Seedling. 


Nones. 


Dearborn's  Sanding. 


Dearbom'i  Seedling. 


A  very  admirable  early  Pear; 
of  first  quality,  raised  in  1818,  b} 
the  Hon.  H.  A.  S.  Dearborn,  of 
Boston.  It  bears  most  abundant 
crops,  and  is  one  of  the  most  de- 
sirable early  varieties,  succeeding 
the  Bloodgood,  and  preceding  the 
Bartlett.  Young  shoots  long, 
reddish  brown. 

Fruit  scar.oely  of  medium  size, 
roundish  pyriform,  and  very  regu- 
larly formed.  Skin  very  smooth, 
clear  light  yellow,  with  a  few  mi- 
nute dots.  Stalk  slender,  rather 
more  than  an  inch  long,  set  with 
very  little  depression.  Calyx 
with  delicate  spreading  segments, 
set  in  a  very  shallow  basin. 
Flesh  white,  very  juicy  and  melt- 
ing, sweet  and  sprightly  in  fla- 
vor. Very  good.  Ripens  about 
the  middle  of  August. 


De  Bavat. 
Poire  de  Bavay. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  a  moderate  grower.  Young 
wood  dull  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  netted  and  patched 
with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  large  russet  dots.  Stalk  stout,  curved, 
a  little  inclined,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow,  un- 
even, often  nisseted.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  a  little  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

De  Deux  Foix  Lane. 

A  small  foreign  Pear,  handsome  but  of  poor  quality. 

Fruit  small,  oblate  pyriform,  irregular,  or  a  little  inclined,  lemon 
yellow,  with  a  crimson-red  cheek,  fawn  and  russet  nettings  and  dots. 
Flesh  white,  coarse,  rather  dry,  sweet.     Poor.     August. 

D£lices  de  Charles. 

We  have  received  two  Pears  under  tliis  name,  one  as  of  Van  Mons, 
the  other  of  Bouvier. 

The  former  is  medium  in  size,  irregular  in  form,  varying  from  obo- 
vate  to  obovate  pyriform.     Skin  greenish  yellow,   netted  and  patched 


THE   PEAR.  733 

with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  lorg,  inclined, 
Bet  in  a  slight  depression,  often  with  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellow 
ish,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  sweet.     September,  October. 

The  latter  is  above  medium  in  size,  obovate  obtuse.  Skin  greenish, 
with  traces  of  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  long, 
curved,  set  in  a  rather  large  cavity.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  rots  at  core. 
Middle  of  September. 

Delices  de  Froyennes. 

This  variety  was  obtained  by  M.  de  Courcelle,  of  Lille,  near  Tour- 
nay. 

Fruit  medium,  acute  pyriform.  Skin  a  little  rough,  clear  fawn-color. 
Stalk  straight,  stout.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juicy 
sweet,  perfumed.     November,  December.     (Revue  Horticole.) 

Delices  d'Hardenpont  of  Angers. 

Beurre  des  Hautes.  Vignes. 

Beurre  Lasalle.  Delices  d' Angers. 

Tree  of  moderate  growth,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish,  becoming  yellowish  at  maturity, 
with  a  warm  cheek,  sprinkled  and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  short 
and  thick,  inserted  by  a  ring  or  lip  at  an  inclination,  in  a  shallow  cavity. 
Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  stiff,  in  a  small,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, nearly  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good. 
October,  November. 

Delices  d'Hardenpont  of  Belgium. 

Fondante  Pariselle.  Charles  d'Autriche. 

Delices  d'Ardenpont.  Pariselle. 

Archduke  Charles. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  with  long,  slender  shoots  of  dull 
olive  brown  color. 

Fruit  medium,  truncate  conic  or  pyramidal,  angular.  Skin  rough, 
greenish,  covered  with  .small  brown  dots,  becoming  yellowish  at  matu- 
rity. Stalk  short  and  thick,  inserted  in  a  small  uneven  cavity  at  an  in- 
clination. Calyx  large,  set  in  a  shallow  furrowed  basin.  Flesh  while, 
buttery,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  with  a  fine  aromatic  perfume.  Good. 
November,  December. 

Delices  de  Jodoigne. 

This  Belgian  Pear  originated  in  1846,  but  it  i,s  yet  little  known. 
Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  varying  from  obtuse  to  acute  pyriform.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  rich  brownish  crimson  in  the  sun,  netted  and  patched  and 
dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  medium,  sometimes  with  a  slight  depression 
at  insertion,  again  fleshy,  without  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  ro- 
curved.  Basin  small,  shallow.  Flesh  white,  iuicy,  buttery,  half  melt 
ing.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 


734  THE    PEAK. 

Delices  de  la  Cacaudiere. 

This  variety  originated  in  France,  in  1846.  We  do  not  know  of  its 
being  fruited  in  this  country,  but  its  size  aud  period  of  ripening  are  pro- 
mising of  value. 

Fruit  large,  obotrate  pyriform,  yellow  green,  shaded  with  red  in  the 
sun  and  many  small  dots.  Stalk  long,  stout,  set  without  depression 
Flesh  white,  a  Little  coarse,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  Ripens  early  in 
August.     (Verg.) 

Deuces  de  Louvenjal. 
Jules  Bivort. 

An  old  variety,  yet  little  known  in  this  country.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow, 
with  patches  of  russet  and  many  small  green  and  russet  dots.  Stalk 
rather  stout,  curved.  Calyx  small.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  juicy,  melt- 
ing, sweet,  rich,  vinous.     Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 

Delices  Van  Mons. 
Delices  de  Mons.  Delices  de  la  Meuse. 

The  date  of  origin  of  this  Pear  is  unknown.  So  far  as  we  can  learn, 
it  was  first  described  simply  as  Delices.  The  tree  is  a  healthy  free 
grower,  wTith  young  wood  of  a  dull  grayish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  obovate  pyriform.  Surface  somewhat  uneven. 
Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  sbade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  nettings  of  russet, 
and  numerous  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  long.  Cavity  small,  russeted. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Segments  short.  Basin  small,  slightly  russeted. 
Flesh  white,  coarse  at  the  core,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  slightly 
vinous.     Good  or  very  good.     October. 

De  Louvain. 

Poire  de  Louvain.  Gros  Quere.  Valandree. 

Bezy  de  Louvain.  Parabelle  Musque. 

Raised  by  Van  Mons  in  1827. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  inclining  to  pyriform,  and  tapering 
to  the  stalk.  Skin  rather  uneven,  clear  light  yellow,  a  little  marked 
with  russet,  and  dotted  with  brown  points,  which  take  a  ruddy  tinge 
next  tlie  sun.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  obliquely  with- 
out depression,  or  by  the  side  of  a  fleshy  lip.  Calyx  placed  in  a  very 
narrow,  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  melting.  Good. 
October. 

Democrat. 

Originated  in  Pennsylvania.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower  and  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obovate  roundish.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  and  dotted  with  conspicuous  russet  and 
brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx 
large,  open.  Basin  abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet, 
pleasant.      Good.     September. 


THE   PEAR.  736 

Des  Chasseurs. 

Chasseurs.  Sportsman. 

Poire  des  Chasseurs.  Hunter. 

This  Belgian  Pear  is  supposed  to  be  one  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings. 
The  tree  is  moderately  vigorous,  somewhat  spreading,  productive.  Young 
Bhoots  warm  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  sometimes  obtuse.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
covered  with  minute  dots,  and  a  few  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  en- 
larged at  its  junction,  without  depression.  Calyx  small.  Basin  shal- 
low. Flesh  buttery,  juicy,  slightly  granular,  perfumed.  Good  to  very 
good.     October. 

DeSIREE    CoRNELIS. 
Cornells. 

Raised  by  M.  Bivort.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood 
cinnamon  russet  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  slightly  obtuse. 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  nettings  of  russet  and  irregular  conspicuous 
brown  dots.  Stalk  curved,  set  in  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed. 
Basin  small.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet.  Yery  good. 
Early  September. 

Desiree  Van  Mons. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  originated  in  1836. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  dull  greenish,  with 
a  few  traces  and  patches  of  russet,  especially  around  the  stalk,  minute 
marblings  and  dots  of  black.  Stalk  slender,  curved,  set  in  a  very  slight 
depression.  Flesh  white,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.  Good. 
September,  October. 

De  Sorlus. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with 
minute  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  generally  straight, 
Bet  with  little  or  no  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  ring  or  enlargement  at  base. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  not 
juicy  or  melting.     Good.     November. 

De  Tongres. 
Poire  Durandeau. 

Thift  fine  fruit  was  raised  by  M.  Durandeau,  of  Tongres,  France. 
Tree  vigorous,  with  long  slender  branches,  pyriform,  bears  young  and 
abundantly.     Young  shoots  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  slightly  irregular.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  covered  with  rich  cinnamon  russet,  which  becomes  crimson  on 


786  THE   PEAR. 

the  sun-exposed  side.  Sprinkled  with  russet  and  brown  dots.  Stalk 
long,  curved,  inserted  without  depression,  often  by  a  lip.  Calyx  small, 
open,  or  partially  closed.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  shallow,  abrupt, 
uneven.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  vinous,  rich  saccharine. 
Very  good.     October. 

Deux  Sceurs. 
Des  Deux  Soeurs.  The  Two  Sisters. 

A  chance  seedling  found  near  Marines,  France,  and  named  by  Major 
Esperen.     Tree  vigorous,  thorny,  hardy,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  oval,  irregular.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  sprin- 
kled with  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  set  in  a  slight  depression  01 
by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  sweet. 
Good.     October,  November. 

Devergnies. 

Belle  du  Vernis.  Duvernay. 

Belle  du  Vernie.  Duvernis. 

Beurre  Duvernay. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  originated  at  Hainault  in  1817. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  short  pyriform.  Skin  dull  yellow,  shaded 
and  blotched  with  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  dark  russet  dots  and  specks. 
Stalk  curved,  set  in  furrowed  cavity.  Calyx  large.  Basin  furrowed. 
Flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  sweet.     Good.     December. 

DlCKERMAN. 

Pardee's  No.  2. 

Raised  by  S.  D.  Pardee,  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive.     Young  wood  dark  rich  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  yellowish,  shade  of  bright 
cinnamon  in  the  sun,  thickly  covered  with  minute  dots.  Stalk  curved, 
fleshy  at  its  insertion,  in  a  moderate  cavity.  Calyx  nearly  closed.  Seg- 
ments persistent.  Basin  broad  and  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery, 
juicy,  melting,  perfumed.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripe  from  the  middle  of 
September  to  the  middle  of  October. 

DlEUDONNB    AXTHOIXE. 

A  variety  from  Enghien,  Belgium.  Tree  vigorous,  moderately  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  light  yellow,  vary- 
ing to  a  cinnamon  yellow,  with  occasionally  a  flush  of  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  whitish,  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  perfumed.  October. 
(An.  Pom.) 

Diller. 

A  Pennsylvania  Pear.  Tree  a  slow  and  poor  grower.  Young  wood 
tight  brownish  yellow. 

Fruit  below  medium,  nearly  globular.     Skin  yellowish,   sprinkled 


THE    PEAR. 


'37 


and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  very  slight  cavity  by 
a  fleshy  ring.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  rather  broad,  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
whitish,  coarse,  and  granular,  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  with  a  very  sweet, 
aromatic  perfumed  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripe  last  of  August 
and  first  of  September. 


Dix. 


Dix. 

Lewis,  erroneously  of  the  Frenoh. 

The  Dix  is,  unquestionably,  a  fruit  of  the  highest  excellence,  and 
deserves  the  attention  of  all  planters.  It  is  one  of  die  hardiest  of  pear- 
trees,  but  the  tree  does  not  come  into  bearing  until  it  lias  attained  con- 
siderable size.  The  young  branches  are  dull  olive  yellow  brown,  upright, 
and  slender.  The  original  tree  stands  in  the  garden  of  Madam  Dix, 
Boston.     It  bom  for  the  first  time  in  1826. 

47 


738  THE   TEAR. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  or  long  pyriform.  Skin  ro  ighish,  fine  deep  yel 
low  at  maturity,  marked  with  distinct  russet  dots,  and  sprinkled  with 
fcjsset  around  the  stalk.  Calyx  small  for  so  large  a  fruit.  Basin  nar- 
row, and  scarcely  at  all  sunk.  Stalk  rather  stout,  short,  thicker  at  each 
end,  set  rather  obliquely,  but  with  Little  or  no  depression.  Flesh  not 
very  fine-grained,  but  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  melting,  and  delicious,  with  a 
slight  perfume.     Very  good  to  best.     October  and  November. 

DOCTEUR    BOUVIER. 

A  vigorous  tree,  forming  a  beautiful  pyramid,  very  productive. 
Young  wood  yellow  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish,  becom- 
ing slightly  yellow  at  maturity,  sprinkled,  shaded,  and  dotted  with 
russet,  sometimes  slightly  crimson  and  fawn  in  the  sun.  Stalk  curved, 
set  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  a  Little  coarse,  juicy,  melt- 
ing,  brisk,  vinous,  slightly  perfumed.     Good  to  very  good.     December. 

DOCTEUR    CAPRON. 

One  of  Yan  Mons'  seedlings,  originated  in  1842. 

Fruit  medium,  regular,  ovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yelLow,  a  little 
brownish  in  the  sun,  with  nettings,  patches,  and  dots  of  russet.  Stalk 
medium,  inclined,  set  in  a  slight  depression,  russeted.  Calyx  open. 
Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good.  October, 
November. 

DOCTEUR    LENTIER. 

Doctor  Lenthier. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  originated  about  1847,  and  named  after  M.  Lentier, 
a  physician.     Tree  vigorous,  productive.     Young  shoots  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  sometimes  acute  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
or  pale  yellow,  with  traces  and  patches  of  russet,  especially  next  the 
stalk,  sometimes  a  shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  sprinkled  with  mi- 
nute brown  dots.  Stalk  varying,  set  without  depression.  Calyx  par- 
tially closed.  Basin  small.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
pleasant.     Good.     September,  October. 

Docteur  Trousseau. 

Raised  from  seed  at  Saint  Remy,  France,  in  1848.  Tree  a  vigorous 
grower,  with  long,  strong,  rather  spreading  branches.  Young  wood 
dull  dark  red  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled 
with  russet  dots.  Stalk  variable,  curved,  set  in  a  slight  depression  or 
oavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, vinous,  a  little  astringent.     Good  to  very  good.     November. 

Doctor  Nelis. 
Another   Belgian  variety,  originated  in   1847,  and  named  and   dei 


THE   PEAR.  739 

dicated    to    a    physician.     Tree   moderately    vigorous   and  productive 
Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit   medium,  roundish  pyriform,  slightly  obtuse.     Skin  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  shade  of  red  in  the  sun   somewhat  patched  and  netted 


Doctor  Nelis. 


with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  green  dots.  Stalk  short,  a  little 
inclined,  set  in  a  small,  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh 
whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  slightly  vinous.  Very  good. 
Last  of  September. 

Doctor  Reeder. 
Reeder's  Seedling. 

Raised  from  seed  of  the  Winter  Nelis  by  Dr.  Henry  Reeder,  Vanck, 
Seneca  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  very  hardy,  healthy,  vigorous,  spreading,  open 
foi-m,  an  excellent  bearer.     Young  shoots  warm  olive  brown. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  ovate  obtuse  pyriform,  compressed, 
often  apparently  slightly  farrowed  on  one  side.  Skin  yellow,  netted 
and  patched  with  russet  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long  and  slender,  slightly  curved,  a 
little  inclined,  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  large  and  open.  Segments 
large,  lying  flat  on  the  fruit.  Basin  medium,  nearly  regular.  Flesh 
fine,  juicy,  melting,  buttery,  a  little  granular,  very  sugary,  vinous,  with 
a  high  musky  perfume.     Yery  good  to  best.     November. 


740  THE    PKAB. 


Doctor  Beeder. 


Doctor  Turner. 


A  Connecticut  Pear,  origin  unknown.  Tree  a  moderate  spreading 
grower.     Young  wood  a  dark  olive  brown. 

Fruit  large,  acute  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  sometimes 
with  a  slight  blush,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  green  and  brown  dots, 
a  few  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  curved,  set  in  a  slight  depression  by 
a  ring  or  lip.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  rather  small.  Flesh  white,  juicy, 
half  melting,  slightly  vinous,  somewhat  astringent.     Good.     August. 

DOROTHEE    ROY  ALE    NOUVELLE. 

Fruit  about  medium,  pyriform,  uneven.  Skin  smooth,  clear  deep 
lemon  yellow,  with  here  and  there  a  patch  of  cinnamon  russet.  Calyx 
open.  Stalk  stout.  Flesh  very  fine,  melting,  juicy,  rich.  Last  of  Oc- 
tober.     (Hogg.) 

DORSORIS. 

American  Beauty. 

Origin  unknown.  Introduced  by  Isaac  Coles,  of  Glen  Cove,  Long 
Island.  Tree  a  vigorous,  upright,  spreading  grower,  and  an  early  bearer 
Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish    pyriform.     Skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  witk 


THK   PEAR. 


741 


bright  rich  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  and  greeo 
dots.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  nearly  closed.  Flesh  white,  buttery, 
eweet,  pleasant.     Good.     August. 

Dow. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Eli  Ives,  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  upright,  vigorous, 
productive. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium,  obovate,  acutely  pyriform,  sometimes 
turbinate.  Skin  rough,  yellowish  green,  sprinkled  with  russet  dots,  and 
a  few  small  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  inserted  at  an  inclination  in 
a  very  slight  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open,  set  in  a  very  small  basin. 
Flesh  white,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  good  vinous  flavor,  some- 
times slightly  astringent.     Good.     September,  October. 


Doyen  Dillen. 


Deacon  Dillen. 


Doctor  Dillen. 


One  of  Van  Mons'  Pears.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood 
olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  fine  yellow,  inclining  to 
russet,  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  specks.  Stalk  short,  thick,  and 
fleshy,  strongly  fixed,  without  any  depression.  Calyx  small,  rarely  open. 
Basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  juicy,  buttery,  sweet,  and  rich, 
Very  good.     October,  November. 


Dcyenn6  Bonaaock. 


f  42  THIS   PEAR. 

Doyenne  Boussock. 

Doyenne  Boussouck  Nouvelle.  Beurre  Boussock. 

Beurre  de  Merode.  Albertine. 

Double  Philippe.  Beurre  de  Westerloo. 

Bossoch.  Beurre  Magnifique. 

Doyenne  de  Merode. 

Tliis  Belgian  Pear  proves  one  of  the  most  vigorous  of  trees,  an  i  pro- 
fitable as  a  market  sort.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading.  Young 
wood  dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  varying  in  form,  obovate  inclining  to  pyriforin,  or  roundish 
obtuse  obovate.  Skin  rough,  deep  yellow,  netted  and  clouded  with  rus- 
set, with  a  warm  cheek.  Stalk  rather  short  and  stout,  inserted  in  a 
round  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  buttery,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  aromatic,  and  excellent.  Very  good.  September  and 
October. 

Delpiere,  as  we  have  received  it,  proves  identical  with  the  above. 

Doyenne  dA-len^on. 

Doyenne  d'Hiver  d'Alencon.  Doyenne  Marbre. 

Doyenne  Gris  d'Hiver  Nouveau.  Doyenne'  d'Hiver  Nouveau. 

St.  Michael  d'Hiver. 

A  foreign  Pear,  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  moderately  vigorous  and 
productive.     Young  shoots  dull  olive  brown. 

Fruil  medium,  roundish  oval,  inclining  to  obovate  or  pyriform. 
Skin  rough,  yellow,  shaded  with  dull  crimson  or  carmine,  sprinkled, 
netted,  and  patched  with  russet  brown  dots.  Stalk  of  moderate  length, 
pretty  large,  inserted  in  a  medium  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  per- 
sistent. Basin  deep,  round,  upright.  Flesh  somewhat  granular,  but- 
tery, juicy,  sugary,  very  rich,  sprightly,  and  highly  perfumed.  Very 
good.     December  to  April. 

Doyenne  de  Cercle. 

Doyenne  de  Cercle  Pratique  de  Rouen. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  round,  inclining  to  pyriform.  Sides  unequal. 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  a  blush  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  a  few  traces 
and  nettings  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  brown  dots. 
Stalk  varying,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Basin  uneven,  slightly 
russeted.    Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.    Good.    October. 

Doyenne  d'Ete. 

Summer  Doyenne\  Jolliemont. 

Doyenne  de  Juillet.  Roi  Jolimont. 

St.  Michael  d'£te.  Jolimont. 
Jolivet. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  obtained  in  1823.  Tree  vigorous,  up- 
right, an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  shoots  reddish  yellow 
brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obovate,  slightly  pyriform.  Skin  smooth, 
fine  yellow,  often  shaded  with  bright  red,  anH   covered  with  numerous 


THE   PEAK.  743 

gray  or  russet  dots.     Stalk  rather  short  and  thick,  fleshy  at  its  junction 
with  the  fruit,  almost  without  depression.    Calyx  small  and  open,  in  a 


Doyenne  d'Ete. 

very  shallow,  slightly  corrugated  basin.     Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy, 
with  a  sweet,  pleasant  flavor.     Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  July. 

Doyenne  Defais. 
Defaya  Doyenne  d'Affay. 

Originated  at  Angers,  France.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young 
wood  dull  olive  brown,  with  many  white  specks. 

Fiiiit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  pale  yellow,  some- 
times a  slight  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  traces  of  russet  and  sprinkled  with 
brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  a  little  curved,  in  a  broad  cavity.  Calyx 
open.  Basin  abrupt,  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  lurking,  sweet, 
pleasant,  slightly  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

DoYEXN*    DE    SaUMUR. 

Tree  vigorous.     Young  wood  grayish  olive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  ovate.  Skin  (>a\e  whitish  yellow, 
thickly  sprinkled  with  large  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium, 
curved.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  swe<  t,  pleasant 
Good  t~>  very  good.     September. 


744 


THE    PEAB. 


Doyenne  Downing. 

Raised  by  Andre  Leroy,  and  dedicated  to  the  late  A.  J.  Downing. 
Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Young  wood  slender,  dark  rusty  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  inclining  to  turbinate.  Skin 
greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  and  netted  with  russet,  very  slightly  shaded 
with  crimson,  and  thickly  covered  with  russet  dots.  Flesh  fine,  buttery, 
juicy,  melting,  with  a  sweet,  vinous,  rich,  perfumed  flavor,  somewha* 
aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Doyenne  du  Comice. 

A  French  Pear,  of  comparatively  recent  introduction,  which  promises 
to  be  of  much  value.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright.  Young  wood 
rich  warm  reddish  yellow  brown. 


Doyenne  da  Cornice. 


Fruit  large,  varying,  roundish  pyriform  or  broad  obtuse  pyrifonn, 
sometimes  obtuse.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  becoming  fine  yellow  at  rnatu* 
rity,  often  lightly  shaded  with  crimson  and  fawn  in  the  sun,  slight  net- 


THE    PEAR. 


74C 


tings  and  patches  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots. 
Stalk  short,  stout,  inclined  and  set  in  a  shallow  cavity,  often  russeted. 
Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  large,  deep,  and  uneven.  Flesh  white,  fine, 
melting,  a  little  buttery,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  slightly  aromatic.  Very 
good  or  best.     Core  small.     October,  November. 

Doyenne  Goubault. 

Origin,  Angers,  France.  Of  slow  growth,  and  rather  slender 
branches.     An  unprofitable  sort. 

Fruit  medium,  occasionally  large,  obovate  acute  pyriform.  Stalk 
short.  Calyx  small.  Skin  dull  pale  yellow,  with  a  few  traces  of  rus- 
set, particularly  around  stem  and  calyx.  Flesh  melting  and  juicy,  sweet, 
aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     Ripe  December  to  February. 


Doyenn6  Gray. 


Doyenne  Gray. 


Gray  Butter  Pear. 

Gray  Deans. 

Gray  Doyenne*. 

Red  Doyenne. 

St.  Michel  Dore\ 

Doyenne  Galeux. 

Doyenne  Boussouck,  of  some. 


Doyenne*  Gria. 

Doyenne  Rouge. 

Doyenne  Roux. 

Doyenne  d'Automne. 

Red  Beurre,       )     incorrectly 

Beurr6  Rouge,   )      of  some. 

Le  Beurre. 


The  Gray  Doyenne  strongly  resembles  the  White  Doyenne  in  flavo* 
and  general  appearance,  except  that  its  skin  is  covered  all  over  with  a 


746  THE   PEAR. 

fine,  lively  ciuiiamon  russet.  It  is  a  beautiful  Pear,  usually  keeps  a  lit- 
tle longer,  and  is  considered  by  many  rather  the  finer  of  the  two, 
Shoots  upright,  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  ovate  obovate,  but  usually  a  little  rounder  than 
the  White  Doyenne.  Skin  wholly  covered  with  smooth  cinnamon  rus- 
set (rarely  a  little  ruddy  next  the  sun).  Stalk  half  to  three-fourths  of 
an  inch  long,  curved,  set  in  a  narrow,  rather  deep  and  abrupt  cavity. 
Calyx  small,  closed,  and  placed  in  a  smooth,  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
white,  fine-grained,  very  buttery,  melting,  rich,  and  delicious.  Best 
Middle  of  October,  and  will  keep  many  weeks. 

Doyenne  Robin. 
Beurre  Robin. 

Raised  by  M.  Robin,  Angers,  France.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood 
olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  netted, 
patched,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  long, 
stout,  inserted  in  a  broad  deep  cavity.  Calyx  partly  closed.  Flesh 
whitish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  somewhat  granular,  vinous,  per- 
fumed.    Good.     September. 

Doyenne  Rose. 

Fruit  above  medium,  obovate,  obscurely  pyriform.  Skin  yellow, 
beautifully  shaded  with  crimson.  Stem  short.  Cavity  small.  Calyx 
small ;  deep,  regular  basin.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  granular,  with  >ery 
little  flavor.     Rots  at  the  core.     Poor.     Last  of  October. 

Doyenne  Santellet. 

A  fine  handsome  Pear  from  Flanders. 

Fruit  above  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  mar- 
blings  and  specks  of  gray  russet.  Flesh  white,  a  little  gritty,  tender, 
musky  perfume.     October.     (Lindley.) 

Doyenne  Sieulle. 
Sieulle  Beurre  Sieulle.  Bergamotte  Sieulle. 

A  hardy  tree,  and  a  profitable  market  Pear  in  some  sections. 
Raised  by  M.  Sieulle.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  wood 
olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  green  or  brown  dots,  shaded  with  crimson  and  fawn 
in  the  sun.  Stalk  curved,  stout,  inserted  in  a  broad  cavity  by  a  ring 
or  lip.  Calyx  open  in  a  small  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  very 
buttery,  juicy,  with  a  rich  vinous,  slightly  aromatic  flavor.  Good. 
October,  November. 

Du   Breuil  Pere. 

A  seedling  grown  by  M.  Alphonse  Du  Breuil. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish,  with  mar- 
blings  and  rays  of  brown  in  sun.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juicy, 
sweet,  vinous      Middle  September.     (Leroy.) 


THE    FEAK.  74i 

Due  Alfred  de  Cruy. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  smooth,  greenish  yellow,  with 
a  thin  crust  of  brown  russet  over  the  surface ;  on  the  side  next  the  sun 
it  is  tinged  with  pale  brown.  Stalk  fleshy  at  base,  set  without  depres- 
sion. Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  not  very  juicy,  buttery,  rich,  spicy 
November,  December.     (Hogg.) 

Due  d'Aumale. 
Gedeon  Paridant. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons',  of  vigorous  growth  and  productive  habit, 
young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  slightly  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  shaded 
and  marbled  with  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  slight  netting  and  patches 
of  russet,  and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  a  little  curved. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  sweet,  aromatic.  Good  to 
very  good.     September. 

Due  de  Brabant. 

Fondante  des  Charneuse.         Jamin.  Waterloo. 

Miel  d'Waterloo.  Beurre  Charneuse.         Belle  Excellente. 

Beurre  d'Waterloo. 

A  Belgian  Pear.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood 
olive  brown  grayish. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriform,  sometimes  acute,  sometimes  obtuse. 
Skin  greenish,  shaded  with  crimson  on  the  sunny  side,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  greenish  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved,  and  twisted,  some- 
what fleshy  at  its  insertion,  in  a  very  small  cavity.  Calyx  large  and 
open.  Segments  persistent,  in  an  irregular  ribbed  basin.  Flesh  whit- 
ish green,  very  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  with  a  refreshing  vinous  flavor. 
Very  good.     October,  November. 

Duchesse  d'Angouleme. 
Beurre  Soule. 

A  magnificent  large  dessert  Pear,  sometimes  weighing  a  pound  and 
a  quarter,  named  in  honor  of  the  Duchess  of  Angouleme,  and  said  to 
be  a  natural  seedling,  found  in  a  forest  hedge  near  Angers.  When  in 
perfection,  it  is  a  most  delicious  fruit  of  the  highest  quality.  We  are 
compelled  to  add,  however,  that  the  quality  of  the  fruit  is  a  little  un- 
certain on  young  standard  trees.  The  tree  is  a  strong  grower,  the  shoots 
upright,  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong  obovate,  with  an  uneven,  somewhat  knobby 
BUrface.  Skin  dull  greenish  yellow,  a  good  deal  streaked  and  spotted 
with  russet.  Stalk  one  to  two  inches  long,  very  stout,  bent,  deeply 
planted  in  an  irregular  cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  somewhat  knobby  basin. 
Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  very  juicy,  with  a  rich  and  verj  excellent 
flavor.     Very  good.     October. 

Duchesse  d'Arembero. 

A  French  Pear,  the  fruit  of  which  we  have  seen  but  onco.  Tree 
a  vigorous  grower  and  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium, roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  dull  greenish.  Stalk  long, 
slender,  curved,  set  in  a  broad,  rather  deep  cavity.     Calyx  partial!} 


US  THE   PEAR. 

closed.     Basin  shallow.     Flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,   tender,  juicy 
Good.     September. 

DUCHESSE   DE   BERRY   d'EtE. 
Duchesse  de  Berry.  Duchesse  de  Berry  de  Nantes. 

Originated  at  Nantes,  France.  Tree  vigorous,  upright.  Young 
wood  dark  reddish. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  obscurely  pyriform.  Skin  yellow 
ehaded  with  light  red,  nettings  and  patches  of  russet.     Stalk  short,  in 


Duchesse  de  Berry  d'Et6. 

sorted  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  partially  open,  set  in  a  broad  shallow 
basin.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  with  a  good  vinous  flavor.  Good  to  very 
good.     Ripens  last  of  August. 

Duchesse  de  Bourdeaux. 
Beurre  Perrault. 

Originated  with  M.  Secher,  near  Angers,  France,  in  1850.  Tree  mo- 
derately vigorous.     Young  wood  dull  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellow, 
netted  and  traced  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
long,  stout,  fleshy  at  insertion,  often  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Basin 
medium,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant. 
Good.     December  to  February. 

Duchesse  de  Brabant.     (Durieux.) 

Tree  very  vigorous. 

Fruit  of  good  size,  tm-binate  pyriform,  sometimes  elongated.  Skin 
rough,  bright  green,  becoming  moderately  yellow  at  ripening,  much 
-had 3d  with   bright  russet.     Flesh  whitish  yellow,  tine,  melting,  juice 


THE    PE^R.  749 

abundant,  sugary,  vinous,  finely  perfumed.     Fruit  of  the  first  quality, 
ripening  at  the  end  of  October.     (An.  Pom.) 

Duchesse  de  Brabant.     (Capenick.) 

Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  depressed  at  crown,  clear  yellow,  tinged 
with  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  small  contracted 
cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  rather  firm,  but  melting,  juicy,  lich, 
sweet.     October.     (Hovey  Mag.) 

There  is  also  another  Duchesse  de  Brabant,  the  origin  of  which  is  un- 
known.    We  have  fruited,  but  are  in  doubt  of  the  correctness  of  our  tree. 

Duchesse  d'Hiveb. 
Tardive  de  Toulouse.  Winter  Duchess. 

Originated  with  M.  Barthere,  at  Toulouse,  France.  Tree  a  vigorous 
handsome  grower,  and  an  early  bearer.     Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Friut  large,  obovate  pyriform,  uneven  surface,  dull  greenish,  with 
brownish  dull  russet  shades  and  spots.  Stalk  stout,  set  in  a  slight  un- 
even cavity.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  pretty  fine-grained,  mild,  sweet,  plea- 
sant.    Very  good.     December  to  April. 

Duchesse  de  Mars. 
Comtesse  de  Lumay. 

A  French  Pear,  first  described  in  1850,  by  M.  Prevost,  in  Album 
Pomologie.  Tree  hardy,  branches  rather  slender.  Young  wood  verv 
dark  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblong  obovate,  obtuse  pyriform,  yellowish 
brown,  with  considerable  russet  and  russet  specks.  Stalk  short,  set  in 
a  rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous 
Very  good.     Core  small.     October,  November. 

Duchesse  d'Orleans. 
Beunv  St.  Nicholas.  St.  Nicholas.  Duo  d'Orleans. 

A  French  Pear,  of  which  the  precise  location  of  origin  is  unknown. 
Tree  a  good  grower,  upright,  with  long  jointed  wood.  Young  shoots 
dull  olive  brown,  slightly  grayish. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium,  elongated  pyriform,  narrowing  towards 
the  basin.  Skin  yellowish  green,  sometimes  a  sunny  cheek,  with  brown 
dots.  Stalk  long,  pretty  large,  curved.  Calyx  nearly  closed,  set  in  a 
shallow  uneven  basin.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  slightly  aromatic,  with  a 
very  good  flavor.     Very  good.     September,  October 

Duchesse  Helene  d'Orleans. 
Princess  Helen  d'Orleans.  Heine  de  Vierge. 

According  to  the  Album  Pomologie  this  variety  was  fust  described 
in  184  7.  It  has  been,  by  some,  confounded  with  Marechal  de  la  Cour, 
and  also  with  Duchesse  d'Orleans,  but  is  found  by  its  growth  of  wood, 
more   than  by  its   fruit,  to  be  distinct.     Th  rower, 

with  long  jointed,  stout  wood,  the  young  shoots  of  a  rich  wai  m   re 


750  ^HE    PEAR. 

brown  color,  with   scattered,  nearly  oblong,   light  gray   specks.     Budi 
sharp  pointed. 

Fruit  large,  varying  from  oblong  pyriform  to  oblong  obovate  pyri- 
form, whitish  yellow,  considerably  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium  or  rather  stout,  s» 
little  inclined,  set  in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  with  a  lip.  Calyx  open, 
or  partly  so.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  small,  corrugated.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  a  little  vinous.  Good  to  very 
good.     September,  October. 

DUMONT    DUMORTIER. 

This  is  a  Belgian  variety.  Not  having  fruited  it,  we  copy  description 
from  Hovey.       "  Tree  a  moderate  grower  and  a  good  bearer. 

"  Fruit  large,  roundish  obovate,  rounding  to  an  obtuse  point  at 
stem.  Dull  green,  nearly  covered  with  dark  russet,  reddish  in  sun,  and 
dotted  with  russet  specks.  Stalk  rather  short,  straight.  Cavity  mode- 
rately deep.  Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white,  melt- 
ing, juicy,  pleasant,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     Core  large.     October." 

DUNDAS. 

Eliott  Dundas.  Felicite  Dundas. 

Rousselet  Jamin.  Rousselet  de  Jamin. 

A  Belgian  variety,  sent  to  this  country  by  Van  Mons,  in  1834. 
Tree  an  upright,  vigorous  grower,  an  early  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  shaded  with 
crimson  in  sun,  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  russet  dots,  and  a  few  nettingp 
and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  medium,  curved.  Cavity  small,  some- 
times a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Segments  small,  persistent.  Flesh  white, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  agreeable.     Good  to  very  good. 

Dunmore. 

The  Dunmore  is  a  large  Pear,  raised  by  Knight.  It  is  a  strong- 
growing  tree,  and  bears  exceedingly  well.     Young  wood  grayish. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate,  rather  swollen  on  one  side,  greenisb, 
dotted  and  speckled  with  smooth  brownish-red  russet,  and  nettings 
and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  rather  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  slight 
depression  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open,  with  renexed  segments.  Basin  shallow, 
flesh  yellowish  white,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  vinous,  sometimes  gritty,  and 
rots  at  core  unless  gathered  early  and  carefully  ripened.  Very  good 
September. 

Dupuy  Charles. 

A  variety  produced  by  Louis  E.  Berckmans,  in  1847,  and  by  him 
dedicated  to  Charles  Dupuy,  Loches,  France.  By  description,  in  1850, 
the  tree  is  vigorous,  half  upright  in  growth,  and  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  acute  pyriform,  yellow,  netted  and  patched 
with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  varying  in  length, 
curved,  set  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Basin  small,  shallow, 
uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good.  Oc- 
tober. 


THE    PEAR.  T51 

DUREE. 
Duree's  Seedling. 

The  original  tree  of  this  variety  was  found  on  the  farm  of  White- 
head Durce,  Westbury,  Long  Island,  N.  Y.,  by  Isaac  Hicks,  and  by 
him  introduced.  Tree  a  vigorous,  spreading  grower,  and  an  early 
bearer.     Young  wood  dull  dark  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  acute  pyriform,  pale  yellowish,  considerably 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots. 
Stalk  long,  curved,  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Basin  uneven 
Flesh  whitish,  half  melting,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet,  slightly  musky.  Gx>a 
to  very  good.     October. 

Early  Bergamot. 

A  second-rate  French  sort. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green.  Flesh  quite 
Jiucy,  crisp,  with  a  pleasant,  sweet  flavor.    Ripe  about  the  20th  of  August. 

Early  Butter  (of  Cincinnati). 
Early  Summer  Butter.  Mear's  Summer  Butter. 

A  variety  somewhat  grown  around  Cincinnati,  O.  Origin  unknown. 
Tree  upright,  and  a  good  grower. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  inclining  to  obovate,  light  yellow,  with  a  tinge 
of  red  in  the  sun,  brown  and  green  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  curved. 
Calyx  large,  with  long  recurved  segments.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  buttery. 
Good.     Last  of  July. 

Easter  Bergamot. 

Bergamotte  de  Paques.  St.  Herblain  d'Hiver. 

Bergamotte  d'Hiver.  Bergamotte  de  la  Grilliere. 

Bergamotte  de  Bugi.  Bergamotte  de  Careme. 

Bergamotte  de  Toulouse.  Bergamotte  Ronde  d'Hiver. 

Robert's  Keeping.  Bergamotte  Soldat-Naboura 

Winter  Bergamotte.  Anderson's  Favorite. 

Paddrington.  Cape  May. 

Royal  Tairling.  Bonner's  Pope's  Pear. 
Terling. 

An  old  French  variety.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive,  keeps  well, 
and  a  good  cooking  fruit.     Young  wood  olive,  with  round  white  specks 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate,  narrow  at  the  stalk.  Skin  smooth, 
pale  green,  thickly  speckled  with  conspicuous  light  gray  dots,  and  be- 
coming pale  yellowish  at  maturity.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a 
sprightly  flavor.     Good  for  cooking.     February  to  May. 

Easter  Beurre. 

Bergamotte  de  la  Pentecdte.  Pastorale  d'Hiver. 

Beurre"  de  la  Pentecote.  Beurre  de  Paques. 

Beurre  d'Hiver  de  Bruxelles.  Philippe  de  Paques. 

Doyenn •  d'Hiver  Bezi  Chaumontelle  trea-gToa. 

Doyenne  du  Printemps  Chaumontelle  tn-s-gros. 

Beurre  Roupe.  Canning. 

Du  Pitre.  Seigneur  d'Hiver. 

Merveille  de  la  Nature.  Canning  d'Hiver. 

'ITte    ftaster  Beurre  is  considered  abi-oad  one  of  the  very  best  late 


<  Ol  THE    PEAK. 


winter  or  spring  Pears.  It  seems  to  require  a  rather  warmer  climate 
than  that  of  the  Eastern  States  to  arrive  at  full  perfection,  and  has  dis- 
appointed the  expectations  of  many  cultivators.    It  bears  well  here,  but 


Easter  Beurre. 

is  rather  variable  in  quality.  In  good  seasons,  if  packed  away  in  boxes 
and  ripened  off  in  a  warm  room,  it  is  a  delicious,  melting,  buttery  fruit. 
The  tree  grows  upright,  and  thriftily,  with  reddish  yellow  shoots.  It 
requires  a  warm  exposure  and  a  rich  soil  to  give  fine  fruit  as  an  open 
standard  tree.     It  is  said  to  succeed  well  at  the  South. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obovate  obtuse,  often  rather  square  in  figure. 
Skin  yellowish  green,  sprinkled  with  many  russety  dots,  and  some  russet, 
which  give  it  a  brownish  cheek  in  some  specimens.  Stalk  rather  short, 
stout,  planted  in  an  abruptly  sunken  obtuse  cavity.  Calyx  small, 
closed,  but  little  sunk  among  the  plaited  folds  of  the  angular  basin. 
Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  very  buttery,  melting  and  juicy,  with  a 
sweet  and  rich  flavor.     January  to  March. 

Eastnor  Castle. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.     Skin  green  and  thick.     Flesh  greenish 
'bite,  juicy,  melting.     December. 


THE    PEAR. 


763 


Bezi  d'Echassey. 
Beai  l'Echasserie. 
Jngdbirne. 
Bezi  de  Chasseray. 


Et'IIASSERIE. 

L'Echasserie. 
Verte  Longue  d'Hiver. 
Besidery  Sandry. 
Echassery. 


Winter  Long  Green. 
Winter  Green  Long. 
Landry  Wilding. 


A  French  Pear  of  second  quality,  productive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oval.  Skin  smooth,  pale  green,  yel- 
lowish at  maturity,  slightly  dotted  with  gray.  Flesh  melting,  buttery, 
with  a  sweet  perfumed  flavor.     January  to  April. 

Edmonds. 
Origin,  town  of  Brighton,  N.  Y.    A  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of 


Edmunds. 


Eliphalet  Edmonds.     Tree  a  strong  grower, 
reddish  brown,  with  large  spots. 

Fruit    large,    obovate    obtuse   pyriform. 

48 


Young  shoots  yellowish 
Surface    uneven,    yellow, 


754  THE    PEAR 

bronzed  red  in  sun,  and  slight  nettings  of  russet  and  russet  dots.  Stalk 
long,  inclined,  curved,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Cavity  broad,  uneven. 
Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  abrupt,  corrugated.  ■  Flesh 
fine-grained,  whitish,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  with  a  peculiar  flavor. 
Very  good.     September. 

Edward  Morren. 

A  foreign  variety,  the  origin  of  which  we  have  not  traced.  Tree 
vigorous  and  productive.     Young  wood  rich  brownish  olive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  greenish,  with  brownish  cheek,  sprinkled  with 
green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  long.  Cavity  small,  often  a  lip  at  base 
of  stem.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  half  melt- 
ing, sweet,  pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     November. 

Edwards. 

Raised  by  Governor  Edwards.     A  very  good  baking  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  sometimes  shaded 
with  crimson.  Stalk  short  and  thick.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  deep,  un- 
even.    Flesh  coarse,  granular,  not  tender.     September. 

Edwards'  Elizabeth. 

Edwards'  Elizabeth  is  a  seedling  raised  by  Ex-Governor  Edwards, 
of  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  often  large,  oblate  obtuse  pyriform,  angular, 
and  oblique  at  the  base,  the  stalk  frequently  planted  in  a  fleshy  protu- 
berance like  a  fold,  yellowish  green,  veiy  fine,  and  a  peculiar  waxen  ap- 
pearance.    Flesh  white,  buttery,  slightly  subacid,  and  good.     October. 

Edwards'  Seedling  St.  Germain. 

Raised  by  Dr.  W.  D.  Brinckle. 

Fruit  medium,  globular  pyriform,  yellow,  with  nettings  and  patches 
of  russet,  russet  green  dots.  Stalk  rather  stout,  set  often  with  a  lip. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  medium.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  half 
melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     October  to  December. 

Eleonie  Bouvier. 

A  Belgian  variety,  as  yet  little  known.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblong  obovate  pyiiform,  clear  yellow, 
shaded  with  crimson  and  fawn,  patches  and  nettings  of  russet,  and  many 
russet  dots.  Stalk  medium,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Cavity  slight.  Calyx 
open.     Flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Eliza  d'Heyst. 

A  French  variety,  introduced  and  described  by  Major  Esperen  in 
1844.     Tree  a  good  grower.     Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  obtuse  pyiiform,  greenish  yellow,  shade  of  brown 
in  sun,  nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  many  brown  russet  dots.  Stalk 
rather  stout,  often  curved,  set  in  a  slight  cavity  with  a  lip.  Calyx  open, 
Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  small.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  pleasant,  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     January  to  March. 


THE    PEAK. 


754 


Ejaiott's  Melting. 

Raised  by  Betsey  Elliott,  Carlisle,  Pa.,  some  sixty  years  since.  Tree 
vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  below  medium,  nearly  globular,  oblique,  greenish,  netted  with 
russet,  especially  at  the  ends.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  narrow,  smaLL 
Basin  small,  regular.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  aromatic, 
pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Ellis. 

Raised  from  seed  of  the  Seckel,  by  Mrs.  Ellis,  of  New  Bedford,  Mass., 
in  1843.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower,  hardy,  and  prolific.  Young 
shoots  dull  yellow  brown,  with  long  gray  specks. 


Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Surface  somewhat  un- 
evei,  greenish  yellow,  patched  and  mottled  with  russet,  and  sometimes 
a  shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  many  russet  dots.      Stalk  rather  !    rge. 


756  THE   PEAR. 

long,  curved,  and  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  lo.ig 
recurved.  Basin  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly 
vinous,  aromatic.     Very  good.     September  and  October. 

There  is  another  Pear  under  the  name  of  Ellis,  grown  in  Western 
New  York,  entirely  distinct. 

Fruit  medium,  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with  crim- 
son red  in  sun,  many  small  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting, 
\inous,  and  often  astringent,  and  disposed  to  rot  at  the  core.  Good. 
August  and  early  September. 

Ellsworth. 

Origin  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  globular  pyriform,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  whitish, 
coarse,  sweet.     Only  to  be  valued  for  cooking.     October. 

Elton. 

According  to  Lindley,  the  original  tree  of  this  variety  grew  in  Here- 
fordshire, England,  and  must  be  now  nearly  two  and  one-half  centuries 
old.  The  fruit  is  stated  by  Hogg  to  be  frequently  without  core  or  seeds, 
the  flesh  being  solid  throughout. 

Fruit  medium,  oval  obovate,  greenish,  with  russet,  shaded  with 
orange  red  in  sun.     Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy.     Very  good.     September. 

Emerald. 

A  Belgian  variety,  variable,  sometimes  good. 

Fruit  medium  size,  obtuse  pyriform,  oblique.  Surface  uneven,  yellow- 
ish, with  a  brown  cheek  in  sun,  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  stout, 
curved.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Flesh  white,  melting,  rather  coarse, 
juicy,  subacid,  vinous.     Good.     November,  December. 

Emerance. 
Emerance  Bivort. 

A  foreign  variety,  the  tree  of  which  grows  strong  but  somewhat 
rambling. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with 
reddish  crimson  in  the  sun,  patches  and  nettings  of  russet,  and  many 
brown  dots.  Stalk  curved,  inserted  with  a  knob  or  rim,  fleshy.  Calyx 
partially  open.  Basin  medium.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
pleasant      Good.     September. 

Emilie  Bivort. 
Emily  Bivort. 

A  Belgian  variety,  dedicated  by  its  first  describer,  Bouvier,  to  the 
laughter  of  the  distinguished  poniologist,  A.  Bivort.  Young  wood 
olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  irregular,  sometimes  oblate,  yel- 
low, blotched  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots;  somelimes 
nearly  the  whole  surface  is  covered  with  cinnamon  russet.     Stalk  inedi- 


THE    PEAR.  757 

am.  Cavity  shallow.  Calyx  partially  open.  Basin  abrupt,  dee},  fur- 
rowed. Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  slightly  aromatic; 
October.     Very  good. 

Emile  d'Heyst. 

This  fruit  was  dedicated  by  Major  Esperen  to  the  son  of  his  friend 
L.  E.  Berckmans,  of  Georgia.  It  is  of  Belgian  origin,  and  is  one  of 
the  very  best.  The  tree  is  hardy  and  productive,  so  much  so  as  to  re- 
quire thinning  to  obtain  full-sized  fruit.  It  holds  its  foliage  quite  late  in 
autumn,  and  holds  its  fruit  well.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading.  Young 
wood  olive  color. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  angular  and  irregular.  Skin 
clear  yellow,  with  brownish  orange  cheek  in  sun,  netted  and  patched  with 


Emlle  d'Heyat. 


russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium  to 
long,  inclined,  curved.  Cavity  slight,  often  with  a  lip  or  fleshy  ridge 
at  base  of  stem.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Segments  short.  Basin  medi- 
um,  somewhat  furrowed.     Flesh   yellowish    white,  line-grained,  juicy, 


T58  THE    PEAR. 

melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous  and  aromatic,  rich  and  excellent      Very 
good  to  best.     November,  December. 

English  Jargonelle. 

Epargne.  Sweet  Summer. 

Grosse  Cuisse  Madame.  Chandelle. 

Beau  Pn'sent.  Chopine. 

Poire  de  tables  des  princes.  Certeau  Madam. 

Saint  Sampson.  Beurre  de  Paris. 

Saint  Lambert.  Espargne. 

Belle  Verge.  Reserve  Pear. 

Sparbirne.  Jargonelle  de  Knoop. 

Frauenschenkel.  Sicile. 

Real  Jargonelle.  Long  Island  Summer. 

An  old  varietv,  variable  in  quality  and  decays  at  the  core  soon  aftei 
maturity.  If  gathered  early  is  very  good.  Tree  a  strong  grower,  with 
a  rather  straggling,  pendent  habit. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  long  pyriform,  tapering  into  the  stalk.  Skin 
greenish  yellow,  smooth,  with  a  little  brownish  color  on  the  sunny  side. 
Stalk  nearly  two  inches  long,  rather  slender,  curved,  obliquely  set. 
Calyx  open,  with  q\iite  long  projecting  segments,  and  sunk  in  a  small 
and  furrowed  basin.  The  flesh  is  yellowish  white,  rather  coarse-grained, 
juicy,  with  a  sprightly  refreshing  flavor.     Good.     August. 

Epine  d'Ete. 

Summer  Thorn.  Petite  Epine  d'Ete\ 

Fondante  Musquee.  Bugiarda. 

Satin  Vert.  Bugiarda  des  Italiens. 

'Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  tender, 
melting,  with  a  sweet,  musky,  peculiar  flavor.  Good.  Last  of  August 
and  first  of  September. 

Epine  Royale. 

A  French  Pear.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  yellowish,  with  bright   red   in   the   sun. 
Flesh  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous.     October.     (S.  V.  M.) 

Ermesinde. 

A  French  variety. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  dull  greenish,  mostly  covered 
and  netted  with  russet,  few  dark  blackish  dots.  Flesh  white,  fine, 
melting,  juicy,  sweet,  agreeable.     October.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Ernestine   Auzolle. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform,  sometimes  acute  pyriform,  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  shade  of  brown  in  sun,  often  netted  and  patched  with 
russet.'  Flesh  rather  coarse,  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  half  melting, 
sweet.     Good.     September,  October. 


THE   PEAR.  759 


ESPERINE 


This  variety  oi-iginated  with  Van  Mons,  and  by  him  was  dedicated 
to  Major  Esperin,  of  Malines.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  pyriforru,  greenish  yellow,  red  iu  the  sun,  and  shaded 
and  specked  with  cinnamon  russet.  Stalk  medium,  set  with  a  lip  or 
inclined.  Calyx  with  open,  short,  half  erect  segments.  Flesh  white, 
buttery,  melting,  very  juicy,  and  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  October. 
(S.  V.  M.) 

Essex. 

Introduced  by  Jonathan  Batty,  from  the  garden  of  Wm.  Flack, 
Essex,  Essex  Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous  and  health}'. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with 
many  brown  and  green  dots,  marbled  with  carmine  in  the  sun.  Stalk 
long.  Cavity  large.  Basin  russeted.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting, 
granular,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Esturion. 

A  foreign  variety. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  shaded  with  crimson  in  the 
sun,  russet  around  the  calyx.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  not  juicy,  hardly 
good.     September. 

Excelsior. 
Dana's  Excelsior. 

A  seedling  of  Francis  Dana,  Boston,  Mass.  Tree  a  strong  upright 
grower,  and  good  bearer.     Young  wood  rich  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  sometimes  irregular,  green- 
ish yellow,  with  traces  of  russet  and  many  brown  dots.  Stalk  long, 
curved,  rather  slender.  Cavity  small,  russeted.  Calyx  open.  Seg- 
ments a  little  recurved.  Basin  small.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  ?weet, 
pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Eyewood. 

A  seedling  of  Mr.  Knight's.     Tree  vigorous  and  hardy. 
Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblate  or  flattened.    Skin  much  covered  with 
russet.     Flesh  buttery,  rich,  and  excellent. 

Famenga. 

A  foreign  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  greenish  yellow.     September.     (Elliott.) 

Feast. 

Feast's  Seedling. 

Originated  with  Samuel  Feast,  of  Baltimore,  from  seed  of  Seckel. 
Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  brown  dots 
Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Felix  de  Leim. 

A  Belgian  variety,  but  little  known. 

Fruit  medium,  "oundish  obovate  pyriform,  often  inclined,  yellowish 


760 


THE    PEAR. 


green  or  pale  yellow,  marblings  and  traces  of  russet,  many  small  russet 
green  dots.  Stalk  medium,  rather  slender,  set  inclined  in  a  small  cavity 
with  a  lip.  Calyx  with  long  reflexed  segments.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy-, 
melting,  sweet,  aromatic.     Good.     October. 

Figue. 

Figue  d'Alencon.  Petaless. 

Verte  longue  de  la  Mayenne.  Figue  d'Hiver  d'Alen9on. 

Verte  longue  d' Angers.  Pettalless. 

Figue  d'Hiver.  Figue  d'Alencon  d'Hiver. 

Bonnisseme.  Pistolette. 

Boirnissima  de  la  Sartha.  Grosse  Figue  ? 

Sylvange  d'Hiver. 

Originated  in  the  town  of  Alencon,  France.  Tree  vigorous,  pro 
ductive.  Young  wood  reddish  or  reddish  brown  on  the  upper  side, 
olive  yellow  brown  underneath,  prominent  pointed  buds. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  ovate  acute  pyriform,  inclining  by  a  lip  over  the 
stalk,  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  brownish  cheek,  partially  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  green  dots. 
Stalk  short,  stout,  fleshy  at  insertion  by  a  lip,  often  russeted.  Calyx 
open.  Segments  stiif,  long,  recurved.  Basin  small,  shallow,  uneven. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.  Very 
good.     October  to  December. 

Figue  de  Naples. 

Beurre  Bronzee.  Fig  Pear  of  Naples.  Fourcroy  f 

Comtesse  de  FrenoL  De  Vigne  Pelone. 

A  Belgian  Pear.     Tree  vigorous,  with  upright  brown  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  and 
marbled  with  red  in  the  sun,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  many 
russet-green  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  generally  curved  and  enlarged 
at  junction  of  fruit,  and  a  little  inclined.  Calyx  open.  Basin  small, 
shallow,  and  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant. 
Good  or  very  good.     October. 

Fine  Gold  of  Summer. 

Fin  Or  d'£te. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow,  with  a  beautiful  red  cheek.  Flesh 
Juicy,  good  flavor,  not  rich.  Very  productive.  Good.  Middle  of 
August. 

Flemish  Beauty. 

Belle  de  Flandres.  Bergamotte  de  Flandre. 

Bosch  Nouvelle.  Beurre  Foidard. 

Bosch.  Petersilie  Peer. 

Bosc  Sire.  Beurre  de  Bourgogne. 

Poire  Davy.  Beurre  St  Amour. 

Imperatrice  de  France.  Belle  des  Bois. 

Fondante  du  Bois.  Beurre  de  Def tinge. 

Boschpeer.  Beurre  Deftinghern. 

Beurr"  Spence  (erroneously).  Beurre  Davy. 

Brilliant.  Poire  de  Persil. 

Brillante.  Molle  Bouche  Nouvelle. 

An  old  Pear,  supposed  of  Belgian  origin,  although  foreign  author! 


THE    PEAR.  7GI 

conflict  in  regard  thereto.  The  tree  is  very  luxuriant,  hardy  and  bears 
early  and  abundantly ;  the  yo\mg  shoots  upright,  reddish  olive  brown. 
The  fruit  requires  to  be  gathered  sooner  than  most  pears,  even  before 
it  parts  readily  from  the  tree.  If  it  is  then  ripened  in  the  house  it  is 
always  fine,  while,  if  allowed  to  mature  on  the  tree,  it  usually  become* 
soft,  flavorless,  and  decays  soon. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.     Surface  a  little  rough,  the 
ground  pale  yellow,  but  mostly  covered  with  marblings  and  patches  of 


Flemish  Beauty. 

light  russet,  becoming  reddish  brown  at  maturity,  on  the  sunny  side. 
Stalk  rather  short,  from  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  pretty 
deeply  planted  in  a  peculiarly  narrow,  round  cavity.  Calyx  short, 
open,  placed  in  a  small  round  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  not  very 
fine-grained,  but  juicy,  melting,  very  saccharine  and  rich,  with  a 
slightly  musky  flavor.     Very  good.     Last  of  September. 

Flemish  Bon  Chretien. 

Bon  Chr.'tien  Turc.  Turkish  Pear. 

Bonckn  tien  Vernois.  Turkiah  Bonchr^tien. 

The   Flemish  Bon  Chretien  is  an  excellent  cooking  Pear,  not  verj 
productive. 


762  THE   PEAR. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  russeled  neat 
the  calyx,  and  with  many  large  russet  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  ccarse, 
juicy ;  stews  very  tender.     November  to  March. 

Florent  Scouman. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  clear  green,  striped  and  spotted  with  brown- 
ish red.  Flesh  very  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  October  to  December. 
(S.  V.  M.) 

Florimond  Parent. 

One  of  Yan  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  of  moderate  vigor  and  fer- 
tility. 

Fruit  very  large,  pyramidal,  swelled  towards  its  centre,  green, 
pointed  and  striped  with  brown  russet,  becomes  deep  yellow  at  ma- 
turity. Flesh  coarse,  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  and  agreeably  perfumed. 
Good.     Pipe  at  the  end  of  September. 

FONDANTE    AGREABLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Color  dull  yellowish  green, 
slightly  russeted.  Stalk  planted  at  an  inclination,  and  fleshy  at  its 
Junction  with  the  fruit.  Flesh  juicy  and  melting.  Flavor  very  pleasant 
and  refreshing,  with  a  delicate  aroma.  Pipe  last  of  August.  (Wilder 
in  Hort.) 

FONDANTE    D'ALBRET. 

Received  from  France.  Tree  a  vigorous  upright  grower,  produc- 
tive.   Young  wood  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  above  medium,  nearly  globular,  a  little  oblique,  pale  yellow, 
slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  thickly  sprinkled  with  green 
and  russet  dots,  a  bronzed  red  cheek  in  sun.  Stalk  rather  short,  stout. 
Cavity  broad.  Calyx  large,  open.  Pasin  large.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little 
ooarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  vinous,  slightly  musky. 
Good  to  very  good.     September. 

FONDANTE   D'AUTOMNE. 

Belle  Lucrative.  Arbre  Superbe. 

Seigneur  d'Esperin.  Lucrate. 

Bergamotte  FieVee.  Fondante  de  Maubege. 

Gresiliier.  Autumn  Melting. 

Du  Seigneur.  Esperin's  Herrenbirne. 

Beurre  Lucrative.  Bergamotte  Lucrative. 

Seigneur. 

This  Flemish  Pear  is,  when  grown  in  perfection,  one  of  the  very 
best ;  but  if  the  trees  are  overloaded,  soil  unsuited,  or  a  dull,  cloudy, 
rainy  season,  it  is  only  second-rate.  The  tree  is  moderately  vigorous, 
healthy  and  productive.     Young  shoots  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  variable  in  form,  from  obovate  obtuse  pyriform 
to  globular.      Pale  yellowish  green,  slightly  russeted.      Stalk  little  more 


THE    PEAK.  763 

than  an  inch  long,  stout,  often  fleshy,  obliqiiely  inserted  in  a  slight, 
irregular  cavity.     Calyx  very  short,  open,  with  few  divisions,  set  in  a 


Fondante  d'Aatomne. 


basin  of  moderate   depth.      Flesn  juicy,   melting,   sugary,  rich,  and 
delicious.     Very  good  to  best.     Latrt  of  September. 

Fondante  de  Cuerne. 

A  French  variety,  said  to  be  superior  to,  and  ripening  with,  Beurre" 
Gifiard.     "We  have  not  fruited  it,  and  theiefore  copy  description: — 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  pale  greenish  yellow,  with 
traces  of  russet  and  russet  brown  in  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  short,  vary- 
ing. Calyx  small,  open.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  buttery,  sweet, 
agreeable.     August.     (An.  Pom.) 

Fondante  d'Ingendai. 

Fruit  small,  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  a  little  brownish  in  sun, 
with  green  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved,  fleshy  where  joined  to  the 
fruit.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  a  little  vinous,  ">erfumed.     "Very  good.     September. 


f64  THE    PEAR. 

FoNDANTE    DE    LA    MAITRE    d'EcOLE, 

A  foreign  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  yellow,  dotted  with  green.  Flesh  yellow 
half  melting.     December,  January.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Fondante  de  Malines. 

One  of  the  seedlings  of  Major  Esperen,  of  Belgium.  Tree  vigorous, 
somewhat  irregular  in  habit.     Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  lemon  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  crim 
son  and  fawn  in  the  sun,  sometimes  russet  patches  and  thickly  sprinkled 
with  brown  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  often  curved,  set  in  a  shallow  cavity 
by  a  Up.  Calyx  large,  open,  stiff  segments.  Basin  rather  abrupt,  un- 
even. Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  a  little  aroma- 
tic.    Good  to  very  good.     September,  October. 

FONDANTE    DE    NEES. 

Fruit  large,  deep  yellow,  mottled  and  dotted  with  pale  brown  russet. 
Flesh  yellowish,  buttery,  not  juicy.      Second-rate.     October.     (Hogg.) 

FONDANTE    DE    NOEL. 

Belle  de  Noel.  Belle  apres  Noel 

Of  French  origin.  Tree  vigorous  and  a  good  bearer.  Young  wood 
olive  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Surface  uneven,  fine  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  cinnamon  russet,  and  a  brownish  cheek  in  the  sun, 
many  russet  dots.  Stalk  short,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Calyx  open.  Flesh 
yellowish,  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  brisk,  a  little  astringent.  Good.  Sep- 
tember. 

FONDANTE    DES    PRES. 

A  seedling  of  Yan  Mons'.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood 
rich  warm  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  varying  from  obovate  obtuse  to  obovate  acute  pyri- 
form, pale  yellow,  often  with  red  cheek  in  sun,  many  brown  dots.  Flesh 
buttery,  melting,  agreeable.     Only  good.     October. 

FONDANTE    DU    COMICE. 

Originated  at  Angers,  France,  about  1849.  The  tree  is  a  good 
grower,  with  olive  brown  young  shoots. 

Fruit  large,  ovate  pyriform,  sometimes  obovate  pyiiform,  yellow, 
with  a  warm  cheek,  inclining  to  russet,  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  varying, 
sometimes  curved,  inserted  in  a  depression.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  rather 
deep,  open  basin.  Flesh  juicy,  buttery,  with  a  rich,  sugary,  vinous  fla- 
vor.    Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 

Fondante  Yan  Mons. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Yan  Mons,  and  first  introduced  by  Mr.  Manning.  H 
bears  abundantly.     Young  wood  brick  red. 


THE    PEAR.  76ft 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  depressed.  Skin  pala 
yellow.  Stalk  stout,  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  planted  in  a  rather  deep 
cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  pretty  deep  basin.  Flesh  wliite,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  and  of  very  agreeable  llavor.     Only  good.     First  of  November. 

Foote's  Seckel. 

Raised  by  Asahel  Foote,  of  Williamstown,  Mass.,  from  seed  of  the 
Seckel.  A  very  promising  new  variety,  ripening  a  week  or  two  later 
than  its  parent,  and  a  little  more  vinous.  Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  more 
spreading  than  Seckel.     Young  wood  dark  rich  brown. 

Fruit  small,  oblate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  shaded  with  brownish 
crimson  in  the  sun,  nearly  covered  with  rich  crimson  russet.  Stalk 
short,  fleshy. 


Foote's  SeckeL 

Cavity  small.    Calyx  open.     Basin  medium,  rather  deep.    Flesh  whitish, 
fine,  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  slightly  vinous.     Very  good.     September 

Forelle. 

Forellen-birne.  Corail.  Petit  Corail. 

Grave  de  Corail.  Poire  Truite.  Trout  Pear. 

This  exquisitely  beautiful  German  Pear — called  in  that  language 
Forellen-birne,  i.  e.,  trout  pear,  from  its  finely  speckled  appearance — is 
one  of  the  most  attractive  dessert  fruits.  Young  shoots  long,  with  few 
and  dark-colored  branches. 

Fruit  oblong  ovate,  inclining  to  pyriform,  smooth,  at  first  green,  but 
when  fully  ripe  lemon  yellow,  washed  with  rich  deep  red  on  the  sunny 
Bide,  where  it  is  marked  with  large,  margined,  crimson  specks.  Stalk 
rather  slender,  slightly  curved,  shallow,  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  rather 
small.     Basin  abruptly  sunk.     Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  buttery,  melt- 


766  THE   PEAR. 

ing,  slightly  vinous.    Good.     Beginning  of  November,  and  maj  be  kept^ 
with  care,  till  Christmas. 

Forme  de  Bergamotte  Crassane. 

One  of  "Van  Mons'  seedlings. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  a  tinge  of  red  in 
sun,  slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  many  small  russet  dots 
Stalk  rather  stout,  inclined,  curved,  set  in  a  depression,  often  with  a 
lip.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  pleasant,  a  little  astrin- 
gent.    Good.     January  to  April. 

Forme  de  Delices. 

A  Flemish  Pear,  received  from  the  London  Horticultural  Society. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate.  Skin  rough,  yellowish,  with  dull  russet. 
Flesh  buttery,  melting,  somewhat  dry,  but  sweet.  Good.  Last  of  Oc- 
tober. 

Fortunee. 

Episcopal.  Surpasse  Fortunee. 

La  Fortunee  de  Paris.  Fortunee  de  Remme. 

La  Fortunee  de  Parmentier.  Beurre  de  Remme. 
Bergamotte  Fortunee. 

An  old  variety,  raised  by  M.  Parmentier,  of  Enghien,  and  valuable 
and  profitable  to  grow  for  sale  as  a  cooking  Pear. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  slightly 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
open.     Flesh  whitish,  melting,  sweet.     November,  December. 

Foster's  St.  Michael. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate.  Stalk  medium,  in  a  small  cavity. 
Calyx  nearly  closed,  stiff.  Basin  shallow.  Skin  yellow.  Flesh  coarse, 
sweet.     Good.     September. 

Franchimont. 

Supposed  French  origin. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shade  of  red  in  sun, 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  many  russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish, 
juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.  Good  or  very  good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 

Francois  Bergia. 

A  new  French  sort. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  obovate,  golden  yellow,  with  large  russet  dots. 
Flesh  coarse-grained,  not  very  juicy,  brisk,  and  not  good.  October 
(Hogg.) 

Franc  Peal  d'Hiver. 

Franc  R6al.  Fine  Gold  of  Winter.      Golden  End  of  Winter. 

Fin  Or  d'Hiver.  Gros  Micet. 

The  Winter  Franc  Peal  is  a  good  cooking  Pear,  bears  well,  and 
grows  upright. 


THE    PEAA.  767 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  slightly  pyriform.  Skin  yellow, 
speckled  with  russet  brown,  and  having  a  brownish  cheek.  Flesh  crisp 
and  firm.     In  use  from  December  to  March. 

Frangipane. 
Franchipane. 

An  old  variety. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform,  yellow,  with  some  light  russet 
Stalk  short,  fleshy  at  base.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  juicy,  melting,  sweet. 
Good.     September,  October. 

Frederic  de  Wurtemburg. 

Frederick  of  Wurtemburg.         Roi  de  Wurtemberg.         Medaille  d'Or. 
Vermilion  d'Ete.  King  of  Wurtemberg. 

Origin  disputed  by  authors.  A  very  handsome  and  sometimes  very 
good  fruit,  but  often  poor. 

Fruit  large,  one-sided,  pyriform,  rather  uneven  in  its  surface.  Skir 
deep  yellow  at  maturity,  with  a  remarkably  rich  crimson  cheek.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  and  sweet,  and  when  in  perfection,  buttery  and 
good.     September. 

Frederick  Leclerc. 

A  French  Pear,  described  in  the  Album  Pomologie  by  L.  E.  Berck- 
mans,  and  dedicated  to  Doctor  Leclerc.  Tree  moderately  vigorous. 
Young  wood  olive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow, 
with  thin  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  narrow,  acute. 
Flesh  whitish  yellow  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.  November, 
December. 

Frederika  Bremer. 

Introduced  by  J.  C.  Hastings,  of  Clinton,  Oneida  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree 
vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  irregularly  obtuse  pyriform,  sometimes  Bergamotte- 
shaped,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  buttery,  sweet,  and 
vinous,  slightly  perfumed.     Good.     October. 

French  Jargonelle. 

Bellissime  d'Et6.  Saint  Laurent. 

Bellissime  Supreme.  Muscadet  d'Ete\ 

Bellissime  Jargonelle.  Bassin. 

Vermilion  d'Ete.  Just. 

Red  MuscadeL  Belle  Comelie. 

Sabine  d'Ete.  Butler's  Harvest. 

Summer  Beauty.  Cuisse  Madame. 

English  Red  Cheek.  Summer  Jargonelle. 

Red  Cheek.  Cuisse  Dame  d'Ete. 

Udal.  Fusee  d'Ete. 
Laurenfcienne. 

This,  which  Mr.  Thompson  calls,  by  way  of  distinction,  the  French 
Jargonelle,    because    it  is  most    commonly  received  under  that  name 


fte 


THE    PEAR. 


from  France,  is  a  higher  colored  and  handsomer  fruit  than  the  English 
Jargonelle,  though  much  inferior  in  quality,  and,  in  fact,  lasts  only  a 
day  or  two  in  perfection,  and  is  often  mealy  and  overripe,  while  the 
exterior  is  fair  and  tempting.  The  tree  is  of  very  strong,  upright 
growth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate  in  form,  light  green,  becoming  lemon 
color,  with  a  very  rich,  deep  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  breaking, 
sweet,  and  soon  rots  at  the  core.  Ripens  the  last  of  July  and  first  of 
A.ugust. 

Fulton. 

This  American  Pear  is  a  native  of  Maine,  and  is  a  seedling  from  the 
farm  of  Mrs.  Fulton,  of  Topsham,  in  that  State.  It  is  very  hardy,  and 
bears  every  year  abundantly.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  shoots 
rather  slender,  and  yellowish  reddish  brown. 


Fulton. 


Fruit  below  medium  size,  roundish,  flattened.  Skin  at  first  entire- 
ly gray  russet  in  color,  but  at  maturity  of  a  dark  cinnamon  russet, 
Stalk  one  to  two  inches  long,  slender,  planted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx 
with  long  segments  sunk  in  an  uneven  hollow.  Flesh  half  buttery 
moderately  juicy,  with  a  sprightly,  agreeable  flavor.  Very  good.  Oc- 
tober and  November. 


THE    PEAR. 


Gansel's  Bergamotte. 


7«§ 


Brocas  Bergamot. 
Ives's  Bergamot. 
Staunton. 


Bonne  Rouge. 
Gurle's  Beurre. 
Diamant. 


Gansel's  Bergamotte  is  an  old  Pear,  raised  from  seed  of  the  Autumn 
Bergamotte,  by  the  English  Lieutenant-General  Gansel,  of  Donneland 
Hall.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading  in  habit,  and  productive. 
Young  wood  dull  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obovate,  but  much  flattened.  Skin  roughish 
brown,  becoming  yellowish  brown  at  maturity,  tinged  sometimes  with  a 


Gansel's  Bergamotte. 


russet  red  cheek,  and  sprinkled  with  spots  of  russet.  Stalk  short,  fleshy 
at  both  ends.  Cavity  moderate.  Calyx  short  and  small,  placed  in  a 
smooth,  moderate  hollow.  Flesh  white,  melting,  very  juicy,  rich,  sweet, 
and  aromatic.     Very  good.     Ripens  during  all  September. 

Gansel's  Late  Bergamotte. 

Raised  by  Mr.  "Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  England.  Of  vigorous 
growth.     Young  wood  grayish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish,  rough,  sprinkled  with  rus- 
set. Stalk  much  enlarged  at  its  insertion  in  a  pretty  deep  cavity. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  broad  and  shallow.  Flesh  juicy,  granular, 
melting,  sugary,  and  rich,  vinous,  highly  perfumed  with  musk.  Good 
to  very  good.     December,  January. 

49 


t70  the  pear. 

Gansel's  Seckel. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  England.  Growth  much 
like  Seckel,  although  with  a  more  rough  bark.  Young  shoots  dull  olive 
brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  oblate,  much  depressed.  Skin  yellow, 
rough,  and  uneven,  mostly  covered  with  thin  russet.  Stalk  short  and 
stout,  inserted  in  a  broad,  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  broad, 
deep  basin.  Flesh  coarse,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous,  with 
a  rich  aromatic  perfumed  flavor.     Very  good.     November. 

Garden  Pear. 
Poire  du  Jardin, 

An  old  variety,  valued  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obovate,  yellow  or  yeUow  green,  with  a  blush  of 
broken  stripes,  red  in  sun.  Flesh  rather  coarse,  gritty  at  the  core, 
sweet.     December. 

Gendesheim. 

Verlaine.  Verlaine  d'fite.  Gendebien. 

A  Flemish  Pear,  of  not  very  good  quality. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  greenish  yellow,  a  little 
russet.  Flesh  rather  gritty  near  the  core,  elsewhere  buttery.  Hardly 
good.     October  and  November. 

• 
General  Bosquet. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  medium  size,  ovate  acute  pyriform,  greenish,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  curved,  set  with- 
out cavity.  Calyx  with  stiff,  erect  segments.  Basin  small,  corrugated. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy.     Good.     September. 

General  Canrobert. 

A  French  Pear. 

Fruit  medium  size,  ovate  acute  pyriform,  greenish,  with  traces  of 
russet  and  many  brown  dots.  Stalk  inclined,  fleshy  at  junction.  Calyx 
open.  Flesh  yellowish,  buttery,  not  juicy  or  melting,  without  flavor. 
Hardly  good.     November. 

General  de  Lourmel. 

Of  French  origin. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish,  greenish  brtwn  in  sun,  with 
patches  and  traces  of  russet,  especially  at  apex,  and  many  brown  dots. 
Stalk  variable,  sometimes  stout,  and  again  long  and  curved.  Calyx 
open.  Segments  long,  recurved.  Basin  uneven.  Flesh  juicy,  half 
melting,  sweet.     Good.     November. 

General  Dutilleul. 

Of  Belgian  origin. 

Fruit   below  medium    or    small,   oblong   ovate  pyritorm,   pale  yel 


THE   PEAR.  771 

iow,  shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  nettings  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk 
Bhort,  moderately  stout.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.     Good.     November. 

General  Lamoriciere. 

A  French  Pear,  the  tree  very  vigorous,  very  productive.  Young 
wood  dark   dull  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  irregular  pyriform,  inclined.  Sides  often  un- 
equal. Surface  rough  greenish  yellow,  considerably  netted  and  patched 
with  russet,  especially  at  base  of  stalk,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  large 
russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  stout,  sometimes  curved,  set  inclined  in  a 
small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  recurved.  Basin  small  and  un- 
even. Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.  Good  to 
very  good.     October. 

General  Taylor. 
Homewood.  Keyports. 

We  have  no  doubt  of  this  being  a  native  American  seedling.  It  was 
first  introduced  by  L.  N.  Rogers,  of  Baltimore,  who  found  it  in  the  town 
of  Franklin,  Md.  Afterwards  it  was  said  to  have  been  brought  from 
Germany  by  a  man  named  Keyports,  but  we  can  find  nothing  resembling 
it  in  any  foreign  pomological  work.  Tree  vigorous,  upright.  Young 
wood  reddish  brown  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  sometimes  oblate  obtuse 
pyriform,  yellow,  shaded  in  the  sun  with  thin  bight  rich  crimson,  par- 
tially netted  ana  patched  with  russet,  much  russet  near  the  calyx,  and 
many  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium  length  and  thickness,  a  little  inclined 
in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  partially  open.  Basins  lightly  corrugated. 
Flesh  whitish,  a  Little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.  Good  to  very 
good.     October. 

General  Totleben. 
General  Todleben. 

Raised  by  M.  Fontaine,  of  Gheling.  First  fruited  in  1855,  and  first 
described  by  M.  Adolphe  Fapeleu,  in  1858.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower, 
irregular,  spreading,  productive.     Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  above  medium  or  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yel- 
low, patched  and  netted  with  russet,  and  many  russet  brown  dots.  Stalk 
rather  stout,  often  curved.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  small,  closed,  with 
short  segments.  Basin  large,  deep,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  and  aromatic.  Very 
good.     October  and  earlv  November. 

Gerando. 
Poire  Gerando. 

A  foreign  variety.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit    above   medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform.      Surface  knobby 


772  THE    PEAR. 

yellow,  mostly  overspread  with  cinnamon  russet,  dull  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  granular,  buttery,  sugary,  vinous,  slightly 
astringent.     Good.     October. 

Gerardin. 
Girardin.  Gerardine.  Girardon.  La  Girardin. 

A  foreign  variety.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower.  Young  wood  dull 
grayish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  somewhat  irregular.  Skin  yellow,  with 
many  spots  and  patches  of  rough  russet,  and  a  reddish  tint  towards  the 
sun.  Flesh  coarse,  buttery,  astringent,  granular.  Tolerably  good, 
September. 

German  Muscat. 

Muscat  d'Allemagne.  Muscat  Allemand.  Muscat  Lallemand. 

Almain.  Muscat  I'Allemand.         Colmar  Boise. 

Muscat  l'Alleinan.  Muscat  of  Germany.        Muscat  l'Aleman. 

An  old  variety,  described  by  La  Quintinge  in  1690.  Tree  vigorous, 
spreading.     Young  wood  yellowish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  partially  net- 
ted and  patched  with  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy, 
irveet,  slightly  astringent.     Good.     October  to  December. 

GlLOGIL. 

Bergamotte  Geerard.  Gros  Gilot. 

Bellegarde.  Gros  Gobet. 

Beurre"  Geerards.  Teton  de  Venus. 

Cir  e  d'Hiver.  Fontarabie  acure. 

Garde  Ecorce.  Girogille. 

Gile-o-gile.  Gros  Franc  Real. 

Poire  a  Gobert.  Gros  Guy  Grillaud. 

Garde  d'Ecosse.  Livre  de  Burgoyne. 

Jilogil.  Pequini. 

Gilot.  Poii-e  de  16  Ounces. 

Gobert.  Bis  de  Loup. 

A  large  showy  French  Pear,  only  fit  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  roundish.  Skin  thickly  covered  with  russet,  with  a 
reddish  russet  cheek.  Flesh  very  firm  and  crisp.  November  to  Feb- 
ruary. 

Glory  of  Combrone. 

Supposed  of  French  origin.  Tree  a  fine  grower,  healthy,  and  hardy 
and  productive. 

Fruit  above  medium,  or  nearly  large,  oblong  pyriform,  yellowish, 
mostly  overspread,  marbled,  and  dotted  with  warm  brownish  yellow  rus- 
set. Stalk  moderately  stout.  Cavity  slight.  Calyx  medium.  Seg- 
ments open,  reflexed.  Basin  medium,  regular.  Flesh  whitisli  yellow 
granulated,  almost  buttery,  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  delicious.  La3t  *tf 
September  and  early  October.     (Elliott.) 


THE   PEJit.  778 

Glou-morceau. 

Qloux  Morceaux.  Trimble. 

Beurre  d'Hardenpont.  Gouluo  Morceau  de  Chambion. 

Hardenpont  d'Hiver.  Beurre  de  Kent. 

Linden  d'Automne.  Glou  Morceau  de  Cambron. 

Beurre  d'Areraberg.  Beurre  d'Hardenpont  de  Cambron. 

Goulu  Morceau.  Beurre  Lombard. 

Kronprinz  Ferdinand.  Beurre  d'Ardenpont. 

von  Oestreich.  Glout  Morceau. 

Beurre  de  Cambron.  Hardempont. 

Got  Luc  de  Cambron.  Victoria. 

Woolaston.  Langlier's  Victoria. 
Potts. 

An  old  Flemish  Pear,  originated  with  M.  d'Ardempont,  canon  of 
Tournay.  The  growth  of  the  tree  is  distinct,  having  dark  olive  shoots, 
spreading  in  hal>it. 

Fruit,  rather  large,  varying  in  form,  but  usually  obovate  ovate  obtuse 
pyriform,  smooth,  thin,  pale  greenish  yellow,  marked  with  small  green 
dots,  and  sometimes  with  thin  patches  of  greenish  brown.  Stalk 
rather  slender  and  straight,  an  inch  or  more  long,  planted  in  a  small, 
regular  cavity.  Calyx  usually  with  open  divisions,  set  in  a  moderately 
deep  basin.  Flesh  white,  line-grained,  and  smooth  in  texture,  buttery, 
very  melting,  with  a  rich,  sugary  flavor,  with  no  admixture  of  acid. 
Sometimes  astringent  in  heavy  soils.     Good  to  very  good.     December. 

Golden  Beurre  or  Bilboa. 

Hooper's  Bilboa.  Beurre  Dore  de  Bilboa. 

Driver  ?  Beurre  Gris  de  Bilboa. 

Beurre  Gris  de  Portugal. 

The  Golden  Beurre  of  Bilboa  was  imported  from  Bilboa,  Spain, 
about  1827,  by  Mr.  Hooper,  of  Marblehead,  Mass.  Its  European  name 
is  unknown.  The  tree  is  healthy,  hardy,  and  a  vigorous  grower,  form- 
ing a  beautiful  upright,  round  head,  and  producing  abundantly.  It 
is  a  profitable  orchard  sort.  Shoots  stout,  upright,  light  yellowish 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  regular  obovate  pyriform,  golden  yellow,  evenly  dot- 
ted with  small  brown  dots,  and  a  little  marked  with  russet,  especially 
round  the  stalk.  Stalk  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  rather  slender, 
3et  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  small,  closed,  placed  in  a  slight  basin. 
Flesh  white,  very  buttery  and  melting,  and  fine-grained,  with  a  slightly 
vinous  flavor.     Very  good.     First  to  the  middle  of  September. 

GOODALE. 
Goodale's  Seedling.  Saco. 

Raised  from  seed  of  the  McLaughlin,  by  Enoch  Goodale,  Saco, 
Me.  Its  size  and  period  of  ripening  make  it  promise  of  high  value 
as  a  market  sort.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  a  vigorous,  thrifty  grower, 
spreading  upright  in  habit,  and  uniformly  productive.  Young  wood 
very  stout,  olive. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  light  yellow,  shaded 
with  crimson  and  fawn  in  the  sun,  slightly  netted  and  patched  with  ru* 


774 


THE   FEAR. 


set,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  russet  brown  dots..  Stalk  rathei 
short  and  set  in  an  inclined  cavity  of  considerable  depth,  sometimes  a 
projection   one   aide.     Calyx  small,   closed.     Segments    thick.     Basin 


Goodale. 


rather  deep  and  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  a  little  gritty  a* 
the  core,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  with  a  brisk  refreshing  musky  perfume. 
Very  good.     October. 


Grand  Bretagne. 
Great  Britain. 

Supposed  of  Belgian  origin. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  shaded 
and  mottled  with  red  in  the  sun,  nettiDgs  and  patches  of  russet,  and 
russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  gritty,  juicy,  sweet.  Not  quite 
good.     January,  February. 


THE   PEAR.  775 

Grand  Soleil. 

Introduced  by  Major  Esperen,  of  Malines.  Tree  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive.    Young  wood  dull  dark  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  mostly  covered  with 
cinnamon  russet  and  fawn,  and  a  red  cheek  in  sun,  many  russet  dots. 
Stalk  medium,  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  small,  nearly  closed.  Basin 
abrupt,  deep,  a  little  furrowed.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy, 
half  melting,  sugary,  slightly  vinous.     Very  good.     October,  November 

Graslin. 

Of  French  origin.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown, 
very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  ovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow, 
sprinkled  with  brown  dots  and  sometimes  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  rather 
long  and  stout,  set  in  a  slight  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  Lip.  Calyx  open. 
Segments  large,  reflexed.  Basin  small,  slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, juicy,  buttery,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.  Good.  October,  No- 
vember. 

Great  Blanquette. 

Blanquet  de  Florence.  Musette  d'Aujou. 

Grosse  Blanquet.  Grosse  Blanquette. 

Boi  Louis.  Great  Blanket. 

Grosse  Boi  Louis.  Bagpipe  of  Anjou. 

An  old  French  Pear,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  small,  ovate  acute  pyriform,  yellowish  green.  Flesh  melting, 
%Hcy,  sweet.     Good.     August. 

Great  Citron  of  Bohemia. 
Citronenbirne  Bomiscbe  grosse,  punctirte. 

Fruit  small,  oblong,  yellow.  Flesh  sugary,  juicy,  a  Little  coarse- 
grained, and  not  much  flavor.     Bipens  the  last  of  September. 

Green  Chisel. 

Madeleine  Vert.  Guenette. 

Hativeau.  Petit  muscat  batard  muscade. 

An  old  English  Pear.  The  tree  is  very  productive,  erect,  fruiting 
in  clusters. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  ovate,  greenish.  Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy, 
Bprightly.     Good.     Middle  August. 

oreen  Mountain  Boy. 

An  American  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obcvate    or  obovate  pyriform,  golden  yel- 
low, with  russety  brown  specks.     Flesh  yellowish,  melting,  juicy,  sweet 
good.     October.     (Elliott.) 


776  THE    PEAR. 

Green  Pear  of  Yair. 
Green  Yair. 

The  Green  Pear  of  Yair  is  a  European  fruit,  which  proves  but  lit 
tie  worthy  of  cultivation  here. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  green.  Flesh  juicy,  but  not 
high-flavored  or  rich.     Good.     September. 

Groom's  Pwncess  Boyal. 
Matthews  Eliza.  Princess  Roj  al.  Bergamotte  Matthews  Eliza. 

An  English  fruit,  raised  by  Mr.  Groom,  the  famous  tulip-grower. 
Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish.  Skin  greenish  brown,  with  a  tinge 
of  brownish  red,  and  some  russet  tracings.  Stalk  short  and  thick,  set 
in  a  very  trifling  depression.  Calyx  small,  open,  set  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Flesh  buttery,  melting,  a  little  gritty  near  the  core,  but  sweet  and  high- 
flavored.     Yery  good.     January  and  February. 

Gros  Eousselet  d'Aout. 

A  seedling  of  Yan  Mons.  Catalogued  in  1823.  Tree  vigorous,  or 
pyramidal  form,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform.  Skin  green,  becoming  golden  yellow  at 
maturity,  shaded  with  russet  and  spotted  with  fawn.  Flesh  whitish, 
fine,  melting,  very  juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  deliciously  perfumed.  Ripens 
in  August.     (Al.  Pom.) 

Grumkower. 

Grumkower  Winterbirnie. 

This  variety  is  described  by  Lindley  as  of  middle  size,  in  shape  like 
a  Bon  Chretien,  with  obtuse  angles  or  ribs.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  sweet, 
musky.     November,  December. 

GUSTAVE    BlVORT. 

A  French  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  patches  and  nettings  of  russet, 
shade  of  red  in  sun.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  slightly 
perfumed.     Good  or  very  good.     August. 

GUSTAVE   BURGOYNE. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  a  little 
brownish  in  the  sun,  slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  sometimes 
nearly  covered,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  set  in  a 
shallow  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
pleasant.     Good.     September,  October. 

Gustin's  Summer. 
Ad  American  variety,  of  little  value.     Originated  in  New  Jersey. 


THE    PEAK.  777 

Fruit  small,  roundish.  Skin  yellow.  Flesh  white,  sweet,  without 
much  flavor.     First  of  September. 

Hacon's  Incomparable. 
Celestus.  Downham  Seedling. 

An  English  fruit,  raised  by  Mr.  Hacon,  of  Downham  Market,  Nor- 
folk. It  is  a  hardy,  productive  tree,  with  rather  depending  branches. 
Young  shoots  rather  slender,  diverging,  olive-colored. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  turbinate.  Skin  slightly 
rough,  pale,  and  dull  yellowish  green,  mixed  with  pale  brown,  sprinkled 
with  numerous  greenish  russet  dots  and  russet  streaks.  Flesh  white, 
buttery,  melting,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavoi\  Good.  October  and 
November. 

Haddington. 

Raised  by  J.  B.  Smith,  Philadelphia.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  above  medium,  obovate  or  pyriform.  Color  greenish  yellow, 
with  a  brownish  cheek.  Stalk  slender,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity. 
Calyx  small,  in  a  round,  shallow  basin.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  with 
an  aromatic  flavor.     Good.     January  till  April. 

Hagar. 

A  French  Pear,  of  poor  quality.     Tree  very  vigorous,  upright. 
Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  shade  of  red  in 
sun,  some  russet.     Flesh  coarse,  dry,  sweet.     October. 

Haight. 

An  American  variety.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  pyriform,  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled 
with  red  in  the  sun,  small  brown  dots  and  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  long, 
a  little  curved,  fleshy  at  insertion,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open. 
Basin  broad  and  uneven.  Flesh  white,  pink  at  centre,  a  Little  coarse, 
breaking,  juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good.     October. 

Hamilton. 
Hamilton  Seedling. 

An  American  Pear,  originated  in  South  Carolina,  where  it  is  said 
to  be  of  very  good  quality,  but  here  at  the  North  it  is  astringent  and 
poor. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate.  Surface  rough,  yellowish,  slightly  patched  and 
blotched  with  russet,  and  many  l-usset  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse, 
not  juicy,  slightly  astringent.     November. 

Hamon. 
Bed  Fondante.  Besi  Hamon.  Beurr6  Seringe  f 

Originated  by  M.  Nerard,  Lyons,  France,  in  1837.  Tree  vigorous, 
productive. 


778  THE   PEAK. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  irregular,  oval,  dull  pale  green,  tinged  with 
yellow.  Stalk  long,  curved.  Flesh,  white,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet. 
Good.     August. 

According  to  Leroy,  Beurre  Seringe  should  be  a  synonym  of  Doyeunfj 
de  Saumur ;  but  our  trees  received  of  these  varieties  are  not  identical. 
According  to  the  Jardin  Fruiterer,  Beurre  Seringe  is  identical  »»ith 
Hamon.  Not  having  trees  of  that  variety  with  which  to  corupaie  *i, 
we  for  the  present  place  it  here. 

Hampden's  Bergamot. 

Bergamotte  d'Angleterre.  Bergamotte  de  Bruxelles. 

Fingal's.  Bergamotte  d'Ete  Grosse. 

Scotch  Bergamot.  Bergamotte  de  Paysans. 

Ellanrioch.  Gracieuse. 

Milan  Vert.      r  Fanf  areau. 

Longueville  d'Ecosse.  Great  Bergamotte. 

Hampden.  Deutsche  National  Bergamotte 

Beuzard.  Poire  sans  Pepins. 

Belle  et  Bonne.  Belle  de  Bruxelles. 

Belle  sans  Pepius  Sans  Pepins. 

Belle  de  Luxembourg.  Schone  and  Gute. 

An  old  variety,  the  origin  of  which  is  unknown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  rising  at  the  stalk  end,  greenish 
yellow,  with  traces  and  patches  of  thin  russet,  and  greenish  russet  dots. 
Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  half  buttery,  sweet,  agreeable.  Good. 
September. 

Hampton's  Bergamot. 

Originated  with  W.  C.  Hampton,  Mt.  Victory,  Ohio. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  netted  and  sprinkled  with  rus- 
set  and  green  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  vinous. 
Good.     September. 

Hampton's  Cluster. 
Hampton.  Cluster  Pear. 

Raised  by  W.  C.  Hampton,  Ohio. 

Fruit  borne  in  clusters,  very  small,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
with  dull  red  in  the  sun,  and  netted  with  russet.  Flesh  juicy,  melting, 
sweet.     Very  good.     September. 

Hampton's  Virgalieu. 

A  seedling  of  W.  C.  Hampton,  Ohio. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Surface  uneven,  green,  slightly 
yellow  at  maturity,  sometimes  with  a  warm  cheek  in  sun,  patches,  net- 
tings, and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  slightly  gritty,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, brisk,  vinous.     Very  good.     October. 

Hanners'. 

Harm  as. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  Mr.  Hanners,  Boston,  Mass.  Tree  an 
upright  good  grower  and  bearer.     Young  shoots  dull  olive. 


THE   PEAR.  779 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  very  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  slightly 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  green  and  russet  dots.  Stalk 
varying,  sometimes  long,  pretty  stout,  set  in  a  cavity,  often  with  a  lip 
Calyx  open.  Segments  long,  slender,  recurved.  Basin  shallow,  uneven, 
slightly  russeted.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  pleasant,  sweet,  a  little 
perfumed.     Very  good.     September. 

Hanover. 

From  Hanover  Furnace,  N.  J. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  green,  with  dull  green 
russet  markings,  and  a  brown  cheek.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  shallow  and 
angular.  Calyx  open,  in  an  irregular  basin.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  ex- 
ceedingly melting  and  juicy.  Flavor  pleasant.  Good.  Ripe  October. 
(Ad.  Int.  Rep.) 

Harris. 
Speckled  Harris? 

Received  from  Georgia.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  to  obovate  acute  pyriform,  pale  yel- 
low, deep  red  in  the  sun,  many  green  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  whitish, 
buttery,  not  juicy,  sweet.    Good.     September. 

Harrison's  Large  Fall. 

Rushmore's  Bon  Chretien.  Richmond  Englebert  Lott. 

Large  Swan's  Egg.  Lott's  Pear. 

An  American  variety,  a  strong,  rapidly -growing  tree,  comes  early  into 
bearing,  and  produces  abundantly. 

Fruit  large,  irregular,  inclined,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow, 
with  a  red  cheek.     Valued  as  a  cooking  fruit.     August,  September. 

Harvard. 
Boston  Eparne.  Cambridge  Sugar  Pear.  Belle  de  Flushing. 

The  Harvard  produces  enormous  crops,  of  fair  quality.  The  tree  is 
remarkably  hardy  and  vigorous,  with  upright  shoots  forming  a  fine  head. 
It  originated  at  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  pyriform,  russety  olive  yellow,  with  a 
brownish-red  cheek.  Stalk  rather  stout,  inserted  rather  obliquely  on  the 
narrow  summit  or  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  narrow  basin. 
Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  and  melting,  of  excellent  flavor,  but  liable, 
if  not  picked  early,  to  rot  at  the  core.     Beginning  of  September. 

1  Harvest. 

Early  Sugar.  Sugar  Tear.  Woleott'b  Early  ? 

An  American  variety.  Tree  an  upriirhl  round  spreading  head,  8 
good  grower  and  bearer.     Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium, or  small,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  brown  tinge  of 
red  in  the  sun,  and  sprinkled  with  bro  green  doits.      Flesh  whitish, 

not  very  juicy  or  melting,  but  swe  ( rood.     July. 


780  THE    PEAR. 

Hawes'  Winter. 
Morgan.  Hewes'  Winter. 

Origin,  King  and  Queens  Co.,  Va.,  on  the  farm  of  the  Hawes  family, 
Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  traces  and 
spots  of  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet 
Good.     November. 

Heathcot. 
Gore's  Heathcot 

The  Heathcot  originated  on  the  farm  of  Governor  Gore,  in  Waltham, 
Mass.,  by  Mr.  Heathcot,  then  a  tenant;  the  original  tree  came  into 
bearing  in  1824.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  shoots  upright, 
reddish  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  regularly  obovate,  pale  greenish  yellow,  with 
a  -very  few  dots,  and  a  few  russet  streaks.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  planted 
in  a  very  small  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  and  set  in  a  rather  narrow  and 
shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  melting,  moderately  juicy, 
with  an  agreeable  vinous  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  Middle  and  last 
of  September. 

Hebe. 

Raised  by  William  Sumner,  Pomaria,  S.  C.  Tree  thrifty,  thorny, 
hardy,  productive,  and  retains  its  foliage  late.  Young  wood  slender, 
grayish. 

Fruit  large,  round,  obovate,  with  irregular  protuberances,  greenish 
lemon  yellow,  dotted  with  russet  specks  and  blotches.  Flesh  sprightly, 
melting,  buttery,  slightly  vinous.  Seldom  forms  seeds.  December. 
(Hort.) 

Hegeman. 
Hegerman.  Heggerman.  Hampton. 


Originated  on  the  farm  of  Andrew  Hegeman,  North  Hempstead, 
Long  Island.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  in  habit,  not  an  early  bearer,  but 
when  mature  bears  heavily.     Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ovate,  variable  in  form,  greenish  yellow, 
netted  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  shallow,  uneven. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Helene  Gregoire. 

Raised  by  M.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne,  Belgium.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive.     Young  wood  dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  light  greenish  yellow,  slightly  colored  in  the  sun, 
russet  patches  and  spots.  Stalk  short,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx 
large.  Basin  furrowed.  Flesh  fine,  melting,  half  buttery,  juicy,  sweet, 
Derfumed.     October.     (An.  Pom.) 


THE    PEAR. 

Henkel. 


781 


Cumberland  of  Belgium. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Growth  vigorous,  upright,  productive, 
Young  wood  dull  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  broad  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted  ana 
patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  green  and  brown  dots.     Stalk 


Henkel. 


inclined,  rather  stout,  fleshy  at  insertion  by  a  ring  or  lip.  Calyx  par- 
tially open.  Segments  short,  stiff,  sometimes  reflexed.  Basin  rather 
large,  slightly  uneven,  russeted.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  with  a 
rich,  slightly  vinous  flavor.     Very  good  to  best.     September. 

Henri  Bivort. 

Henri  (Bivort.) 

A  Belgian  variety.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate   pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  few   patches  oi 


782  THE   PEAR. 

russet,  and  many  green  and  brown  dots.     Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  half 
melting,  sugary.     Good.     September. 

Henri  Desportes. 

A  seedling  of  Andre  Leroy's. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  one  of  the  best  summer 
Pears.     (Leroy.) 

Henrietta. 

Raised  by  Gov.  Edwards,  of  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  a  free  grower, 
of  upright  form,  a  good  bearer.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  greenish  or  greenish  yellow,  a  little 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish 
green,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Henriette. 
Belle  Henriette.  Henriette  Bouvier.  Henriette  d'Orleans. 

Raised  by  M.  Simon  Bouvier,  of  Jodoigne,  Belgium.  Tree  a  fine 
grower.     Young  wood  reddish. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  nearly  globular,  pale  greenish  yellow,  a  little 
shaded  with  fawn  or  dull  red  in  the  sun,  thinly  netted  with  russet,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  a  little  inclined, 
fleshy  at  insertion,  or  with  a  mamelon  neck.  Calyx  open.  Segments 
long,  slender,  often  recurved.  Basin  very  shallow,  slightly  uneven. 
Flesh  a  little  coarse,  whitish,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  perfumed. 
Good  to  very  good.     November. 

Henri  Van  Mons'. 

Bergamotte  Rouge  Tardif.  Fleur  de  Neige. 

Beurre  Rouge  Tardif.  Snow  Flower. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  earliest  seedlings.  Tree  very  vigorous,  hardy, 
holding  its  foliage  late  in  the  season,  and  an  abundant  bearer.  Young 
wood  clear  olive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  elongated  acute  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  shaded 
and  mottled  with  brownish  red  or  crimson  in  the  sun,  netted  and  patch- 
ed with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long, 
rather  slender,  curved,  without  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long, 
generally  recurved.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Henry  the  Fourth 

Henri  Quatre.  Jaquin. 

Favori  Musque  du  Conseiller.  Beurre  Ananas. 

Ananas. 

The  tree  of  this  French  Pear  is  a  good  grower,  hardy  and  productive, 
young  wood  dull  yellow  brown,  with  many  specks. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  greenish  yellow, 
dotted  with  small  gray  specks.  Stalk  rather  more  than  an  inch  long, 
slender.     Calyx  small,  placed  in  a  shallow  abrupt  basin.     Flesh  whitish, 


THE    PEAR.  788 

not  very  fine-grained,  but  unusually  juicy  and  melting,  with  a  rich,  deli- 
cately perfumed  flavor.  It  should  always  be  ripened  in  the  house. 
Good  to  very  good.     Early  in  September. 

Hericart. 

A  second-rate  Belgian  Pear,  with  a  pleasant,  perfumed  juice,  ripen- 
ing early  in  autumn.     Tree  very  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  often  rather  oblong  and  irregular, 
yellow  and  russety.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more  long,  rather  slender,  set  in 
a  small  cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained, 
buttery,  not  rich,  but  with  a  delicate,  peculiar  aroma,  gritty,  and  slightly 
astringent.     Good.     The  fruit  ripens  the  last  of  September. 

Hericart  de  Thury. 

Raised  by  Van  Mons.  A  good  grower,  of  peculiar  habits  and  ap- 
pearance, rather  pyramidal,  but  with  diverging  crooked  limbs.  Not  an 
early  nor  a  very  profuse  bearer.     Young  wood  dull  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obtuse  ovate  pyriform,  yellow,  thinly 
shaded  with  red  in  the  sun,  slightly  netted,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  curved.  Cavity  small.  Calyx 
closed.  -  Segments  short.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  not  very 
'uicy,  and  slightly  astringent.     Good.     December. 

Herkimer. 
Earl  Pear. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  S.  Earl,  Herkimer,  !N".  Y.  The  tree  is  a 
vigorous  grower,  hardy  and  productive.  Young  wood  warm  reddish 
brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate.  Surface  a  little  uneven, 
pale  greenish  yellow,  clouded  with  dull  red  in  the  sun,  and  many  green 
dots.  Stalk  pretty  stout,  curved.  Cavity  doep,  round.  Calyx  with 
flat  reflexed  segments.  Basin  varying  from  shallow  to  moderately  lee] 
Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse-grained  at  the  core,  juicy,  sweet,  melting,  and 
agreeable.     Good.     September,  October. 

Hessel. 

Hazel.  Hasselbirn. 

A  Scotch  Pear,  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  obovate.  Skin  yellowish  green.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy, 
of  little  or  no  value.     First  of  September. 

HlKGHAM. 

( )riginated  in  Hingham,  Mass.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  palo  yellow,  shaded  with  red 
in  the  sun,  many  brown  dots.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  partially  closed. 
Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  vinous.     Good.     Oetober. 


T84  THE   PEAK. 

HoLLANDE    BERGAMOTTE. 

Holland  Bergamot.  Hollandische  Bergamotte. 

Beurre  d'Alencon.  Bergamotte  d'HoUand. 

Begamotte  d'Alengon.  Sarah. 

Jardin  de  Jougers.  Bergamotte  d'Hiver  d'Holland, 

Bergamotte  de  Fougere.  Beum-  Extra. 

Amoselle.  Lord  Cheney. 

Lord  Cheeney's.  Musquine  de  Bretagne. 

An  old  variety,  trie  origin  unknown.  An  excellent  kitchen  fruit 
which  will  keep  sound  till  May  or  June.  Shoots  stout,  diverging, 
olive  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  green,  much  marbled  and  covered  with 
thin  brown  russet,  but  becoming  yellowish  at  maturity.  Flesh  white, 
crisp,  with  an  abundant,  sprightly,  agreeable  j  uice. 

Holland  Green. 

An  old  variety,  described  by  Coxe,  and  sometimes  called  Holland 
Table  Pear. 

Fruit  large,  irregular,  green,  with  spots  of  russet.  Flesh  juicy, 
melting,  delicate,  delicious.     September.     (Coxe.) 

Honey. 
European  Honey. 

This  Pear  is  considerably  grown  in  many  parts  of  the  country,  and 
although  an  old  sort,  its  origin  seems  unknown,  and  to  our  knowledge 
is  not  noted  by  any  American  author.  The  tree  is  an  upright,  good 
grower,  and  a  great  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  sometimes  roundish  pyriform, 
pale  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  red  in  the  sun,  with  many  light 
russet  dots,  and  sometimes  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  short,  rather  stout. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  broad,  shallow.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  breaking, 
moderately  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     August. 

HOSENSCHENCK. 

Hosenshenck.  Queen  of  August. 

Shenk's.  Moore's  Pound. 

Watermelon.  Eshleman. 

Smokehouse.  Moore's  Pear. 
Butter  Pear. 

This  Pear  originated  on  the  farm  of  John  Schenck,  Weaver  Town- 
ship, Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Young  wood  grayish  olive 
brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  light  yellowish  green, 
rarely  with  a  blush.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  rather  stout,  inserted 
without  much  depression,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  small.  Basin  deep. 
Flesh  rather  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  slightly  vinous,  melting,  with  a 
pleasant  flavor.     Good  to.  very  good.     Ripens  the  last  of  August. 

HOVEY. 
Doyenne"  Hovey. 
Raised  by  Andre"  Leroy,  and  dedicated  to  C.  M.  Hovey,  of  Boston, 


THE    TEAK. 


781 


Mass.     Tree  a  vigorous,  upright  grower.     Young  shoots  clear  yellow 
brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  varying  in  form  from  oblong  oval  to  obo- 
vate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow  or  greenish  yellow,  slightly  sprinkled, 
netted,  and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  medium,  moderately  stout,  in- 
serted without  cavity.  Calyx  with  short,  stiff  segments.  Basin  shal- 
low, lightly  furrowed  and  slightly  russeted.  Flesh  yellowish,  buttery, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  aromatic.      Very  good.     October,  November. 

Howard. 

Received  from  D.  W.  Coit,  Norwich,  Conn.  Tree  vigorous,  upright, 
productive,  with  olive  yellow  brown  young  shoots. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate,  pale  yellow,  patches  and  traces 
of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved. 
Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Basin  uneven,  sbightly  russeted.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  slightly  perfumed,  pleasant.  Very 
good.     September. 


Raised  by  Thomas  Howell,  of  New  Haven,    Conn.     A  valuable 


50 


786  THE   PEAR. 

variety .      Tree  an  upright  and  free  grower.     Young  shoots  reddish  yol 
low  brown,  an  early  and  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  pyriform,  light  waxen  yellow,  often 
with  a  finely  shaded  cheek,  thickly  sprinkled  with  minute  russet  dots, 
and  some  russet  patches.  Stalk  medium,  inserted  without  cavity,  some- 
times by  a  ring  or  lip,  sometimes  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Seg- 
ments recurved.  Basin  rather  large  and  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy, 
melting,  brisk,  vinous.     Very  good.     September,  October. 

Huguenot. 

A  fruit  originated  by  Mr.  Johonnot,  of  Salem,  Mass.  It  bears  abun 
dantly,  but  is  rather  dry,  and  not  worthy  of  general  cultivation. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  sprinkled  with  large  spots  of 
bright  red.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  half  breaking,  sweet,  but  wanting 
in  flavor  and  juice.     Good.     October. 

Hull. 

Originated  in  the  town  of  Swanzey,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous,  somewhat 
rambling  in  habit,  with  long  shoots  of  a  rich  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  net- 
ted and  patched  with  russet,  especially  near  the  stalk,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  stout,  inserted  by  a  ring  in  a  shal- 
low cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin 
small,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.  Very 
Good.     September. 

Hungerford's  Oswego. 

Received  from  Oswego,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow,  with  brown  dots.  Flesh  white, 
Duttery,  juicy,  melting,  gritty,  sweet.     Good.      October. 

Huntington. 

Origin,  New  Rochelle,  and  brought  to  our  notice  by  S.  P.  Carpenter. 
It  was  found  by  Mr.  Huntington,  and  now  stands  on  his  grounds. 
Tree  vigorous,  forming  a  pyramid,  an  early  and  profuse  bearer.  Young 
shoots  olive  color. 

Fruit  nearly  medium  in  size,  roundish  oblate,  rough  yellow,  often 
shaded  with  crimson,  thickly  covered  with  gray  and  crimson  dots,  and 
russet  patches.  Stalk  medium  or  long,  nearly  straight.  Cavity  broad 
and  uneven.  Calyx  open.  Segments  stiff.  Basin  broad  and  open. 
Flesh  white,  very  juicy,  melting,  buttery,  with  a  very  sweet,  vinous 
flavor,  delicately  perfumed.     Very  good.     September. 

Hunt's  Connecticut. 

An  American  fruit  for  kitchen  use.  Medium,  oblate,  yellowish 
green,  coarse,  dry,  and  sweet. 

Huyshe's   Prince  Consort. 

Raised  by  Rev.  John  Huyshe,  of  Clythesdon,  Devon,  England,  from 
Beod  of  Beurre  d'Aremberg,  fertilized  by  Passe  Colmar.     This  is  one  of 


THE    l'EAK.  78? 

a  series  of  four  new  Pears,  originated  by  Mr.  Huyshe,  all  of  which  are 
said  to  be  of  superior  excellence.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower,  with 
short-jointed  young  shoots  of  a  dark  dull  reddish  brown,  and  indistinct 
white  specks.  Hogg  describes  the  fruit  as  large,  oblong  obovate  pyri- 
fonn,  grass  green,  much  covered  with  russet  and  russet  dots.  Stalk 
long,  stout.  Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  deep,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish, 
coarse-grained,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous,  with  a  peculiar  flavor  un- 
like any  other  pear.     November. 

Huyshe's  Prince  of  Wales. 
Huyshe's   Bergamot. 

Originated  at  Clythedon,  England,  by  Rev.  John  Huyshe,  from  seed 
of  Marie  Louise  crossed  with  Causer's  Bergamot.  Tree  vigorous, 
spreading.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  lemon  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  cin- 
namon-colored russet.  Stalk  stout  and  woody,  somewhat  obliquely  in- 
serted in  a  round  and  rather  open  cavity.  Calyx  small,  open,  with  erect 
tooth-like  segments.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  molting,  juicy,  and 
richly  flavored.     November  to  January.     (Hogg.) 

Huyshe's  Princess  of  Wales. 

Origin,  Clythedon,  England,  by  the  Rev.  John  Huyshe. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  abrupt  at  stalk,  lemon  yellow,  with  patches, 
veins,  and  dots  of  cinnamon-colored  russet.  Stalk  long,  stout,  woody, 
somewhat  obliquely  inserted  in  a  round  and  rather  wide  cavity.  Calyx 
small,  open,  with  narrow,  erect  segments.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  fine- 
grained, very  melting,  juicy,  rich,  and  highly  aromatic.  Last  of  Novem- 
ber.    (Hogg.) 

Huyshe's  Victoria. 

This  Pear  is  of  the  same  origin  as  Huyshe's  Prince  of  Wales.  It 
has  fruited  in  several  collections  in  this  country.  Tree  a  good  grower, 
spreading.      Young  wood  dull  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  ovate  pyriform  or  ovate  acute  pyriform,  yellow, 
considerably  patched  and  netted  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium  length,  stout,  inclined,  and 
joined  to  the  fruit  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Basin  medium, 
uneven.  FletJi  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  a  little  vinous.  Good  to  very 
good.     November. 

Incommunicable. 

A  Flemish  Pear. 

Fruit  above  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  grass  green,  with  russety 
specks.  Flssh  yellowish  white,  a  little  gritty,  melting,  sweet.  October 
(LincL) 

Inconnue  Van  Mons. 

L'Inconnue. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  very 
productive. 


788  THE    PEAR. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  broad  oval  pyriform,  light  yellow,  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved, 
inclined,  and  set  in  a  slight  depression,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx 
open.  Segments  long,  recurved.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  white, 
juicy,  melting,  very  sweet,  rich,  and  pleasant.  Good  to  very  good 
December  to  March. 

Inconstant. 

L'lnconstant. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  obovate  acute  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  slight 
traces  and  patches  of  russet,  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  many  dots. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  half  melting,  a  little  astringent.     Good.     October. 

Ibis  Gregoire. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  as  yet  little  known  in  this  country.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  acute  pyriform,  clear  light  yellow, 
with  shades  and  marblings  of  red  russet.  Stalk  short,  with  two  or  more 
fleshy  rings  at  its  connection  with  the  fruit.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained, 
melting,  buttery,  sweet,  perfumed.  December,  January.     (An.  Pom.) 

Isabella. 

Raised  by  Dr.  S.  A.  ShurtlefF,  Brookline,  Mass.   Tree  thrifty,  upright. 
Fruit  medium  size,  pyriform,  light  green,  red  in  sun.     Flesh  white, 
juicy,  sprightly,  agreeable.     October.     (J.  of  H.) 

Island. 

Originated  at  New  Utrecht,  Long  Island.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
upright.     Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  netted,  sprinkled,  and 
patched  with  russet.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  a  little 
granular,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  perfumed.     Good.     October. 

Ives'  August. 

Originated  with  Dr.  Eli  Ives,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish,  with  a  brownish 
red  cheek.  Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy,  half  melting,  a  little  astringent. 
Good.     August. 

Ives'  Bergamotte. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Eh.  Ives,  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  closely  resembles 
the  Seckel,  and  is  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  slight  traces 
of  russet.  Stalk  short  and  thick.  Flesh  rather  coarse,  buttery,  melting, 
juicy,  vinous.    Good.     Ripens  first  of  September. 

Ives'  Pear. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Eli  Ives,  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  vigorous  and  very 
productive. 


THE    PEAR.  toV 

Fruit  small,  oval  oblong  pyriform,  greenish,  with  a  biownish-ied 
cheek.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open.  Basin  very  small.  Flesh  juicy,  melt* 
ing,  sugary,  and  good.     Ripens  first  of  September. 

Ives'  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Eli  Ives,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Fruit  nearly  medium,  somewhat  globular,  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
with  crimson.  Stalk  short  and  thick.  Calyx  small,  nearly  closed.  Basin 
shallow  and  irregular.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  and  granular,  j uicy ,  melt- 
ing, with  a  refreshing  sugary  flavor,  well  perfumed.  Good.  Ripe  about 
the  first  of  September. 

Ives'  Virgalieu. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Eli  Ives,  New  Haven. 

Fruit  below  medium,  acute  pyriform,  broad  at  calyx,  greenish,  shaded 
with  dull  crimson.  Stalk  inserted  by  a  Lip.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shal- 
low and  irregular.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse  and  granular,  buttery 
juicy,  and  melting,  with  a  sweet  vinous  flavor.     Good.     October. 

Ives'  Winter. 

Raised  by  Prof.  Ives,  New  Haven. 

Fruit  medium,  depressed  pyriform,  yellowish,  sprinkled  with  russet. 
Stem  large  and  long,  in  an  abrupt  cavity.  Calyx  open,  in  a  large  basin. 
Flesh  white,  coarse,  and  granular.     Cooking.     December. 

Ives'  Yale. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Eli  Ives,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  mamelon  at  base  of  stem,  dull  greenish  yel- 
low, brownish  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  white,  moderately 
jucy.     Good.     Early  August. 

Jackson. 

Origin,  New  Hampshire.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  wood 
dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  short  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  somewhat  rus- 
Beted.  Stalk  limg  and  curved,  fleshy  at  its  junction,  inserted  in  a  slight 
cavity.  Calyx  small  and  open,  set  in  a  rather  deep  abrupt  basin.  Flesh 
white  and  juicy.  Flavor  brisk  and  vinous.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripens 
the  last  of  September. 

Jackson's  Elizabeth. 
Mrs.  Jackson.  Jackson. 

Originated  with  8.  S.  Jackson,  of  Cincinnati,  ().  Tree  moderately 
▼igorous,  very  productive.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yel- 
low, shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet 
dots.  Stalk  medium,  set  in  a  slight  depression.  Calyx  small,  partially 
closed.  Basin  small,  regular.  Flesh  whitish,  juiey,  melting,  sweet, 
pleasant,  slightly  aromatic.     Good  to  \  en   ^ood.      Last  of  September. 


790  THE    PEAR. 

Jalousie. 
De  Pucelle. 

An  old  Belgian  Pear. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  to  obovate,  and  more  frequently  pyri 
form.  Skin  rough,  of  the  deepest  russet,  ruddy  in  the  sun.  Flesh  a 
little  coarse-grained,  soft,  sweet,  and  of  pleasant  flavor.  Good.  Last 
of  September*. 

Jalousie  de  Fontenay  Vendee. 
De  Fontenay  Vendee.         Jalousie  de  Fontenay.         Belle  d'Esquermes. 

The  tree  of  this  French  Pear  is  vigorous,  and  an  early  and  abundant 
bearer.     Young  shoots  a  dull  olive  brown  color. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate,  slightly  acute  pyriform,  dull  yellow 
and  green,  considerably  marked  with  russet  patches  and  dots,  and 
tinged  with  a  red  cheek.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  set  obliquely,  with- 
out depression,  on  an  obtuse  point.  Calyx  with  stiff  segments,  set  in  a 
shallow,  round  basin.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  melting,  with  a  rich-fla- 
vored  juice.     Very  good.     First  of  October. 

Jaminette. 

Sabine.  Wilhelmine.  Bergamotte  Cheminette. 

D'Austrasie.  Josephine.  Sabine  Van  Mons. 

Beurre  d'Austrasie.  Colmar  Jaminette.  Beurre  Saint  Helier. 

Belle  d'Austrasie.  Crassane  d'Austrasie.  Tyrolle. 

Raised  by  M.  Jaminette,  of  Metz,  very  productive,  and  in  favoral;e 
seasons  an  excellent  winter  fruit.      Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  or  large  size,  varying  in  form,  but  mostly  obovate, 
■a  good  deal  narrower  at  the  stalk,  clear  green,  paler  at  maturity,  consid- 
erably marked  with  russety  brown,  especially  near  the  stalk,  and  sprink- 
led with  numerous  brown  dots.  Stalk  scarcely  an  inch  long,  rather 
thick,  and  obliquely  planted,  without  any  depression.  Calyx  open, 
set  in  a  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  white,  a  little  gritty  near 
the  core,  but  very  juicy  and  buttery,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  No- 
vember to  January. 

Japan. 

This  peculiar  Pear  originated  with  Gideon  Ross,  of  Westfield,  N.  J., 
from  seeds  brought  from  Japan,  and  is  similar  to  Chinese  sand  pear. 
The  tree  is  a  very  vigorous  grower,  with  very  large  thick  leaves,  an 
early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  wood  rich  clear  brown,  with  long 
white  specks.  It  has  a  hard  flesh,  with  a  peculiar  quince-like  aroma, 
and  is  only  valued  for  cooking. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  cinnamon  yellow  russet,  with  many  large 
light-colored  specks.  Stalk  very  long.  Cavity  open,  deep.  Calyx  in- 
conspicuous. Basin  deep,  open,  broad.  Flesh  coarse,  gritty,  firm,  in 
consistence  and  flavor  much  like  a  delicate  quince.  Very  fine  for  cook- 
ing.    October,  December. 

Jean  Baptiste  Bivort. 

A  new  Belgian  Pear.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,   oblong  pyriform,    yellowish,   nearly   overspread    with 


fHE   PEAR.  791 

cinnamon  red  and  reddish  specks.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  narrow 
small.  Flesh  white,  melting,  buttery,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  perfumed 
November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Jean  de  Witte. 
Dial.  Beurre  de  Hamptienne.  Passe  Colmar  Francois. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright  grower.     Young  shoots  very  dark  olive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovato  pyriform,  yellowish  green,  dotted, 
sprinkled,  and  netted  with  russet,  and  slightly  shaded  with  fawn  01 
crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  long,  curved,  inclined,  set  in  a  small  cav- 
ity. Calyx  open.  Segments  stiff.  Basin  rather  abrupt.  Flesh  white, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good  to  very  good.  November,  De- 
cember. 

J  EFFERSON. 

Origin,  Mississippi.  Tree  very  vigorous,  an  eai'ly  bearer,  and  very 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  straw  color,  shaded  with  red 
in  the  sun,  and  dotted  with  small  green  dots.  Flesh  white,  not  juicy, 
sweet,  coarse,  decays  quickly  at  core,  not  high-flavored.     August 

Jersey   Gratioli. 
Gracioli  of  Jersey.  Bedminster  Gratioli.  Nonis  Pear. 

Originated  in  the  Isle  of  Jersey.  Tree  a  moderately  vigorous  grower 
and  a  good  bearer.      Young  wood  short-jointed,  dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  many  brown  russet  dots.  Stalk  short,  rather 
stout,  inclined,  in  a  small  cavity,  russeted.  Calyx,  open.  Segments  rather 
long  and  slender,  recurved.  Basin  abrupt,  deep,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  melting,  rich  vinous.     Very  good.     September. 

John  Griffith. 

Originated  in  Westchester  Co.,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yel- 
low, with  many  brown  dots,  and  some  nettings  and  patches  of  russet. 
Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  not  very  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant  Good. 
September. 

Johonnot. 

Frankl  in. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  George  S.  Johonnot,  Esq.,  of  Salem, 
Mass. 

The  fruit  is  of  medium  size,  of  a  roundish  and  peculiar  irregular 
form,  dull  yellowish.  Stalk  short  and  thick,  planted  by  the  side  of  a 
swollen  protuberance.  The  flesh  is  melting,  buttery,  and  good.  Septem- 
ber, October. 


792  THE    PEAR. 

JOLIE    FlLLE   DE    GUST. 

This  "  pretty  girl  of  Gust "  is  of  Belgian  origin. 

The  fruit  is  small,  roundish  acute  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  shaded  with 
crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  dry; 
its  beauty  its  only  value.    September. 

JOLY   DE   BONNEAU. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  obovate,  pale  green,  with  spots  and  veins 
»«f  brown  russet.  Stalk  long,  obliquely  inserted,  stout,  woody,  and  in 
serted  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  with  a  pink  tinge 
fine-grained,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous.     December.     (Hogg.) 

Jones. 

Jones's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Kingsessing,  near  Philadelphia.  This  is  one  of  the  good  Pears, 
and,  were  it  a  little  larger,  would  be  one  of  the  most  valuable.  The  tree 
is  vigorous  and  upright  in  growth,  and  productive.  Young  shoots  of  a 
dull  olive  brown. 


Jones. 


Fruit  medium  or  below,  pyriform,  broad  at  calyx,  tapering  to  the 
stem,  which  meets  it  by  a  fleshy  junction.  Skin  yellow,  shaded  with 
russet,  bright  cinnamon  on  the  sunny  side.  Calyx  open,  in  a  broad, 
shallow,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  coarse,  granular,  buttery,  sugary,  brisk 
and  vinous.     Very  good.     October. 


the  pear.  79j 

Josephine  Bouvier. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate,  green,  with  a  few  patches  and  nettings  of  rus 
set,  and  many  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium  length,  curved.  Cavity  shal 
low.  Calyx  partially  open.  Segments  recurved.  Flesh  white,  coarse, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  without  flavor.    January. 

Josephine  de  Malines. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen,  of  Malines,  and  proves  one  among  the 
best  of  winter  varieties.  Tree  moderately  vigorous  and  productive. 
Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown,  very  short-jointed.  Buds  round,  pro- 
jecting. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  pyriform,  pale  greenish  yel- 
tow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  especially  aroimd  the  stalk,  and 


Josephine  de  Malineg. 

with  many  minute  brown  dots,  particularly  around  the  calyx.  Stalk 
enlarged  at  both  ends,  curved,  sometimes  set  in  a  sm;ill  cavity.  Calyx 
small,  open.  Segments  short,  stiff,  nearly  erect.  Flesh  pinkish  white, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  with  a  delicate  aroma.  Very  good.  January, 
February. 

Joseph  Staquet. 

A  new  variety,  from  Belgium. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  with  patches  and 


794  THE   PEAR. 

dots  of  green  and  russet.  Stalk  fleshy  at  insertion,  set  without  depre* 
sion.  Flesh  white,  melting,  buttery,  very  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  musky 
perfume.     September,  October.     (An.  Pom.) 

Judge  Andrews. 
Andrews'  Kingsessing. 

Originated  in  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  yellowish,  traced  and  mot- 
tled with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  coarse,  breaking,  dry.  Poor.  Sep* 
tember. 

Julienne. 

A  handsome  summer  Pear.  It  is  a  productive  fruit,  and  comes  into 
oearing  very  early.  It  is  often  of  excellent  flavor,  and  of  the  first  qua- 
lity; but,  unfortunately,  it  is  variable  in  these  respects,  and  some  seasons 
it  is  comparatively  tasteless  and  insipid.  In  the  Southern  States,  and  in 
rich,  warm,  and  dry  soils  at  the  North,  it  is  almost  always  fine.  The 
tree  is  of  thrifty,  upright  growth,  with  light  yellowish-brown  shoots. 

Fruit  of  small  size,  but  varying  in  different  soils  ;  obovate,  regularly 
formed,  clear  bright  yellow  on  all  sides.  Stalk  light  brown,  speckled 
with  yellow,  a  little  more  than  an  inch  long,  pretty  stout,  inserted  in  a 
very  shallow  depression.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  basin  slightly  sunk,  but 
often  a  little  plaited.  Flesh  white,  rather  firm  at  first,  half  buttery, 
sweet,  and  moderately  juicy.     Ripens  all  the  month  of  August. 

Reiser. 

Fruit  medium  size,  pyriform,  yellowish  green,  with  small  gray 
russet  specks,  and  russet  round  the  stalk.  Flesh  greenish  white,  a 
little  gritty,  melting,  sweet.     October.     (Lind.) 

Kelsey. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  Wm.  Kelsey,  Columbns,  O.  Tree  up- 
right, partially  spreading,  vigorous.     Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate,  dull  green,  becoming  yellowish 
when  well  ripened,  marblings  of  russet  near  the  calyx.  Dots  of  russet. 
Stalk  slender.  Calyx  small,  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  slightly 
furrowed.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  melting,  sweet,  buttery,  vinous, 
slightly  aromatic.     October  to  February.     (Hort.) 

King. 

Originated  at  Oswego,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  medium  or  below  in  size,  roundish  oblate  pyriform,  green- 
ish brown  in  the  sun,  with  many  green  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  whitish, 
coarse,  half  melting,  sweet.     Good.     September,  October, 

King  Edward's. 
*     Jackman's  Melting. 
Fruit  large,  pyriform,  tapering  gradually  to  the  stalk,  yellow,  red 


THE   PEAR.  795 

cheek.     Flesh  yellowish,  buttery,  melting,  and  good,  when  the  seasor 
is  favorable.     Good.     October. 

KlNGSESSINO. 
Leech's  Kingsessing. 

Originated  in  the  family  burying-ground  of  Isaac  Leech,  near  Phi 
ladelphia.  Tree  upright  and  of  vigorous  growth,  with  dark  olive  yeb 
low  brown  shoots.     Buds  broadly  shouldered,  prominent. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  minute  green  or  gray  dots.  Stalk  medium  or  loug,  curved,  and 
fleshy  at  its  insertion  in  a  broad,  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  large, 
irregular,  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  somewhat  coarse  and  gran- 
ular, juicy,  buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  sweet  perfumed  flavor.  Good 
to  very  good.     September. 

King. 

King's  Seedling. 

Medium  size,  oblate  uneven,  yellowish  green,  rough.  Stalk  in  a 
cavity.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  greenish  white,  granular, 
juicy,  sugary,  aromatic,  perfumed.     Good.     October. 


Klrtland. 
KlRTLAND. 

Kirtland'a  Seedling.        Hadley.        Kirtland's  SeckeL        Kirtland's  Beurre. 

Eaised  by  H.   T.  Kirtland,  Poland,  O.     Tree  moderately  vigorous 
Foung  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obtusely  obovate,  sometimes  obscurely  pyri 


T96  THE   PEAK. 

form,  line  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  bright  cinnamon  n  sset,  occa 
sionally  mottled  and  streaked  with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  rathei 
short  and  stout,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity,  often  by  a  ring  or  lip, 
Calyx  partially  open,  persistent.  Basin  shallow  and  broad.  Flesh  melt 
ing,  juicy,  sweet,  aromatic.     Very  good.     Ripe  first  of  September. 

Knight's  Monarch. 
Monarch. 

An  English  Peai,  raised  by  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  which  has  not 
proved  of  much  value  at  the  North.  In  the  Southern  States  it  promises 
well.     Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellowish  green,  with  brown  russet  and 
many  gray  russet  specks.  Flesh  yellowish,  melting,  sweet,  agreeable. 
Good.     December,  January. 

Knight's. 
Knight's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Knight,  of  Rhode  Island.  Tree  vigorous,  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  pyriform,  yellowish  green,  rough.  Stalk 
long,  inserted  by  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Flesh  juicy  and  sweet.     Good.     October. 

KOPERTSCHER. 

Kossertscher.  Beurre  Prince  de  Schwarzenberg. 

Princiere  de  Kopertsh.  Supreme  Coloma. 

A  foreign  Pear,  of  uncertain  origin.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  nearly  globular,  greenish  yellow,  with  a 
few  patches  of  russet,  and  many  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  sweet, 
pleasant.     Good.     October. 

Lafayette. 

Origin,  Connecticut. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  with  light  russet,  and 
dotted  with  brown  russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  buttery,  juicy,  half 
melting,  sweet,  lacking  flavor.     Good.     November. 

La  Herard. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  originated  in  1825. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  pale  yellowish  green,  with 
reddish  cheek  in  sun,  and  sprinkled  with  many  brown  dots.  Stalk 
rather  long,  curved.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments 
short,  erect.  Basin  small,  slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  a  little  perfumed.     Very  good.     September. 

La  Juive. 
Juive.  Jewess. 

One  of  Major  Esperen's  introduction.  Tree  vigorous  and  producti  ve 
foung  wood  yellow  brown. 


THE    TEAR. 


797 


Fruit  medium,  ovate  obovate,  pale  yellow,  considerably  russet *d,  net- 
ted, and  patched,  and  with  many  brown  russet  dots.  Stalk  short,  stout, 
fleshy  at  base.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Segments  persistent,  often 
a  little  recurved.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  a  little 
coarse  at  the  core,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  a  little  aromatic.  Good 
to  very  good.     October. 

Lamartine. 
De  Lamartine. 

Of  foreign  origin. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate.  Surface  rough,  greenish  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  a  light  thin  russet,  and  with  many  brown  dots.  Stalk 
short  and  small.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  small  and  open.  Basin  rather 
deep.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  sweet.  Very 
good.     Nove'niber. 

Lammas. 

Huntingdon. 

An  old  variety,  described  by  Lindley  as  an  erect,  strong  grower, 
hardy,  good  bearer,  and  profitable  for  the  mai'ket.  We  do  not  know  of 
its  ever  fruiting  in  this  country. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  tinged  with  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
juicy,  melting,  agreeable.     Good.     August. 

La  Moulinoise. 

A  foreign  variety,  that  we  have  fruited  but  once. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  partially  netted  and 
patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  russet  dots. 
Stalk  long,  rather  stout,  inserted  by  a  lip.  Calyx  partially  open.  Seg- 
ments erect.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous. 
Very  good.     September. 

L  AN  SAC. 

De  Lansac.  Dauphine.  Satin. 

This  Pear  is  described  by  Lindley  as  below  medium  size,  nearly  glo- 
bular, yellowish  green.  Flesh  yellowish,  melting,  sugary,  slightly  per- 
fumed.    November  and  December. 

Large  Bound  Blanquet. 

Grosse  Blanquette  Ronde.  Gros  Blanquet  Rond. 

An  old  fruit  of  little  value,  small  size,  round,  yellowish,  shade  of  red 
in  the  sun.     Flesh  white,  half  breaking,  sweet.     Last  of  July. 

La  Savourese. 

Probably  of  German  origin. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  green,  with  some  marbling* 
and  patches  of  russet.  Staik  long,  slender.  Flesh  greenish  white,  but- 
tery,  sweet,  agreeable.     Early  winter.     (Verg.) 


798  THE    PEAK. 

Las  Canas. 
Bon  Farent  Bouvier.  Bow  Parent. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  possessed  of  many  of  the  best  qualities  that  make 
ap  a  good  fruit.  The  tree  is  a  good  grower,  an  early  bearer,  and  the 
fruit  keeps  well. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  ovate  acute  pyriform,  pale  or  greenish  yel- 
low, netted  and  patched  with  golden  russet,  and  thickly  dotted  with  rus- 
set gray  dots.  Stalk  medium,  inclined,  fleshy  at  base,  or  inserted  by  a 
lip  without  depression.  Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  shallow,  russeted. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  buttery,  melting,  juicy,  slightly  astringent,  and 
aromatic.     Very  good.     October. 

La.  Sceur  Gregoire. 
Soeur  Gregoire. 

Raised  by  M.  Gregoire. 

Fruit  large,  oblong.  Surface  uneven,  rich  golden  yellow,  mostly 
overspread  with  dull  brick  red.  Flesh  fine,  yellowish  white,  melting, 
buttery,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  delicate  aroma.  November,  January. 
(An.  Pom.) 

Laure  de  Glymes. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons'.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  very  produc- 
tive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oval,  inclining  to  obovate.  Sur- 
face rough,  yellow,  nearly  covered,  netted,  and  patched  with  russet, 
many  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  stout,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Calyx  par- 
tially open.  Segments  recurved.  Basin  shallow,  corrugated.  Flesh 
yellowish,  a  little  coarse,  buttery,  not  very  juicy,  slightly  vinous,  and  a 
little  astringent.     Good.     September,  October. 

Lawrence. 

Originated  at  Flushing,  Long  Island.  Tree  hardy,  a  moderate 
grower,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  shoots  dull  yellow 
brown.  A  valuable  sort  for  orcharding,  and  unsurpassed  in  its  many 
good  qualities  among  our  early  winter  Pears. 

Fruit  medium  size,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  nearly  regular.  Color 
lemon  yellow,  with  traces  and  occasional  patches  of  russet,  and '  thickly 
dotted  with  minute  brown  dots.  Stalk  of  medium  length  and  rather 
stout,  set  in  an  irregular  russeted  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short, 
persistent.  Basin  broad,  shallow,  uneven,  or  slightly  corrugated,  and 
thinly  russeted.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  and  aromatic. 
Very  good  or  best.     December. 

Le  Breton. 

The  origin  of  this  Pear  is  unknown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  irregular,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  net- 
ted and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots.     Flesh  yellowish, 


TITE    PEAR. 


rather  coarse  at  the  core,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,   aromatic. 
very  good.     November  to  January. 


799 
Good  to 


Lawrence. 

Le   Brun. 

Originated  in  Troy,  France. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  yellowish,  with  brown 
and  fawn  shades.  Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  musky 
perfume.     September,  October.     (Leroy.) 

Lee. 
Lee's  Seedling. 

Originated  at  Salem,  Mass. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  oval,  greenish,  russet  brown  in 
sun.     Flesh  white,  juicy,  coarse.     Poor.     September.     (Elliott.) 


Beum';  le  Fevre. 


Lefevre. 

Beurr6  de  Mortefontaine. 


An  old  French  Pear,  originated  about  1740. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oval,  dull  green,  dull  brown  in  sun,  with 
numerous  conspicuous  large  gray  dots.  Stalk  stout.  Calyx  with  re- 
flexed  segments.  Flesh  greenish  white,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  vinous, 
perfumed.     October.     (Jar.) 


800  THE   PEAR. 

Lenawee. 

Origin  unknown.  Received  from  Dr.  D.  K.  Underwood,  of  Adrian, 
Michigan.  Tree  at  first  upright,  becoming  straggling,  and  twisting 
irregular. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  pyriform.  Surface  uneven,  light  yellow,  with  a 
crimson  cheek  in  sun,  dotted  with  small  russet  specks.  Flesh  buttery, 
not  very  juicy,  slightly  aromatic.     Good.     September. 

Lent  Saint  Germain. 

Easter  Saint  Germain. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  oblong  oval  obovate,  pale  green,  full  of  small 
white  specks.  Flesh  firm,  breaking,  with  a  very  good  flavored  juice. 
March,  April.     (Lind.) 

Leochine  de  Printemps. 

This  is  one  of  the  new  foreign  varieties,  which  we  have  fruited  but 
once. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  netted  and  patched  with 
russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  open. 
Flesh  white,  firm,  not  very  juicy.     Good.     Late  Winter. 

Leon  Gregoire. 

This  new  Pear  is  described  in  the  Annals  of  Pomology  as : — 
Fruit   large,   oblong,    obtuse   pyriform,  greenish   yellow,    marbled, 
mottled,  and  shaded  with  reddish  brown,  and  reddish  gray  dots.     Flesh 
yellowish  white,  melting,  buttery,  sweet,  vinous,  agreeable.     December, 
January. 

Leonie  Pinchart. 

A  new  Belgian  variety. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  obovate,  greenish  yellow,  much  cov- 
ered, netted,  and  patched  with  yellow  russet,  and  minute  russet  dots. 
Stalk  short,  stout.  Calyx  open.  Segments  recurved.  Basin  rather 
shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  sweet,  melting.  Very  good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 

Leon  le  Clerc  Laval. 
Blanc-per-ne. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  A  good  cooking  Pear,  large  size,  and 
very  distinct  from  the  celebrated  "  Van  Mons  Leon  le  Clerc."  In  fa- 
vorable seasons  it  is  of  tolerable  quality  for  the  table. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  with 
russety  spots  at  either  end,  and  some  large  dots.  Calyx  large,  with  long, 
straight,  narrow  divisions,  and  placed  in  a  broad  shallow  basin.  Stalk 
an  inch  and  a  half  long,  pretty  stout,  swollen  at  its  point  of  insertion. 
Flesh  vellowish  white,  juicy,  crisp,  and  rather  firm,  sweet,  pleasant 
Good      December  to  April. 


THE    PEAK.  801 

Leon  le  Clekc  Louvain. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Moris',  Belgium.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  very 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  russet,  on  greenish  yeUow  ground.  Stalk  long 
and  curved,  inserted  in  a  slight  cavity  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shal- 
low. Flesh  white,  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  rich,  and  exceedingly  sugary. 
October,  November. 

Leon  Rey. 
Beurr6  Leon  Rey. 
A  new  variety,  obtained  by  Rey  at  Toulouse. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  pyriform.  Flesh  melting,  juicy.  Au- 
gust.    (Leroy.) 

Leopold  I. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  little  known,  and,  so  far  as  we  have  fruited  it,  not 
specially  valuable.     Tree  moderately  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  partially  netted  and 
patched  with  russet.  Many  russet  dots.  Stalk  stout.  Cavity  small. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     (Dec.) 

Leopold  Riche. 

One  of  M.  de  Jonghe's  seedlings. 

Fruit  rather  large,  obtuse  obovate  pyriform ;  yellow,  thickly  dotted 
with  large  cinnamon  russet  dots.  Stalk  slender.  Calyx  open.  Basin 
shallow.  Flesh  rather  coarse-grained,  crisp,  very  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  with 
a  fine  almond  flavor.     November.     (Hogg.) 

Lepine. 
De  Lepine.  Delepine.  Poire  de  Lepine. 

Tree  of  moderate  growth,  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  yellowish,  shaded  with  crimson,  slightly  rus 
seted.  Stalk  long.  Cavity  broad  and  shallow.  Calyx  small,  open,  in  a 
corrugated  basin.  Flesh  coarse,  granular,  melting,  juicy,  brisk,  vinous. 
Good.     November,  December. 

Lewis. 

This  Pear  originated  on  the  farm  of  John  Lewis,  of  Roxbury,  Mass. 
It  bears  enormous  crops.  The  tree  grows  vigorously,  and  has  long, 
drooping  branches  of  olive  brown  color. 

Fruit  scarcely  of  medium  size,  obovate,  dark  green  in  autumn,  pale 
green  at  maturity,  with  numerous  russety  specks.  Stalk  long  and  slen- 
der, inserted  nearly  even  with  the  surface.  Calyx  large,  with  white 
spread  divisions.  Basin  almost  level.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  rather 
coarse-grained,  melting,  juicy,  and  rich  in  flavor,  with  a  slight  spicy  per- 
fume.    Good.     November  to  February. 

Liberale. 

Of  Belgian  origin.    Tree  a  vigorous  grower.  Young  wood  dull  brown 

5] 


802  THE   PEAR. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  shade  of 
brown  in  the  sun,  sprinkled  with  brown  or  russet  dots,  and  with  patches 
of  russet.  Stalk  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  cavity  at  an  mclination. 
Calyx  large  and  open.  Basin  broad  and  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  rich,  and  peculiarly  aromatic.     Very  good.     October. 

Liebart. 
Chamoisine.  Beurre"  Liebart. 

A  foreign  variety,  the  origin  of  which  is  unknown.  Tree  a  very 
vigorous  grower,  and  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  shade  of  red  in 
the  sun,  a  few  large  patches  of  russet  and  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather 
stout.  Cavity  slight.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white, 
coarse,  breaking,  not  juicy.     Poor.     September. 

Lieutenant  Poitevin. 
Lieutenant  Poidevin. 

A  French  Pear,  introduced  in  1853.  Tree  vigorous,  and  an  early 
bearer,  valuable  as  a  cooking  fruit. 

Fruit  large,  broad  at  calyx,  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  overspread,  net- 
ted and  patched  with  cinnamon  russet,  many  russet  dots,  sometimes 
shade  of  crimson  in  sun.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh 
white,  rather  firm,  juicy,  breaking,  rather  coarse.     November  to  March. 

Limon. 
No.  10.  Van  Mons.  Beurre  Haggerston.  Bergamotte  Louise. 

A  fine  sprightly  Belgian  Pear,  originated  by  Van  Mons.  The 
young  shoots  are  long,  slender,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  small,  obovate,  yellow,  with  a  faint  red  cheek.  Stalk 
an  inch  and  a  half  long,  rather  stout,  set  in  a  moderately  depressed 
round  cavity.  Calyx  set  in  a  rather  shallow  round  basin.  Flesh  white, 
buttery,  melting,  and  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  high  flavor.  Very  good. 
Middle  of  August. 

Little  Blanquet. 

Petite  Blanquette.  Little  Blanket. 

Petit  Blanquet.  Musk  Blanquet  or  Blanquette. 

Poire  a  la  Perle.  Small  Blanquet. 

Blanquet  Petit.  White  Pear. 

Pearl  Pear. 

An  old  variety,  superseded. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  yellowish  white  Flesh  half-breaking,  plea- 
Bant.     Good.     Early  August. 

Little  Muscat. 

liittle  Musk.  Primitive.  Sept-en  -gueule. 

Petit  Muscat.  Muscat  Petit.  Chiot. 

This  very  little  French  Pear,  well  known  in  many  of  our  gardens,  is 


TITE   PEAR.  803 

allowed  a  place  there,  chiefly  because  it  is  the  earliest  of  all  Pears,  rip* 
ening  at  the  beginning  of  July. 

Fruit  very  small,  turbinate,  yellow,  with  a  dull  red  cheek.  Flesh 
breaking,  sweet,  with  a  slight  musk  flavor.     Good.     Very  productive. 

Livingston  Virgalieu. 

A.n  old  variety,  somewhat  grown  along  the  Hudson  River,  origin 
unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovaie,  greenish  yellow,  patched  and  dot- 
ted with  russet.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  small,  open.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  nearly  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     September. 

Locke. 
Locke's  New  Beurre. 

This  is  a  native  fruit,  originated  by  James  Locke,  West  Cambridge. 
Mass. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate,  dull  yellowish  green,  slightly 
mottled  with  spots  of  darker  green  and  bits  of  russet.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  melting,  and  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  vinous  flavor.  Good. 
November  and  December. 

Lodge. 
Smith's  Bordenave. 

The  Lodge,  Pear  is  a  native  of  Pennsylvania,  and  is  understood  to 
have  originated  near  Philadelphia.  It  is  a  very  agreeable  subacid  Pear, 
and  has  so  much  of  the  Brown  Beurre  character,  that  we  suspect  it  is 
a  seedling  of  that  fine  old  variety. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  pyriform,  tapering  to  the  stem,  and  one-sided, 
greenish  brown,  the  green  becoming  a  little  paler  at  maturity,  and  nmch 
covered  with  patches  of  dull  russet.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  fourth  long, 
obliquely  planted  at  the  point  of  the  fruit,  which  is  a  little  swollen 
tnere.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  gritty  at  the  core,  which  is  large,  juicy, 
and  melting,  with  a  rather  rich  flavor,  relieved  by  pleasant  acid.  Very 
Good.     September  and  October. 

London  Sugar. 

An  English  Pear,  described  by  Lindley. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  pale  yellow  with  a  brownish  tinge  in  sun. 
Flesh  tender,  melting,  sweet.     Good.     Last  of  July. 

Long  Green. 
Verte  Longne.  Mouille  Bouche.  Mouthwater. 

An  old  variety,  described  by  Duhamel.  Tree  very  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  acute  pyriform.  Stalk  of  medium  length, 
nearly  perpendicularly  inserted.  Calyx  small,  almost  without  bashx 
Skin  remains  green  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  with  a  plea 
vant  spicy  flavor.     Good.     September. 


804  THE    PEAR. 

Long  Green  of  Autumn. 

Verte  longue  d'Automne.  Autumn  Mouthwater. 

Mouille  bouche  d'Automne.  Coule  Soif  d'Automne. 

Tlie  Long  Green  of  Autumn  is  said  to  be  even  an  older  variety  than 
Long  Green.     The  fruit  of  this  sort  is  later  in  maturing. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  ovate  acute  pyriform,  smooth,  pale  green,  with 
occasional  patches  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  brown 
dots.  Stalk  long,  slendei",  curved.  Calyx  open.  Segments  almost  joined, 
short,  persistent.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  greenish  white,  buttery, 
juicy,  half  melting.     Good.     October. 

Long  Green  of  Esperin. 
Verte  Longue  of  Esperin. 

We  received  this  variety  from  L.  E.  Berckmans.  It  is  of  Belgian 
origin. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  shade 
of  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  patches  and  nettings  of  russet,  and  many 
brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  moderately  stout,  set  in  a  small  cavity. 
Calyx  open.  Segments  recurved.  Basin  shallow,  furrowed.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish white,  juicy,  half  melting,  vinous.     Good.     September. 

Long  Green  Panache. 

Culotte  de  Suisse.  Verte  longue  panache. 

This  differs  from  Long  Green  only  in  being  striped  with  yellow. 

Long-Stalked  Blanquet. 

Blanquette  a  longue  queue.  Long-Stalked  Blanket. 

Blanquette  a  longue  queuen.  Sucree  blanche. 

Long-Tailed  Blanquette.  Gillette  longue. 

Suchrin  blanc  d'Ete. 

A  very  old  variety,  now  entirely  superseded. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  greenish  or  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  white,  half 
breaking,  delicate,  sweet,  vinous.     Good.     Early  August. 

Louise  Bonne. 
Louise  Bonne  Real.  St.  Germain  Blanc. 

An  old  French  winter  Pear. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  a  little  rounded  towards  the  stalk,  smooth, 
pale  green.  Flesh  white,  rather  coarse-grained,  melting,  sweet.  Good. 
December. 

Louise  Bonne  de  Printemps. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  M.  Boisbunel,  of  Rouen,  France,  as  he 
supposed,  from  seed  of  Louise  Bonne  de  Jersey,  which  in  appearance 
the  fruit  much  resembles.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower  and  productive. 
Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  rich  clear  yellow,  with  a  red 
cheek  in  sun,  and  a  little  of  russet,  especially  near  the  stalk.  Stalk 
short,  set  in  a  narrow,  furrowed  cavity.  Calyx  with  short  persistent 
segments.  Basin  rather  deep,  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy,  but 
tery,  swee4"-,  and  slightly  perfumed.     February,  March.     (An.  Pom.) 


THE    I'EAlt. 


80ft 


Louise  Bonne  of  Jersey. 


Bonne  de  Longneval. 

Louise  Bonne  d'Avranches. 

Louise  Bonne  de  Jersey. 

Beurr6  or  Bonne  Louise  d'Araudore. 

William  the  Fourth. 

Bergamotte  d'Avranches. 

De  Jersey. 


Beurre  d'Araudore. 
Bonne  Louise  d'Araudore. 
Beurrr  d'Avranches. 
Bonne  d'Avranches. 
De  Louise. 
William. 


Originated  in  France,  near  Avranches,  succeeds  admirably  on  thfl 
quince,  forming  a  fine  pyramid — not  of  the  first  quality,  but  profit 
able.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  very  productive.  Fruit  of  better  quality 
on  the  quince  than  on  the  pear.      Young  wood  dull  olive  brown. 


Louise  Bonne  of  Jerwej. 

Truit  large,  oblong  pyriform,  a  Uttle  one-sided,  glossy,  pale  green  in 
the  shade,  but  overspread  with  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  and  dotted  with 
numerous  gray  dots.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  curved,  rather  obliquely 
inserted,  without  depression,  or  with  a  fleshy,  enlarged  base.  Calyx 
open,  in  a  shallow,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very  juicy  and 
melting,  with  a  rich  and  excellent  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  Sep- 
tember and  October. 


eotj 


TEE    PEAR. 


Louise  of  Boulogne. 

Of  Belgic  origin. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obovate,  greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  with 
brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  a  little  curved,  ratber  slender.  Cavity  small, 
russeted.  Calyx  open.  Basin  small  and  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  light 
pink  at  centre,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  October, 
November. 

Louis  Gregoire. 

A  seedling  raised  in  1832  byM.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne.  Tree  a  vigo- 
rous, somewhat  upright  grower,  and  productive.  Young  wood  dull  yel- 
lowish olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  con- 
siderably covered  with  russet,  and  thickly  dotted  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
varying,  set  with  little  or  no  depression.     Calyx  open.     Segments  large, 

persistent.  Basin  small  and  rather 
shallow.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vi- 
nous. Good.  October,  Novem- 
ber. 

Lucien  Lecxekcq. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons'  that 
first  fruited  in  1844. 

Fruit  medium  size,  ovate,  pal  a 
green,  with  russet  patches  and 
russet  near  the  stalk,  distinct  rough 
dots.  Flesh  fine,  white,  melting, 
sweet.     November.      (Alb.  Pom.) 

Lycurgus. 

Originated  with  George  Hoad- 
ley,  of  Cleveland,  O.,  from  seed 
of  Winter  Nelis.  It  is  one  of 
the  best  in  quality  of  late  Winter 
Pears.  The  tree  is  a  moderate, 
rather  spreading  grower,  produc- 
tive. Young  wood  dark  rich 
olive  brown. 

Fruit  small,  oblong  pyriform, 
greenish  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  a  thin  brownish  russet,  many 
large  grayish  dots.  Stalk  medium  length,  a  little  curved,  set  with 
little  or  no  depression.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin 
small,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  a  little  aro- 
matic, and  slightly  perfumed.      Very  good.      December  to  February. 

Lydia  Thierard. 

Raised  by  M.  Jules  Thierard,  Bethel,  France.  Tree  very  vigorous^ 
productive. 

Fruit  is  of  Bergamotte  shape.  Stalk  of  medium  size,  curved,  a  little 
fleshy  at  the  base,  in  a  large  and  uneven  depression.  Calyx  small, 
open.      Basin   large,  deep,  regular.      Skin   thin,   clear  green,   thickly 


LycurgaB. 


THE   PEAB.  80? 

sprinkled  with  small  brown  dots,  and  russet  spots  near  the  calyx. 
Flesh  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  and  highly  perfumed.  Core  large, 
Season,  December  to  January.     (Revue  Horticole.) 

Lyon. 

Originated  at  Newport,  R.  I.  Tree  upright,  vigorous,  hardy,  and 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate,  yellow,  with  a  crimson  blush  on  one 
side,  minute  dots,  russet  near  the  stalk.  Calyx  small.  Segments  per- 
sistent. Basin  narrow,  shallow.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  gritty  at  the  core, 
melting,  moderately  juicy,  sweet.  Good  to  very  good.  October. 
(Hov.  Mag.) 

McLaughlin. 

A  native  of  Maine,  introduced  by  S.  L.  Goodale,  of  Saco.  Tree 
hardy  and  vigorous.     Young  wood  light  dull  red. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish,  mostly  covered  with  russet, 


McLaughlin. 

which  becomes  yellowish  at  maturity,  with  a  warm  sunny  cheek.  Stalk 
short,  inserted  at  an  inclination,  with  some  appearance  i»f  a  lip.  Calyx 
open,  set  in  a  shallow  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  not  very  tine, 
juicy,  and  melting.  Flavor  sweet,  rich,  and  perfumed.  Good  to  very 
good.     November  to  January. 

McVean. 
Origin,  Monroe   Co.,  N.  Y.     Tree  very  vigorous,  very  productive 
young  wood  grayish  light  yellow  brown. 


808 


THE    PEAR. 


Fruit  large,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  yellow,  with  nettings  and  patches 
of  russet,  and  numerous  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  rather 
stout,  fleshy  at  insertion,  and  often  set  inclined,  and  with  a  lip.  Calyx 
partially  closed.  Basin  slightly  corrugated.  Flesh  coarse,  not  juicy,  or 
sweet.     Good.     September. 


melting, 


Madame  Durieux. 


A  Flemish  variety. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  yellowish,  netted 
and  patched  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  long  or  very  lorig,  and  slen- 
der. Flesh  white,  buttery,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  Very  good.  Octo- 
ber. 

Madame  Ducar. 

Introduced  by  M.  Esperen.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  pale  lemon  yellow,  with  a  few  rus- 
Bet  dots.     Stalk  long,  fleshy  at  insertion.     Cavity  medium,  somewhat 


Madame  Eliza. 


THE   PEAR.  809 

ribbed.      Calyx    open.      Basin    abrupt,    uneven.      Flesh    white,  juicy, 
melting,  pleasant,  slightly  vinous.     Very  good.     September. 

Madame  Eliza. 

One  of  Bivort's  seedlings,  and  named  in  honor  of  the  wife  of  the 
well-known  pomologist,  L.  E.  Berckmans.  The  tree  is  vigorous,  rather 
open  and  irregular  in  form,  productive.  Young  wood  dull  olive  yello"w 
brown.  It  is  a  Pear  described  as  excellent  in  Belgium,  and  so  far  here 
sustains  its  foreign  character. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  ovate  acute  pyriform,  pale  whitish  yellow,  a 
few  traces  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  russet  dots. 
Stalk  long,  inclining,  fleshy  at  insertion,  or  by  a  lip.  Calyx  small,  par- 
tially closed.  Segments  small,  erect.  Basin  abrupt,  uneven,  russeted. 
Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  delicately  perfumed.  Veri 
good.     October. 

Madame  Millet. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  much  covered,  netted, 
patched,  and  dotted  with  light  russet.  Stalk  long,  stout,  curved,  set  in 
a  slight  cavity  with  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin 
rather  small,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  not  melting,  slightly  vinous, 
a  little  aromatic.     Good.     November  to  April. 

Madame  Gregoire. 

Of  Belgian  origin,  seedling  of  Gregoire  of  Jodoigne,  and  dedicated 
to  his  wife. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted,  patched, 
and  dotted  with  brown  russet.  Stalk  rather  long,  fleshy  at  base.  Ca- 
vity rather  deep.  Flesh  white,  tinted  with  rose,  half  melting,  sweet, 
vinous,  perfumed.     November,  December.     (An.  Pom.) 

Madame  Henri  Desportes. 

Fruit  roundish,  obovate,  yellow,  mostly  covered  with  dark  cinna- 
mon-colored russet.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh 
yellow,  buttery,  rich,  sweet,  juicy.     October.     (Hogg.) 

Madame  Treyve. 
Souvenir  de  Madame  Treyve. 
Raised  by  M.  Treyve,  of  Trevons,  France,  and  dedicated  to  his  wife. 
Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek  in 
the  sun,  some  russet,  and  dotted  with  minute  brown  dots.  Stalk  slen- 
der. Cavity  narrow.  Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  narrow,  round,  regu- 
lar. Flesh  white,  melting,  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  with  a  delicate  aroma. 
September.     (Verg.) 

Madeleine,  or  Citron  des  Carmes. 

Madeleine.  Sainte-Madelaine. 

Citron  des  Carmes.  Grime  Sommer  Magdalena. 

Early  Chaumontelle.  Grune  Magdalena. 
Magdelen. 

The   Madeleine  is   one  of  the  most  refreshing  and  excellent  of  the 


810 


THE    PEAR. 


early  Pears.  It  takes  its  name  from  its  being  in  perfection,  in  Frai  c< ., 
at  the  feast  of  Ste.  Madeleine.  Citron  des  Cannes  comes  from  its  being 
first  cultivated  by  the  Carmelite  monks.  The  tree  is  fruitful  and  vigo- 
rous, with  long,  erect,  olive-colored  branches. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate  pyriform.  Stalk  long  and  slender, 
often  nearly  two  inches,  set  on  the  side  of  a  small  swelling.  Pale  yellow- 
ish green  (very  rarely  with  a  little  brownish  blush  and  russet  specka 
around  the  stalk).  Calyx  small,  in  a  very  shallow  furrowed  basin. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  sweet  and  delicate  flavor,  slightly 
perfumed.     Good  to  very  good.     Middle  and  last  of  July. 

Malconnaitre  d'Haspin. 

Fruit  large,  form  roundish  obovate.  Stalk  one  inch  long,  inserted 
hi  a  slight  depression.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  rather  deep  irregular 
basin.  Skin  dull  yellow,  with  a  brownish  red  cheek,  stippled  with 
coarse  dots,  and  russeted  at  the  calyx.  Flesh  juicy,  tender,  and  melt- 
ing. Flavor  rich  subacid,  perfumed.  Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  and  pro- 
ductive.    October,  November.     (Wilder's  Pep.) 


Manchester. 


Manchester  Late. 


Manchester  October. 


A  native  variety,  originated  in  Providence,  R.  I. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  with  a  blush  of  crimson  in 
the  sun,  traces  and  many  dots  of  russet.  Stalk  rather  long.  Calyx 
open.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  pleasant. 
Good.     October. 


Manning's  Elizabeth. 

Van  Mons.     No.  154. 
Elizabeth  Van  Mons. 

Manning's  Elizabeth,  a  seed- 
ling of  Dr.  Van  Mons',  named  by 
Mr.  Manning,  is  a  very  sweet  and 
sprightly  Pear,  with  a  peculiar  fla- 
vor. A.  beautiful  dessert  fruit, 
productive,  growth  moderate, 
shoots  dull  l'eddish.  One  of 
the  most  desirable  Pears  of 
its  season,  for  amateur  growing. 

Fruit  below  medium,  obovate 
obtuse  pyriform,  bright  yellow, 
with  a  lively  red  cheek,  dotted 
with  brown  and  red  dots.  Stalk 
one  inch  long,  set  in  a  shallow, 
round  cavity.  Calyx  open,  set 
in  a  broad  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
white,  juicy,   and  very  melting. 

witn  a  saccharine  but  very  sprightly  aromatic  character.      Very  good 

or  best.     Last  of  August. 


Manning's  Elizabeth. 


THE    PEAR.  811 

Mansfield. 

A  native  variety,  origin  uncertain.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 
Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fi-uit  medium,  roundisi  oblate,  yellowish  green,  with  considerable 
russet  and  many  green  an  I  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  long.  Cavity 
narrow,  small.  Calyx  open,  with  recurved  segments.  Basin  broad, 
uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  buttery,  meltings  sweet,  a  little  astringent. 
Good.     September. 

Marasquine. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  obtained  of  Major  Esperen. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  oval,  light  pale  yellow,  greenish  in  shade,  with 
fawn  russet  in  the  sun.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow. 
Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  slightly  sweet,  perfumed.     August.     (Verg.) 

March  Bergamotte. 

One  of  Mr.  Knight's   seedlings. 

Fruit  small  or  medium.  Color  green,  with  small  gray  dots,  and 
large  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  straight,  in  a  cavity  like  that  of 
an  apple.     Flesh  coarse,  greenish,  of  no  decided  excellence. 

Marechal  de  la  Cour. 

B.  O.  de  la  Cour.  Baud  de  la  Cour. 

Conseiller  de  la  Cour.  Grosse  Marie. 

Marechal  Decours. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Dedicated  to  his  son  in  1845.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  holding  its  foliage  late  in  season.  Young  shoots 
olive  reddish  brown,  with  many  specks. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  slight  netting  and  few  patches  of  russet,  and  russet  dots. 
Stalk  rather  long,  sometimes  inclined,  set  in  a  moderate  cavity,  some- 
what russeted.  Calyx  open,  in  a  narrow  basin,  russeted.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  rich  vinous,  very  good.      October. 

Marechal  Dillen. 
Dillen  d'Automne. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  large  or  very  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  dull  greenish 
yellow,  mottled  with  fawn,  shades  and  traces  and  dots  of  russet.  Stalk 
short,  set  in  a  broad  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  white,  melting,  buttery,  juicy, 
sweet.     October,  November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Margaret. 

Raised  by  Christopher  Wiegel,  Clevelana,  O.  Tree  a  vigorous,  up- 
right grower,  productive,  and  au  early  bearer.  Young  wood  dull 
reddish. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  oblong  obovate,  yellow,  mostly  overspread 
with  deep  dull   red,  small   russet  dots.      Stalk    medium,  inserted  with 


812 


THE    PEAR. 


out  depression.     Calyx   large,   open.     Segments  long,  reflexed.     Flesh 
white,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet,  good,  early.     August.     (Hort.) 


Marochal  de  la  Cour. 

Marianne  de  Nancy. 

Raised  by  Van  Mons. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  yellowish  green, 
netted  and  dotted  with  fine  dull  russet.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Calyx 
open.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  half  melting,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet.  Octo 
ber.     (Alb.  Pom.) 


Marie  de  Nantes. 

A  French  Pear,  originated  by  M.  Gamier,  in  1853.  Tree  mode- 
rately vigorous.     Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  yellow,  shade  of  brownish 
fed  in  sun,  and  partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  especially  near 


THE    PEAR.  813 

ihe  base.  Stalk  short,  set  in  a  narrow,  furrowed,  shallow  cavity.  Calyx 
small,  open,  .with  short  segments.  Basin  small.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet.     Very  good.     November,  December. 

Marie  Guisse. 

This  variety  is  said  to  have  been  grown  from  seed  of  St.  Germain,  in 
1834,  near  the  town  of  Metz,  France.  It  was  twenty  years  before  it 
fruited. 

Fruit  medium  size,  obovate  oblong  pyriform.  Surface  uneven, 
yellow,  with  shades  of  red  in  sun,  and  large,  dull,  dark  specks.  Stalk 
rather  long  and  moderately  stout,  set  in  a  narrow  furrowed  cavity. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  granular,  melting,  sweet,  vinous.  December, 
February.     (Verg.) 

Marie  Louise. 

Forme  de  Marie  Louise.  Marie  Louise  Donkelar. 

Marie  Chretienne.  Marie  Louise  Nouvelle. 

Princesse  de  Parme.  Marie  Louise  de  Jersey. 

Braddick's  Field  Standard.  Corchorus. 

Marie  Louise  d'Elcourt.  Marie  Louise  Delacourt. 

*   Van  Donkelear.  Van  Donckelaer. 

A  Belgian  variety,  of  first  quality  in  its  native  country,  and  here,  in 
some  seasons,  fully  sustains  that  character ;  but  it  is  so  uncertain,  so 
variable  in  seasons,  as  greatly  to  detract  from  its  value.  Tree  a  vigo- 
rous but  straggling  grower.     Young  wood  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  oblong  pyriform,  rather  irregular  or  one-sided  in 
figure,  pale  green,  but  at  maturity  rich  yellow,  a  good  deal  sprinkled 
and  mottled  with  light  russet  on  the  exposed  side.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a 
half  long,  obliquely  planted,  sometimes  under  a  slightly  raised  lip,  some- 
times in  a  very  small  one-sided  cavity.  Flesh  white,  exceedingly  but- 
tery and  melting,  with  a  rich,  saccharine,  and  vinous  flavor.  Very 
good.     Last  of  September  and  middle  of  October. 

Marie  Louise  d'Uccle. 

This  variety  was  raised  from  a  seed  of  the  Marie  Louise,  by  M. 
Gambier,  in  a  village  (Uccle)  near  Brussels.  Tree  a  vigorous,  upright 
grower.     Young  wood  dark  brown. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.  Surface  rough, 
yellow,  with  a  shade  of  brown  in  the  sun,  considerably  netted,  patched, 
and  numerously  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  medium,  inclined,  curved,  set 
in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  large,  partially  open,  with 
persistent  segments.  Basin  large,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting, 
vinous,  a  little  astringent.     Good  to  very  good.      September,  October. 

Marie  Louise  Nova. 

This  variety  was  sent  by  Van  Mons  to  Mr.  Manning.  It  will  by  no 
means  bear  a  comparison  with  the  Marie  Louise,  though  in  some  seasons 
a  very  good  fruit.     The  wood  is  very  strong  and  dark  colored. 

Fruit  medium,  regular  acute  pyriform,  yellow,  with  a  brownish- 
red  cheek.  Flesh  at  first  melting,  juicy,  but  quickly  decays.  Hood 
Last  of  September. 


ci  a  the  pear. 

Marie  Parent. 

Sophia  Beekmans.  Roussellet  ie  Meester. 

Ferdinand  de  Meester. 

Raised  by  M.  Bivort,  in  1844,  from  seeds  of  the  last  generation  of 
Van  Mons'  seedlings.  It  first  fruited  in  1851.  Tree  moderately  vigo 
rous.      Yoimg  wood  dull  grayish-reddisli  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform  to  obovate  acute  pyriform,  green- 
ish yellow,  with  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  traces  of  russet,  and 
many  minute  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium,  generally  inserted  without 
cavity.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  vinous.  Good. 
September. 

Marquise  de  Bedman. 

Of  foreign  origin. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  greenish  yellow, 
with  a  few  traces  and  patches  of  russet,  and  many  green  and  brown 
dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white, 
sweet,  rather  firm.     Good.     September. 

Marmion. 

A  Belgian  variety. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  some  russet.  Flesh 
whitish,  coarse,  sweet,  dry  and  poor.     November. 

Martha  Ann. 
Dana's  No.  1. 

Raised  by  Francis  Dana,  of  Roxbury,  Mass. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  yellowish  green,  with 
patches  and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh  coarse,  juicy,  astringent.  Poor 
October. 

Martin  Sec. 

Uousselette  d'Hiver  Martin  Sec  d'Hiver. 

Dry  Martin.  Troken  Martin. 

Winter  Rousselette.  Martin  Sec  de  Champagne. 

An  old  variety,  of  which  the  origin  is  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  very 
productive. 

Fruit  small,  ovate,  yellow,  shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  some 
russet.  Flesh  coarse,  granular,  juicy,  half  breaking,  agreeable.  Chiefly 
valued  for  cooking.     Winter. 

Martin  Sire. 
Certeau  Musque  d'Hiver.  Sire  Martin. 

A  very  old  sort,  valued  only  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  shade  of  red  in  the  sun. 
Flesh  crisp,  gritty  near  the  core,  juicy,  sweet.     December  to  February. 


THE    PEAR.  81fi 

Marulis. 
Marcellis. 

Foreign. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  greenish  yellow.    Poor.    September.    (Elliott.) 

Mary. 

Originated  in  the  grounds  of  "William  Case,  Cleveland,  O.  Tree 
an  upright,  vigorous  grower,  with  brownish,  short-jointed  young  wood. 
An  rarly  and  productive  bearer. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  yellow,  mostly  overspread 
with  rich  red,  a  little  russet,  and  many  gray  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx 
large.  Erect  segments.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  almost  buttery,  sweet. 
Very  good.     Last  of  July.      (Hort.) 

Mather. 

Originated  with  John  Mather,  near  Jenkinstown,  Montgomery  Co., 
Pa.     Tree  a  moderate  grower.    Young  wood  olive  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  ovate,  greenish  yellow,  slight  blush  in 
sun,  and  many  minute  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Calyx  open. 
Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  not  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     August. 

Maynard. 

Origin  unknown,  grown  in  Lancaster  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  russet  dots  ana 
a  crimson  cheek.  Stalk  obliquely  inserted,  fleshy  at  its  junction.  Calyx 
open,  in  a  slight  depression.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  and  sugary.  Scarcely 
good.     Ripe  last  of  July. 

Mellish. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  netted,  patched, 
and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  partially  closed. 
Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good  to  very  good. 
October. 

Merriam. 

Origin,  Roxbury,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive.  Young 
wood  reddish  yellow  brown  ;  a  good  market  sort. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dull  yellow,  covered  with  pale  rus- 
set around  the  stun  and  calyx,  and  entire  surface  somewhat  netted  with 
russet.  Stalk  shoi  \  moderately  stout,  in  a  small  cavity,  with  one  pro- 
tuberant side.  Calyx  closed.  Basin  shallow  and  furrowed.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, coarse,  melting,  md  juicy,  slightly  vinous,  musky.  Good  to  very 
good.     October. 

Messire  Jean. 

Chaulis.  Messire  Jean  Dor6. 

Emmilacour.  Mr.  John. 

Marion.  John. 

Monsieur  Jean.  Communaut6. 

Messire  Jean  Gris.  Conlis. 

Messire  Jean  Blanc.  Couvent. 

A_n  old  French  Pear,    ut  rather  coarse-graintd  and  gritty. 


SIC  THE    PEAR. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  turbinate,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  brown 
russet.  Flesh  gritty,  white,  crisp,  juicy,  and  breaking,  with  a  very  sweet 
flavor.     Good.     November  and  December. 


Merriam. 

MlCHAUX. 

Comte  de  Michaux. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  nearly  round  pyriform,  light  yellowish  green, 
with  a  faint  blush  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  half  buttery, 
juicy,  sweet,  but  second-rate.     Poor.     September  and  October. 

MlGNONNE    d'HiVER. 

An  old  Belgian  variety,  often  very  good. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  obovate  to  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  light  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  thick  rough  russet,  and  veined  with  crimson  and 
fawn.  Stalk  rather  stout.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  a  little  gran- 
ular, juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous,  aromatic.  Good.  November,  De- 
cember. 

Milan  de  Rouen. 

A  Flemish  Pear,  little  known  and  not  of  much  value. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  nettings,  patches,  and 
dots  of  russet.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  vinous.  Septem 
ber, 

Millot  de  Nancy. 

One  of  Yan  Mons'  seedlings,  named  after  M.  Millot,  a  resident  of 
Nancy,  France.     Tree  productive.     Young  shoots  reddish  brown. 


THE    TEAR.  817 

Fruit  mediu  m ,  oblong  obovate,  greenish  yellow,  with  many  brown  dots. 
Stalk  medium,  curved,  often  inclined,  and  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx 
partially  open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Flesh  yellowish,  not  juicy 
melting,  sweet.     Good.     November. 

Mitchell's  Russet. 

Origin,  Belleville,  111. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  roundish,  slightly  pyriform,  rough,  yellow 
brown  russet,  thickly  covered  with  gray  dots.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open. 
Flesh  juicy,  melting,  astringent.     Scarcely  good.     October. 

Moccas. 

Originated  by  Mr.  Knight.  A  good  grower,  productive,  but  not  of 
good  quality. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  green,  sprinkled  with  small  dots.  Flesh 
j  uicy.     Poor.     December. 

Mollet's  Guernsey  Beurre. 

Mollet's  Guernsey  Chaumontelle. 

An  English  variety,  raised  by  Charles  Mollet,  Esq.,  of  the  Island 
of  Guernsey. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval  pyriform.  Skin  rather  uneven,  yellow 
and  yellowish  green,  nearly  covered  on  one  side  with  dark  cinnamon 
brown  russet,  in  stripes  and  tracings.  Flesh  yellowish,  melting,  and 
buttery,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor.     Good.     December. 

Monseigneur  Affre. 

One  of  Bivort's  introducing.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive. 
Young  wood  dull  olive  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  greenish,  considerably  covered  with 
thick  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved, 
inserted  in  a  moderate  cavity.  Calyx  small,  open,  persistent.  Basin 
broad.  Flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good. 
November. 

Monseigneur  des  Hons. 

A  new  summer  Pear,  from  Troyes,  France.  Tree  vigorous,  spread- 
ing.    Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  rich  warm  yellow,  veined 
with  green,  and  shaded  with  a  warm  red  cheek  in  the  sun.  Stalk  me- 
dium, inserted  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh 
half  fine,  melting,  aromatic,  sweet.     Early  August.     (An.  Pom.) 

Monseigneur  Sibour. 

A  new  French  Pear,  described  in  the  Annals  of  Pomology : — 
"  Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  with  greenish  shades, 
mottled,  shaded,  and   dotted  with    warm   red   or  crimson.     Stalk  long, 

52 


£18  THE    I'EAR. 

Blender.     Calyx  large,  open.     Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine,  melting, 
juicy,  sweet.     November." 

Morel. 

An  English  Pear,  mainly  valued  for  cooking. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  yellow,  freckled  with  large  russet  spota 
Flesh  yellowish  white,   crisp,  juicy,  and  sweet.     December  to  ApriL 

(H°gg-) 

Mount  Vernon. 

Walker's  Seedling. 

A  chance  seedling,  originated  in  the  grounds  of  Samuel  Walker, 
itoxbury,  Mass.,  and  by  him  named  Mount  Vernon.  The  tree  is  a  vigo- 
rous grower,  and  an  early  bearer.     Young  wood  yellow  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  varying  in  form,  but  generally  roundish 
obtuse  pyriform,  light  russet  on  a  yellow  ground,  brownish  red  in  the 
sun.  Stalk  short,  inserted  by  a  lip,  with  little  or  no  depression.  Calyx 
small,  closed,  with  short  segments.  Flesh  yellowish,  granulated,  juicy, 
melting,  slightly  vinous  and  slightly  aromatic.  Very  good.  November, 
December. 

MOYAMENSING. 
Smith'B  Early  Butter. 

Origin  in  the  garden  of  J.  B.  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Moyamensing 
District.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  lemon  or  greenish  yellow,  with 
patches,  marblings,  and  dots  of  russet.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  nearly  closed. 
Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.      Good.      August. 

Muscadine. 

The  Muscadine  is  remarkable  for  its  high  musky  aroma.  Its  history 
is  uncertain,  and  it  is  believed  to  be  a  native.  It  bears  very  heavy 
crops,  and  if  the  fruit  is  picked  early,  and  ripened  in  the  house,  it  is  a 
good  Pear  of  its  season.  Tree  vigorous,  upright  in  growth.  Young 
shoots  stout,  dark  gray  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  obovate,  regularly  formed,  pale  yel- 
lowish green,  a  little  rough,  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk 
about  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  well-formed  small  cavity.  Calyx  with  re- 
flexed  segments,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  half  melt- 
ing, with  an  agreeable,  rich,  musky  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  I<ast 
of  August  and  first  of  September. 

Muscat  Robert. 

Poire  a  la  Iierne.  Queen's  Amber. 

D'Ambre.  Virgin  of  Xaintonge. 

St.  Jean  Musquee  Gros.  Muscat  d'Ambre. 

Musk  Robine.  The  Princess. 

Early  Queen.  Great  Musk  Pear  of  Gone. 

Queen's  Pear.  Maiden  of  Flanders. 

Beurre  a  la  Reine.  Maiden  of  Xaintonge 

Robine.  Robert's  Muskatellei, 
Muscat  Robine. 

An  oM  Pear,  of  unknown  origin.     Tree  very  productive 


THE    PEAR.  819 

Fmit  smcill,  roundish  pyriform,  inclining  to  ovate,  greenish  yellow 
with  a  chill  crimson.  Stalk  long,  sometimes  inserted  hy  a  lip,  and  some- 
times in  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  breaking,  juicy, 
sweet.     Good.      Last  of  July. 

Muskingum. 

Origin,  supposed  Ohio.  Tree  very  vigorous,  upright,  hardy,  and 
productive.     Young  wood  dull  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  much  dotted  with  russet 
and  green.  Stalls  long.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Basin  very  shal- 
low. Flesh  melting,  with  a  pleasant,  brisk  flavor.  Good.  Ripe  mid- 
dle and  last  of  August. 

Napoleon. 

Medaille.  Melon. 

Sucree  Doree.  Beurre  d'Autien. 

Poire  Liard.  Liart. 

Roi  de  Rome,  erroneously.  Mabille. 

Bonaparte.  Mailanderin  Grosse  Grune. 

Belle  Canaise  Napoleon  d'Hiver. 

Charles.  Bois  Napoleon. 

Poire  Napoleon.  Napoleon  Vrai. 

Gloire  de  l'Empereur.  Bon  Chretien  Dore\ 

Captif  de  Sainte  Helene. 

The  Napoleon  is  hardy,  thrifty,  and  bears  abundant  crops,  even 
while  very  young.  In  poor  soils,  or  unfavorable  exposures  only,  it  ia 
astringent.  The  tree  is  thrifty,  and  a  vigorous  grower.  Shoots  upright, 
olive  colored.  It  was  raised  from  seed,  in  1808,  by  M.  Liard,  gardener 
at  Mons. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  obtuse  pyriform,  clear  green  at  first,  but  becom- 
ing pale  yellowish  green  at  maturity.  Stalk  varying  from  half  an  inch 
to  an  in  chlong,  pretty  stout,  set  in  a  slight  depression  or  under  a  swol- 
len lip.  Calyx  set  in  a  basin  of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  white,  melting, 
juicy,  sweet,  sprightly.     Good.     September. 

Napoleon  Savinien. 

This  is  a  new  French  variety,  resembling  Napoleon  in  appearance 
but  maturing  later  in  the  season. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  yellow,  partially  netted  and 
patched  with  russet,  and  tluckly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Segments  reflexed.  Basin  large,  uneven.  Flesh 
whitish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting.     Good.     January. 

Naumkeag. 

A  native  of  Salem,  Mass. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  yellow  russet.  Flesh  juicy,  melting, 
bet  rather  astringent  in  flavor.     Good.     October. 

Navez  Peintre. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate,  yellowish  green,  with  brownish  red  in  the  sun, 
and  bands  of  brown  russet.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  melting 
juicy,  piquant,  sugary.     Last  of  September.     (Hogg.) 


820  THE    PEAK. 

Negley. 

This  is  stipposed  to  be  a  seedling  originated  near  Pittsburgh,  Pa 
Introduced  by  J.  S.  Negley.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  and  an  early 
bearer.     Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  waxen  yellow, 
Blightly  netted  with  russet,  beautifully  shaded  with  bright  crimson  in 
the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  minute  brown  russet  dots.  Stalk 
medium.  Cavity  deep,  regular.  Calyx  open.  Segments  persistent. 
Basiu  shallow,  a  little  russeted.  Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  half- 
melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  slightly  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good.  Early 
September. 

Ne  Plus  Meuris. 

This  is  a  Belgian  Pear,  one  of  Dr.  "Van  Mons'  seedlings,  named  in 
allusion  to  Pierre  Meuris,  his  gardener  at  Brussels.  The  tree  grows 
upright,  has  short-jointed,  olive-colored  shoots. 

Fruit  medium  or  rather  small,  roundish,  usually  very  irregular,  with 
swollen  parts  on  the  surface,  dull  yellowish  brown,  partially  covered 
with  iron-colored  russet.  Stalk  quite  short,  set  without  depression,  in 
a  small  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  buttery,  with  a  sugary  and 
agreeable  flavor.     Good.     January  to  March. 

New  Bridge. 

Fruit  below  medium,  pyriform,  dull  gray,  covered  with  gray  russet 
brown  in  the  sun.  Flesh  melting,  a  little  gritty,  a  sugary  juice  without 
flavor.     October.     (Lindley.) 

Newhall. 

Raised  from  seed  by  Thaddeus  Clapp,  Dorchester,  Mass.  Tree  hardy, 
healthy,  and  prolific.     Young  wood  quite  reddish. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform,  inclining  to  oval.  Surface  a  little 
uneven,  yellow  at  maturity,  with  a  few  traces  or  blotches  of  russet, 
sometimes  a  blush  cheek  in  sun.  Stalk  inserted  without  much  cavity 
Calyx  small,  partly  closed,  set  in  a  corrugated  basin.  Flesh  melting, 
very  juicy,  buttery,  and  tender,  sweet,  with  a  musky  aroma.  Very 
good.     October.     (Journ.  of  Hort.) 

Newtown. 
Newtown  Seedling. 

Originated  at  Newtown,  Long  Island. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate,  lemon  yellow,  netted  and  patched 
with  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  half  melting,  sweet,  and 
pleasant.     Good.     September. 

Nickerson. 

This  variety  originated  in  Readfield,  Me.,  from  seed  planted  by 
gx-Governor  Huntoon. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriforrn,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  dull  red  cheek 
in  sun,     Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  sweet.     Good.     October 


THE    PEAR. 


NiELL. 


821 


Beurr6  NielL  Colmar  Bosc. 

Poire  NielL  Fondante  du  Bois,  incorrectly. 

Colmar  Niel. 

A  Ijtrge  and  handsome  Belgian  variety,  raised  by  Van  Mons,  from 
Beeds  sown  in  1815,  and  named  in  honor  of  Dr.  NielL,  of  Edinburgh,  a 
distinguished  horticulturist  and  man  of  science.  The  tree  bears 
plentifully. 

Fruit  large,  obovate,  inclining  to  pyriform,  rather  shortened  in  figure 
on  one  side  and  enlarged  on  the  other,  tapering  to  the  stalk,  which  is 
about  an  inch  long,  obliquely  planted,  with  little  or  no  cavity,  pale 
yellow,  delicately  marked  with  thin  russet,  finely  dotted,  and  sometimes 
marked  with  faint  red.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  sweet,  with  a  plentiful 
and  agreeable  juice.     Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  September. 

NlLES  ? 

A.  foreign  variety,  imported  by  John  M.  Niles,  Hartford,  Conn. 
The  original  name  having  been  lost,  it  has  not  yet  been  identified.  Young 
wood  whitish  gray. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Color  yellow  at  maturity,  thickly 
covered  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  deep,  abrupt,  uneven 
cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  deep  round  basin.  Flesh  juicy,  buttery - 
sweet,  and  pleasant.     December.     (Ad.  Int.  Rep.) 

Nonpareil. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Judge  Livingston,  of  New  York.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  russety  yellow,  specked  with  red. 
Flesh  fine,  melting,  sugary,  juicy,  rich  vinous.     December.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

NOTARIE    MlNOT. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  mostly  overspread 
and  shaded  with  red  in  sun,  and  bright  fawn  russet  in  shade.  Stalk 
slender.  Cavity  rather  deep,  narrow.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  melting, 
juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     November.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

NOUVEAU    POITEAU. 
Tombe  de  1' Amateur.  Choix  d'un  Amateur. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons',  a  very  vigorous  grower,  forming  a  beauti- 
ful pyramid  ;  very  productive.  Young  wood  brownish  red.  An  early 
bearer. 

Fruit  large,  obovate,  inclining  to  pyriform,  green,  with  numerous 
russet  dots,  and  sometimes  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  rather  short,  curved, 
inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  basin 
of  moderate  depth.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  with  a 
sugary,  vinous,  and  very  refreshing  flavor.  Good  to  very  good,  llipe 
Nu\  ember. 


822  THE    PEAR. 

NoiTVELLE    FULVIE. 
Fulvie  Gregoire. 

This  new  Belgian  Pear  is  described  in  the  Annals  of  Pomology  as  : — 
Fruit  very  large,  pyriform.  Surface  uneven,  rich  light  yellow,  shaded 
and  marbled  with  brown  red  in  the  sun,  and  an  occasional  fawn  russet 
patch.  Stalk  stout,  inserted  as  it  were  by  a  neck.  Calyx  large,  in  a 
round,  regular  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  melting,  buttery,  juicy, 
sweet,  with  an  exquisite  perfume.     January  and  February. 

As  we  have  received  and  fruited  this  Pear  it  is  only  of  medium  size, 
roundish,  slightly  pyriform,  and  ripens  in  November. 

Oak-Leaved  Imperial. 

Imperial.  Imperiale  a.  feuilles  de  chene. 

Imperial  Oak -leaved.  Oak-leaved  Imperial. 

An  old  Pear,  of  unknown  origin  and  of  little  value,  except  as  a  curi- 
osity, from  its  peculiar  foliage  somewhat  resembling  the  oak. 

Fruit  below  medium,  ovate  pyriform,  deep  green,  with  some  nettinga 
and  patches  of  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  half  melting,  j  uicy,  sweet.  Good. 
December  to  March. 

Oakley  Park  Bergamotte. 

One  of  Knight's  seedlings.  It  is  described  by  the  London  Horti- 
cultural Society  as  : — 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obovate,  greenish  yellow,  with  some 
russet.     Flesh  buttery,  melting.     October. 

CEuf. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  greenish  yellow,  with  light  red  in  the  sun,  and  ' 
<*ray  russety    dots.     Stalk   long.     Calyx  small,  open.     Flesh  whitish, 
tender,  melting,  sweet,  musky.     Ripe  in  August,  and  will  keep  three 
weeks  without  decaying.     (Hogg.) 

Oken. 

Oken  d'Hiver  Cent  Couronnes. 

Winter  Oken.  Beurre  Oken. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellowish,  with  a  little  brown  in 
st  l  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.  Hardly  good.  Oc- 
tober. 

Oliver's  Russet. 

Originated  in  the  grounds  of Oliver,  Lynn,  Mass. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  cinnamon  russet  on  yellow 
ground,  with  a  blush.  Stalk  in  a  cavity.  Basin  small.  Flesh  whitish, 
coarse,  without  much  flavor.     Last  of  September. 

Olivier  de  Serres. 
Originated    with    M.   Boisbunel,  Rouen,   Franc*:'.       free    vigorous, 


THE    PEAR. 


823 


rather  spreading,  and  very  productive.  Young  wood  slen  ler,  rich  yel- 
low brown.  A  new  sort,  reputed  of  first  quality  in  France.  It  haa 
not  yet  fruited  here. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  irregular  in  form,  generally  roundish.  Deep 
yellow,  with  shade  of  rough  russet,  and  many  reddish  russet  dots  in 
sun.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  rich,  juicy,  sweet,  delicate  perfume 
February,  March.     (Verg.) 

Oneida. 

Origin,  Western  New  York. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  pale  yellow,  partially  netted  and 
patched  with  light  russet.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting, 
pleasant.     Good.     September. 


Onondaga. 

Onondaga. 
Swan's  Orange,  Kilmer. 

Supposed  to  have  originated  in  Farmington,  Conn.     Tree  very  vigo 


824  THE    PEAK. 

rous  and  productive.    Young  wood  olive  brown.     A  profitable  market 
variety. 

Fruit  large,  ovate  obovate  obtusely  pyriform.  Skin  somewhat 
coarse  and  uneven,  thickly  covered  with  russet  dots,  fine  rich  yellow  at 
maturity,  generally  with  some  traces  of  russet,  and  sometimes  with  a 
sunny  cheek.  Stalk  rather  stout,  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  small 
cavity,  at  an  inclination.  Calyx  small,  firmly  closed,  set  in  a  narrow, 
somewhat  uneven  basin.  Flesh  buttery,  melting,  abounding  in  juice, 
slightly  granular,  and  when  in  perfection  with  a  fine,  rich,  vinoua 
flavor.  A  variable  fruit.  Good  to  very  good.  September  to  No- 
vember. 

Ontario. 

Origin,  Geneva,  Ontario  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous  and  produc- 
tive.    Young  wood  light  yellow,  a  shade  of  red  next  the  buds. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  thickly  dotted 
with  minute  brown  and  green  dots,  and  slightly  netted  with  russet. 
Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity,  with  a  ring  or  lip.  Calyx  open, 
with  long  recurved  segments.  Flesh  whitish,  slightly  veined  with  yel- 
low, melting,  juicy,  buttery,  slightly  granulous,  sweet.  Good  to  very 
good.     Last  September. 

Orange. 
Red  Orange.  Orange  d'Automne.  Orange  Rouge. 

An  old  variety  of  little  value. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular,  pale  yellow,  with  a  few  traces  of 
russet  and  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  half  melting,  sweet.  Early  Sep- 
tember. 

Orange  Bergamotte. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow.  Flesh  firm,  rather  acid 
for  eating,  but  excellent  for  baking.     September. 

Orange  d'Hiver. 

Winter  Orange. 

Fruit  medium ;  an  old  Pear,  very  productive ;  not  desirable  for  ta- 
ble, but  a  good  baking  Pear.     November,  December. 

Orange  Mandarine. 

Fruit  about  medium,  roundish,  golden  yellow,  with  many  brown 
russet  dots,  and  a  warm  glow  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish, 
very  tender,  melting,  acidulous,  sugary.     October.     (Hogg.) 

Orange  Musquee. 
Orange  Musk.  Musk  Orange.  Orange  d'fitfi. 

Fiuit  medium,  round,  yellow,  marbled  and  shaded  with  red  in  tha 


■on. 


Flesh  breaking,  with  a  musky  juice.     Good.     Last  of  August. 


THE    PEAR. 


820 


Orange  Tulipee. 


Poire  aux  Mouches. 
Striped  Orange. 


Tuliped  or  Fly- Pear. 
Great  Orange. 


Fruit  pi-etty  large,  oval  pyriform,  green,  shaded  in  sun  with  brown- 
ish red.     Flesh  melting,  juice  agreeable.     September.     (Lind.) 

Orpheline  Colmar. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  Belgian  Pears,  as  yet  little  known  in  this  coun- 
try.    Tree  vigorous,  very  fertile.     Young  wood  dull  olive  brown. 

Fruit  very  large,  pyriform,  bright  green,  somewhat  yellow,  dotted 
with  gray,  brown,  and  black,  and  shaded  with  russet,  fawn  on  the  sunny 
side,  and  around  the  calyx  and  stem.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine,  melt- 
ing, a  little  granular  around  the  core,  juicy,  sweet,  and  perfumed.  Octo- 
ber.    (An.  Pom.) 

Osband's  Summer. 

•  Osband's  Favorite.  Summer  Virgalieu. 

Origin,  Wayne  County,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright, 
an  early  and  prolific  bearer.     Young  wood  rich  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  ovate  obovate  pyriform,  clear  yellow,  thickly 
dotted  with  small  greenish  and  brown  dots,  with  a  warm  cheek  on  the 
side  of  the  sxm,  and  some  traces 
of  russet,  particularly  around 
stalk  and  calyx.  Stalk  of  medi- 
um length,  rather  strong,  inserted 
in  an  abrupt  ca\  ity.  Calyx  open, 
set  in  a  broad,  shallow  basin. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  with 
a  rich  sugary  flavor  and  pleasant 
musky  perfume.  Very  good.  Ri- 
pens early  in  August. 

Osborne. 

Origin,  Economy,  Ind.  Pro- 
ductive and  a  free  grower. 

Fruit  medium,  short  pyri- 
form, yellowish  green,  with  nu- 
merous gray  dots.  Stalk  rather 
long.  Basin  broad  and  shal- 
low. Calyx  partially  closed. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  brisk,  vinous. 
Hardly   good.     Middle    of   Sep 

tembez*.  Osband's  Summer. 

Oswego  Beurre. 

Read's  Seedling. 

ttaised  by  Walter   Bead,  of  Oswego,  N.  Y. 
and  productive.     Young  wood  olive  yellow. 


Tree  vigorous,  hardy, 


826  THE    PEAK. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sometimes  inclining  to  conic,  yo.lowish  greeD. 
streaked  and  mottled  with  thin  russet,  but  becomes  a  fine  yellow.  Stalk 
rather  short,  inserted  in  a  deep,  round  cavity.  Calyx  closed,  set  in  an 
even,  shallow  basin.  Flesh  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  with  vinous,  aro 
matic  flavor.     Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 

Oswego  Incomparable. 

Originated  at  Oswego,  N.  Y.     Tree  very  vigorous.       • 
Fruit  rather  large,  obtuse  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  slightly  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  a  tinge  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  many  russet 
dots.     Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.    t Sep- 
tember. 

Ott. 

A  seedling  of  the  Seckel ;  originated  with  Samuel  Ott,  Montgomery 
Co.,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  very  productive.  Young  wood 
reddish  olive-brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obovate,  greenish  yellow,  partially  netted 
with  russet,  reddish  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  long  and  curved,  insert- 
ed in  a  slight  depression.  Calyx  open,  in  a  round,  open  basin.  Flesh 
melting,  sugary,  rich,  perfumed,  and  aromatic.  Ripe  middle  of  August. 
\n  excellent  little  pear,  somewhat  variable.      Good  to  very  good. 

Ott's  Seedling. 

( h-iginated  by  Dr.  W.  D.  Brinckle,  from  seed  of  the  Ott.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous.    Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  globular  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish,  shaded  with  dull 
crimson  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  green  and  light  dots. 
Stalk  stout,  inclined  in  a  slight  depression  by  the  lip.  Calyx  small, 
closed.  Segments  short.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  sweet,  rich.  Good  to 
very  good.      Last  of  August. 

Owen. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  John  Owen,  Cambridge,  Mass.  A  fine 
cooking  Pear. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  dark  green.  Flesh  tender,  deli- 
cious, finely  colored.     October  to  December.     (Cole.) 

Paddock. 

Received  of  Chauncey  Goodrich,  of  Burlington,  Vt.  Tree  vigorous, 
spreading. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  light  yellow, 
sometimes  with  a  faint  blush.  Stalk  medium.  Calyx  in  a  rather 
broad,  shallow  basin.  Flesh  fine-grained,  melting,  sweet,  but  not  very 
high  flavor.     Good.     Ripe  last  of  July. 

Pailleau. 

A  Belgian  Pear  of  good  quality,  but  rather  coarse-grained. 
Fruit  medium,  turbinate,  greenish   yellow,  with  patches  of  russet 
Flesh  juicy,  sweet.      Good.     Early  in  September. 


THE    PEAK. 


827 


Paradise  d'Automne. 


Calebasse  Bosc. 
Maria  Nouvelle. 
Princesse  Marianne. 
Faux  Spreciew. 


False  Spreciew. 

Marianne. 

Calebasse. 

Calebasse  Princesse  Marianne. 


A  Belgian  Pear,  of  uncertain  or  igin.  Tree  very  vigorous.  Shoots 
long  and  twisting,  dull  reddish  brown,  thickly  sprinkled  with  very 
conspicuous  dots. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  acute  pyriform,  yellow,  mottled, 
and  often  entirely  overspread  with  bright  cinnamon  russet.       Surfacv. 


Paradise  d  Automne. 


uneven.  Stalk  long,  enlarged  at  both  endti,  and  inserted  without  much 
cavity,  often  by  fleshy  wrinkles  or  folds.  Calyx  open.  Basin  abrupt, 
and  surrounded  by  prominences.  Flesh  moderately  fine,  sometimes 
slightly  granular,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  very  rich  vinous,  aromatic 
flavor.     Very  good.     September,  October. 

Pardee's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  S.  D.  Pardee,  New  Haven,  Conn.     Tree  vigorous,  very 
productive.     Young  shoots  slender,  grayish  red  brown. 


828  THE    PEAR. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  chiefly  covered  with  russet 
Stalk  medium.  Cavity  large,  deep.  Calyx  open.  Basin  furrowed. 
Flesh  coarse,  granular,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  slightly  aromatic 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 


Parfum  d'Aout. 
Perfumed.  August  Perfume. 

An  old  sort,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  light  yellow,  deep  red  in  the  sun,  with  manj 
dark  yellow  dots.  Flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  musky,  juicy.  Hardlj 
good.     August. 

Parfum  de  Rose. 

A  Belgian  variety,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  small,  oblong  ovate  acute-pyriform,  yellow,  nearly  covered 
with  light  russet,  and  with  numerous  brown  and  gray  dots.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, moderately  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     October. 

Parsonage. 

Origin,  New  Rochelle,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  fine  healthy  grower,  produces 
large  crops  of  perfect  fruit  annually,  making  it,  although  not  of  first 
quality,  a  profitable  market  sort.    Young  wood  dull  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medivim  or  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  often  inclined, 
orange  yellow,  rough,  generally  shaded  with  dull  crimson,  netted  and 
patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
short  and  thick,  fleshy  at  its  junction,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity,  russet- 
ed.  Calyx  partially  open,  stifl',  set  in  a  shallow,  slightly  russeted  ba- 
sin. Flesh  white,  slightly  coarse,  somewhat  granular,  juicy,  melting, 
with  a  refreshing  vinous  flavor.     Good.     Pipe  all  of  September. 


Passans  du  Portugal. 

Summer  Portugal.  Poire  Chenille. 

Miller's  Early.  Chenille. 

Butter  of  Michigan. 

A  delicate  and  pleasant  Pear,  which  comes  early  into  bearing,  and 
pi'oduces  very  large  crops.     Shoots  grayish  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  a  cheek  of  fairest 
brown,  becoming  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  nearly  an  inch  long,  inserted  in 
;i  round,  regular  hollow.  Calyx  stiff.  Basin  moderately  sunk.  Flesh 
%  bite,  juicy,  breaking,  of  very  delicate,  agreeable  flavor.  Good.  Last 
of  August. 


THE    PEAR.  82$ 

Passe  Colmar. 

Ananas  d'Hiver.  Gambier. 

Passe  Colmar  Kpineaux.  Cellite 

Colinar  Gris.  Colmar  Preule. 

Passe  Colmar  Gris  Pucelle  Condesienne. 

Beurre  Colmar  Gris,  dit  preceL  Bergentin. 

Precel.  Colmar  Kpineaux. 

Fondante  de  Mods.  Beurre  Chapman. 

Beurre  d'Argenson.  Chapman's. 

Regintin,  Colmar  Bonnet. 

Colmar  Hardenpont.  Passn  Colmar  Vineux. 

Present  de  Mali  Colmar  de  Silly. 

Marotte  Sucree  Jaune.  Prenl. 

Souveraine  d'Hiver.  Imperatrice. 

Colmar  Souveraine.  Souveraine. 

The  Passe  Colmar  is  a  Belgian  Pear,  raised  by  the  Counsel)  or  Har- 
denpont. Vigorous  growth,  and  abundant  bearer.  It  grows  indeed 
almost  too  thriftily  making  long  bending  shoots,  and  owing  to  this  over- 
luxuriance  the  fruit  is  often  second-rate  on  young  trees,  but  on  old  trees, 
with  high  cultivation,  it  is  sometimes  of  the  best  quality.  It  is  a  very 
variable  fruit,  and  often  poor.  The  young  shoots  are  of  a  dark  olive 
yellow  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  varying  considerably  from  obovate  to  obtuse 
pyriform.  Skin  rather  thick,  yellowish  green,  becoming  yellow  at 
maturity,  a  good  deal  sprinkled  with  brown  russet,  especially  around  the 
stalk  and  calyx.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted  in  an  obtuse, 
uneven  cavity,  or  sometimes  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Basin 
shallow.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  buttery,  and  juicy,  with  a  rich,  sweet, 
aromatic  flavor      Good  to  very  good.     December,  January. 

Passe-Colmar  Musque. 
Colmar  Musque.  Passe-Colmar  Musque  d'Automne. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen  of  Malines. 

Fruit  medium  size,  varying  from  roundish  oblate  to  roundish  ovate 
pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short.  Calyx 
small,  partially  closed.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  very  but- 
tery, juicy,  melting,  pleasant  perfumed.     Good.     October. 

Passe  Ckassane. 
Snrpasse  Crassane.  Neue  Crassane. 

Originated  in  France.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  wood 
yellow  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  with  slight  nettings  and 
patches  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long, 
rather  stout,  inclined.  Cavity  medium.  Calyx,  small  and  closed. 
Basin  abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  gritty  near  the  core,  ;'uicy, 
melting,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     December,  January. 

Passe  Tardive. 

One  of  Major  Esperen's  seedlings. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  acute  pyriform.     Surface   uneven,  pale  yel 


620 


THE    PEAK. 


low,  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  gray  brcwn 
dots.  Stalk  stout,  fleshy  at  insertion,  and  without  cavity.  Calyx  open 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  breaking,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good.  January  to 
March. 

Pater  Noster. 
Paul  Thielens,  erroneously. 

An  old  variety,  of  which  the  origin  appears  unknown.  It  was  in 
Van  Mons'  catalogue  in  1823. 

Fruit  large,  variable  in  form,  from  obovate  obtuse  pyriform  to  irre- 
gular obovtvte  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  mottled  and  sbaded  in 
sun  with  red,  netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet  brown.  Stalk 
stout,  usually  planted  with  a  lip.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  white, 
juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.  Good  to  very  good.  October,  Novem- 
ber. 

Paul  Ambre. 

The  origin  of  this  Belgian  variety  is  unknown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  or  roundish  oval,  pale  greenish  yellow,  often 
shaded  and  mottled  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  sometimes  netted  with  rus- 
set, and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium,  set 
in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open,  with  long,  broad,  recurved  seg- 
ments. Basin  shallow,  smooth.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  buttery,  melting, 
sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Paul  Thielens. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  first  fruited  in  1844.  Tree  vigorous 
and  productive.  .  Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  slightly  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots,  light  shade  of 
crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  medium  length,  pretty  stout.  Cavity  broad, 
irregular.  Calyx  small.  Segments  persistent.  Basin  small,  abrupt, 
uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  a  little  astringent. 
Good.     October. 

Payenche. 


Poire  de  Payency. 
De  Perigord. 
Payenchi. 


Paquency. 

Payenchi  de  Perigord. 

Payency. 


This  Pear  was  first  discovered  in  the  village  of  Payenche,  in  1830. 
Tree  a  moderately  vigorous  grower  and  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oblong  ovate  pyi'iform,  light  yellow,  with  a  rich 
warm  red  cheek  in  the  sun,  much  netted  and  specked  with  rough  russet. 
Stalk  stout,  curved,  often  a  little  inclined,  and  set  with  a  scarcely  per- 
ceptible cavity.  Calyx  rather  large,  open.  Basin  small,  abrupt.  Flesb 
yellowish  white,  a  little  coarse,  melting,  iuicy,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 


THE    t'EAK.  831 

Peach  Pear. 
Poire  Peche.  Peach.  Pfirsichbirne. 

A  seedling  of  Esperen,  of  moderate  growth  and  productive.  Young 
wood  dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted  and  patched 
with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather  long, 
curved,  fleshy  at  insertion,  by  a  lip.  Calyx  partially  open.  Basin  small, 
uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  brisk,  vinous,  sometimes  astrin- 
gent.    Good.     August. 

Pemberton. 
General  Banks. 

Originated  with  S.  A.  Shurtleff,  of  Boston,  Mass. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  obtuse  at  the  stem,  nearly  smooth, 
yellowish  green,  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  dotted  with  greenish 
specks.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  shallow,  ribbed. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine,  melting,  jucy,  with  a  rich  bergamot  aroma. 
Early  September.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Penderson. 

Raised  by  Samuel  Penderson,  of  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  a  great 
bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  half 
melting,  brisk,  somewhat  astringent.     Good.     October. 

Pendleton's  Early  York. 

Raised  by  Mrs.  Jeremiah  York,  of  Pendleton  Hill,  Conn.  Tree  mod- 
erately vigorous,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obovate,  varying  to  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin 
yellow,  sometimes  with  a  faint  blush,  a  few  patches  and  traces  of  russet, 
and  many  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  inserted  in  a  moderate  cavity, 
Calyx,  open.  Basin  irregular.  Flesh  white,  not  melting,  sweet,  slightly 
perfumed.     Good.     Ripens  last  of  July. 

Pengethly. 

One  of  Mr.  Knight's  seedlings. 

Fruit  medium,  inclining  to  oval.  Stalk  long,  rather  slender.  Calyx 
large.  Segments  quite  long  and  narrow.  Skin  light  green,  thickly 
Bprinkled  with  dark  dots,  yellowish  on  the  side  of  the  sun,  sometimes 
a  red  cheek.  Flesh  somewhat  coarse,  but  juicy,  sweet,  and  good. 
February,  March.     (Robert  Manning's  MS.) 

Penn. 

Fraser  or  Butter  Pear.  Railroad  Fuss. 

A  variety   originated    in  Bordentown,   N.   J.,   near  the   old    Penn 
Manor,  hence  the  name.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  an  annual  bearer. 
Fruit    medium,    oblate,    sometimes    roundish    oblato,    pale    lemor 


832  THE    PEAR. 

yellow,  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  grayish  and  russet  dots,  and  some 
times  a  few  patches  and  dots  of  russet  around  the  calyx.  Stalk  rathei 
stout,  enlarged  at  insertion.  Cavity  slight,  uneven.  Calyx  open.  Seg 
ments  short,  erect.  Basin  slightly  furrowed.  Flesh  white,  a  little 
coarse,  jucy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  slightly  aromatic.  Good  to  very 
good.     October. 

Pennsylvania. 
Smith's  Pennsylvania. 

The  Pennsylvania  is  a  seedling  originated  by  J.  B.  Smith,  Esq.,  of 
Philadelphia,  a  well-known  amateur. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  obovate,  brown  russet,  nearly  cover- 
ing a  dull  yellow  ground,  and  becoming  russet  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  not  very  fine-grained,  juicy,  half  melting, 
sweet,  perfumed,  musky  flavor.  Hardly  good.  Middle  and  last  of 
September. 

Perpetual. 

Origin,  Long  Island,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  slight  tinge 
of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  firm,  moderately  juicy.  A  good  cook- 
ing Pear.     Keeping  to  May. 

Peters. 

Ptaised  in  1848,  by  Rev.  Absalom  Peters,  of  Williamstown,  Mass. 
Tree  vigorous  grower,  and  an  annual  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  greenish  yellow, 
shaded  with  brownish  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  moderately 
juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.      Good.     August. 

Petre. 

An  American  Pear.  The  original  tree  is  growing  in  that  interesting 
place,  the  old  Bartram  Botanic  Garden,  near  Philadelphia.  The  tree  is 
not  a  rapid  grower,  but  produces  very  regular  and  abundant  crops. 
Young  wood  slender,  yellowish  broAvn. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  or  rather  large  obovate,  pale  yellow,  some- 
times marked  with  greenish  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  about  the 
eye.  Stalk  stiff  and  strong,  about  an  inch  long,  stout  at  the  lower  end, 
and  set  in  a  peculiar,  abruptly  flattened  cavity.  Calyx  small,  set  in  a 
narrow  but  smooth  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  fine-drained,  buttery,  and 
very  melting,  with  a  perfumed,  slightly  musky,  high  flavor.  Good  to 
very  good.     October. 

Philadelphia. 
Latch.  Orange  Bergamot,  erroneously. 

Origin,  near  Philadelphia.  Tree  healthy,  vigorous.  Young  shoots 
light  yellowish  brown,  productive.     Fruit  sometimes  cracks. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled  with 
green  or  gray  dots,  sometimes  netted  with  russet.     Stalk  of  medium 


THE    PEAK.  833 

length,  stout  at  its  insertion,  in  an  abrupt  cavity.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a 
broad,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  coarse,  juicy,  buttery,  melting,  with  a  sugary 
flavor,  slightly  perfumed.     Good.     September. 

Philippe  Goes. 

A  Belgian  variety,  much  resembling  Baronne  de  Mello.  Tree  vigo- 
rous and  productive.     Young  wood  dark  olive  brown. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  acute  pyriform,  yellow,  covered 
with  brownish  russet.  Stalk  long,  curved,  fleshy  at  insertion.  Calyx 
small,  partially  closed.  Basin  small.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  juicy, 
vinous,  slightly  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Picciola. 

Of  Belgian  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive.  Young 
wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate,  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  a  slight 
blush  in  sun,  and  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  curved,  set  in  a  cavity 
somewhat  furrowed.  Calyx  small,  open,  with  short,  erect  segments. 
Flesh  whitish,  very  juicy,  melting,  with  a  vinous  flavor.  Good  to  very 
good.     September. 

Pie  IX. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  quite  variable  in  quality,  but  almost  always  smooth 
and  handsome.     Tree  vigorous.     Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  acute  pyriform,  slightly  inclined,  yel- 
low, netted  and  patched  with  russet,  especially  at  each  end,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  stout,  joined  insensibly  as  it  were  to 
the  fruit.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short,  persistent.  Basin  broad, 
shallow.  Flesh  white,  a  little  firm,  juicy,  melting,  brisk,  vinous.  Good 
to  very  good.     September,  October. 

Pinneo. 

Boston.  Early  Denzelona. 

Graves.  Hebron. 

Silliman's  Russet.  Lebanon. 

Summer  Virgalieu. 

An  old  American  variety,  said  to  have  originated  in  Columbia,  Tol- 
land Co.,  Conn.  Tree  a  moderately  vigorous  grower,  a  good  bearer. 
Young  wood  light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  pyriform,  pale  yellow, 
netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet,  and  often  a  warin  red  cheek 
in  sun.  Stalk  rather  long,  nearly  straight,  sometimes  curved.  Cavity 
medium  or  small.  Calyx  partially  open.  Basin  broad.  Flesh  whito, 
fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

PlTMASTON    DUCHESSE    D'ANGOULEME. 

This  is  the  unfortunate  name  given  to  a  Pear  raised  by  John  Wil 
lianis,  of  Pitmaston,  England.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong  obovate,  yellow,  with  light  russet  near 
the  stalk.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  melting,  buttery,  juicy.  October, 
November.      (Gard.  Chvon.) 

53 


834  THE    PEAR. 

Pitt's  Prolific. 

Pitt's  Surpasse  Marie.  Surpass  Maria  Louise,  iuccneotly. 

An  English  fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  a 
little  russeted.  Flesh  juicy,  soft,  sweet,  rather  coarse,  and  of  indiffer- 
ent quality.     September. 

Plantagenet. 

A  new  Belgian  Pear.     Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  netted,  patched,  and  dot- 
ted with  russet.  Stalk  long,  slender,  set  in  slight  cavity,  with  a  lip 
Calyx  open.  Segments  partially  recurved.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melt- 
ing.    Good  to  very  good.     November. 

Platt. 
Piatt's  Seedling. 

Origin  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Thomas  Tredwell,  Beekmantown, 
Clinton  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  hardy,  and  productive.  Young 
wood  grayish  reddish  brown,  with  many  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  irregular  oblate,  pale  yellow,  netted  and 
patched  with  russet  and  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium. 
Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  buttery,  half  melting,  plea- 
sant.    Good.     October. 

Pocahontas. 

Origin,  Quincy,  Mass.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  wood  olive 
brown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  yellow,  netted,  patched,  and 
dotted  with  russet,  sometimes  shaded  in  the  sun  with  bright  crimson. 
Stalk  rather  long,  stout,  set  without  cavity  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open. 
Basin  small,  slightly  russeted.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
slightly  musky,  pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Pollan. 

A  Pennsylvania  Pear. 

Fruit  below  medium,  nearly  globular,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  shade 
of  brown  in  the  sun.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy 
vinous,  pleasant.     Good.     August. 

Pope's  Quaker. 

Origin,  Long  Island,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  very  fair-,  middle-sized,  oblong  pyriform,  smooth,  yellow  rus- 
set, juicy,  melting,  and  pleasant.     Hardly  good.     October. 

Pope's  Scarlet  Major. 

Origin,  Long  Island,  K  Y. 

Fruit  rather  large,  obovate,  yellow,  with  a  bright  red  cheek.  Flesh 
white,  breaking,  and  rather  dry.     Poor.     Last  of  August. 


THE    PEAR.  835 

Pound. 

Uvedale's  St  Germain.  Bolivar  d'Hiver. 

Winter  Bell.  Comtesse  de  Terweuren. 

Bretagne  le  Coux.  Duchesse  de  Berry  d'Hiver 

Belle  Angevine.  Gros  fin  or  long  d'Hiver. 

Belle  de  Jersey.  Union. 

Du  Tonneau.  Grosse  de  Bruxelles. 

Royal  d'Angleterre.  La  Quintinye. 

Beaute  de  Tervueren.  Grosse  Dame  Jeanne. 

Pickering  Pear.  Louise  Bonne  d'Hiver. 

Lent  St.  Germ;  iu.  Bellissime  d'Hiver,  du  Bur. 

Cordelier..  Abbe  Mongein. 

Anderson.  Chamber's  Large. 

Angora  ?  Dr.  Udales  Warden. 

D'Horticulture.  German  Baker. 

Berthebirn.  Pickering's  Warden, 

Bolivar.  Piper. 
Faux-Bolivar. 

The  Pound,  or  Winter  Bell  Pear,  valued  only  for  cooking,  is  an 
abundant  bearer,  and  a  profitable  orchard  crop.  The  trees  are  strong 
and  healthy,  with  very  stout,  upright,  dark-colored  wood. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  swollen  at  the  crown,  and  narrowing  gradually 
to  a  point  at  the  insertion  of  the  stalk.  Skin  yellowish  green,  with  a 
brown  cheek  (yellow  and  red  when  long  kept),  and  sprinkled,  with 
numerous  brown  russet  dots.  Stalk  two  inches  or  more  long,  stout, 
bent.  Calyx  crumpled,  set  in  a  narrow,  slight  basin.  Flesh  firm  and 
solid,  stews  red,  and  is  excellent  baked  or  preserved. 

Prairie  du  Pond. 

Introduced  by  A.  H.  Ernst. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular,  greenish  yellow,  with  many  brown  and 
green  dots.  Flesh  whitish,  moderately  juicy,  half  melting,  vinous, 
astringent.     Poor.     September 

Pratt. 

A  native  of  Rhode  Island.  Tree  a  vigorous  upright  grower,  very 
productive.     Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with 
crimson,  and  sprinkled  with  numerous  russet  and  conspicuous  dots,  fre- 
quently patched  and  netted  with  russet.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved, 
inserted  in  a  regular  cavity.  Calyx  open,  set  in  a  bread,  shallow  basin. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  briskly  vinous,  and  saccharine,  variable, 
but  when  in  perfection  of  great  excellence.  Good  to  very  good. 
Ripens  last  of  September. 

Precilly. 

A  Belgian  Pear.     Tree  very  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  dota 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  coarse,  juicy,  breaking.  Good  for  cooking.  Oc- 
tober. 


THE    PEAK. 

Pr£i»ices  de  Wagelwater. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.  Sides  unequal 
Skin  yellow,  a  few  traces  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown 
dots.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  very 
sweet.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

President. 

liaised  by  Dr.  S.  A.  Shurtleff,  Brookline,  Mass.,  and  first  described  ir 
the  New  England  Farmer ',  1862. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  obovate,  somewhat  irregular.  Skin 
slightly  rough,  greenish  yellow,  pale  red  in  the  sun,  considerable  of  russet 
next  the  base  of  stalk,  and  ti-aces  of  russet  and  conspicuous  russet  dots 
over  all.  Stalk  short,  rather  stout.  Calyx  medium,  with  short,  stiff, 
closed  segments.  Basin  medium.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  rather  coarse, 
juicy,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     Early  November. 

President  Felton. 

Originated  with  Dr.  W.  D.  Brinckle.  Tree  moderately  vigorous. 
Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  pale  yellow,  with  a  crimson  cheek 
in  sun,  nettings,  traces  of  russet,  aud  many  brown  and  gray  dots.  Stalk 
short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  fine,  juicy,  yellowish,  half  melting,  slightly 
vinous,  sweet.     Good.     October-. 

President  Mas. 

A  new  Belgian  variety. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
with  some  patches  and  traces  of  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine, 
juicy,  melting,  buttery,  sweet.    December,  January.     (Transom's  Cat.) 

Prevost. 
Poire  Prevost. 

A  French  Pear.  Tree  vigorous,  very  productive.  Young  wood 
stout,  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a 
tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  minute  brown  dots. 
Stalk  medium  length,  moderately  stout.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  breaking,  swreet,  and  pleasant.     Good.     February. 

Prince  Albert. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  late  seedlings.  Tree  very  vigcrous.  Young 
wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  some- 
times brownish  yellow  in  the  sun,  nettings  and  patches  of  russet.    Calyx 


THE    PEAR.  837 

opei.     Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  valuable  as  a  cooking  pear.      Decern* 
ber  to  March. 

Prince  de  Joinville. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  first  fruited  in  1848. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek  in  sun, 
and  more  or  less  of  shades  and  patches  of  fawn  russet.  Stalk  slender 
Cavity  medium.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine, 
melting,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet,  with  a  peculiar  perfume.  November. 
(Alb.  Pom.) 

Prince  Imperial  de  France. 

One  of  M.  Gregoire's  seedlings.  Tree  vigorous,  irregular  spreading, 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  ovate  pyriform.  Skin  clear  warm  greenish  yel- 
low, becoming  golden  or  brownish  in  sun,  with  small  patches  and  dots 
of  fawn  russet.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  deep,  acute,  furrowed.  Flesh 
white,  slightly  tinged  with  x-ose,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  with  an  agreeable 
perfume.     October.     (An.  Pom.) 

Prince  Napoleon. 

Introduced  by  M.  Boisbunel,  Rouen,  France.  Tree  moderately  vigo- 
rous and  very  productive.       Young  wood  dull  brown,  slightly  reddish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  pyriforni,  dull  greenish,  much 
shaded  with  thin  brown  russet,  and  russet  patches.  Stalk  short,  stout. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  fine,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     December.     (Verg.) 

Prince's  Harvest. 

Raised  by  WilUani  Prince,  of  Flushing,  Long  Island,  N.  Y.  Tree 
rigorous,  upright,  and  productive.     Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  ovate  pyriforr^.  Skin  pale  yellow,  rarely  a  brownish 
blush,  red  cheek  in  sun,  sprinkled  with  brown  dots,  and  sometimes 
patched  with  russet.  Stalk  medium,  fleshy  at  insertion,  by  a  large  Ud 
and  rings.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  firm,  breaking,  moderately  juicy, 
sweet,  slightly  musky.     Good.     Last  of  July. 

Prince's  Pear. 
Poire  de  Prince.  Cher  Adame.  Chair  a  Dame. 

An  old  variety,  of  unknown  origin,  and  of  little  value. 

Fruit  small,  pyriform,  roundish,  greenish  yellow,  mostly  covered 
with  dull  reddish  russet,  with  some  gray  specks.  Flesh  crisp,  sweet, 
juicy.     Last  of  August. 

Prince's  St.  Germain. 
Brown  St  Germain.  New  St.  Germain. 

Originated   with    William  Prince,    Flushing,  Long  Island.     Tree  ■ 


838  THE    PEAR. 

moderately  vigorous  growt  r,  and  an  abundant  bearer  of  fruit,  in  qualitj 
very  good,  and  possessing  a  good  keeping  character.  Young  wood  dull 
reddish  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  inclining  to  oval  pyriform.       Skin 
nearly  covered  with  brownish  russet  over  a  green  ground,  and  becoming 


Prince's  St  Germain. 


dull  red  next  the  sun.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more  long,  a  little  cuived,  and 
placed  in  a  medium  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  large,  open,  firm,  and 
nearly  without  divisions,  set  in  a  smooth,  nearly  flat  basin.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  sweet,  somewhat  vinous,  and  very 
agreeable  flavor.     Very  good.     November  to  March. 

Princess  Charlotte. 

xvaised  by  Major  Esperen.  A  vigorous  tree,  productive.  Young 
wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  pyriform.  Color  greenish.  Stalk  stout  and 
long  in  a  slight  cavity.  Basin  broad  and  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish  pink 
ish  at  centre,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     November. 

Princess  ATarta. 
One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings. 


THE    PEAK.  fc>3& 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  ovate  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow 
considerably  covered  with  rough  dull  russet,  aud  thickly  sprinkled  with 
dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  small,  closed.  Flesh  whitish,  rather 
coarse,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  aromatic.     Go    >       September. 

Princess  of  Orange. 
Princesse  d'Orange.  Princesse  Conquefce. 

A  Flemish  variety,  raised  by  the  Count  Coloma,  in  1802. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  cinnamon  russet  in  the  shade,  bright 
reddish  russet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  pale  yellowish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  astrin 
gent.     Poor.     October  and  November. 

Professeur  Hennau. 

A  new  Flemish  Pear.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  ovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  mostly 
covered  with  wai-in  reddish  brown  in  sun,  and  dotted  with  numerous 
small  and  large  dots.  Stalk  very  short,  inserted,  inclined,  with  a  ring 
or  lip.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet.  December.  (An. 
Pom.) 

Pulsifer. 

Raised  by  Dr.  John  Pulsifer,  of  Hennepin,  111.  An  upright  and 
vigorous  grower.     Young  wood  light  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly  netted 
.ind  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  brown  dots, 
sometimes  shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity 
small.  Calyx  partially  open.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.     Good.     August. 

Puvis  St.  Germain. 
Saint-Germain-Puvia. 

A  French  Pear,  as  yet  little  known  in  this  country. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate  acute  pyriform,  dull  green  or  greenish 
yellow,  with  nettings,  patches,  and  specks  of  dull  russet.  Stalk  stout, 
curved,  set  with  a  knob  or  lip.  Flesh  greeLish  white,  fine,  half  melting, 
juicy,  vinous,  sweet.     September.      (Verg.) 

Queen  of  the  Low  Countries. 
Reine  des  Pays  Bas. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons'. 

Fruit  huge,  often  very  Large,  broad  acute  pyriform.  Skin  in  tbe 
shade  dull  yellow,  dotted  and  russeted  around  the  rye,  and  overspread 
with  fine  dark  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  melt- 
ing, and  juicy,  with  a  rich,  subacid,  vinous  ilavor.  Variable,  sometimes 
naor.      bliily  in  October. 


34C  THE    PEAR. 

QUILLETETTE. 

An  odd-looking,  late  autumn  fruit,  received  from  Van  Mons. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  flattened.  Skin  green 
ish,  nearly  covered  with  dull  iron-colored  russet.  The  flesh  is  white, 
buttery,  and  melting,  sweet  and  perfumed.     Scarcely  good.     November 

Quinn. 
Knight's  Seedling. 

This  variety  was  imported  by  Prof.  Mapes,  and  the  name  being  lost 
when  the  fruit  was  shown  before  the  American  Institute  Farmers'  Club, 
it  was  newly  christened  as  above. 

The  fruit  is  below  medium  size,  acute  pyriform.  Skin  inclined  "to 
golden  russet.     Flesh  juicy.     Good.     January.     (Hort.) 

Rallay. 

An  old  variety,  of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  globular  acute  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  dull 
yellow,  dull  reddish  cheek,  and  over  all  spots  of  russet.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  breaking,  juicy,  gritty.  Good.  November,  December. 
(Elliott.) 

Rapelje. 

Introduced  by  Professor  Stevens,  Astoria,  Long  Island.  Tree  vigo- 
rous and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate,  sometimes  obtuse,  and  sometimes  acute  pyri- 
form. Skin  yellowish,  covered  with  cinnamon  russet.  Stalk  long, 
rather  thick,  generally  inserted  by  a  lip.  Calyx  large  and  open,  set  in  a 
very  shallow  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  somewhat  granular,  juicy,  and  melt- 
ing, with  a  sweet,  vinous,  aromatic  flavor.  Variable,  sometimes  poor. 
September. 

RaVENSWOOD. 

Origin,  Ravenswood,  Long  Island.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  with 
grayish  olive  brown,  young  shoots. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  sometimes  a  tinge 
of  red  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  green  dots.  Stalk  short. 
Calyx  partially  closed,  with  persistent  segments.  Flesh  whitish,  slight 
ly  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous.  Good  to  very  good.  Early 
August. 

Raymond. 

The  Raymond  is  a  native  of  Maine,  and  originated  on  the  farm  of 
Dr.  I.  Wright,  in  the  town  of  this  name.  Tree  of  slow  growth.  Young 
shoots  slender. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  marked  with 
russet  near  the  stalk,  and  tinged  with  a  little  red  towards  the  sun,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more  long,  inserted 
with  little  or  no  depression.  Calyx  round,  firm,  open,  set  in  a  shal- 
low basin.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  aromatic 
Good  to  very  good.     September. 


THE    PEAR.  841 

Reading. 

Originated  in  Oley  Township,  Berks  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive.  Young  wood  dull  brown  grayish,  with  conspicuous  appa- 
rent ly  rough  dots. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  thickly  dot- 
ted with  brown  and  gray  dots  and  sprinkled  with  russet.  Stalk  long, 
curved,  enlarged  and  riwbed  at  its  insertion,  generally  in  a  depression. 
Calyx  open.  Segments  strong,  in  an  exceedingly  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
whitish,  granular,  melting,  with  a  brisk,  vinous  flavor.  Good.  January 
to  March. 

Red  Bergamot. 

Bergamotte  Rouge.  Du  Colombier. 

Bergamotte  Musque.  De  Sidle  Musquee. 

De  Sicile.  Crassane  d'fite. 

Petit  Muscat  cTAutomne.  Bergamotte  Doree. 

A  very  old  Pear,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  sometimes  obovate  acute  pyriforni, 
pale  yellow,  mostly  overspread  with  dull  red  in  sun.  Flesh  soft,  melt- 
ing, juicy,  sweet.     September. 

Red  Garden. 

Raised  by  Josiah  Youngken,  of  Richlandtown,  Pa.  Tree  a  good 
grower  and  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled 
with  a  few  crimson  dots  in  sun,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  slender.  Calyx 
partially  open.  Segments  short.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good  or  very  good.     September. 

Regine. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  slight 
nettings  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  green  and  brown  dots. 
Stalk  long,  inclined.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
pleasant.     Good.     September. 

Reine  Caroline. 

A  European  Pear,  only  fit  for  cooking. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  narrow  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  a 
brownish  red  cheek.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  rather  dry  and  indifferent  in 
quality.     November. 

Reine  d'Hivek. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  yellow,  .rith  a  brownish  tinge 
in  sun,  and  nettings,  patches,  and  dots  of  russet,  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     November. 


842  THE    PEAR. 

Reine  des  Poires. 

A  French  Pear,  of  poor  quality. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  shaded 
and  mottled  with  crimson  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  breaking, 
not  juicy.     Scarcely  good  except  for  cooking.     October. 

Reine  Victoria. 

Supposed  a  seedling  of  Van  Mons'. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  shades 
and  patches  of  fawn.  Flesb  white,  tinted  with  rose,  fine,  melting,  juicy, 
sweet.     December.     (Alb.  Pom.) 

Retour   de  Rome. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood  reddish 
brown,  with  oblong  white  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish, 
blotched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russ«t  dots.  Stalk 
short,  and  stout  at  its  insertion  in  a  small  inclined  cavity.  Calyx 
partially  closed,  in  a  round  narrow  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse, 
granular,  melting,  juicy,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor,  sligMly  astringent. 
Good.     September. 

Reynaer   Beerkaert. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  golden  yellow,  dotted  with 
red.     Flesh  melting,  juicy,  sweet.      December.     (Soc.  V.  M.) 

Richards. 

Origin,  Wilmington,  Del.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  wood 
alive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  nu- 
merous small  russet  dots,  and  traces  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  of 
medium  length,  curved,  inserted  by  a  fleshy  ring  in  a  slight  depression. 
Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  very  small.  Flesh  buttery,  melting, 
granulated,  with  a  sweet,  pleasant,  vinous  flavor.  Good.  Ripens  first 
cf  October. 

Ridelle's. 
Poire  Ritelle. 

Tree  of  moderate  vigor,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  turbinate,  remotely  pyriform.  Skin  yellow, 
covered  nearly  all  over  with  bright  red.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  opea 
Flesh  not  very  fine,  rather  juicy,  not  melting  or  delicate  in  flavor 
Scarcely  good.     September. 


THE    TEAR.  843 

Rivers1  Winter  BxubbA. 
Winter  Beunv  (Rivera). 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  True  moderately  vigowLs, 
spreading,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  wood  dull  yellow 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  elongated  pyriform.  Skin  greenish,  rough, 
spotted,  netted,  and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  stout,  curved,  inclined  al 
its  insertion.  Calyx  partially  closed,  sel  in  a  shallow  irregular  basin. 
Flesh  white,  tine-grained,  gritty  at  core,  melting,  buttery,  vinous  or  sub 
acid.     Good.     January,  February. 

Roe's  Bekoamot. 

Raised  by  William  Roe,  Newburgh,  N.  V.  Tree  moderately  vigo 
rous,  very  productive.     Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  Bergamotte-shaped.  Skin  smooth,  yellow, 
with  minute  yellow  dots  in  the  shade,  mot  tied  and  clouded  with  red 
on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow,  abrupt  cavity. 
Calyx  small,  with  short  stiff  segments,  set  in  a  narrow  basin.  Flesh 
rather  coarse,  melting,  with  a  sweet,  rich,  brisk,  well-perfumed  flavor. 
The  flavor  of  this  excellent  new  Pear  is  extremely  like  Gansel's  Ber- 
gamotte,  but  much  more  sugary.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Roi  d'£te. 

Gros  Rousselet.  Large  Rousselet. 

Great    Rousselet.  The  Rousselet. 

Russelet.  King  of  Summer. 

An  old  variety,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  pale  green,  dull  red  in  the  sun, 
with  numerous  gray  russety  specks.  Flesh  half  buttery,  melting, 
agreeable  subacid.     Last  of  August.     (Lind.) 

Roi  de  Rome. 

This  variety  was  found  in  a  province  of  Hainault,  Belgium,  by  M, 
VAbbe  Duquesnes,  and  first  fruited  in  1810.  Under  the  name  of  Red  de 
Rome,  the  Napoleon  has  been  repeatedly  received  in  this  country,  but,  aa 
described  in  the  Annals  of  Pomology,  is  entirely  a  distinct  fruit. 

Fruit  very  large,  regular,  oblong  ovate  pyriform.  Skin  clear  yellow, 
marbled  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  specked  with  russet,  and  dotted  with 
many  small  gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  set  with  little  or  no  cavity,  but 
surrounded  with  Blight  furrows.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  lino,  molt- 
ing, juicy,  sweet,  agreeable.     October,  November. 

Roitelet. 

A  Flemish  Pear. 

Fruit  small,  roundish,  yellow,  netted,  shaded,  and  sprinkled  with 
russet.     Flesh   whitish,  half  melting,  juicy,  swi  i.     September 


844 


THE    TEAR. 


ROKEBY. 

Raised  by  M.  Bivort,  Belgium.  Tree  vigoious,  very  prolific, 
Young  wood  dark  olive  brown,  with  narrow  oblong  white  specks. 

Fruit  below  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish,  sometime! 
a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk 
short.  Cavity  shallow.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  white,  half  melting,  vi 
nous,  astringent.     Poor.     Early  September. 

RONDELET. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
with  brown  russet,  tinged  with  red  in  the  sun,  and  speckled  with  large 
gray  dots.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  fine- 
grained, buttery,  melting,  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  with  a  musky  perfume. 
November.     (Hogg.) 


RONVILLE. 


Martin  Sire  (incorrectly). 
Lord  Martin  Pear. 


Hocrenaille. 
Poire  de  Bunville. 


Rostiezer. 


vinous.     Good  or  very  good. 


An  old  Belgian  Pear,  of  little 
value. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  ovate, 
yellowish  green,  russeted  at  end, 
dotted  with  gray  russet  specks. 
Flesh  white,  breaking,  gritty  at 
core,  sweet,  pleasant.  October. 
(Prince.) 

Ropes. 

Origin,  garden  of  Mr.  Ropes, 

Salem,  Mi 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  obovate. 
Color  cinnamon  russet,  slightly 
tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side 
Stem  short,  in  an  inclined  cavity, 
Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  shallow. 
Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  melting,  and 
juicy,  sugary,  and  good,  with  a 
perfume.  Good.  Octobei  No- 
vember. 

Roslyn. 

Found  on  the  place  of  TV .  C. 
Bryant,  of  Roslyn,  Long  Island. 
Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood  red- 
dish yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular. 
Skin  yellow,  netted,  patched,  and 
dotted  with  russet.  .Stalk  long. 
Calyx  partially  closed.  Flesh 
whitish,  juicy,  melting,  slightly 
Last  of  August. 


THE    PEAR.  84f 


ROSTIEZEK. 


A  foreign  variety,  which  is  scarcely  medium  iu  size  and  has  not 
generally  much  beauty  of  color,  yet  oombines  an  assemblage  of  excel- 
lences that  places  it  in  the  rank  before  any  other  of  its  season.  The 
young  trees  produce  but  few  shoots  of  strong  growth,  and  require  severe 
shortening  to  bring  them  into  a  line  symmetric  form.  The  color  of 
the  young  wood  is  dark  olive  brown.  It  is  healthy  and  vigorous  in 
Us  habit,  an  early  and  most  profuse  bearer,  and  in  flavor  is  onlv 
equalled  by  the  Seckel,  which  ripens  six  weeks  later. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obovate  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  dull  yel- 
low green,  mixed  with  reddish  brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  long 
and  slender,  curved,  and  inserted  with  very  little  depression.  Calyx 
open,  persistent.  Basin  small  and  corrugated.  Flesh  juicy,  melting, 
somewhat  bitttery,  exceedingly  sugary,  vinous,  aromatic,  and  pleasantly 
perfumed.     Best.     Middle  of  August  to  middle  of  September. 

Kousse  Lench. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  oval.  Skin  lemon  yellow,  with  a  slightly  rus- 
seted  covering.  Flesh  yellow,  buttery,  juicy,  sugary,  pretty  well  fla- 
vored.    January,  February.     (Hogg.) 

ROUSSELET    AELENS. 

A  Belgian  Pear-  of  medium  size,  obovate  acute  pyriform,  yellow, 
with  shade  of  red  in  sun,  patches  of  russet,  and  dots  of  grayish  red. 
Stalk  inserted  without  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  tine,  melting 
juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.      (An.  Pom.) 

ROUSSELET    BlVORT. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  raised  from  seed  of  the  Simon  Bouvier  in  1840. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk 
rather  long,  with  a  fleshy  fold  at  insertion.  Calyx  partially  open. 
Basin  small,  furrowed.  Flesh  yellowish,  fine,  juicy,  buttery,  melting, 
sweet.     Good  to  very  good.      November. 

ROUSSELET    DECOSTER. 
Rousselet  de  Coster.  Decoster's  Rusaelet. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons',  dedicated  to  M.  Decoster,  of  Louvain. 
Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Young  wood  dull  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform.     Skin  pah-  greenish  yellow, 

patched   and   blotched    with  ially   around   the    stalk   and 

calvx,  thickly  sprinkled   with   ru  wniflh 

cheek  in  sun.  Stalk  rather  long.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Seg< 
i  stiff.     Basin   shallow,  uneven.     Flesh    i  Howish,  juicy, 

melting,  slightly  vinous,  aromatic.     Good.     September. 

Rousselet  de   Janvieb. 

Of  Belgian  on 

Fruit  small,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yell  wish.  Flesh  fine,  half 
melting,  buttery,  perfumed.     January.      (Soc.  V.  M.) 


W6  THE    PEAR. 

ROUSSELET    DE    JONGHE. 

Fruit  small,  curved  obovate,  uneven  and  irregulai  in  its  outline 
Skin  smooth  lemon  color.  Calyx  very  large,  open.  Flesh  yellow,  fine 
grained,  firm,  melting,  juicy,  rich,  sugary.  November,  December, 
(Hogg.) 

ROUSSELET    DE    RHEIMS. 

Rousselet.  Rousselet  Musque\ 

Petit  Rousselet.  Late  Catherine 

Spice  or  Musk  Pear.  Autumn  Catherine. 

This  French  Pear,  originally  from  Rheims,  is  supposed  to  have  been 
the  parent  of  our  Seckel.  There  is  a  pretty  strong  resemblance  in  the 
color,  form,  and  flavor  of  the  two  fruits,  but  the  Seckel  is  much  the 
most  delicious.  The  growth  is  quite  different,  and  this  Pear  has  re- 
markably long  and  thrifty  dark  brown  shoots.  It  is  sugary,  and  with  a 
peculiarly  aromatic,  spicy  flavor,  and  if  it  were  only  buttery  and  melt- 
ing, would  be  a  first-rate  fruit. 

Fruit  small,  obovate,  inclining  to  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish  green, 
with  brownish  red  and  russety  specks.  Flesh  breaking  or  half  buttery, 
with  a  sweet,  rich,  aromatic  flavor.  Ripe  at  the  beginning  of  Septem- 
ber, subject  to  rot  at  the  core. 

Rousselet  Enfakt  Pt:odigue. 
Nectarine  ?  Enfant  Prodigue. 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  pyrifoi*m.  Skin  thick  and  rough,  green,  covered 
with  russet,  sometimes  with  a  sunny  cheek.  Stalk  of  medium  length, 
in  an  inclined  cavity.  Calyx  large.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish, 
juicy,  granular,  with  a  vinous  flavor,  highly  perfumed  with  musk.  Good. 
October,  November. 

Rousselet  Esperen. 
Rousselet  Double. 

Tree  very  vigorous,  and  very  productive 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  with  reddish  gray 
and  white  dots,  and  covered  with  russet  around  calyx  and  stalk.  Flesh 
whitish,  half  fine,  half  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  and  perfumed. 
Good.     September. 

Rousselet  Hatif. 

Early  Catharine.  Early  Rousselet. 

Kattern.  Perdreau. 

Cyprus  Pear.  Poire  de  Chypre. 

The  Rousselet  Hatif  is  productive,  with  long  slender  branches,  of 
dark  dull  reddish  brown  color. 

Fruit  rather  small,  acute  pyriform.  Skin,  when  fully  ripe,  yellow, 
with  a  brownish-red  check.  Flesh  a  little  coarse-grained,  sweet,  plea- 
sant, and  slightly  perfumed.  Ripens  the  middle  of  Augusst.  Apt  to 
rot  at  the  core. 


tiie  tear  847 

Rousselet  St.  Nicholas 

A  Be.gian  Pear,  so  far  as  we  have  seen  it,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  yellow,  shaded  with  crimson 
in  the  sim,  netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet.  Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous.     November. 

Rousselet  Stuttgart. 

Poire  de  Stuttgard.  Chevriera  de  Stuttgardt. 

Stuttgarter  Geishirtel.  Bellisime  de  Provence. 

Originated  in  the  environs  of  Stuttgardt  in  1779.  Tree  a  vigorous, 
upright,  healthy  grower,  and  a  good  bean  r.  Young  wood  reddish 
purple. 

Fruit  below  medium,  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  netted  and 
patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with  russet  and  green  dots,  brownish 
crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  rather  long,  curved,  enlarged  at  its  insertion, 
generally  without  depression.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh 
rather  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  with  a  sweet,  rich  flavor,  spicy  aroma. 
Ripe  last  of  August. 

Rousselet  Vandeuwecken. 

Raised  by  M.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne,  Belgium.  A  pyramidal  tree 
of  medium  vigor,  but  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  varying  in  form  from  Doyenne  to  Bergamotte.  Skin 
yellow  at  time  of  maturity.  Flesh  white,  fine,  melting,  juice  abundant, 
sugary,  and  strongly  aromatic,  bike  that  of  the  Rousselet.  Fruit  quite 
of  first  quality,  and  ripe  first  of  November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Rousselixe. 
Russelin. 

An  old  variety,  now  superseded  by  larger  and  better  Pears. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular.  Pale  yellow,  shaded  with  red  in  sun, 
and  sprinkled  with  many  russet  dots.  Flesh  white,  melting,  sweet, 
musky.     Good.     November. 

Rousselon. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen  in  1846,  and  figured  and  described  bv  1. 
E.  Berckmans  in  1851.    Tree  of  medium  vigor,  grows  well  as  a  pyramid 

Fruit  medium,  shaped  like;  a  Doyenne.  Skin  citron  yellow  at  matu- 
rity, dotted  with  russet,  and  highly  colored  on  the  side  of  the  sun.  Flesh 
fine,  half  melting,  sufficiently  juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  with  an  agreeable 
perfume.     February.      (An.  Pom.) 

Royal. 

Peck's  Seedling. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Thomas  I ;.  I  'eck,  Waterloo,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  vigo 
rous  grower,  productive.     Young  wood  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  mostly  covered  with 
thin  crimson  russet,  and  a  shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  sprinkled   with 


648 


THE    PEAR. 


brown  and  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  small  Calyx  partiallj 
closed.  Segments  short.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly 
aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 


Winter  Royal. 


ROYALE    D'HlVER. 
Royal  Winter. 


Spina  di  Carpi 


An  old  variety,  of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  rather  large,  obovate  pyriform,  or  nearly  pyriform.  Skin  yel 
low,  with  fine  red  in  the  sun,  marbled  with  numerous  brown  specks  and 
dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  half  buttery,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  well  flavored. 
December  to  February.     (Lind.) 

Rutter. 

Raised  by  John  Rutter,  of  Westchester,  Pa.  Tree  a  moderate 
grower,  a  good  bearer,  with  young  wood  of  a  dull  olive  yellow  brown 
color. 


Rutter. 


Fruit  medium  to  large,  nearly  globular,  remotely  pyriform.  Skin 
rough,  greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  and  netted  with  russet,  and  numerous 
russet   dots.      Stalk   large,    leng,  and   woody.      Cavity   small.     Calyx 


THE    PEAR.  849 

email,  closed.  Segments  narrow,  nearly  erect.  Basin  rather  small,  un 
even.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  half  fine,  somewhat  gritty,  nearlj 
melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous.     Very  good.     October,  November. 

Sacandaga. 
Van  Vranken.  Sacandaga  Seckel. 

Found  on  the  farm  of  Wm.  Yan  Vranken,  Edinburgh,  Saratoga  Co., 
N.  Y.  Tree  an  upright  moderate  grower.  Young  wood  rich  warm 
brown. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
with  brownish  crimson,  and  netted  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk 
medium.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Segments  rather  long,  erect. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  a  little  perfumed.  Good  to 
very  good.     September. 

Saint  Andre. 

Imported  by  Mr.  Manning,  from  the  Brothers  Baumann,  of  Bolwyl- 
ler.     Wood  often  cracks  and  cancers. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate.  Skin  light  greenish  yellow,  somewhat  dot- 
ted with  red.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  buttery,  melting,  and  good. 
TCarly  in  September. 

Saint  Crispin. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Israel  Buifum,  of  Lynn,  Mass.  Tree  a  strong 
grower,  and  an  abundant  bearer.     Young  wood  yellow  brown  grayish. 

Fruit  large,  irregular  in  outline,  generally  oblong  obovate  pyriform. 
Skin  a  little  rough.  Surface  uneven,  greenish  yellow,  with  tinge  of  red  in 
aun,  and  russet  patches.  Stalk  rather  long.  Calyx  Large,  closed.  Flesh 
velloAvish  white,  a  little  coarse,  melting,  juicy,  subacid.  October. 
(Hov.  Mag.) 

Saint   Denis. 

Tree  vigorous,  with  long  dark  reddish  branches. 

Fruit  small,  turbinate  angular.      Skin  yellowish,  considerably  Bhaded 
with  crimson,  thickly  sprinkled  with  crimson  dots.     Stalk  long.      I 
open;  broad,  shallow,  uneven  basin.     Flesh  breaking,  a  little  co 
sweet,  and  aromatic,  rots  at  the  core  unless  gathered  early.      Last  of 
August. 

Saint   1 1 
Royale  Nouvelle. 

Of  foreign  origin.     Tree  vigorous.      5Toung  wood  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots. 
Stalk  long,  curved,  inserted  by  a  fleshy  lip  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx 
jpen.  Segments  rather  large,  recurved,  set  hi  a  rathei  abrupt  basin. 
Flesh  whitish,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  sugary,  vinous,  peculiarly  pei- 
fumed  flavor.     Good  to  \<ry  good.     October. 


860  THE    PEAK. 

Saint  Germain. 

St.  Germain  Gris.  Saint  Germain  blanc. 

Jaune.  Arteloire. 

Inconnue  la  Fare.  Richmond. 

Lafare.  Saint  Germain  brnn. 

St.  Germain  Dore.  vert. 

Franklin.  d'Hivor. 

Hermansbirne. 

This  is  a  well-known  old  French  variety.  The  tree  is  rather  a  slo\* 
grower,  with  a  dense  head  of  foliage.  The  wood  slender,  and  light  olive 
colored. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  tapering  regularly  from  the  crown  to  the  stalk. 
Skin  yellowish  green,  marked  with  brownish  specks  on  the  sunny  side, 
and  tinged  with  a  little  brown  when  ripe.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  strong, 
planted  obliquely  by  the  side  of  a  small  fleshy  swelling.  Calyx  open, 
set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  a  little  gritty,  but  full  of  refresh- 
ing juice,  melting,  sweet,  and  agreeable  in  flavor.  November  and  De- 
cember. 

The  Striped  Germain  (St  Germain  Panachee)  is  a  pretty  variety 
of  this  fruit,  differing  only  in  being  externally  striped  with  yellow. 

Saint  Germain  de  Pefins. 

A  foreign  variety.     Tree  a  good  grower  and  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular  or  obovate,  slightly  pyriform.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  lightly  shaded  or  mottled  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
rather  long  and  stout,  largest  at  junction  with  the  tree.  Cavity  small, 
irregular,  russeted.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Basin  irregular,  corru- 
gated. Flesh  yellowish,  coarse  and  gritty,  with  a  hard  core.  Good. 
February. 

Saint  Ghislain. 
Quinnipiac. 

A  most  excellent  Belgian  Pear.  When  in  perfection  it  is  of  the 
highest  quality,  but  on  some  soils  it  is  a  little  variable.  The  tree  is 
remarkable  for  its  uprightness,  and  the  great  beauty  and  vigor  of  its 
growth.     Young  shoots  olive  brown,  with  oblong  white  specks. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  pyriform,  tapering  to  the  stalk,  to  which  it 
joins  by  fleshy  rings.  Skin  pale  clear  yellow,  with  a  few  gray  specks. 
Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  curved.  Calyx  rather  small,  open,  set  in 
a  shallow  basin.  Core  small.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  and  juicy,  with  a 
rich  sprightly  flavoi'.      Good  to   very  good.     September,  October. 

Saint  Lezin. 

Fruit  very  large,  pyriform.  Skin  dull  greenish  yellow,  covered  with 
flakes  of  russet.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  juicy, 
sweet.     A  cooking  Pear.     September,  October.      (Hogg.) 

Saint  Menin. 

Omer  Pacha.  His  Poiteau.  Poire  Hia 

Tree  a  vigorous  grower.     Young  wood  grayish  olive. 

Fruit  rather  large,   obovate   obtuse  pyriform.     Skin   pale   yellow, 


THE    TEAR  851 

slightly  brown  in  the  sun,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly 
dotted  with  conspicuous  russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx 
closed.  Basin  abrupt.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly 
aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Saint  Michael  Archangel. 
St.  Michel  Archange.  Plombgastel.  Dusnas. 

A  French  Pear,  of  unknown  origin.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive 
Young  wood  yellowish  olive. 

Fruit  large,  ovate  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly  net- 
ted and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  green  and  rua 
set  dots.  Stalk  rather  stout,  a  little  inclined  in  a  small  cavity  by  a 
fleshy  ring  or  lip.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  rather  short,  stiff 
Basin  uneven,  furrowed.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  slightly 
aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Saint  Vincent  de  Paul. 

A  new  foreign  Pear.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  wood  a 
very  dark  rich  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  pyriform,  broad  at  calyx.  Skin  light  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  thin  light  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet 
dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  with  short  erect  segments.  Basin 
abrupt.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  melting,  not  sweet.     Good.     November. 

Salisbury  Seedling. 

A  native  of  Western  New  York.     Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  obtuse  pyriform.     Skin  rough,  somewhat  covered  with  russet, 

and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  short  and  thick.  Calyx 
partially  closed,  in  a  deep,  uneven  basin.  Flesh  coarse,  white,  sweet, 
breaking,  not  juicy  or  melting.      Scarcely  good.      September. 

*  Salviata. 
Forniquet.  Perfumed.  £pine  Rose  Gris. 

An  old  variety,  now  superseded  by  better  sorts. 

Fruit  below  medium,  ob<  pyriform,  light  yellow, 

dotted  with  russet.  Flesh  breaking,  juicy,  musky.  Good.  Last  of 
August. 

Sand   Pear. 
Chinese  Sand  Pear. 
This  variety  is  valued  mainly  I  .  although  it  is  good  for 

cooking.     The  tree  is  remarkably  vigorous,  with  lai  ■-<•• 

The  fruit  is  of  medium  size,  roundish  pyriform,  dull  yellow,  covered 
with  a  rough,  sandy-bike  russet.  Flesh  firm,  moderately  juicy,  cooks 
well,  and  acquires  a  tine  color.     September. 

Samuinole. 
Sanguine  d'ltalie.  Bloody.  Grenade. 

An  ancient  Pear,  of  unknown  origin.  As  an  amateur  curiosity  it  is 
only  desirable. 


fr52  THE    PEAK. 

Fruit  small  to  medium.  Form  roundish,  pale  yellow,  biownish  in 
Bun,  with  irregular-shaped  brown  dots  and  specks.  Flesh  white,  tinged 
with  red,  juicy,  melting.     Good.     September. 

Sanguinole  de  Belgique. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish,  mottled  and  dotted 
with  red  in  the  sun,  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled  with 
red  and  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved.  Flesh  stained  with  red, 
which  renders  it  a  curiosity,  that  being  its  only  value.     September. 

Sarah. 

Raised  by  Thaddeus  Clapp,  Dorchester,  Mass.  Tree  of  an  erect  habit, 
hardy,  healthy,  and  productive.     Young  wood  rich  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  greenish 
yellow,  partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled 
with  brown  dots.  Stalk  medium,  a  little  inclined,  set  with  a  slight 
depression  by  a  ring  or  lip.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  short, 
erect.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
rich,  aromatic.      Very  good.     October. 

Schuman. 

A  native  of  Buck's  Co.,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Pale  yellow,  shade  of  red  in  sum 
Flesh  coarse,  pasty.     Poor.     September. 

Seal. 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish.  Skin  pale  yellow,  lightly  shaded 
with  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  green  and  russet 
dots.  Stalk  medium  length,  largest  at  ends,  inserted  by  a  ring  or  lip. 
Calyx  open.  Segments  persistent.  Flesh  white,  coarse,  moderately  juicy, 
melting,  slightly  astringent.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Sebastopol. 

Sebastopol  d'lite. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  described  by  Alexander  Bivort  as : — 

Fruit  of  medium  siz3,  ovate  obovate,  greenish  yellow,  dotted  with 

grayish  brown.       Flesh   white,   half  fine,  melting,   a  little   ijranulous. 

Bweet,  vinous,  perfumed.     Agreeable.     August.     (Jar.  Van  Mons.) 

Seukel. 

Seckle.  Syckle.  New  York  Red  Cheek. 

Sickel.  Red-Cheeked  Seckel.  Shakespeare. 

We  do  not  hesitate  to  pronounce  this  American    Pear  the  richest 


THE    PEAK. 


8S3 


and  most  exquisitely  flavored  variety  known.  In  its  highly  :nncen 
trated,  spicy,  and  honeyed  flavor 
it  is  not  surpassed,  nor  indeed 
equalled,  by  any  European  vari- 
ety. When  we  add  to  this,  that 
the  tree  is  the  healthiest  and  har- 
diest of  all  pear-trees,  forming  a 
fine,  compact,  symmetrical  head, 
and  bearing  regular  and  abundant 
crops  in  clusters  at  the  ends  of  the 
branches,  it  is  easy  to  see  that  we 
consider  no  garden  complete  with- 
out it.  Indeed  we  think  it  indis- 
pensable in  the  smallest  garden. 
The  stout,  short-jointed,  olive- 
brown  colored  wood  distinguishes 
this  variety,  as  well  as  the  pecu- 
liar reddish  brown  color  of  the 
fruit.  The  soil  should  receive  a 
top-dressing  of  manure  frequently, 
when  the  size  of  the  Pear  is  an 
object.  The  Seckel  Pear  origi- 
nated on  the  farni  of  Mr.  Seckel, 
about  four  miles  from   Philadel-  Seckel. 

phia.*     It  was  sent  to  Europe  by 

the  late  Dr.  Hosack,  in  1819,  and  the  fruit  was  pronounced  by  the  Lon- 
don Horticultural  Society  exceeding  in  flavor  the  richest  of  their  autumn 
Pears. 

^ruit  small,  regularly  formed,  obovate.  Skin  brownish  green  at 
first,  becoming  dull  TeUowiah  brown,  with  a  lively  russei  red  cheek. 
Stalk  half  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  slightly  curved,  and  set  in  a 
trifling  depression.  Calyx  small,  and  placed  in  a  basin  Bcarcely  at  all 
sunk.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  very  juicy  and  melting,  with  a  peculiarly 
rich  spicy  flavor  and  aroma.  It  ripens  gradually  in  the  houst;  from  the 
end  of  August  io  the  last  of  October. 

*  The  precise  origin  of  the  Seckel  Pear  is  unknown.  The  first  nomologists 
of  Europe  have  pronounced  that  it  is  entirely  distinct  from  any  European  vari- 
ety, ami  its  affinity  to  the  Rousselet,  a  well-known  German  Pear,  leads  to  the 
supposition  that  the  seeds  of  the  latter  Pear,  having  been  brought  here  by  some 
of  the  Germans  settling  near  Philadelphia,  by  chance  produced  this  bu 
seedling.     However  this  may  be,  the  following  ay  be 

relied  on  as  authentic,  it  having  been  related  by  the  late  venerable  Bi 
whose  tenacity  of  memory  is  well  known.     About 

lad,  there  was  a  well-known  sportsm  in  Philadelphia, 

who  was  familiarly  known  as  "D  I  on,  early  in  the  autumn, 

on  returning  from  his 
with  pears  of  an  unusn 

however,  he  won  by  by  'live. 

Holland  Land  Co  I 

of  it  in  parcels,  and  1 ' 
pear-tree  stood,  a  fine  strip 

became  the  farm  of   M  'uldie 

notice,  and  ls  added 

vast  estate  of  tl  'h'l  a 

few  years  ago),  vigorous  and  frn  Bite  lately 

exhibited  at  the  annual  sho 


854  THE    PEAU. 

Selleck. 

Origin  somewhat  uncertain.  The  oldest  beaiing  tiee  stands  on  th« 
grounds  of  Columbus  Selleck,  Sudbury,  Vt.,  and  is  of  healthy  growth, 
and  very  productive.     Young  wood  grayish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Surface  uneven,  fine  yellow, 
sometimes  with  a  crimson  cheek,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots, 
Stalk  long  and  curved,  fleshy  at  its  insertion  in  a  moderate  cavity. 
Calyx  nearly  closed,  in  a  rather  small  uneven  basin.  Flesh  white,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy  and  melting,  sweet,  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good, 
September,  October. 

Senateur  Mosselman. 

A  foreign  variety. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  slightly  obovate.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  shaded  in  the  sun  with  orange  and  crimson,  and  numerous  brown 
and  russet  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet.  Good. 
February,  March. 

Seraphine  Ovin. 

A  Belgian  variety,  originated  in  1854.  Tree  vigorous,  making  long 
annual  shoots,  pretty  stout,  of  olive  brown,  with  oblong  white  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  mottled  and 
marbled  in  the  sun  with  crimson,  numerously  dotted  with  large  conspi- 
cuoiis  russet  and  gray  dots  or  specks.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine, 
half  melting,  buttery,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic,  musky.  Good. 
September. 

Serrurier. 

Serrurier  d'Automme.  Nouveau  Maison. 

Fondaute  de  Millot.  Nouveau  Mauxion. 

Fondante  Serrurier  de  Millot. 

A  seedling  of  Professor  Van  Mons'.  Tree  vigorous,  healthy,  pro- 
ductive.    Young  wood  light  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate  obtuse.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a 
tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  considerably  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and 
numerously  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium,  inserted  in  a 
Email  cavity,  often  russeted.  Calyx  open.  Basin  small.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish  white,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  slightly  astringent. 
Good  to  very  good.      October. 

Seutin. 
Poire  Seutin. 

A  seedling  of  M.  Bouvier's. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  ovate,  green,  with  a  brownish  shade  in  sun, 
marblings,  patches,  and  dots  of  dull  russet.  Stalk  quite  long.  Calyx 
large,  with  short  persistent  segments.  Flesh  half  fine,  white,  melting, 
juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     September,  October.     (Alb.  Pom.) 


THE    TEAR.  ».r>  . 

Shawm  ut. 

Originated  with  Francis  Dana,  Roxbury,  Mass.  Tree  an  upright, 
moderately  vigorous  grower.     5Toung  wood  grayish  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  pyriform.     Skin  nearly  smooth,  dull  yellow, 
ted  with  large  round  russet  specks.     Stalk  long,  fleshy,  and  wrinkled  at 
base.     Calyx  open.     Basin  broad,  deep.      Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  melt 
mg>  J1"^  vinous,  sprightly,  musky  perfume.     October.      (Hov.  M 

Sheldox. 
Wayne.  Bland.  Huron.  Wisner. 

An  accidental  seedling  on  the  farm  of  Norman  Sheldon,  in  the  town 
of  Huron,  Wayne  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  erect,  hardy,  and  a 
good  bearer.    Young  wood  yellow  brown. 

Fruit    medium,    roundish  obtuse  obovate.       Skin    greenish  yellow 
mostly  covered  with  thin  light  russet,  a  little  brownish  crimson  in  the 


Sheldon. 

sun,    dotted    with    russet.     Stalk    short,   stout.     Cavity    deep.     Calyx 
open.     Segments  partly  recurved.       I'.asin  broad,  large.      Flesh  whitish, 
very  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous,  rich  aromatic.       Very  good. 
ber. 

Sheppard. 

Raised  by  James  Sheppard,  of  Dorchester,  Mass.  ;  introduced  to 
notice  by  Dr.  L.  W.  Puffer.  Tree  a  free  grower,  and  wry  productive 
Young  wood  grayish  Olive  brown. 


856  THE    PEAK. 

Fiuit  large,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  yellow,  sometimes  wrJi 
a  brownish  red  cheek,  slightly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots,  and  with  some 
patches  of  russet.  Stalk  short  and  stout,  in  a  depression,  often  inclined, 
surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  partially  closed,  set  in  a  very  shallow 
furrowed  basin.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse  and  granular,  buttery,  melting, 
juicy,  vinous,  perfumed.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripens  last  of  Septem- 
ber and  first  of  October. 

Simon  Bouvier. 
Souvenir  de  Simon  Bouvier. 

Originated  in  1833,  with  M.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne,  Belgium.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous.     Young  wood  rich  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  rough,  yel- 
low, netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet,  and  a  few  specks  and  mar- 
blings  of  crimson  in  the  sun.  Stalk  shoi't,  inserted  in  a  shallow,  broad 
cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  reflexed.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  melt- 
ing, juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     October,  November.     (Al.  Pom.) 

Skinless. 

Poire  sans  Peau.  Sanspeau.  Friihe  Rousaelet 

Fleur  de  Guignes.  Precoce  de  Glady. 

The  Skinless  is  a  very  nice  little  Pear,  with  a  remarkably  thin, 
smooth  skin,  and  a  delicate  perfumed  flavor.  It  bears  in  clusters,  and 
very  regularly.     It  is  not  first-rate,  but  is  esteemed  by  many. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  long  pyriform.  Skin  very  smooth  and 
thin,  pale  green,  becoming  light  yellow,  speckled  with  light  red  in  the 
sun.  Stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  inserted  in  a  very  trifling  cavity. 
Calyx  closed,  set  in  a  small  basin.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  half  melting,  with 
a  sweet  and  slightly  perfumed  flavor.     Good.     Middle  of  August. 

SOLDAT    LaBOUREUR. 
Auguste  Van  Krans.  Blumenbach.  Soldat  Esperen. 

A  seedling  of  Major  Esperen's,  produced  about  1820.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, upright,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  Young  wood  dull  grayish 
reddish  brown. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  patched, 
netted,  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  rather  stout,  long  and  curved, 
inserted  in  a  small,  abrupt  cavity.  Calyx  open,  scarcely  sunk.  Basin 
very  small.  Flesh  yellowish,  slightly  granular,  melting,  juicy,  with  a 
sugary,  vinous,  perfumed  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  October,  Novem- 
ber. 

Souvenir  du  Congress. 

This  Pear  was  originated  by  M.  Morel,  of  Lyon-Vaise,  France,  and 
by  him  dedicated  to  the  Pomological  Congress  of  France.  Tree  vigo- 
rous and  fertile,  pyramidal  in  form. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  resembling  in  form  the  Bartlett.  Skin 
smooth,  of  a  handsome  yellow  at  maturity,  washed  with  bright  red,  or 
carmine,  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  much  like  the  Bartlett3 
having  the  musky  flavor,  though  in  a  less  degree.  Its  maturity  com' 
mences  in  August  and  continues  in  September.     (Revue  Horticole.) 


THE    PEAR. 

SOUVEN'IR    D'EsiT.KI  V 


867 


This  seedling  Tear  of  Major  Esperen's  proves  one  of  the  very  best, 
either  for  amateur  or  market  cultivation.  Tree  vigorous,  healthy,  hardy, 
and  pi-oductive,  and  holds  its  foliage  well  and  late.  Young  wood  olive 
reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriform.  Surface  uneven.  Skin  greenish  yel- 
low, mostly  covered  with  dull  rough  russet,  especially  around  the  stalk 


Souvenir  d'E-;|H.'rcn. 

and  calyx.  Stalk  long,  inclined,  Bei  to  a  Blight  cavity,  Bomtmrjrea  by  a 
lip.  Calyx  open.  Segments  medium,  erect,  somecimes  a  u«Od  recurved 
Basin  small,  narrow,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowing  juicy,  w±.^<.w,  aromatic. 
Very  good.     October,  November. 

Souvenir  db  la  Reinb  dbb  D 
A  BeMan  Tear  seedling  of  M.  Gregoire.     ]  -  rous  and  pro 

dnctive. 

Fmit  above  medium,  acute   pyriform,  pale  yellow,  tanged  with 
ron  brown   in  sun,  patched  and  dotted   with   thin  11  -alk  short 


858  THE   PEAK. 

enlarged  al  end,  and  inserted  by  a  ring.    Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine 
melting,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.     October,  November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Souvenir  Favre. 

A  French  Pear,  originated  with  M.  Favre  in  1850,  and  first  fruited 
in  1857.     Young  wood  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  deeper  in 
the  sun,  and  dotted  with  many  gray  dots,  or  reddish  in  the  sun.  Stalk 
rather  stout,  inserted  with  a  slight  cavity.  Calyx  open,  with  long  half- 
erect  segments.  Flesh  a  Little  coarse,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  and 
perfumed.     November,  December.     (An.  Pom.) 

SOUVERAINE   D'ETE. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  light  yel- 
low, with  numerous  dots,  which  are  crimson  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk 
short,  in  a  narrow  cavity,  frequently  by  a  lip.  Calyx  partially  closed. 
Basin  medium.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  vinous,  aromatic. 
Good.     Ripens  first  of  September. 

SOUVERAINE    DE    PRINTEMPS. 
Poire  de  Printemps. 

A  French  Pear.     Young  wood  dark  olive  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  irregular  in  form,  generally  roundish  obovate,  slightly 
pyriform.  Skin  rough,  greenish  yellow,  partially  netted  and  patched 
with  rough  dark  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
curved,  enlarged  at  insertion,  in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  a  lip.  Calyx 
large  and  open.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good 
to  very  good.     October. 

*  Spanish  Bon  Chretien. 

Bon  Chretien  d'Espagne.  Bon  Chretien  dore  d'Espagne. 

Spina.  Van  Dyck. 

De  Janvry.  Compagnie  d  Ostende. 

Bon  Chretien  d'Automne.  Janvry. 

Gratiole  d'Automne.  Grosse  Grande  Bretagne  doree. 

Pi-'  sident  d'Espagne.  Vermilion  d'Espagne  d'Hiver. 

Safran  d'Automne.  Gracioli  de  la  Toussaint. 

Sai'ran  rosat  d'Automne.  Vandyck. 

Bon  Chretien  Jaune  d'Automne.        Good  Christian  of  Spain. 

Blanche.  Spanish  Warden. 

Grosse  Grande  Bretagne.  Autumn  Bon  Chretien. 

Bon  Chretien  Spina. 

A  very  old  variety.  Tree  a  good  bearer,  and  the  fruit  highly  va- 
lued for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform.  Skin  at  maturity  deep  yellow,  with  a  brillianl 
red  cheek,  and  dotted  with  reddish  brown  specks.  Flesh  white,  crisp, 
or  half  breaking,  good  for  cooking.     December  to  January. 

Steinmitz  Catherine. 

A  Pennsylvania  Pear.     Tree  very  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  oblong  pyriform,  greenish,  with  a  tinge  of 
brown  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  moderately  juicy,  half  melting,  viooua 
Good.      September. 


THE    PEAK. 


S59 


Steinmitz  Spue. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyritbrm,  greenish  yellow,  with  nettings, 
patches,  and  dots  of  russet.  Flesh  whitish  green,  juicy,  melting,  sweet 
pleasant,  aromatic.     Good.     September. 

Sterling. 
De  Mott. 

Origin,  Livingston  Co.,  N.  Y. ;  grown  from  seed  brought  from  Con 
necticut.  Tree  vigorous,  upright.  Young  wood  grayish-yellowish  brown, 
an  early  bearer,  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  round,  slightly  oval,  very  obscurely  pyriform. 


Sterling. 


Skin  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  few  small  patches  of  russet,  and  on  thi 
sunny  side  a  mottled  crimson  check.  Stalk  rather  stout,  ins.  ited  in  a 
slight  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  ring.  Calyx  open,  in  a  medium,  rat  her  un- 
even basin."  Flesh  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  with  a  very  sugary,  brisk 
flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripens  last  of  August  and  firs!  of  Septem- 
ber. 


Stevens'  Genesee. 


Guernsey. 
Louise  de  Pruase. 
Crottee. 

Doyenne  Oaleux. 
Saint  Michel  Crotte. 


Philippe  Stria. 
Doyenn^  Crotte. 
Pasaa-tuttL 
Stephen's  Genesee. 

( ;■  -iiL'see. 


Benrre  des  Beiges. 
This  admirable  Pear,  combining  hi  some  degree  the  excellence  of  the 


860  THE    PEAK. 

Doyenne  and  Bergamotte,  is  reputed  to  be  a  seedling  of  Western  Ne-w 
York.  It  originated  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  F.  Stevens,  of  Lin  a,  Living 
ston  Co.,  N.  Y.  Although  placed  among  autumn  pears,  it  frequently 
ripens  here  at  the  end  of  August,  among  the  late  summer  varieties. 
Young  shoots  diverging,  dark  gray. 

Fruit   large,  roundish,   and  of  a  yellow   color.      Stalk   about   an 


Stevens'  Genesee. 


inch  long,  stout,  thicker  at  the  base,  and  set  in  a  slight,  rather  one- 
sided depression.  Calyx  with  short,  stiff  divisions,  placed  in  a  smooth 
basin  of  only  moderate  depth.  Flesh  white,  half  buttery,  with  a  rich 
aromatic  flavor.     Good  to  very  good.     First  of  September. 

Stone. 

Origin,  Ohio.     Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  pyriform,  uneven.  Skin  bright  yellow  with  a 
sunny  cheek.  Stalk  large,  long,  and  curved.  Calyx  large.  Basin 
open,  broad,  and  shallow.  Flesh  white,  somewhat  buttery,  slightly  astrin- 
gent.    August. 

Styer. 

Origin  uncertain,  introduced  by  Alan  W.  Corson,  of  Montgomery 
Co.,  Pa.  Tree  a  very  vigorous  grower.  Shoots  stout  and  short-jointed, 
productive.      Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  pale  yellow,  netted, 
patched,  and  dotted  with  cinnamon  russet.     Stalk  rather  short,  inserted 


THE    PEAK.  861 

in  a.  small,  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  almost  obsolete.  Basis  narrow,  mo- 
derately deep.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  somewhat  gritty  at  the  core, 
buttery,  melting.     Good  to  veiy  good.     Ripens  middle  of  September. 

Styrian. 
Keele  Hall  Beurr6. 

This  very  bright-colored  and  excellent  Pear  comes  from  Eng- 
land. Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  shoots  dull  grayish  olive 
brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obo vate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  lightly 
shaded  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  traces  and  patches  of  russet,  and  nu- 
merous brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  inclined,  curved,  set  in  a  small 
cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx  partially  closed.  Segments  a  little 
recurved.  Basin  uneven.  Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse  near  the  core 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  aromatic.     Good.     September. 

Sucre  de  Tertolan. 
Sucre  d'Automne  de  Tertolen.  Sucre  Yfert  d'Automne  de  Tolsduyn 

Originated  in  Holland. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  green,  mostly  covered, 
netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  rather  long.  Flesh 
white,  tinged  with  yellow,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed.  Last 
September,  early  October.     (Verg.) 

OUCHEE  DE  HOVERSWERDA. 

Sugui  of  Hoyersworda.  Sucre  Noir  d'fitd. 

Sucre-vert  d'Hoyerswerda. 

A  pleasant  German  Pear,  of  peculiar  flavor,  good  when  ripened  in  the 
house.     It  bears  immense  crops. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  greenish  russet  dots.  Flesh  white,  quite  juicy,  with  a 
sweet  and  piquant  flavor.  Scarcely  good.  It  does  not  keep  long. 
Last  of  August. 

Sucrbe  dd  Comice. 

This  jv  from  France,  and  is  described  in  bheC 

the  Hort.  Soc.  of  \  '• — 

Find    of  medium  size,  irregularly   formed.       Skin  yellow, 
with  green  and  russet  dots.     Flesh  tender,  sugary.       Ripe  in  Septembei 
and  October. 

Sucre  Vert. 

Green  Sugar.     Bayonnaise.     Oris  de  Chine.     Verdette.     Sukerey  d'Automne. 

An  old  Pear,  of  unknown  origin. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  green.  Stalk  me- 
drum,  fleshy  at  its  insertion  in  a  very  Blight  cavity.  Basin  shallow 
Flesh  juicy*  melting,  sweet,  and  pleasant.      Q 1.      October. 


862  THE    PEAR. 

Suffolk  Thorn. 

An  English  Pear,  raised  from  seed  of  Gansel's  Bergamot 
Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform.    Skin  yellowish,  mostly  covered  with 
jhin  russet.     Flesh  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting.    Good.     October. 

Sugar  Top. 

July  Pear.  Prince's  Sugar.  Prince's  Sugar  Top. 

Fruit  roundish,  top-shaped.  Skin  smooth,  yellow.  Flesh  white, 
Bomewhat  juicy  and  breaking,  sweet,  but  with  little  flavor.    Last  of  July. 

Sullivan. 
Van  Mons,  No.  889. 

Sent  to  this  country  by  Van  Moris,  and  named  by  Mr.  Manning. 
Young  shoots  slender,  diverging,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow. 
Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  stout,  tapering  to  the  stalk.  Flesh 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  and  pleasant,      Good.     September. 

Summer  Archduke. 

Archiduc  d'Ete.  Gros  Ognonet.  Archduke  of  Summer. 

Amire  roux.  Ognonet.  Brown  Admired. 

Amire  roux  de  Tours.  Ognonnet.  Great  Onion  Pear. 

De-la-mi-JuiUet.  Oignonet.  Ognonet  Musque. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  smooth,  yellowish  green, 
covered  with  dark  brownish  red  next  the  sun.  Calyx  open.  Basin 
shallow.  Flesh  whitish,  rather  gritty,  juicy,  and  sweet.  Ripe  early 
August.     (Hogg.) 

Summer  Bergamot. 
Bergamotte  d'Ete. 

The  Summer  Bergamot  is  an  old  foreign  variety,  of  small  size  and 
second  quality.     The  tree  is  of  feeble  growth. 

Fruit,  quite  small,  round.  Skin  yellowish  green.  Flesh  juicy,  and 
pretty  rich  in  flavor,  but  quickly  becomes  mealy  and  dry.     Last  of  July. 

There  is  a  La/rge  Summer  Bergamot,  quite  distinct  from  the  above. 
Flesh  breaking  and  half  buttery,  not  rich.  September.  The  tree  grows 
and  bears  finely. 

Summer  Beurre  d'Aremberg. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth,  Herts,  England. 
Tree  hardy,  moderately  vigorous,  upright^  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  somewhat  turbinate  or  short  obovate.  Skin 
of  a  lemon  color,  slight  nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  particularly 
around  the  stem.  Stalk  rather  long,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx 
very  small.  Basin  deep  and  narrow.  Flesh  tender,  melting,  juicy,  brisk, 
vinous  and  perfumed,  apt  to  rot  at  the  core  unless  gathered  early.  First 
of  September.      (Gard.  Chron. ) 


THE    PEAR. 


8«S 


Simmer  Bon  Chretien. 


Bon  Chr.  tien  d'Ete. 
Gratioli 
Gratioli  d'Ete. 
Gratioli  di  Roma. 
Summer  Good  Christian. 
Musk  Summer  Bon  Chretien 
Sommer  Apothekerbirne. 
Sommer  Gute  Christenhirne. 
Die  Sommer  Christebirne. 
Large  Sugar,  of  some. 
Gros  Bon  Chretien. 
Beauclerc. 


Safran  d'Et- . 

Schelis 

Gracioli  rouge. 

Bon  Chretien  d'Ete  Jaime. 

Canelle  d'Kte. 

De  Dnchesse. 

Gros  Bun  Chretien  d'Ete\ 

Bon  Chr  tien  Oratioly. 

Gros  Bon  Chn  tien  Beauclero 

William  Powell. 

Si  uyversant. 

Richards  Beurre,  of  some. 


Endicott. 

Tliis  is  one  of  the  oldest  Pears,  having  been  cultivated  for  the  List 
three  centuries  all  over  Europe. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  beD-shaped  or  pyriform,  with  swollen, 
knobby  sides.  Skin  yellow,  with  an  orange  blush.  Flesh  yellowish, 
coarse-grained,  very  juicy,  and  of  a  pleasant,  rich,  sweet  flavor.  Good. 
Last  of  August,  or  early  in  September. 

Summer  Crassane. 
Crassane  d'Ete. 
Fruit   small,   roundish   oblate,  pale  yellow,   covered    with    crimson 
russet.     Flesh  half  melting,  very  juicy,  sweet,  and  aromatic.     Last  oi 
August.     (Hogg.) 

Summer  Franc  Peal. 

Franc  Real  d'Ete. 

Fond  ante. 

Gros  Micet  d' . 

Milan  Blanc. 

Bergamotte  d'Ete  ou  Milan  Blanc. 

Milan  de  le  Beurriere. 

Beurre  d'Ete. 

The  origin  of  this  Pear  is  unknown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  bu1  largest  in  the  middle,  and  taper- 
in<*  each  way.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  dotted  with  small  brownish 
green  dots.  Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  buttery,  sugary.  Good.  Pipe 
early  in  September. 

Summer  Rose. 


I ;  ovale. 

ILuiveau  Blanc. 

Coule  Soif, 

Gros  Mouille  Bouche. 

Great  Mouthwater. 

Beurre  Blanc. 


Epine  Rose. 
Caillot  Rosat  d'Ete. 

Thorny  Ruse. 

Poire  de  Rose. 

Epine  d'Et  ■  Couleur  Rose. 

Caillot  Rosat. 

Rosenbirne,  of  the  Germans. 

The  Rose  Pear. 

Rose  Epine  Rose. 

De  Cailleau. 

De  Caillot. 

Calua  Rosat. 

Caillou  Rozat. 

Peral  del  Campo. 

Fruit    medium,    roundish.     Skin    faint 


De  .Monsieur. 
Slontierea 

■  age. 
H         be  da  Dauphine. 
Viliane  d'Anjon. 

Qgrandea. 
tit 
D'Eau  Rose. 
ide. 

Bonne  il'Automne. 
CaUlanrosat, 
Caillorozar. 

yellow,  with   a  red   rumet 


eheek.     Flesh  white,  coarse.      La?l  of  August,  u>  I  eatable. 


864  THE    PEAK. 

Summer  St.  Germain. 

Short's  Saint  Germain.  Joli-mopt  of  some. 

Saint  Germain  de  Martin.  Hoe-Lancer  Hoo-Lievei 

Saint  Germain  d'Ete.  Jargonelle  des  Provencaax 

A.  pleasant,  juicy  summer  Pear,  of  second-rate  flavor,  bearing  larg' 
crops. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  green  all  ovei 
the  surface.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  obliquely  inserted 
Calyx  large,  in  a  basin  scarcely  sunken.  Flesh  juicy,  tender,  with  9 
very  slight  acid.    Poor.     Last  of  August. 

Summer  Virgalieu. 
Powell's  Virgalieu. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  slightly  netted  and 
patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  rather 
long,  often  curved,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  re- 
curved. Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  a 
little  vinous.     Good.     August. 

SUPERF0NT>ANTE. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  smooth,  pale  yellow,  marked 
with  russet.      Flesh  white,  buttery,  melting   and  good.     October. 

Supreme   de   Quimper. 

This  nice  little  Pear  is  of  Belgian  origin.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
upright  and  productive.  Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown,  very  short- 
jointed. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  pyriform.  Skin  fine,  clear  yellow, 
richly  shaded  with  red,  somewhat  specked  and  netted  with  russet.  Stalk 
lather  short,  obliquely  inserted,  without  cavity,  by  a  slight  appearance 
of  a  lip.  Calyx  open  or  partially  closed.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh 
whitish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet  and  perfumed.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripe 
early  in  August.     Should  be  gathered  very  early,  or  it  becomes  dry. 

SURPASSE     MEURIS. 
Ferdinand  Demeester. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons'.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oval.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  some- 
times shaded  with  dull  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
brownish  dots.  Stalk  stout,  fleshy  at  insertion,  in  a  shallow  depression. 
Calyx  large,  open.  Segments  lung,  recurved.  Basin  shallow,  uneven. 
Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  buttery,  half  melting,  sweet.     Good.     November. 

Surpasse  Virgalieu. 
Surpasse  Virgouleuse.  Colmar  Van  Mons,  erroneously. 

The  precise  origin  of  this  very  delicious  fruit  is  not  known.  It  was 
first  sent  out  from  the  nursery  of  the  late  Mr.  Andrew  Parmentier,  of 
Brooklyn,  under  this  name,  and  is,  perhaps,  an  unrecognized  foreign 


THE   PEAR.  866 

Pear,  so  named  by  him  in  allusion  to  its  surpassing  the  favorite  Virga- 
Ueu  (White  Doyenne)  of  New  York. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  sometimes  roundish  obovate.  Skin 
smooth,  pale  lemon  yellow,  with  a  very  few  minute  dots,  and  rarely  a 
little  faint  red  on  the  sunny  Bide.  Stalk  rather  more  than  an  inch  long, 
not  deeply  planted  in  a  cavity  ratlnr  higher  on  one  side.  Calyx  rather 
small,  and  pretty  firm,  set  in  a  slight,  smooth  basin.  Flesh  white,  ex- 
ceedingly fine-grained  and  buttery,  abounding  with  delicious,  high- 
flavored,  aromatic  juice.     Very  good.     October. 


Surpasse  Virgalieo. 
SUZETTE    DE    BaVAY. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen.       Tree  vigorous,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  yellowish,  sprinkled  with  minute 
dots,  and  some  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  curved,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity 
Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow  and  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  swee^, 
and  pleasant.     Good.     Only  valuable  for  cooking.     January  to  .March. 

Swan's    ' 
Moor-fowl  Egg.  incorrectly. 

A  very  old  Pear,  unworthy  cultivation. 

Fruit  small,  oval.  Skin  pale  green,  trashed  with  pah-  brown  on  the 
sunny  side,  and  dotted  with  brownish  specks.  Flesh  soft,  juicy,  with  a 
sweet,  somewhat  musky  flavor.     October. 

Swiss  Beroamot. 

Bergamotte  Suisse.  Striped  Bergamot  Bergamot  Bayee. 

A   very  pretty,  roundish,  striped   Pear.      Branches  often  striped. 


866  THE    PEAR. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  inclined  to  turbinate.  Skin 
smooth,  pale  green,  striped  with  yellow  and  pale  red.  Flesh  melting, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good.     October. 

Sylvange. 

iJu-gamotte  Sylvange.  Bergamot  Sylvanche. 

Green  Sylvange.  •  Silvanbirne. 

Sylvanche.  Silvange  Pierard. 

A  foreign  variety,  superseded. 

Fruit  roundish  obovate.  Skin  rough,  pale  green,  with  a  slightly 
darker  green  cheek.  Flesh  greenish  white,  juicy,  tender,  and  melting, 
with  a  sweet,  agreeable  flavor.     Good.     October,  and  keeps  a  long  time. 

Tardif  de  Mons. 

Fruit  oblong  obovate.  Skin  yellow,  with  an  orange  tinge  in  sun,  and 
strewed  with  large  russety  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  buttery,  melting, 
very  juicy,  rich,  sugary.     November.      (Hogg.) 

Tarquin. 

An  old  variety,  which  we  have  never  fruited.  The  description  by 
Prince  resembles  that  of  Belle  Williams,  recently  received  as  new. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriform,  with  a  shallow  groove  from  one  end  of 
the  fruit  to  the  other.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  marbled  over  with  fawn. 
Stalk  medium  length,  enlarged,  with  a  fleshy  appearance  near  its  junction 
with  the  fruit.  Flesh  breaking  without  being  dry,  rather  delicate,  and 
has  a  slight  acidity.     Good.     Ripens  April,  May. 

Tarquin  des  Pyrenees. 

Tree  vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform.  Stem  long,  stout,  fleshy  at  its  junction,  with- 
out cavity.  Calyx  large,  open,  with  persistent  segments,  in  a  broad, 
irregular  basin,  surrounded  by  russet.  Skin  green,  sprinkled  or  patched 
with  russet,  and  thickly  covered  with  brown  dots.  Flesh  of  poor  qua- 
lity, a  very  long  keeper,  and  said  to  keep  two  years.  Only  a  cooking 
Pear. 

Taylor  Pear. 
Merriweather. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Merriweather,  near  Charlottesville, 
AJbeniarle  Co.,  Va.  Tree  vigorous.  Young  wood  clear  olive  brown, 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  light  green,  mottled  with  dark 
green,  netted  and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  shallow. 
Calyx  small,  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse,  buttery,  juicy,  half  melting, 
sweet,  and  pleasant.     Good.     November,  December. 

Tea. 

Raised  by  Mrs.  Ezra  Merchant,  of  Milford,  Conn.  The  seed  was  found 
in  a  pound  of  tea,  which  she  purchased  at  the  store,  hence  its  name. 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive.     Young  wood  olive  yellotv. 


THE    PEAB. 


867 


Fruit  medium,  obovate,  inclining  to  pyriform.  Skin  lemon  yellow, 
with  numerous  small  brown  dots,  and  sometimes  a  reddish  check,  netted 
and  patched  with  russet.  Stalk  rather  stout,  inserted  obliquely  under  a 
lip  in  a  very  small  cavity.  Calyx  half  closed.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh 
white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  and  vinous.  Good  to  very  good.  Ripens  last 
of  August  to  middle  of  September. 

Theodore  Van  Mons. 

This  Belgian  Pear,  supposed  one  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings,  originated 
about  1827,  but  w;;s  not  brought  to  notice  until  about  184*3.  The  tree 
is  a  vigorous,  iipright  grower,  quite  productive.  The  young  wood  light 
yellow  reddish  brown. 


Thoodoro  Van  Moiul 


Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblong  pyriform.     Skin  greenish  or  palo  yd 
low,  with   traces  and  patches  of   russet,  and  many  gray  and   green  dots. 
Stalk  curved.     Cavity  alight,  russeted    Calyx  open.     Segmanl 
Flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  vinous.     Good  to  very  good 
September,  October. 


868  THE    PEAR. 

Therese  Kumps. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  introduced  in  1847.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  slightly  tinted  with 
brownish  in  sun,  small  patches,  large  specks  and  dots  of  thin  russet. 
Stalk  medium,  rough,  inserted  with  rings  at  base.  Calyx  with  short, 
almost  erect  segments.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy, 
Bweet,  vinous,  perfumed.     November.     (An.  Pom.) 

Thompson's. 

This  Pear,  received  by  xis  from  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London, 
was  named  in  honor  of  Mr.  Robert  Thompson,  the  head  of  the  fruit  de- 
partment in  the  Society's  garden,  to  whose  pomological  acumen  the  hor- 
ticultural world  is  so  largely  indebted.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 
Fruit  variable.     Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate  pyiiforni,  slightly  irregular  in  surface. 
Skin  pale  lemon  yellow,  with  a  few  small  russety  dots  and  patches 
and  streaks.  Stalk  pretty  stout,  an  inch  or  more  long,  inserted  in  a 
blunt,  uneven  cavity.  Calyx  open,  stiff,  often  without  divisions.  Basin 
abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh  white,  buttery,  melting,  sugary,  slightly  aromatic. 
Good  to  very  good.     October  and  November. 

Thooris. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  introduced  in  1854,  and  unworthy  cultivation. 
Fruit  below  medium,  oval,  pale  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown 
dots.     Flesh  white,  coarse,  dry,  sweet,  and  poor.     Early  September. 

Thuerlinckx. 
Tuerlinckx.  Beurre  Tuerlinckx, 

This  variety  was  grown  from  seed  and  first  exhibited  in  1848,  by  M 
Thuerlinckx,  of  Marines,  Belgium.     Tree  moderately  vigorous. 

Fruit  very  large,  regular  oblong  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  dull  green- 
ish, with  a  shade  of  brown  at  ends,  and  inarblings  of  dull  dark  green 
and  brown.  Stalk  medium,  inserted  without  depression  by  a  ring. 
Flesh  white,  buttery,  acidulous.     November,  December.     (Al.  Pom.) 

Tillixgton. 

Raised  in  the  village  of  Tillington,  near  Hereford,  England,  and  first 
exhibited  by  T.  A.  Knight,  Esq.,  before  the  London  Horticultural  Soci- 
ety, in  1820.     Tree  hardy  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  size,  short  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  with  light  brown 
russet  dots.  Stalk  short.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  but- 
tery, melting,  not  juicy,  vinous,  aromatic.     Good.     October. 

Totten's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Colonel  Totten,  of  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  vigoroua 
Young  wood  dull  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  with  a  shade  of  crimson 
in  the  sun,  traces,  patches,  and  dots  of  russet.  Stalk  long.  Calyx  open. 
Flesh  white,  sweet.     Po">r.     September. 


THE   PEAR.  869 

Trescott. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Niles  Trescott,  Cranston,  R  I. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  obovate,  orange  yellow,  with  patches  of 
cini-imon  russet.  Flesh  fine-grained,  melting,  juicy,  pleasant  flood. 
Last  September.     (Hort.) 

Triompiie  de  Jodoigne. 

A  Belgian  Pear,  seedling  of  M.  Bouvier  in  L 830,  introduced  in  1843. 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Young  wood  short-jointed,  dull  grayish 
brown. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  ovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Surface  uneven.  Skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  crimson  in  the  sun, 
patches,  nettings,  and  traces  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown 
and  green  dots.  Stalk  rather  long,  a  little  inclined,  fleshy  at  its  inser- 
tion by  a  ring.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Segments  short  and  stiff. 
Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet. 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Triomphe  de  Louvain. 

Of  Belgian  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  productive,  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  rather  rough,  greenish  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  thin  dull  russet,  with  a  dull  red  cheek  in  sun,  many 
russet  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short,  stout.  Cavity  medium.  Calyx 
large,  open.  Segments  recurved.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  not  juicy  or 
melting,  sweet.     Good.     September. 

Truckiiill  Bergamot. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  yellow,  with  crimson 
and  fawn  in  the  sun,  sprinkled  with  gray  and  green  dots.  Stalk  rather 
short.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  open.  Basin  deep,  abrupt,  uneven.  Flesh 
half  melting,  somewhat  coarse  and  gritty,  moderately  juicy.  Good. 
October. 

Twenty-fifth  Ajjnivkrsaire  de  Leopold  I. 

This  Pear,  with  its  unfortunate  long  name,  is  a  seedling  of  M.  Gre- 
goire,  Jodoigne,  Belgium.  The  tree  is  of  medium  vigor,  and  very  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oval  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  few  patches  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  uetted,  patched, 
and  dotted  with  russet.  Stalk  medium  or  slender.  Cavity  narrow. 
Calyx  with  .half-ered  segments.  Flesh  white,  tine,  melting,  buttery, 
juicy,  sweet,  with  a  delicious  perfume.     November.     (An.  Pom.) 

'['\  I.KK. 

An  American  variety.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Young  wood 
reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  yellow,  netted  and  pat;hec 
and  dotted  with  rn  ft   long  and  Blender,  in  a  moderate  cavity 


870 


THE    PEAK. 


surrounded  by  russet.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow  and  uneven  Flesh 
white,  coarse,  granular,  buttery,  melting,  juicy,  brisk,  and  vinous. 
Good.     October. 

Tyson. 

A  native  seedling,  found  in  a  hedge  on  the  farm  of  Jonathan  Tyson, 
of  Jenkintown,  near  Philadelphia.  Tree  an  upright,  vigorous  grower, 
but  a  tardy  bearer,  very  productive.     Young  wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  acute  pyriform.  Skin  clear,  deep  yellow  at 
fidl  maturity,  slightly  russeted,  with  a  fine  crimson  cheek,  and  numerous 


Tyson. 


minute  brrwn  dots.  Stalk  long  and  curved,  generally  inserted  by  a 
fleshy  ring  or  lip.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  rather  fine,  juicy, 
melting,  veiy  sugary,  ami  somewhat  aromatic.  Very  good  to  best. 
Ripens  last  of  August  and  first  of  September. 


Upper  Crust. 

A  seedling  of  South  Carolina,  and  introduced  by  Colonel  Sumner. 
Fruit   below   medium,  roundish.     Skin  greenish,  covered  with  dots 


THE    TEAR. 


871 


wad  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  rather  short  and  stout.  Cavity  broacL. 
shallow.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  granular,  not  juicy,  rots  at  core 
Poor.     August. 


Urbaniste. 


Count  Coloma. 
St.  Marc? 
Beurre  Picquery. 

Drapiez. 

Coloma  d'Automne. 


Louise  d'Orleans. 
Picquery. 
Louis  Dupout. 

I  <!' I  liver. 
Urbaniste  Seedling. 


The  Urbaniste  is  a  fruit  which,  in  its  delicious  flavor,  compares  per 
haps  more  nearly  with  the  favorite  old  Doyenne  or  Virgalieu  than  any 
other  fruit,  and  adds,  when  in  perfection,  a  delicate  perfume  peculiarly 
its  own.  Its  handsome  size  and  remarkably  healthy  habit  commend  it 
for  those  districts  where  the  Doyenne  does  not  flourish.     The  tree  is  a 


Urbfinlsto. 


moderately  vigorous  grower,  and  though  it  does  not  begin  to  hoar  bo 
early  as  Borne  varieties,  it  yields  abundant  and  regular  crops,  and  give* 
•ivery  indication  of  a  long-lived,  hardy  variety.  For  the  orchard  or 
garden   in  the  .Middle   States,  therefore,  w<  ir   it   indispeu 

'Vith  so  many  other  fine  Borts,  we  owe  this  to  the  Flemish,  it   having 


872  THE   PEAR. 

been  originated  by  the  Count  de  Coloma,  of  Malines.  It  was  first  intro 
duced  into  tins  country  in  1823.  Young  snoots  upright,  short-jointed, 
olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  often  large,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  smooth 
and  fair,  pale  yellow,  with  gray  dots,  and  a  few  russet  streaks.  Stalk 
about  an  inch  long,  rather  stout,  and  inserted  in  a  well-marked  or  rather 
broad  depression.  Calyx  small,  closed,  and  set  in  a  narrow  basin,  which 
is  abruptly  and  rather  deeply  sunk.  Flesh  white,  yellowish  at  the  core, 
buttery,  very  melting  and  rich,  with  a  copious  delicious  juice,  delicately 
perfumed.  Very  good  or  best.  Ripens  from  the  last  of  September  till 
the  end  of  November,  if  kept  in  the  house. 

Ursula. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  oblong  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  much 
shaded  with  fine  crimson  in  the  sun,  partially  netted  and  patched,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  stout,  fleshy  at  base,  inclined, 
set  without  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  coarse  near  the  core, 
juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.  Good  to  very  good.  October J 
November. 

TJWCHLAN. 
Dowlin.  Round  Top. 

Origin  on  the  premises  of  widow  Dowlin,  ■Qwchlan  township,  Pa., 
near  the  Brand  vwine.     Tree  of  moderate  growth. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  obovate.  Skin  yellow, 
mostly  covered  with  golden  russet.  Stalk  long,  curved,  in  a  slight 
depression.  Calyx  open.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  white,  melting,  jnicy, 
slightly  vinous,  with  a  fine  aromatic  flavor.  Good  to  very  good.  If  not 
picked  early  it  is  disposed  to  rot  at  the  core.     Ripens  last  of  August. 

Valentine. 

Originated  on  Long  Island. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblong  acute  pyriform,  pale  yellowish  green, 
tinge  of  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant. 
Good.     August. 

Vall£e  Franciie. 
De  Vallee.  Bonne  de  Keinzheim.  De  Kein?heim. 

An  old  variety,  unworthy  cultivation. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  yellowish  green.  Flesh 
white,  not  fine-grained,  quite  juicy,  but  not  butter}',  and  of  a  simple 
sweet  flavor.     Last  of  August. 

Van  Assche. 

Van  Assene.  Van  Awhe. 

This  Flemish  Pear  is  quite  handsome  but  of  variable  quality.  Tre; 
vigorous,  productive.     Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obovate  pyriform.     Skin  pale  whit 


THE    PEAR.  873 

ish  yellow,  shaded,  mottled,  and  dotted  with  crimson,  and  thickly  covored 
with  conspicuous  brown  dots.     Stalk  curved,  inclined,  Bet  in  a  shallow 
cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.     Calyx  partially  closed.     Segments  short, 
erect.      Basin  abrupt,  large,  deep,  Blightly  corrugated.     Flesh   vi 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Van   BUBEN. 

An  American  seedling,  raised  by  Governor  Edwards,  of  New  Haven, 
Conn.     Only  valuable  for  cooking. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  clear  yellow,  with  a  rich 
orange-red  blush  next  the  sun,  regularly  dotted  with  conspicuous  brown- 
ish specks,  and  slightly  touched  with  greenish  and  russet  spots.  Flesh 
white,  crisp,  sweet.     October. 

Van  Deventer. 

Origin,  New  Jersey.     Tree  very  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  rather  small,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
with  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  with  many  gray  and  green  dots.  Stalk 
inclined,  inserted  by  a  lip,  and  sometimes  rings.  Calyx  partially  closed. 
Basin  shallow.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy ;  tender,  half  melting,  sweet,  plea.- 
sant.     Good.     Middle  August. 

Van  de  Weyek  Bates. 

Vandeweyer  Bates. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  obovate,  pale  lemon  yellow,  covered 

with  small  brown  dots,  and  a  few  veins  of  the  same  color.     Calyx  large, 

open.     Flesh  yellow,  buttery,  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  with  a  pleasant  aroma 

One  of  the  finest  late  Pears.     March  to  May.      (Hogg.) 

Van  Maim  m. 

Beurrr  Van  Marum.  Calebasse  Carafon. 

Grosse  Calebasse  du  Nord.  Calebasse  Monstre. 

Bouteille.  Calebasse  Monstrueuse  du  Nord. 

Monstrueuse  du  Nord.  Calebasse  Iioyale. 

Triomphe  du  Nord.  Calebasse  de  Holland. 

Triompbe  de  Hasselt.  Calebasse  Imp  'dale. 

Poire  Van  Marum.  Calebasse  du  Nord. 

Calebasse  de  Nerckman's.  Calebasse  Monstrueuse. 

Originated  with  Van  .Mons.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  productive. 
Young  wood  reddish  brown, 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  rarely  with 
a  little  red.  Stalk  rather  long  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  Battened  cavity. 
Calyx  large,  set  in  a  regular  shallow  basin.  Flesh  white,  liable  to  rot  at 
the  core,  half  melting,  not  very  juicy,  but  sweet  and  pleasantly  perfumed. 
Good.     October. 

Van  Mons  L£on  lb  Olkrc 

Van  Mons  Leon  le  Clerc  was  originated  by  M.  I. ion  h-  Olerc,  an 
amateur  cultivator,  of  Laval,  in  France,  who,  in  naming  it,dosin 
couple  his  own  name  with  that  of  his  friend,  Dr.   Van   Mons      ,-  le  -rand 
pretre  de  Pomona."     Its  young  rho  its  are  strong  upright, oliv  ■colored 


874  THE   PEAB. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obovate.  Skin  yellowish,  much  mingled  with 
brown  over  nf,arly  the  whole  surface,  and  slightly  russeted  near  the 
stalk.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  rather  stout,  obliquely  inserted, 
with  little  depression.  Calyx  small,  open,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  sugary  flavor.  Good  to 
very  good.     October  and  November. 

Van  Mons  St.  Germain. 
St.  Germain  Nouveau. 

A  seedling  of  Professor  Van  Mons',  and  considered  a  great  acquisi- 
tion to  the  list  of  fine  Pears.     Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium,  regular,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  green- 
ish yellow,  shaded  with  dull  green,  and  with  fawn  russet  patches  and 
minute  black  dots.  Stalk  long,  inserted  with  scarcely  any  depression, 
surrounded  by  a  few  folds.  Flesh  white,  half  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet, 
perfumed.     September.      (Al.  Pom.) 

Vauquelin. 
Poire  Vauquelin.  Saint  Germain  Vauquelin. 

A  variety  from  Rouen,  France.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower.  Young 
wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform,  sometimes  oblong  obovate  pyri- 
form. Skin  greenish,  a  little  brownish  in  the  sun,  some  patches  and 
traces  of  russet,  and  russet  dots.  Stalk  stout,  inserted  with  little  or  no 
cavity,  and  base  enlarged.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  astrin- 
gent.    Good.     December,  January. 

Verlaine. 
Verlaine  d'fite"  ? 

One  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obovate  pyriform,  pale  yellow  orange  in  sun,' 
with  patches  and  dots  of  brownish  red.  Stalk  slender,  inserted  in  a 
small  cavity.  Calyx  with  short,  stiff  segments.  Flesh  white,  half  fine, 
melting,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous.     September.      (An.  Pom.) 

Vermillon  d'en  Halt. 

A  foreign  variety.  Tree  vigorous,  with  strong  young  shoots  of  a 
light  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  obovate  pyriform,  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with 
»"ed  in  the  sun.     Flesh  fine,  melting,  j  uicy,  sweet.     September. 

Vermont. 
Vermont  Seedling. 

A  supposed  seedling,  taken  from  Vermont  to  near  Oswego,  N.  Y., 
where  it  has  fruited.  Tree  an  upright  grower.  Young  wood  grajish 
olive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  ovate  obovate  obtuse  pyriform,  pale  whitish 


THE    PEAK.  878 

yellow,  slight  red  in  the  sun,  traced,  netted,  and  dotted  with  russet. 
Stalk  slender.  Cavity  deep.  Calyx  with  erect  segments.  Flesh  whit- 
ish, juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Verulam. 

Black  Beum .  Buchanan's  Spring  Beurre. 

Spring  Beuxrc  New  Spring  Beurre. 

An  old  variety,  valuable  only  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  obovate,  dull  green,  covered  with  thin  russet  in  the 
shade,  and  reddish  brown  in  Llir  sun,  thickly  dotted  with  gray  dots. 
Stalk  slender.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  crisp,  coarsegrained,  and  when 
stewed  assumes  a  hue  rose  color.     January  to  March.     (Hogg.) 

Vezouziere. 

This  is  a  seedling  raised  by  M.  Leon  le  Clerc,  from  seeds  of  the  Van 
Mons  Leon  le  Clerc.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  productive.  Young 
wood  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  nearly  globular,  slightly  i  blate.  Skin  yellow- 
ish, sprinkled  with  minute  gray  and  green  dots.  Stalk  long,  curved, 
inserted  in  a  broad,  shallow  cavity.  Calyx  open,  persistent,  in  a  wide, 
uneven  basin.  Flesh  very  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  and  agreeable.  Good 
to  very  good.     September. 

VlCAB    OF    WlNKFIELD. 

Le  Cure.  Missive  d'Hiver. 

Monsieur  le  Cure.  Cueillette  d'Hiver. 

Clion.  Cornice  de  Toulon. 

Belle  de  Berry.  Du  Cure. 

Belle  H  loise.  Grosse  Allongee. 

Bon  Papa.  Du  I'radel. 

De  Clion.  Wicar  of  Wakefield. 

Monsieur.  Pradello  de  Catalogne. 

Belle  Andreane.  Curette. 

De  Monsieur  Le  Cure.  JoufFroy. 

Belle  Adrienne.  Messire  d'Hiver. 

Vicaire  de  Winkfield. 

This  large  and  productive  Pear  was  discovered,  as  a  natural  seea 
ling,  in  the  woods  of  Clion,  France,  by  a  French  curate,  whence  it 
obtained  in  France  the  familiar  name  of  Le  <  '"<■'.  or  Mimait  ur  le  <  'ur&, 
A  short  time  after  it  became  known  at  Palis,  it  was  Imported  into 
England  by  the  Reverend  Mr.  Rham,  of  Winkfield,  Berkshire,  and 
cultivated  and  disseminated  from  then  ling  known  in  the  neigh- 

borhood of  Loudon  as  the  Vicar  of  Winkjield.  With  regard  to  its 
merits  there  is  some  difference  of  opinion  —some  persons  considering  it 
a  fine  fruit.  It  is  always  remarkably  large,  fair,  and  handsome.  We 
think  it  always  a  first-rate  baking  Pear.  Occasionally  we  have  tasted  it 
fine  as  a  table  Pear,  but  generally  it  is  astriug«Mtt.,  and  only  third-rate 
for  this  purpose.     If  ripened   off  in  a   warm  *Hii»iM,rature,  however,  it 

■sill  generally  prove  a  g !  second-rate  eating  I'ear.      Bui  its  greal  pro* 

(uctiveness,  hardiness,  and  line  size,  will  always  give  it  a  prominent 
piace   n.    tli'-   orchard    as  a   proti  <>    *Var      The  tree 

grows  thriftily,  with  drooping  fruit    branches.     Sb  LgU4£*da<k 

oli'.!'  brown. 


876  THE    PEAR. 

Fruit  large  and  long  pyriform,  often  six  inches  long,  and  a  little  one- 
tided.     Skin  fair  and  smooth,  pale  yellow,  sometimes  with  a  brownish 


Vicar  of  Winkffleld. 


cheek,  and  marked  with  small  brown  dots.  Stalk  an  inch  or  an  inch 
and  a  half  long,  slender,  obliquely  inserted  without  depression.  Calyx 
large,  open,  set  in  a  basin  which  is  very  slightly  sunk.  Flesh  greenish 
white,  generally  juicy,  but  sometimes  buttery,  with  a  good,  sprightly 
flavor.     November  to  January. 


THE    PEAR.  877 

VlCOMTE    DE    SPOELBEKi  II. 

De  Spoelberg.  Beurrfi  de  Spoelberg.  DeBj  oilberg. 

^  A  seedling  of  Van  Moris',  described  in  1830,  and  dedicated  to  M.  le 
Vicomte  de  Spoelberg  de  Lowenjoul.  Tree  vigorous,  productive 
Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  acute  pyriform.     Skin  pule  yellow,  eovi 
with  numerous  small  dots,  and  small  patches  of  russet     Stalk  curved, 
tieshy   at  its  insertion,  with   slight   russet.     Calyx  open.      Basin  small, 
Flesh  white,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  not  high  flavored.    Good.     Novem- 
ber, December. 

Vineuse. 
Vineuse  iTEsperen. 

A  seedling  of  Major  Esperen's,  first  introduced  in  1840.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, with  slender  wood,  productive.    Young  wood  reddish  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  ovate  slightly  obtuse  pyriform. 
Skin  greenish,  slightly  bronzed  in  the  sun,  a  few  patches  and  nettings 
of  russet,  and  many  small  brown  and  green  dots.  Stalk  medium. 
Cavity  small.  Calyx  large,  open.  Basin  broad,  shallow.  Flesh  coarse, 
juicy,  melting,  acid.     Good.     October. 

VlKOOULEUSE. 

Poire-glace.  Le  Virgoule.  Poire  de  Glace. 

Chambrette.  Yirgolese.  Ice  Pear. 

Bujaleuf.  Chambrette  d'Hiver.  La  Virguleuse. 

An  old  French  variety,  of  little  value. 

Fruit  medium,  pyriform.  Skin  very  smooth,  yellowish  green  at  ma- 
turity, sprinkled  witli  numerous  gray  or  reddish  dots.  Flesh  white, 
buttery.     Good.     November  to  January. 

Von   Zugler. 

A  new  Belgian  variety.  Tree  slender.  Young  wood  olive.  Pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  acute  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  nearly 
covered  with  cinnamon  russet.  Stalk  rather  short,  inclined  in  a  slight 
depression  by  a  fleshy  lip.  Calyx  small,  open.  Segments  short,  erect. 
Basin  small.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic. 
Very  good.     September. 

Wad  leigh. 

Origin,  New  Hampshire. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular.  Fine  yellow,  slightly  netted  and 
patched  with  russet.  Stalk  Bhort,  stout,  inserted  in  a  slight  cavity, 
sometimes  by  a  fold  or  lip.  Calyx  with  small  short  segments.  Flesh 
white,  fine,  a  little  gritty,  juicy,  melting,  pleasant.     Good.      September. 

Walkxb. 

No.  135,  Van  Mons. 
This  is  a  s«  edling  of  Van   Bfons',  and  sent  -o  Robert  Manning,  of 


878 


THE    PEAR. 


Salara,    Mass.,  in   1834-5,  under    number.       The  tree  is  a    vigorovtn, 
healthy  grower,  upright  habit.     The  young  wood  grayish. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  a 
shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun.  Slight  nettings  and  patches  of  russet, 
and  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  fleshy  at  insertion, 
in  a  slight  cavity  by  a  ring.  Calyx  open  or  partially  closed.  Segments 
short,  erect.  Basin  small.  Flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  half 
melting,  vinous,  a  little  astringent.      Good  to  very  good.      October. 


Washington. 


Robinson. 


Naaman's  Creek. 


Robertson. 


Namen's  Creek. 


A  beautiful  American  Pear, 
of  very  excellent  quality,  which 
is  a  native  of  Delaware.  It  was 
discovered  there  in  a  thorn 
hedge,  near  Naaman's  Creek,  on 
the  estate  of  Colonel  Robinson. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  attractive 
and  distinct  of  our  native  des 
sert  Pears.  Young  shoots  sien 
der,  diverging,  reddish  yellow 
brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval 
obovate,  regularly  formed.  Skin 
smooth,  clear  lemon  yellow,  with 
a  sprinkling  of  reddish  dots  on 
the  sunny  side.  Stalk  about  an 
inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted 
even  with  the  surface,  or  with  a 
slight  depression.  Calyx  small, 
partly  closed,  and  set  in  a  shal- 
low basin.  Flesh  white,  very 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  and  agree- 
able. Very  good.  Middle  cf 
September. 

Watson. 

An  American  variety,  of 
poor  quality. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  slightly  obovate,  yellowish,  covered 
mostly  with  russet.  Flesh  whitish,  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  sweet. 
Early  September. 

Webster. 

Originated  at  Hudson,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  produc- 
tive.    Young  wood  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  globular  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  yellow,  sometimes  a 
linge  of  crimson  in  the  sun.  Traces  and  nettings  of  russet,  and  many 
minute  brown  dots.  Stalk  long,  slender,  inclined,  set  in  a  small  russeted 
uavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long,  reflexed.  Flesh  white,  juicv, 
melting,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.      November. 


Washington. 


THE    PEAK.  U7i 

Welbeck  Bergamot. 

Hepworth. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish,  uneven  in  outline,  bossed  about  the 
stalk,  lemon  yellow,  blush  of  light  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  large  russet  specks.  Calyx  small,  open.  Basin  shallow. 
Flesh  white,  rather  coarse-grained,   lialf  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  without 

flavor.     November.     (Hogg.) 

Wellington. 

Raised  by Wellington,  Braintree,  Mass.,  and  first  shown  before 

the  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society  in  1  H(J4. 

Fruit  Large,  oblong  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  clear  pale  yellow, 
clouded  with  green.  Stalk  very  short.  Calyx  open,  with  short,  stiff", 
slightly  incurved  segments.  Basin  shallow.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  lit- 
tle coase,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  with  a  peculiar  aroma.  November. 
(Hov.  Mag.) 

Wendell. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons',  named  in  honor  of  Dr.  H.  Wendell, 
Albany,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous,  upright. 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish  pyriform,  pale  yellow,  shaded  in  sun 
with  crimson,  and  sprinkled  with  dots.  Calyx  small,  partially  open. 
Flesh  whitish,  fine-grained,  juicy,  melting,  buttery,  sweet,  pleasant. 
Good.     September. 

Westoott. 

A  native  of  Rhode  Island.  Tree  vigorous,  an  early  bearer,  very 
productive. 

Fruit  medium,  irregular  globular.  Stalk  long,  curved,  rather  stout, 
fleshy  at  its  insertion,  in  a  cavity  of  moderate  depth,  with  a  li|>.  Calyx 
/ery  small,  in  a  shallow  furrowed  basin.  Color  light  yellow,  with 
numerous  gray  dots.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  nearly  melting,  coarse,  granu 
lar,  sweet,  and  agreeable.     Good.     September,  October. 

Wetmore. 

Raised  by  E.  B.  Wetmore,  Westmoreland,  N.  Y.  Tree  uprig}  t, 
vigorous.    Young  wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oval.     Skin  pale  yellow,  with  nettings 
patches  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.     Stalk   Long, 
slender,  set  in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip.     Calyx  open. 
ments  short,  erect.     Basin  shallow,  slightly  corrugated.     Flesh  white, 
juicv,  melting,  sweet,  aromatic.     Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Wharton's  Early. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  young  wood  olive  yellowish  brown- 
Fruit  medium  size,  obovate  oblong  acute  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yel- 
low, traces  of  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long, 
curved,  rather  slender,  set  in  a  slight  cavky,  sometimes  by  a  lip.  Calyx 
open.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  small,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish. 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  musky.     Good  or  very  good.     August. 


880 


THE    PEAK. 


Wheeler. 

Originated  in  Greenwich,  R.  I.  Tree  vigorous,  upright.  Young 
wood  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  a  few 
traces  and  patches  of  russet,  and  numerous  gray  and  green  dots. 
Stalk  medium.  Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Basin  abrupt,  uneven. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant.     Good.     August. 


Whieldon. 


Whieldon's  McLellan. 


McLellan. 


Originated  in  the  garden  of  Wru.  W.  Whieldon,  Concord,  Mass 
The  tree  is  moderately  vigorous,  and  a  profuse  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  obovate  obtuse,  slightly  pyriform.  Skin 
pale  yellowish  green,  with  a  tinge  of  red  in  the  sun,  numerous  russet 
nettings  and  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  a  little  inclined,  set  in  a 
shallow  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  a  little  recurved.  Basin  me- 
dium, uneven.  Flesh  whitish,  a  little  gritty  near  the  core,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, buttery,  sweet,  pleasant,  slightly  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good. 
September. 


White  Doyenne. 


Doyenne  White. 

Virgalieu,  of  New  York. 

St.  Michael,  of  Boston. 

Butter  Pear,  of  Philadelphia, 

Virgaloo. 

Bergoloo. 

Yellow  Butter. 

White  Beurr;'. 

White  Autumn  Beurre. 

Dean's. 

Warwick  Bergamot. 

Pine  Pear. 

St.  Michel. 

Reigner. 

Doyenne. 

Doyenne  blanc. 

Beurre  blanc. 


Poire  de  Limon. 

Valencia. 

Citron  de  Septembre. 

Bonne-ente. 

A  courte  queue. 

Kaiserbirne. 

Kaiser  d'Automne. 

Weisse  Herbst  Butterbirne. 

Dechantsbirne. 

Nouvelle  d'Ouef. 

Edwige. 

Carlisle. 

White  or  Autumn  Butter. 

Valentia  or  Valencia 

Poire  du  Doyen. 

Garner  or  Gardner. 

Sublime  Garnotte. 


The  White  Doyenne  is,  unquestionably,  one  of  the  most  perfect  of 
autumn  Pears.  Its  universal  popularity  is  attested  by  the  great  num- 
ber of  names  by  which  it  is  known  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  As 
the  Virgalieu  in  New  York,  Butter  Pear  in  Philadelphia,  and  St. 
Michael's  in  Boston,  it  is  most  commonly  known  ;  but  all  these  names,  so 
likely  to  create?  confusion,  should  be  laid  aside  for  the  true  one,  White 
Doyenne.*  It  is  an  old  French  variety,  having  been  in  cultivation  over 
two  hundred  years.  The  branches  are  strong,  upright,  yellowish  gray  or 
light  brown. 

Fruit  of  medium  or  large  size,  regularly  formed,  obovate.  It  varies 
considerably  in  different  soils,  and  is  often  shorter  or  longer  on  the  same 

*  Virgalieu  seems  an  American  name,  and  is  always  liable  to  be  confounded 
with  the  Virgouleuse,  a  very  different  fruit.  The  Doyenne  (pronounced  dwoy- 
annay),  literally  deanship,  is  probably  an  allusion  to  the  Dean  by  whom  it  was 
•rst  brought  irto  notice. 


THE    PEAR. 


881 


tree.  Skin  smooth,  clear  pale  yellow,  regularly  sprinkled  with  small 
dots,  and  often  with  a  fine  red  cheek.  Stalk  brown,  from  three-fourths 
to  an  inch  and  a  fourth  long,  a  little  curved,  and  planted  in  a  small, 
round  cavity.  Calyx  always  very  small,  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  basin, 
smooth  or  delicately  plaited.      Flesh  white,  fine-grained,  very  buttery, 


White  Doyenn^. 


melting,  rich,  high-flavored  and  delicious.  Best.  September — and,  if 
picked  early  from  the  tree,  will  often  ripen  gradually  till  December. 

The  Doyenne  Panache,  or  Striped  Dean,  is  a  variety  rather  more 
narrowing  to  the  stalk,  the  skin  prettily  striped  with  yellow,  green,  and 
red,  and  dotted  with  brown.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  but  not  high-flavor 
ed.     October. 

White's  Seedling. 

Origin,  New  Haven,  Conn.      T  _'<»rous  grower,  very  produc- 

tive.    Young  wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  oval  e.     Skin  yellow,  sometimes  with 

a  brownish  blush  in  the  sun.  considerably  netted  and  patched  with  rus- 
set, and  many  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  inclined,  Bel  in  a  shallow  cavity, 
often  by  a  fleshy  lip.  Calyx  open.  Segments  Bhort,  erect.  .Basin 
small,  uneven.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  aromatic.  Good 
to  very  good.     October  Lo  February. 

5ft 


882  THE    PEAK. 

WlEST. 

From  Pennsylvania.  Tree  a  vigorous  growe/.  Young  wood  reddish 
yellow  brown,  with  oblong  gray  specks. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oval,  green,  shaded  with  dull  red, 
and  sprinkled  with  green  and  gray  dots.  Stalk  rather  stout.  Calyx 
small,  closed.  Segments  to  a  point.  Flesh  whitish  green,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, subacid.     Good.     September. 

Wilbur. 

The  Wilbur  is  a  native  fruit,  which  originated  in  Somerset,  Mass. 
Shoots  slender,  light  olive  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  roundish  ovate,  pale  yellow,  slightly  netted 
and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk 
small  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long.  Basin  small. 
Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melting,  slightly  astringent.  Good.  Septem- 
ber. 

Wilkinson. 

The  original  tree  grows  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  J.  Wilkinson,  Cumber- 
land, R.  I.  The  tree  is  very  thrifty,  hardy,  and  a  regular  bearer. 
The  shoots  are  long,  upright,  stout,  olive  yellow,  with  oblong  white 
specks. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  inclining  to  oval.  Skin  smooth  and 
glossy,  bright  yellow,  dotted  with  brown  points.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a 
quarter  long,  rather  stout,  inserted  with  little  or  no  depression.  Calyx 
small,  open,  and  firm,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  very  white,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  and  rich,  with  a  slight  perfume.  Good.  October  to  De- 
cember. 

WlLLERMOZ. 

This  Belgian  Pear  was  produced  in  1848.  The  tree  is  an  extremely 
fine  grower,  with  young  shoots  dark  dull  olive  brown,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  nettings 
and  some  large  patches  of  russet,  and  many  small  russet  dots.  Stalk 
medium  or  rather  stout,  inclined,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Calyx  open,  or 
partially  closed.  Basin  abrupt.  Flesh  whitish,  buttery,  juicy,  melting, 
coarse  at  core,  slightly  vinous.  Good  to  very  good.  November, 
J  anuary. 

William  Edwards. 

A  seedling  of  Ex-Governor  Edwards,  of  New  Haven,  very  produc- 
tive, and  a  good  baking  fruit,  but  not  juicy  or  melting  enough  for  the 
dessert. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obti;se  pyriform,  terminating  rather  abruptly 
at  the  stalk.  Skin  yellow,  and  at  maturity  profusely  dotted  with  red 
and  russet  points  or  dots  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
buttery,  sugary.     September. 


THE    PEAR.  &63 

William  Photos. 

Origin  unknown.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  y-  Low,  with  a 
shade  of  crimson  in  the  sun,  and  many  brown  dots.  Stalk  rather  short. 
Calyx  open.  Basin  .shallow.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.  Good 
to  very  good.     September,  October. 

Williams'    Eakly. 

A  native  fruit,  which  originated  on  the  farm  of  Mr.  A.  D.  Williams, 
of  Hoxbury,  Mass.  Tree  a  moderate  grower.  Young  shoots  brown 
red. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  slightly  pyriform.  Skin  bright  yellow,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  rich  scarlet  dots  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a 
half  long,  straight,  a  little  fleshy  where  it  joins  the  fruit.  Calyx  very 
short,  open.  Basin  shallow  and  slightly  plaited.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
a  little  coarse-grained  at  first,  but,  when  ripe,  very  juicy,  half  buttery, 
with  a  slightly  musky  flavor,     i  rood.     First  to  the  middle  of  September. 

Williamson. 

Origin  on  the  farm  of  Nicholas  Williamson,  Long  Island.  Tree 
hardy,  vigorous,  and  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  a  few  patches 
and  traces  of  russet.  Stalk  rather  stout.  Calyx  open.  Basin  uneven. 
Flesh  white,  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting.     Good.     October. 

Wilmington. 

A  seedling  of  Passe  Colmar,  raised  by  J>r.  Brinckle,  of  Philadelphia. 
Tree  a  moderate  grower.     Young  wood  dull  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots. 
Stalk  long,  set  in  a  small  cavity,  often  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Seg- 
ments persistent.  Basin  shallow,  uneven.  Flesh  whitish  green,  juicy, 
buttery,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant,  Blightly  aromatic.  Good  to  very  good. 
Saptember. 

Windsor. 

Summer  Bell.  Belle  d' !  Green  Windsor. 

Konjre.  Lady  Thigh.  Grosse  Jargonelle. 

Madame.  Bell  Tongue.  Supreme. 

Madame  de  France.  •  of  some. 

Watermelon,  of  some. 

The  Windsor  is  an  old  European  Pear,  veiy  C<  mmonl;  known  in 
some  parts  of  this  country  as  the  Summer  Bell  Pear.  It  is  a  profitable 
market  sort,  bearing  regularly  large  crops,  and  selling  well,  although  in 
quality  it  is,  from  i\  agency,  almost  uneatable,  and   to   be  valued 

„nly  as  a  cooking  fruit.  The  tree  La  remarkable  for  its  stout,  perfectly 
np  right  dark  brown  shoots. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform  or  bell-ahapod,  widest  above  the  middle,  nar 


884  THE   PEAR. 

rowing  to  the  eye.     Skin  yellowish  green.     Flesh  white,  tender  or  soft^ 
coarse-grained,  with   a  somewhat   astringent  juice.     Rots  a*,  the  core. 

Last  of  August. 

Winship. 
Winship  Seedling. 

Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  the  Messrs.  Winship,  Brighton,  Mass 
Tree  vigorous.     Young  wood  rich  dull  yellow  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oblong  acute  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow 
with  traces  and  patches  of  russet.  Stalk  long,  rather  stout,  and  uneven 
Calyx  large.  Segments  short,  erect.  Basin  small,  corrugated.  Flesh 
white,  coarse,  not  juicy  or  melting.     Poor.     August. 

Winter  Bonchretien. 

Bon  Chr-tien  d'Hiver.  De  Dos. 

Poire  d'Angoise.  De  Fesses. 

Good  Christian  of  Winter.  De  Bon  Crustemenien. 

Winter  Good  Christian.  De  Chretien. 

Bon  Chretien  de  Constantinople.  Bon  Chretien  de  Tours. 

Panchresta.  Bon  Chretien  de  Vernon. 

Poire  d'Apothecaire.  Bon  Chretien. 

Crustemenie.  Bon  Chretien  d'Auch. 

A  Tetine.  De  Saint-Martin. 

This  is  perhaps  one  of  the  oldest  Pears  known,  having  been  de- 
scribed in  1485.     Its  value  is  only  for  cooking. 

Fruit  large,  obovate  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  dull  yellow,  tinge  of 
brown  in  the  sun,  and  sprinked  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  medium. 
Cavity  small.  Calyx  open.  Basin  deep.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  juioy 
sweet,  perfumed.     December  to  March. 

Winter  Nelis. 

Nelis  d'Hiver.  Etourneau. 

Bonne  de  Malines.  Bergamotte  Thouin. 

Beurre  de  Malines.  Colmar  Nelis 

La  Bonne  Malinaise.  Thouin. 

Milanaise  Cuvelier.  Colmar  d'Hiver. 

The  Winter  Nelis  holds,  in  our  estimation,  nearly  the  same  rank 
amoug  winter  Pears  that  the  Seckel  does  among  the  autumnal  varieties. 
It  is  a  very  hardy  and  thrifty  tree,  and  bears  regular  crops  of  pears, 
which  always  ripen  well,  and  in  succession.  Branches  diverging,  rather 
slender,  dark  reddish  brown.  It  is  a  Flemish  Pear,  and  was  originated 
by  M.  Nelis,  of  Mechlin. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  or  usually  a  little  below  it,  roundish  obovate, 
narrowed-m  near  the  stalk.  Skin  yellowish  green  at  maturity,  dotted 
with  gray  russet,  and  a  good  deal  covered  with  russet  patches  and 
streaks,  especially  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  an  inch  and  a  half  long, 
bent,  and  planted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Calyx  open,  with  stiff,  short  di- 
susions,  placed  in  a  shallow  basin.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine-grained, 
buttery,  and  very  melting,  abounding  with  juice  of  a  rich,  saccharine, 
aromatic  flavor.  Best.  In  perfection  in  December,  and  keep5  till  th« 
middle  of  Januarv. 


run  pkab.  8tt 


Winter  Nelia. 


Winter  Seckel. 


Origin,  near  Fredericksburg,  Va.     Introduced  by  H.  R.  Roby. 

Fruit  small,  obovate,  yellow,  with  a  brownish  cheek  in  sun,  patches 
and  nettings  of  russet,  and  many  large  green  and  brown  dots.  Stalk 
slender.  Calyx  large,  open.  Flesh  wliite,  a  little  coarse  at  core,  ju;  'y, 
half  melting,  sweet.     Good.     January  to  March. 

Winter  Thorn. 
fipine  d'Hiver.  fipine  Rose  d'lliver. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate,  yellowish  green,  with  grayish 
brown  dots.  Calyx  small,  open.  Flesh  whitish,  tender,  buttery,  sweet, 
musky.     November,  January.     (II" 

Woodbridge's  Seckel. 

Originated  at  Detroit,  Mich.     Tree  moderately  vigorous. 

Fruit  small,  ovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  marbled 
with  crimson  in  \\q  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  and  crimson 
dots.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Calyx  open.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, sweet,  vinous.  Very  good,  bul  rapidly  decays  at  the  core.  Sep- 
tember. 


886  THE   PEAK. 

Woodstock. 

Origin,  Vermont.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  very  producti  re.  JToung 
wood  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  varying  in  form  from  roundish  obtuse  to 
obovate  pyriform.  Skin  pale  yellow,  netted  and  patched,  and  thickly 
sprinkled  with  russet  dots.  Stalk  long,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a 
small  cavity,  often  by  a  lip.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long,  slender,  per- 
sistent. Basin  abrupt.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleasant, 
slightly  musky.      Good  to  very  good.      September. 

Wredow. 

This  is  of  unknown  origin,  probably  French.  Tree  moderately  vi- 
gorous, very  productive.     Young  wood  dark  olive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  shade  of 
crimson  in  the  sun,  netted,  patched,  and  dotted  with  rich  golden  russet. 
Stalk  long,  slendei*,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip. 
Calyx  open.  Segments  recurved.  Flesh  whitish,  juicy,  melting,  brisk, 
vinous.     Good  to  very  good.      September. 

Yat. 

Yutte.  Graue  Sommer  Butterbirne. 

Beurre  Gris  d'fite.  Jutjesbirne. 

De  Hollande.  Jut-peer. 

Gute  Graue.  Jutte. 

Originated  in  Holland,  of  little  value.  Tree  vigorous.  Young 
wood  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  pyriform,  green,  with  some  large,  round,  light- 
colored  specks,  brown  russet  in  sun.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet. 
Rots  quickly.     September. 

Zepherin  Louis. 
Zepberin  Louis  Gregoire. 

Originated  and  first  described  by  M.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne,  Bel 
gium.     Tree  a  moderate  healthy  grower. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  dull  greenish  yellow,  clouded 
with  brownish  red,  and  shades  of  russet.  Stalk  very  short.  Cavity 
narrow,  round.  Calyx  small.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tinge  of  green, 
half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic.     January.     (Al.  Pom.) 

Zephirin  Gregoire. 

Raised  by  M.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne,  in  1843.  Tree  a  free,  grower. 
Young  wood  smooth,  light  olive  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  irregular,  roundish  acute  pyriform.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  reddish  in  the  sun,  with  patches  of  russet,  and  many  green  and 
gray  dots.  Stalk  short,  fleshy,  very  fleshy  at  insertion,  and  without  a 
cavity.  Calyx  open.  Segments  long.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  juicy, 
perfumed.     Good  to  very  good.     October,  November. 


THE    TEAR.  887 

Zoar  Beauty. 

Zoar  Seedling. 

A  nathe  of  Ohio.     Tree  vigorous,  dark   brovvn  shoots,  an  early  and 
abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  acute  pyriform.     Skin  yellow,  with  a  beautiful  crim 
son  or  carmine  cheek   in   sun,  thickly  dotted   with   minute  green 
Stalk  long,  curved,  fleshy  at  insertion,  often  by  a  ring  or  li]>,  in  a 
canity.     Calyx   open.      Segments   erect,    sometimes    recurved.      I        i 
white,  granular,  half  breaking,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  aromatic,  per- 
fumed.    Unless  gathered  early  it  rots  at  core.     Good.     Early  August. 


SELECT   LIST  OF   PEARS  FOR  TABLE    USE,  MARKETING 
AND  COOKING. 

Ananas  d'Ete.     Table  and  market. 

Baron  de  Mello.     Table  and  market. 

Bartlett.      Table  and  market. 

Beurre  d'Albret.     Table  and  market. 

Beurre  d'Anjou.     Table  and  market. 

Beurre  Bosc.     Table  and  market. 

Beurre  Brignais.     Table  and  market. 

I'.eurre  Clairgeau.      M 

Beurre  Diel.      Table  and  market. 

Beurre  Giffart.     Table. 

Beurre  Gris  d'Eftvei   Nouveau.     Table  and  market. 

Beurre  Hardy.      Table  and  market. 

Beurre  Koning.      Table  and  market. 

Beurre  Sterckmans.     Table  and  market. 

Beuire  Superfin.      Table  and  market. 

Black  Worcester.      Market  and  cooking. 

Bloodgood.     Table. 

Brandywine.     Table. 

Brialmont.     Table  and  irarket. 

Bulfum.      Table  and  park 

Catillac.      .Market  and  cooking. 

Church.     T 

Clai>p*s  Favorite.     Table  and  market. 

Coit's  Beurre.     Table  and  mar! 

Dana's  Hovey.     Table  and  market. 

1  dearborn  8  >edling.      rable. 

Dix.     Table  and  market. 

Doctor  Reeder.     Table. 

Doyenne   Boussock.      Table  and  market. 

Doyenne  Cornice.      Table  and  market. 

Doyenne  d'Ete.     Table  and  market. 

Doyenne  «  h  is.     Table  and  mar 


888  THE    PEAK. 

Duchesse  D'Angouleine.     Table  and  market. 

Duchesse  D' Orleans.     Table  and  market. 

Edmonds.     Table  and  market. 

Emile  d'Heyst.     Table  and  market. 

Flemish  Beauty.     Table  and  market. 

Fondante  d'Automne.     Table  and  market. 

Foote's  Seckel.     Table. 

Fulton.     Table  and  market. 

Gansel's  Bergamotte.     Table  and  market. 

Henkel.     Table  and  market. 

Howell.     Table  and  market. 

Jones1  Seedling.     Table  .and  niai^ket. 

Josephine  Malines.     Table  and  market. 

Lawrence.     Table  and  market. 

Leon  le  Clerc  Laval.     Market  and  cooking. 

Louise  Bonne  de  Jersey.     Table,  market,  and  cooking. 

Lycurgus.     Table. 

McLaughlin.     Table  and  market. 

Madame  Eliza.     Table  and  market. 

Manning's  Elizabeth.     Table. 

Marechal  de  la  Cour.     Table  and  market. 

Merriam.     Table  and  market. 

Onondaga.      Table  and  market. 

Paradise  d'Automne.     Table  and  market. 

Pound.     Market  and  cooking. 

Prince's  St.  Germain.     Table  and  market. 

Bostiezer.     Table  and  market. 

Butter.     Table  and  market. 

Seckel.     Table  and  market. 

Sheldon.     Table  and  market. 

Souvenir  d'Esperen.     Table  and  market. 

Spanish  Bon  Chretien.     Market  and  cooking. 

Stevens'  Genesee.     Table  and  market. 

Surjmsse  Virgalieu.     Table  and  market. 

Tyson.     Table  and  market. 

Urbaniste.     Table  and  market. 

Vicar  of  Winkfield.     Market  and  cooking. 

Washington.     Table  and  market. 

White  Doyenne.     Table  and  market. 

Winter  Bonchretien.     Market  and  cooking, 

Winter  Nelis.     Table  and  market. 


THK   PLUM.  881 

CHAPTER  XXVIL 

THE    PLUM. 

Prunus  domeatica,  L.     Rosacea,  of  botanists. 
Prunier,  of  the  French  ;  Pjlaumenbaum,  German  ;  Prugiw,  Italian  ;  Cirudo 

Spanish. 

The  original  parent  of  most  of  the  cultivated  Plums  of  our  gardens 
is  ;i  native  i  f  Asia  and  the  Southern  parts  of  Europe,  bul  it  has  become 
naturalized  in  this  country,  and  in  many  parts  of  ii  is  produced  in  the 

st  abundance.*     That   the  soil   and  climate  of  the  Middle  8 
arc  admirably  suited  to  this  fruit  is  sufficiently  proved  by  the  almost 
spontaneous  production  of  such  varieties  as  the  Washington,  Jefferson, 
Lawrence's  Favorite,  Szc. ;  sorts  which  equal  or  surpass  in  beautj    or 
flavor  the  most  celebrate!  Plums  of  France  or  England. 

Uses.  The  finer  kinds  of  plums  are  beautiful  desserl  fruits,  of  rich 
and  luscious  flavor.  They  are  not,  perhaps,  so  entirely  wholesome  as 
the  peach  and  the  pear,  as,  from  their  somewhat  cloying  and  flatulent 
nature,  unless  when  very  perfectly  ripe,  they  are  more  likely  to  disagree 
with  weak  stomachs. 

For  the  kitchen  the  plum  is  also  very  highly  esteemed,  being  prized 
for  tarts,  pies,  canning,  sweetmeats,  etc.  In  the  South  of  Prance  an 
excellent  spirit  is  made  from  this  fruit  fermented  with  honey.  In  the 
western  part  of  this  State,  where  they  are  very  abundant,  they  are 
halved,  stoned,  and  dried  in  the  sun  or  ovens  in  large  quantities,  and 
are  then  excellent  for  winter  use.  For  eating,  the  plum  should  be 
allowed  to  hang  on  the  tree  till  perfectly  ripe,  and  the  fruit  will  always 
be  finer  in  proportion  as  the. tree  has  a  more  sunny  exposure.  The  si/.e 
and  quality  of  the  fruit  is  always  greatly  improved  by  thinning  the 
fruit  when  it  is  half-grown.  Indeed,  to  prevent  rotting,  and  to  have 
this  fruit  in  its  highest  perfection,  no  two  plums  should  be  allowed  to 
touch  each  other  while  g  ind  those  wli.i  are  willing   to  take   this 

pains,  are  amply  repaid  by  the  superior  quality  of  the  fruit. 

*  Th'  re  are  three  species  of  wild  plum  indigenous  to  this  ootmtry — of  toler- 
able flavor,  but  seldom  cultivate  I  in  our  gardens       I  owing:— 

I.  The  Chickasaw  Pli  m.       Prunus  C/iicasa,  Mi 
fourths  nt  an  inch  in  diam 

subacid  the  thin.     Thi 

head  rather  bushy,  with   i 

distance somewhal  [tusually  i  or  14 

feet  high  ;  but  ><> 

form  it  is  also  common  in  Texas.      The  !  "•'•  UW  Ti:x  If   I 
rick  is  only  I 

If.  Wild  Red  ok  Yellow  Plum.      /' 
ish  oval,  skin  thick,  redd  -  with  a  juicy,  y< 

leaves  are  what 

thornv.     Grows  in  hed 

Gulf  "of   Mexico.     Tree    from    10   to    \~>    feet  high,      Fruil    n;  • 
August. 

III.  The  Beach  Plum,  or  Sand  Plum.      P 
with  stout  straggling  branches.  : 
Bachufc  : "'I1  ripening  w 

in  diamett  r,  red  <<r  purp  •  with  a  bloom. 

rr.ite 


890  THE   PLUM. 

One  of  the  most  important  forms  of  the  plum  in  commerco  ia  that  of 
prunes,  as  they  are  exported  from  France  to  every  part  of  the  world. 
We  quote  the  following  interesting  account  of  the  best  mode  of  prepar- 
ing prunes  from  the  Arboretum  JJritannicum  : — 

The  best  prunes  are  made  near  Tours,  of  the  St.  Catherine  Plum 
and  the  Prune  d'Agen ;  and  the  best  French  plums  (so  called  in  Eng- 
land) are  made  in  Provence,  of  the  Perdrigon  blanc,  the  Brignolo,  and 
the  Prune  d'Ast ;  the  Provence  plums  being  the  most  fleshy,  and  hav- 
ing always  most  bloom.  Both  kinds  are,  however,  made  of  these  and 
other  kinds  of  plums,  in  various  parts  of  France.  The  plums  are 
gathered  when  just  ripe  enough  to  fall  from  the  trees  on  their  being 
slightly  shaken.  They  are  then  laid,  separately,  on  frames  or  sieves 
made  of  wicker-work  or  laths,  and  exposed  for  several  days  to  the  sun, 
till  they  become  as  soft  as  ripe  medlars.  When  this  is  the  case  they 
are  put  into  a  spent  oven,  shut  quite  close,  and  left  there  for  twenty- 
four  hours  ;  they  are  then  taken  out,  and  the  oven  being  slightly  re- 
heated, they  are  put  in  again  when  it  is  rather  warmer  than  it  was  be- 
fore. The  next  clay  they  are  again  taken  out,  and  turned  by  slightly 
shaking  the  sieves.  The  oven  is  heated  agaiu,  and  they  are  put  in  a 
third  time,  when  the  oven  is  one-fourth  degree  hotter  than  it  was  the 
second  time.  After  remaining  twenty-four  hours,  they  are  taken  out, 
and  left  to  get  quite  cold.  They  are  then  rounded,  an  operation  which  is 
performed  by  turning  the  stone  in  the  plum  without  breaking  the  skin, 
and  pressing  the  two  ends  together  between  the  thumb  and  finger. 
They  are  then  again  put  upon  the  sieves,  which  are  placed  in  an  oven 
from  which  the  bread  has  been  just  drawn.  The  door  of  the  oven  is 
closed,  and  the  crevices  are  stopped  round  it  with  clay  or  dry  grass. 
An  hour  afterwards  the  plums  are  taken  out,  and  the  oven  is  again 
shut,  with  a  cup  of  water  in  it,  for  about  two  hours.  When  the 
water  is  so  warm  as  just  to  be  able  to  bear  the  finger  in  it,  the  primes 
are  again  placed  in  the  oven,  and  left  there  for  twenty-four  hours,  when 
the  operation  is  finished,  and  they  are  put  loosely  into  small,  long,  and 
rather  deep  boxes,  for  sale.  The  common  sorts  are  gathered  by  shaking 
the  trees ;  but  the  finer  kinds,  for  making  French  plums,  must  be 
gathered  in  the  morning,  before  the  rising  of  the  sun,  by  taking  bold  of 
the  stalk  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  without  touching  the  fruit, 
which  is  laid  gently  on  a  bed  of  vine-leaves  in  a  basket.  When  the  bas- 
kets are  filled,  without  the  plums  touching  each  other,  they  are  removed 
to  the  fruit-room,  where  they  are  left  for  two  or  three  days  exposed  to 
the  sun  and  air  ;  after  which  the  same  process  is  employed  for  the  others  ; 
and  in  this  way  the  delicate  bloom  is  retained  on  the  fruit,  even  when 
quite  dry. 

Propagation  and  Culture.  The  plum  is  usually  propagated  in 
this  country  by  sowing  the  seeds  of  any  common  free-growing  variety 
(avoiding  the  Damsons,  which  are  not  readily  worked),  and  budding 
them,  when  two  years  old,  with  finer  sorts.  The  stones  should  be 
planted  as  soon  as  gathered,  in  broad  drills  (as  in  planting  peas),  but 
about  an  inch  and  a  half  deep.  In  good  soil  the  seedlings  will  reach 
eighteen  inches  or  two  feet  in  height  the  next  season,  and  in  the 
autumn  or  the  ensuing  spring  they  may  be  taken  from  the  seed-beds, 
their  tap-roots  reduced,  and  all  that  are  of  suitable  size  planted  at  once 
in  the  nursery  rows,  the  smaller  ones  being  thickly  bedded  until  aftet 
another  season's  growth. 


THE    PLUM.  891 

The  stocks  planted  out  in  the  nursery  will  ordinarily  be  read)'  for 
working  about  the  ensuing  midsummer,  and,  as  the  plum  is  quite  diffi- 
cult to  bud  in  this  dry  climate,  if  the  exacl  season  is  not  chosen,  tin 
budder  must  watch  the  condition  of  the  trees,  and  insert  his  buds  a* 
early  as  they  arc  sufficiently  firm,  say,  in  this  neighborhood,  about  the 
10th  of  July,  [nserf  the  buds,  if  possible,  on  the  north  side  of  the 
stock,  that  being  more  protected  from  the  sun,  and  tie  the  ba 
rather  more  tightly  than  for  other  tr< 

The  English  propagate  very  largely,  by  layers,  three  varieties  of  the 
common  plum—  the  Muscle,  the  Bi-ussela,  and  the  Pecur  Plum,  which 
are  almost  exclusively  employed  for  stocks  with  them.  Bui  wehai 
found  these  stocks  superior  to  the  seedlings  raised  from  our  common 
plums  (the  Blue  Gage,  Eforse  Plum,  &c),  so  abundant  in  all  our 
gardens.  Fur  dwarfing,  the  seedlings  of  the  Mirabi  le  are  chiefly  em- 
ployed. 

Open  standard  culture  is  the  universal  mode  in  America,  as  the  plum 
is  one  of  the  hardiest  of  fruit-trees.  It  requires  little  or  no  pruning 
beyond  that  of  thinning  oni  a  crowded  head,  or  taking  away  decayed  or 
broken  branches,  and  this  should  he  done  before  midsummer,  to  pit  vent 
the  flow  of  gum.  Old  trees  that  hi  become  barren  may  In-  renovated 
by  heading    them    in    pretty    s<  \  ing    the  wounds  with    a 

solution  of  gum  shellac,  and  giving    them  a  good   top-dressing  at    the 
roots. 

Soil.  The  plum  will  grow  vigorously  in  almost  every  part  of  thh» 
country,  but  it  only  hers  iis  finest  and  most  abundanl  crops  in  heavy 
loams,  or  in  soils  in  which  there  is  a  considerable  mixture  of  clay.  In 
sandy  soils  the  tree  blossoms  and  sets  plentiful  crops,  but  they  are 
rarely  perfected,  falling  a  prey  to  the  curculio,  an  insect  that  harbors  in 
the  soil,  and  seems  to  find  it  difficult  to  pen<  'rate  or  live  in  one  of  a 
heavy  texture,  while  a  warm,  light,  sandy  soil  is  exceedingly  favorable 
to  its  propagation.  It  is  also  undoubtedly  true  that  a  heavy  .soil  is  na- 
turally the  most  favorable  one.  Tie-  surprising  facility  with  which  su 
perior  new  varieties  are  raised  merely  by  ordinary  reproduction  from 
seed,  in  certain  parts  of  the  valley  of  the  Hudson, as  al  Hudson  or  near 
Albany,  where  the  soil  is  quite  clayey,  and  also  the  delicious  flavor  and 
great  productiveness  and  health  of  the  plum-tree  there,  almost  without 
any  care,  while  in  adjacent  districts  of  rich  Bandy  land  il  i-  ■  very  un- 
certain bearer,  are  very  convincing  proofs  of  the  great  importance  of 
clayey  soil  for  tins  fruit.* 

Where  the  whole  soil  of  a  place  is  light  and  sandy,  we  would  recom- 
mend the  employment  of  pure  yellow  loam  or  yellow  (lay  in  the  place 
of  manure,  when  preparing  the  border  or  spaces  for  planting  the  plum. 
Verv  heavy  clay,  burned  slowly  by  mixing  it  in  large  leaps  with  brush 
or  fagots,  is  at  once  an  admirable  manure  and  alterative  for  such  soils. 
Swamp  muck  is  also  one  of  i  i  bances,  tally  that  from 

salt-water  marshes. 

Common  salt  we  have  found  one  of  the  best  fertilizers  for  the  plum- 
tree.     It  greatly  promotes  its  health  and  luxuri 

Insects  and   Diseases.     There  are  but  twt  drawbacks  to  the  culti- 

*  When  this  was  written  it  wac  generally  suppoRert  that  the  cnrcnlio  would 
Dot  attack  the  fruit  of  plums  growing  on  trees  in  clayey  goih»  ;  but  praotL  al  ex 
perience  has  shown  that  such  is  not  the  fact. — RSVH 


892  THE    PLUM. 

ration  of  the  plum  in  the  United  States,  but  they  aie  in  some  district* 
bo  great  as  almost  to  desti  ay  the  value  of  this  tree.  ^  These  are  the  cwr- 
culio  and  the  knots. 

The  curculio,  or  plum-weevil  (Rhynchcenus  Nenuphar'),  is  the  un- 
compromising foe  of  all  smooth-stone  fruits.  The  cultivator  of  the 
Plum,  the  Nectarine,  and  the  Apricot,  in  many  parts  of  the  country, 
after  a  nattering  profusion  of  snowy  blossoms  and  an  abundant  promise 
in  the  thickly  set  young  crops  of  fruit,  has  the  frequent  mortification  of 
seeing  nearly  all,  or  indeed,  often,  the  whole  crop,  fall  from  the  trees 
when  half  or  two-thirds  grown. 

If  he  examines  these  falling  fruits  he  will  perceive  on  the  surface 
of  each,  not  far  from  the  stalk,  a  small  semi-circular  scar.  This  scar  is 
the  crescent-shaped  insignia  of  that  little  Turk  the  curculio — an  insect 
so  small  as,  perhaps,  to  have  escaped  his  observation  for  years,  unless 
pa/ticularly  drawn  to  it,  but  which  nevertheless  appropriates  to  himself 
the  whole  product  of  a  tree,  or  an  orchard  of  a  thousand  trees. 

The  habits  of  this  curculio,  or  plum-weevil,  are  not  yet  fully  and  en- 
tirely ascertained.  But  careful  observation  has  resulted  in  establishing 
the  following  points  in  its  history  : — 

The  plum-weevil  is  a  small,  dark  brown  beetle,  with  • 
spots  of  white,  yellow,  and  black.     Its  length  is  scarce- 
ly one-fifth  of  an  inch.     On  its  back  are  two  black 
humps,  and  it  is  furnished  with  a  pretty  long,  curved 
throat  and  snout,  which,  when  it  is  at  rest,  is  bent 
between  the  forelegs.     It  is    also  provided  with  two 
wings,  with  which  it  flies  through  the  air.     How  far 
this  insect  flies  is  yet  a  disputed  point,  some  cultiva- 
tors aflirming  that  it  scarcely  goes  farther  than  a 
single  tree,  and  others  believing  that  it  flies  over  a 
whole  neighborhood.     Our  own  observation  inclines 
us  to   the  belief  that  this  insect  emigrates  just  in 
^ite^mtfk.™*         proportion  as  it  finds  in  more  or  less  abundance  the 
tender  fruit  for  depositing  its  eggs.     Very  rarely  do 
we  see  more  than  one  puncture  in  a  plum,  and,  if  the 
insects  are  abundant,  the  trees  of  a  single  spot  will  not  afford  a  sufficient 
number  for  the  purpose  ;  then  there  is  little  doubt  (as  we  have  seen 
them  flying  through  the  air)  that  the  insect  flies  farther  in  search  of  it 
larger  supply.     But  usually,  we   think,  it  remains  nearly  in  the  same 
neighborhood,  or  migrates  but  slowly. 

About  a  week  or  two  after  the  blossoms  have  fallen  from  the  trees, 
if  we  examine  the  fruit  of  the  plum  in  a  district  where  this  insect 
abounds,  we  shall  find  the  small,  newly  formed  fruit  beginning  to  be 
punctured  by  the  proboscis  of  the  pluin-weevil.  The  insect  is  so  small 
and  shy,  that  unless  we  watch  closely  it  is  very  likely  to  escape  our  no- 
tice. But  if  we  strike  or  shake  the  tree  suddenly,  it  will  fall  in  consider- 
able numbers  on  the  ground,  drawn  up  as  if  dead,  and  resembling  a  small 
raisin,  or,  perhaps  more  nearly,  a  ripe  hemp-seed.  From  the  first  of 
Apiil  until  August  this  insect  may  be  found,  though  we  tliink  its  de- 
predations on  fruit,  and  indeed  its  appearance  in  any  quantity,  is  con- 
fined to  the  months  of  May  and  June  in  this  climate.  In  places  where 
it  is  very  abundant,  it  also  attacks  to  some  extent  the  cherry,  the  peach, 
and  even  the  apple  and  pear. 

E*u-ly   in  July  the   punctured  plums  begin  to  fall  rapidly  from  the 


THE   PLUM.  893 

tree.  The  egg  deposited  in  each,  at  first  invisibly  1  as  become  t.  white 
grub  or  larva,  which  slowly  eats  its  way  towards  the  stone  or  pit.  A« 
soon  as  it  reaches  this  poin*  the  fruit  falls  to  the  ground.  Here,  if  left 
undisturbed,  the  grub  soon  funis  its  way  into  the  soil. 

Th eve,  according  to  mosl  cull  Lvators  of  fruit,  and  to  our  own  observa- 
tions, the  grubs  or  larvae  remain  till  the  ensuing  spring,  when  in  their 
perfect  form  they  again  emerge  as  beetles  and  renew  their  ravages  <>n 
the  fruit.  It  is  true  thai  Harris  and  seme  other  naturalists  have 
sd  thai  the  insecl  does  sometimes  undergo  its  final  transformation 
and  emerge  from  the  ground  in  twenty  days,  bul  we  are  inclined  to  the 

opinion  that   this  only  takes   place  with  a  small   portion  of  the   br I, 

which,  perhaps, have  penetrated  bul  a  very  short  distance  below  the 
surface  of  the  soil.  Tie-'  making  their  appearance  in  midsummer,  and 
finding  no  young  fruit,  deposit  their  eggs  in  the  young  branches  of  I 
etc.  But  it  is  undeniable  that  the  season  of  the  plum-weevil  is  early 
spring, and  that  mosi  of  the  larva'  which  produce  the  annual  swarm. re- 
main in  the  soil  during  the  whole  period  intervening  since  tin-  fall  of  the 
previous  year's  fruit.  Plum-trees  growing  in  hard  trodden  COurt-yardf! 
usually  bear  plentiful  crops. 

The  modes  of  destroying  the  plum-weevil  are  the  following  : — 

1.   Shaking  the  tree  an  I  hitting  the  beetles.     Watch  the  young  fruit, 
and   you   will  perceive  when   the   insect   n  appearance    by   its 

punctures  upon  them.     Spread  some  si ts  under  the  tree,  and  strike 

the  trunk  pretty  sharply  several  times  with  a,  wooden  mallet.  The  in- 
sects will  quickly  fall,  and  should  be  killed  immediately.  This  should 
be  repeated  daily  for  weeks,  or  so  long  as  the  insects  continue  to  make 
their  appearance.  Repeated  trials  have  proved,  beyond  question,  thai 
this  rather  tedious  mode  is  a  very  effectual  one  if  persisted  in.*  Coopa 
of  chickens  placed  about  under  the  trees  al  this  season  will  assist  in  de- 
stroying the  insects. 

Dr.   E.   S.   Hull,   of    Alton,   Illinois,   has    invented    B    machine    lor 
catching  the  curculio  on  a  large  scale  for  orchard  culture,  bul  not  1. 
seen  it,  we  copy  an  extract  from  the  Hearth  cmd  Home: 

"This  is  nothing  but  a  gigantic  white  umbrella,  turned  bottom  up- 
ward, mounted  upon  an  inn-  slbarrow,  and  split  in  front  I 
ceive  the  trunk  of  the  tree  which  is  to  be  operated  upon.     At   t!> 
tenor  end  of  the  split  in  front  is  a  padded  bumper, Vhich 
the  trunk  as  the  operator  wheels  the  barrow,  first    a 

then  i  r,  and  with  two  or  tin sudd-  i  11  the 

insect  is  into  the  white  umbrella,  which 

' 

*  Merely  shaking  the  tree  is  »  I    ■ 

additional  | 
mote   part 
experi 

the  hand   1  caught   t  ■ 
more  d 

callia  hammer  to 

less  than  an  hour,  moi  "     We  wil] 

add  to  this,  thai  '''  1,e 

substituted  fur  a  hammer,  and  it  if  a  thick  layer  of  cloth  iH  boon 

its  he  rpstunnii:  idily  dialodge  1 

eect.  and  as  such,  wh>  rectly  upon  the  bark  I 

it    is  found  to  :  mail  limb  and  strike  tb« 

blow  upon  the  stunin. 


894  THE   PLUM. 

practical  success  three  tnings  are  necessary  :  1st.  That  the  land  should 
be  decently  clean,  and  not  overgrown  with  rank  weeds  four  or  five  feet 
high.  2d.  That  the  orchard  be  a  sufficiently  large  one  to  pay  the  inter- 
est on  the  prime  cost  of  the  machine.  3d.  That  the  trees  have  a  clear 
trunk  of  some  three  or  four  feet." 

For  those  wishing  a  full  description  of  the  machine,  we  refer  them 
to  the  Doctor's  own  statement  in  the  American  Entomologist  for  July, 
1869. 

2.  Gathering  ihe  fruit  and  destroying  the  larvce.  As  the  insect,  in 
its  larva  or  grub  form,  is  yet  within  the  plums  when  they  fall  prema- 
turely from  the  tree,  it  is  a  very  obvious  mode  of  exterminating  the  next 
year's  brood  to  gather  these  fallen  fruits  daily,  and  feed  them  to  swine, 
boil,  or  otherwise  destroy  them. 

A  simple  and  easy  way  of  covering  the  difficulty,  where  there  is  a 
plum  orchard  or  enclosure,  is  that  of  turning  in  swine  and  fowls  dur- 
ing the  whole  season,  when  the  stung  plums  are  dropping  to  the 
ground.  The  fruit,  and  the  insects  contained  in  it,  will  thus  be  de- 
voured together.  This  is  an  excellent  expedient  for  the  farmer,  who 
bestows  his  time  grudgingly  on  the  cai'es  of  the  garden. 

The  knots  or  black  gum.  In  some  parts  of  the  country  this  is  a 
most  troublesome  disease,  and  it  has,  in  neighborhoods  where  it  has  been 
suffered  to  take  its  coxirse,  even  destroyed  the  whole  race  of  Plum-trees. 

The  knots  is  a  disease  attacking  the  bark  and  wood.  The  former 
at  first  becomes  swollen,  afterwards  bursts,  and,  finally,  assumes  the 
appearance  of  large,  irregular,  black  lumps,  with  a  hard,  cracked,  uneven 
surface,  quite  dry  within.  The  passage  of  the  sap  upwards  becomes  stop- 
ped by  the  compression  of  the  branch  by  the  tumor,  and,  finally,  the 
poison  seems  to  disseminate  itself  by  the  downward  flow  of  the 
sap  through  the  whole  trunk,  breaking  out  in  various  parts  of  it. 

The  sorts  of  plum  most  attacked  by  this  disease  are  those  with  pur- 
ple fruit,  and  we.  have  never  known  the  green  or  yellow  fruited  varieties 
infected,  until  the  other  sorts  had  first  become  filled  with  the  knots. 
The  common  Horse  Plum  and  Damson  appear  to  be  the  first  to  fall  a 
prey  to  it,  and  it  is  more  difficult  to  eradicate  it  from  them  than  from 
most  other  sorts.  The  common  Morello  cherry  is  also  very  often  in- 
jured by  the  same  disease,  and,  in  some  districts,  the  sweet  cherry  also. 

There  is  yet  some  doubt  respecting  the  precise  cause  of  these  knotty 
excrescences,  though  there  is  every  reason  to  think  it  is  the  work  of  an 
insect.  Professor  Peck  and  Dr.  Harris  believe  that  they  are  caused  by 
the  same  curculio  or  plum-weevil  that  stings  the  fruit ;  the  second  brood 
of  which,  finding  no  fruit  ready,  choose  the  branches  of  this  tree  and 
the  cherry.  This  observation  would  seem  to  be  confirmed  by  the 
fact  that  the  grubs  or  larvae  of  the  plum-weevil  are  frequently  found  in 
t.hese  warts,  and  that  the  beetles  have  been  seen  stinging  the  branches. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  following  facts  are  worthy  of  attention. 
First,  in  some  parts  of  the  country,  where  the  curculio  has  been  trouble- 
some for  many  years,  the  knots  have  never  been  known.  Secondly, 
in  many  cases,  the  knots  have  been  abundant  on  Plum-trees,  when  the 
fruit  A^as  entirely  fair  and  uninjured  by  the  curculio,  even  upon  the 
same  branches. 

These  facts  seem  so  irreconcilable  with  the  opinion  that  the  curculio 
produces  both  those  effects,  that  we  rather  incline  at  present  to  the  be- 
•ief,  that   though   the   curculio  deposits  its  eggs  in  the  tumors  on  the 


THE    PLUM.  89i 

branches  while  they  are  yet  soft  and  tender,  yet  it  iB  not  to  the  curculio, 
but  to  some  other  insect  or  cause  thai  we  owe  tins  unsightly  disease. 

Practically,  however,  this  is  of  little  account.  The  experience  of 
many  persons, besides  ourselves,  has  proved  mosl  satisfactorily  that  it  is 
easj  to  extirpate  this  malady,  ifil  La  taken  in  Beasou  and  unremittingly 
pursued.  As  early  as  possible  La  spring  the  whole  of  the  infected  trees 
should  be  examined,  and  every  branch  and  twig  thai  shows  a  tumor 
should  be  cut  oil' and  immediately  burned.  Whatover  maj  he  the  in- 
sect, we  thus  destroy  it,  and,  as  experience  bas  tuught  us  thai  the 
malady  spreads  rapidly,  we  will  thus  effectual^  prev<  nl  i  -  in  xea  e.  If 
the  trees  are  considerably  attacked  by  it,  il  will  probably  be  nect 
to  go  over  them  again  about  the  middle  of  May,  but,  usually,  once  a 
year  will  be  sufficient.      If  any  oi  much  covered  with 

these  knots,  it  is  better  to  head   back  the  sh<  or  die  them 

up  and  burn  them  outright,  and  it  will  be  necessary  to  prevail  upoi 
your  neighbors,  if  they  arc  near  ones,  to  enter  into  the  plan,  or  yotu 
own  labors  will  be  of  little  value.  Pursue  this  simple  and  Btraightfor 
ward  practice  for  two  or  three  seasons  (covering  any  large  wounds 
made  with  the  solution  of  gum  shellac),  and  the  knots  will  be  found  to 
disappear,  the  curculio  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

Varieties.  There  are  now  a  pretty  large  number  of  fine  plums, 
and  some  most  important  addition;  have  been  made  bj  the  seedlings 
raised  in  this  country.  The  Green  Gage  still  stands  at  the  bead  of  the 
list  for  high  flavor,  though  sei  sorts  are  marly  or  quite  equal 

to  it.  The  Washington,  the  I  Sei  on,  and  the  Madison  are  among 
the  largest  and  most  beautiful;  and  Coe's  Golden  Drop  and  Reine 
Claude  de  Bavay  arc  very  desirable  for  their  late  maturity. 

In  describing  Plums,  the  surface  of  the  young  wood,  when  just 
ripened,  is  an  important  character;  as  it  is  smooth  in  some  varieties, 
and  downy,  or  covered  with  sofl  hairs,  in  others.  In  seme  varieties 
the  Mesh  purls  from  the  stone,  while  in  oth-i  s  it  adheres.  And,  tinally, 
the  depressed  line  or  channel  which  runs  down  one  side  of  the  exterior 
surface  of  the  plum  is  called  the  suture,  and  the  prominence  or  absence 
of  this  feature  enables  US  to  distinguish  many  kinds  at  first  sight. 


VARIETIES. 

Abricotee  de  Braunau. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  rather  flattened  on  the 
aides,  and  marked  with  a  suture  which  i>  deep  towards  the  stal 
higher  on  one  side  than  the  other.  Skin  whitish  green,  covered  with  a 
thick  white  bloom  on  the  shaded  Bide,  and  reddish,  with  some  sp 
a  deeper  red  on  the  side  i ■  ■•  die  sun.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  thick. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  sugary,  and  rich  flavored,  separating 
from  the  stohe.     Ripe  middle  of  September.     (Hogg.) 

Albany  Beauty. 
Denniston's  Albany  Beauty. 

Originated  with  I ;■ ■    Denniston,  Albany,  N.  V.     Tree  moderately 

vigorous.      Brum  lies  smooth. 


896  THE    PLUM. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium  size,  roundish  oval,  with  an  obsoire  su 
ture.  Skin  pale  whitish  green,  marked  with  numerous  small  purplish 
dots,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more  long,  slen- 
der, very  slightly  inserted.  Flesh  yellow,  moderately  j  uicy,  rich,  and 
sweet ;  separates  from  the  stone,  which  is  small  and  pointed.  Good  to 
very  good.     Ripe  August. 

American  Magnum  Bonum. 

A  native  variety,  quite  common,  but  its  origin  unknown.  Tret 
very  vigorous,  with  strong,  downy  branches. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oval.  Suture  broad,  shallow.  Skin  deep  pur- 
ple, covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Stalk  rather  long,  curved,  set  in 
a  moderately  deep  cavity.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  and 
pleasant ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 

American  Wheat. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive.  Branches  smooth,  grayish 
brown. 

Fruit  quite  small,  roundish,  with  a  shallow  suture.  Stalk,  slender. 
Skin  greenish,  shaded  with  violet  purple,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bluo 
bloom.  Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  sweet.  Good.  Adheres  partially  to  the 
stone.     Last  of  August. 

Angelina  Burdett. 

An  English  variety,  raised  by  Mr.  Dowling,  Southampton.  Tree 
moderate  grower,  productive,  hardy.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  above  medium,  round,  with  a  suture  deepest  next  the  stalk. 
Skin  thick,  dark  purple,  thickly  covered  with  brown  dots  and  a  blue 
bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  well  flavored;  separates  from  the  stone. 
Good.     Early  September. 

Anna   Maria. 

Raised  by  S.  D.  Pardee,  New  Haven,  Conn.  Tree  moderately  vigo- 
rous, rather  spreading,  very  productive.  Branches  slightly  downy,  gray, 
short -jointed. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oval,  without  suture.  Skin  pale 
greenish  yellow,  splashed  with  darker  green,  and  covered  with  a  thin  blue 
bloom.  St  Ok  rather  short,  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  pale  green,  very 
juicy,  melting,  rich,  sugary.  Good  to  very  good.  Adheres  slightly  at 
one  edge  of  the  stone.     Last  of  August. 

Apple  Plum. 

From  the  garden  of  D.  U.  Pratt,  Chelsea,  Mass. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  flattened,  a.  little  swollen  on  one  side.  Su- 
ture medium.  Skin  reddish  purple,  with  a  blue  bloom  and  light  dots. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  sweet,  sprightly,  with  considerable 
austerity  at  the  skin ;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.  Good.  Sep- 
tember. 

Apricot. 

Apricot  Plum  of  Tours.  Abricotee.  Abricotee  Blanche. 

Abricotee  de  Tours.  Yellow  Apricot.  Old  Apricot. 

Abricotee  Blanc. 

Branches  quite  downy,  nearly  white. 


THE   PLUM.  897 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  roundish,  with  a  deep  suture  or  furrow. 
Skin  yellow,  dotted  and  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side,  covered 
with  a  white  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  rather  firm,  separates  from  the 
stone  ;  slightly  bitter,  until  fully  ripe,  when  it  is  melting,  juicy,  and 
high-flavored.     Good.     Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

Auburn. 

A  native  of  Western  New  York.  Tree  vigorous.  Branches  smooth 
reddish. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  light  reddish  purple, 
with  a  thin  lilac  bloom.  Stalk  rather  short.  Flesh  rather  coarse, 
orange  yellow,  not  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant;  separates  from  the  stoue. 
Good.     Early  August. 

AUTOMNE    DE     St'HAMALI. 

Prune  d'Automne  de  Schamili.  Damascena  Schamali. 

D'Automne  de  Schamal. 

A  German  variety.  Tree  vigorous.  Branches  upright,  smooth, 
light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  with  a  long,  peculiar  mamelon  neck,  one  side 
sometimes  enlarged.  Suture  large,  deep,  two-thirds  around.  Skin 
light  reddish  purple,  with  a  light  lilac  bloom.  Stalk  long  and  stout. 
Flesh  orange  yellow,  j  uicy,  sweet ;  adheres  firmly  to  the  stone.  Good. 
September. 

autumn  Compote. 

This  variety  was  grown  by  Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth,  Eng- 
land, from  seed  of  Cooper's  Large.  Tree  vigorous,  moderately  produc 
tive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fi-uit  large,  oblong  oval,  narrowing  to  the  lower  end.  Suture  broad 
and  shallow,  one  side  often  swollen.  Skin  dull  whitish  yellow,  witli 
light  crimson  on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered  with  a  thin  lilac  bloom. 
Stalk  long,  set  in  a  small  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  a  In 
juicy,  sweety  pleasantly  mixed  with  acid;  adheres  partly  to  the  stone. 
Good  to  very  good.     September. 

Autumn 

Roe's  Autumn  Gage.  Reine  Claude  d'Automne. 

Raised  by  Wm.  Roe,  »urg.     Of  good  quality,  a  very  abun- 

dant bearer.     H  an<  lies  smooth. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oval,  rather  bro  vards  the  stalk.     81 

fourths  of  an  inch  Iod  'I  withoul   am 

,ale  yellow,  covered  wi  i  li   thin  whitish  b  yellow, 

separating  from    the  stone,  j  oit   flavor. 

to  very  good-     Stone   long,   compressed, 
September. 

Bavay's  I  IRE 

Reine  Claude  de  Bavay.  Monstrueuse  de  Bavay.  Saint  Clair. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperen,  and  dedicated  bo  -M.  De  Bavay,  of  Yil- 
vonie.  A  very  vigorous  grower,  very  productive,  and  a  \  duabhi 
addition  to  the  late  varieties.     Branch 

o7 


898 


THE    PLUM. 


Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  depressed.  Skin  greenish  yeDo* 
with  stripes  and  splashes  of  green,  covered  with  a  tliin  bloom.  8u« 
ture  medium.    Apex  dimpled.     Stalk   short  and  stout,  set  in  a  small 

cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, with  a  sugary,  rich,  excellent 
flavor  ;  separates  from  the  stone. 
Best.  Last  of  September  and 
first  of  October. 

Bejonnieres. 
Prune  des  Bejonnieres. 

A  foreign  variety.  Tree  vigo- 
rous. Branches  smooth,  reddish 
brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oval, 
often  with  a  slight  neck.  Suture 
broad,  shallow.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
with  a  thin  light  bloom.  Stalk 
rather  stout,  in  a  small  cavity. 
Bavay's  Green  Gage.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sweet, 

slightly  vinous;  separates  from  the 
stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 


Belgian  Purple. 
Bleu  de  Belgique.  Bleu  de  Perque. 

From  Belgium.    Tree  vigorous.    Branches  smooth.    Buds  prominent. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Apex  sunken. 
Skin  deep  brownish  purple,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  half 
inch  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  large.  Flesh  a  little  coarse,  greenish, 
juicy,  rich,  sugary;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Very  good.  Early  Septem- 
ber. 

Belle  de  Louvain. 
Prune  de  Louvain. 

A  Belgian  variety,  of  iinknown  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  productive. 
Branches  stout,  smooth,  grayish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  long  oval.  Suture  deep.  Skin  purplish  red,  covered 
with  a  thin  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  agreeable; 
separates  from  the  stone.     September.      (Al.  Pom.) 


Belle  de  Septembre. 

Van  Mons'  Red  ?  Reine  Claude  Rouge  de  Septembre. 

Van  Mons'  Red  Gage  ?  Reina  Nova. 

Autumn  Beauty.  Gros  Rouge  de  Septembre. 

Reine  Claude  Rouge  Van  Mons  ? 

A  variety  introduced  from  Brussels.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive. 
Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval.  Sides  unequal.  Suture 
large,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex.  Skin  light  reddish  purple, 
covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.      Stalk  short,  slender.     Cavity  small. 


THE    PLUM. 


899 


Flesh  oiange  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous;  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good 
to  very  good.     September. 

Benedict. 

Origin,  Pa.     Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  brownish. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  one  side  a  little  enlarged.  Suture  distinct,  extend- 
ing a  little  beyond  the  apex.  Skin  pale  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin 
white  bloom  and  a  few  red  dots  and  blotches  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk 
of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  juicy, 
sweet  and  pleasant.      Go  »d.      Adlie,  ■.,  to  the  stone. 

Bingham. 

A  native  fruit,  originally  from  Pennsylvania,  and  named  after  the 
Bingham  family.     Tree  vigorous,  productive.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  large,  long  oval,  rather  widest  towards  the  stalk.  Skin  deep 
yellow,  somewhat  spotted  with  rich  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk 
slightly  inserted.  Flesh  yellow,  adhering  to  the  stone,  juicy,  and  of 
rich  and  delicious  flavor.  Very  good.  Last  of  August  and  first  of 
September. 

Bleecker's  Gage. 


German  Gage. 


Bleecker's  Yellow. 


Bleecker's  Yellow  Gage. 


A  fruit  of  the  first  quality,  not  oidy  excellent  but  remarkably  hardy, 
and  a  good  and  regular  bearer.  It  was  raised  by  the  late  Mrs.  Bleecker, 
of  Albany.     Tree  very  vigorous.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oval, 
very  regular.  Suture  scarcely  percep- 
tible. Stalk  quite  long,  an  inch  or 
more,  straight  and  pretty  stout,  downy, 
slightly  inserted.  Skin  yellow,  with 
numerous  imbedded  white  specks,  and 
a  thin  white  bloom.  Flesh  yellow, 
rich,  sweet,  and  luscious  iii  tlavor; 
separates  almost  entirely  from  si  one, 
which  is  pointed  at  both  ends.  Very 
good.  Easily  distinguished  from 
Yellow  Gage  by  its  longer  and  stouter 
stalk.     Very  good.      Last  of  August. 


Blue  <;.\<;k. 


Azure  Hative. 
Black  Perdrigou. 


Little  Blue  Gage. 
Cooper's  Blue  Gage. 


An  ordinary  little  round  blue  Plum, 
the  Azure  Hdtive  of  the  French, 
Branches  slender  and  down  v.  Bloecker-*  Gaga. 

Fruit  quite  small  and  round,    Skin 
dark  blue,  covered  with    light  blue  bloom.       Flesh   greenish,  juicy,  • 
little    acid,    Bomewhat    rich,    and    separates    from    the    stone.        Good 
Ripe  nuddle  of  August. 


900 


THE    PLUM. 


Imperatrice. 
Veritab.e  Imperatrice. 


B.UE  Imperatrice. 

Violette. 
Imperatrice  Violet. 


Empress. 
Violet  Empress. 


The  true  Blue  Imperatrice  is  an  admirable  Plum,  one  of  the  fines* 
of  the  late  plums,  hanging  for  a  long  time  on  the  tree,  and  may  be 
kept  in  the  fruit-room  a  considerable  period  after  being  gathered.  H 
is  rich,  sugary,  and  excellent.     The    branches    are    long,  smooth,  and 

slender,  and  the  smaller  twigs  start  out 
at  nearly  right  angles  with  the  main 
branches. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval  obovate, 
obtuse,  tapering  most  towards  the  stalk. 
Stalk  nearly  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  slight 
hollow.  Skin  deep  purple,  covered  with 
a  thick  blue  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yel- 
low, pretty  firm,  rather  dry,  but  quite 
rich  and  sugary,  adhering  closely  to  the 
stone.  Very  good.  Ripens  in  Octo- 
ber, and  will  •  hang,  in  sheltered  situa- 
tions, till  the  middle  of  November. 

Blue  Perdrigon. 

Violet  Perdrigon.  Perdrigon  Violette. 

Brignole  Violette. 

A     very     old     variety     from    Italy. 
Blue  imperatrice.  Branches  downy. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval.  Skin 
reddish  purple,  with  many  brown  dots,  and  a  very  thick  whitish 
bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  rather  firm,  sugary;  adhering  to  the 
stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 


Blue  Plum. 

From  the  South.  Propagated  by  suckers.  Tree  productive.  Branches 
smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  scarcely  oval.  Suture  obscure.  Skin  dark 
blue,  with  light  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish  green,  juicy,  sweet ;  adheres 
bo  the  stone.     Early  August.      (White.) 

Blum. 

This  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  of  North  Carolina.  The  Country 
Gentleman  describes  it  as: — 

';  Fruit  full  medium  or  rather  large,  oval.  Color  dull  orange,  with 
numerous  small  brown  dots.  Suture  distinct.  Stalk  short.  Cavity 
narrow.  Flesh  yellowish  brown,  fine-grained,  very  juicy.  Very  good. 
July,  August." 

Bonnet  d'Eveque. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate.  Skin  dark  purple.  Flesh  rich,  separating 
from  the  stone.      October.      (Hogg.) 


THE   PLFM. 


901 


BOULOUF. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,   red  or   reddish   violet,   with   spots.      Fleak 
fellow,  fine,  juicy,  slightly  acid,  perfumed.     September.     (S.  V.  M.) 


Bradsii.vw. 


Black  Imperial 


Blue  Imperial. 


Tree  an  upright,  vigorous  grower.     Branches  smooth,  brownish. 
Fruit  large,  oval  obovate,  sometimes  with  a  slight    neck.       Suture 

half  round,broad,  Bhallow.  Apex 

a  little  sunk.  Skin  reddish  pur- 
ple, covered  with  a  li^rlif  blue 
bloom.  Stalk  rather  .tout,  curv- 
ed, set  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh 
yellowish,  coarse,  juicy,  brisk, 
pleasant ;  adheres  partially  to  the 
stone.  Good  to  very  good.  Au- 
gust. 

Brahy's  Green  Gage. 
Reine  Claude  de  Brahy. 

Tree  vigorous,  with  stout, 
smooth  branches,  brownish  pur- 
ple. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclin- 
ing to  oval.  Suture  half  round, 
large.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
splashed  with  darker  green,  and 
covered  with  a  pretty  thick 
light  bloom.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  sugary,  rich ;  adheres  to 
the   stone.      Very  good.      Sep- 

Bradahaw.  tember. 


Brevoort's  Purple. 


New  York  Purple. 
Brevoort's  Purple  Bolmar. 


Brevoort's  Purple  Washington. 
Washington  Purple. 

Tree  vigorous.     Branches 


Baised  by  Henry  Brevoort,  New  York, 
long,  smooth. 

Fruit   large,   oval.      Skin   reddish,   covered    with    a    violet    bloom. 
Flesh    yellowish,   soft,  juicy,   not    very   sweet,  but    with    considerable 
vinous  flavor;  adheres  closely  to  the  stone.     Good.      Ripe  the  Eu 
September. 


Petit  Bricette.        Bricet. 


r.TTA. 
Mirabelle  Tardive. 


Mirabelle  d'Octobr*. 


Tree  moderately  vigorous.     B ranches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,    roundish  oval.       Skin   yellow,  with    spota    of    red. 
Stalk  of  medium    length,  BO*,   in   a   small   cavity.      Flesh  yellow,  rathe* 


902  THE    PLUM. 

firm,  very  juicy,  sugary,  and  excellent;  adheres  to  the  si  one.     Good 
Ripens  middle  of  September. 

Bryanston's  Gage. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  with  a  shallow  suture.  Apex  a  little  sunk. 
Skin  dull  pale  yellow,  with  a  bronze  cheek  in  the  sun,  covered  with  a 
light  bloom.  Stalk  rather  stout.  Cavity  medium.  Flesh  yellow,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone. 
Good  to  very  good.     October. 

Buel's  Favorite. 

Ad  excellent  Plum,  raised  by  Isaac  Denniston,  of  Albany,  N.  Y. 
Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  reddish. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  ovate,  broadest  towards  the  stalk.  Suture  quite 
distinct  for  half  the  circumference.  Stalk  nearly  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  long,  rather  stout,  slightly  inserted.  Skin  pale  green,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  lighter  dots,  and  speckled  with  a  little  red  next  the 
stalk.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  rather  firm,  juicy,  and  quite  rich  and  high- 
flavored  :  adheres  to  the  stone,  which  is  long  and  pointed.  Good. 
Last  of  August. 

Burgundy  Prune. 

Prune  de  Bourgogne. 

Fruit  medium,  egg-shaped,  with  a  neck.  Suture  indistinct.  Skin  red- 
dish black,  with  a  blue  bloom,  covered  with  numerous  small  dots.  Stalk 
long,  set  in  a  very  small  cavity.  Flesh  fine,  juicy,  sugary,  very  pleasant ; 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Middle  of  September. 

Burlington  Gage. 

Origin,  Burlington,  Yt.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  spreading,  irregulai 
giower,  productive  even  when  young.     Wood  yellowish  gray. 

Fruit  medium  size.  Form  roundish  oval.  Color  dark  purplish  blue, 
with  rich  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  rich.  Freestone.  Good. 
August. 

Burettes. 

Baised  by  M.  Gregoire.     Tree  of  medium  vigor,  very  fertile. 

Fruit  large,  long  oval.  Skin  dull  yellow.  Flesh  very  delicate, 
melting,  abounding  in  juice,  very  sweet,  with  a  delightful  aroma.  Ripe 
the  end  of  September.      (Al.  Pom.) 

Byfield. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.      Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  small,  round.  Skin  light  yellow.  Flesh  yellow,  of  good  fla- 
vor {  adheres  to  the  stone,  which  is  thick.  Good.  Middle  to  last  of 
August. 

Caldwell's   Golden   Drop. 
An  American  variety.     Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth. 


THE    PLIM.  903 

Fruit  large,  oval,  one  side  often  enlarged.  Suture  half  round,  large 
Skin  yellow,  marbled  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  thin  bloom,  Stalk  alec* 
der.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  .sugary,  rich;  adheres  to  the 
stone.     Good.     August. 

Caldwell's  White  Oaob. 

American.  Tree  productive.  Branches  smooth  or  slightly  downy, 
grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  narrowing  a  little  to  the  apt  \.  Suture  shal- 
low. Point  at  apex.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  dotted  with  purple  in  the 
sun,  covered  with  a  thick  bloom.  Stalk  long.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
rather  coarse,  juicy,  sugary  ;   adheres  to  the  stone.      Good.      September. 

Cam  hell. 
CambelTs  Seedling.  McCauley's  Seedling. 

Tree  vigorous.    Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  pale  yellow,  splashed 
with  green,  dotted  and  marbled  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  light  bloom. 
Stalk  long.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy, 
sweet ;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.     Good.     September. 

Chapin. 

Originated  with  Aaron  Ch?«pin,  Hartford,  Conn.  Tree  vigorous 
grower. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  light  reddish  purple 
or  chocolate,  blue  bloom.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  deep.  Flesh 
yellow,  juicy,  and  vinous;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.  Good.  Late 
October. 

Cherry. 

Early  Scarlet.  De  Virginie.  Prunus  Cerasifera. 

Myrobolan.  D'Ain  rique  Rouge.  Miser  Plum. 

Virginia  Cherry.  Prunus  jlyrobohma. 

The  Cherry  Plum  or  Early  Scarlet  is  a  very  distinct  species.  Tree 
grows  rapidly,  forming  a  bushy  head,  with  slender  branches  and  small 
A  beautiful  early  fruit.  Good  for  preserving  or  market. 
Fruit  is  round,  about,  an  inch  in  diameter,  of  a  lively  red,  with  very 
Hi  i  le  bloom,  and  a  very  slender,  8hort  stem,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  The 
flesh  is  greenish,  mi  Iting,  soft,  very  juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  lively, 
acid  flavor — neither  rich  nor   high  flavored — and  adheres  to  the 

It  ripens  about  i he  middle  of  Jul;  .  most  other  plums, 

and  this,  and  its  pretty  appearan  icrt,  are  its  nhii  f  n 

Branches  smooth.    The  common  Cherry  Plum,  or  M^  -ope, 

i ,  and  shaped  like  a  lean.     In  all  other  respects  thi 

ClM 

Origin,. Chester  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  with  long,  Blen- 
der branches,  smooth,  and  of  a  lighl  grayish  brown. 

Fruit   medium   or  below.  Ion,'   oval  s   oval,  almost    without 

suture.  Skin  black,  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Stalk  rather  long,  slen- 
der. Cavity  small.  Flesh  greenish,  (reelv  from  ih« 
stone.     Good.     Early  September. 


904 


THE    PLUM. 


A 


Cheston. 
Matchless.  Diapree  Violette.  Violet  Diaper. 

pleasant    early    Plum,    but   superseded    now   by   better    ones, 


Branches  downy. 

Fruit  rather  small,  oval.  Skin  dark  purple,  with  a  blue  bloom, 
Stalk  quite  short,  set  without  depression.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  sweet, 
and  rather  sprightly ;  separating  from  the  stone.  Good.  Last  of  Julj- 
and  first  of  August. 

Cleavinger. 

A  native  of  Philadelphia  Co.,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading. 
Branches  downy. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oval.  Suture  distinct,  one  side  often  enlarged. 
Skin  deep  purple,  thick  blue  bloom.  Stalk  moderately  stout.  Cavity 
deep.  Flesh  orange  yellow,  coarse,  juicy,  vinous,  subacid ;  adheres  to 
the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 


Coe's  Golden  Drop 


Bury  Seedling. 
Coe's  Imperial. 
New  Golden  Drop. 
Fair's  Golden  Drop. 
Golden  Gage. 


Waterloo  of  some. 
Goutte  d'Or. 
Coe's  Plum. 
Prune  Goutte  d'Or. 


Raised  by  Mr.  Coe,  an  English  gardener,  near  London.     Tree  mo 

derately  vigorous,  productive;  re- 
quires a  warm,  late  season  to  ripen 
it  north  of  41°  latitude.  Branches 
smooth. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  oval, 
with  a  well-marked  suture,  on  one 
side  of  which  it  is  a  little  more  swol- 
len than  the  other,  the  outline  nar- 
rowing towards  the  stalk.  Skin  light 
yellow,  with  a  number  of  rich  dark 
red  spots  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk 
nearly  an  inch  long,  rather  stiff,  set 
on  the  end  of  the  fruits.  Flesh  yel- 
low, rather  firm,  adhering  closely  to 
the  stone,  which  is  quite  pointed. 
Flavor  rich,  sweet,  and  delicious, 
Very  good.     Last  of  September. 

Coe's  Late  Red. 

Saint  Martin. 
Saint  Martin  Rouge. 
Prune  de  St.  Martin. 
Red  Saint  Martin. 

Tree  vigorous,  with  long,  rather 

slender    branches,    very    productive. 

Ooe's  Golden  Drop.  A     good    late     variety.        Branchea 

downy. 

Fruit  of  medium   size,  nearly  round,  with    a    well-marked   suture 


tite  rr.nM. 


9ftf 


running  along  one  side.  Skin  light  purplish  red,  with  a  thin  lili.o  hi  torn. 
Stalk  pretty  stout,  three-fourths  01  an  inch  long,  set  nearly  even  with 
tin' surface.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  firm  and  crisp,  juicy,  with  a  rich 
vinous  flavor;  separating  almost  entirely  from  the  stone.  Good  to  very 
apod.     October  and  November. 


Coe's  Violet. 

Coe'a  Golden  Drop  Violette. 

Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  dark  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Suture  large,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  ape* 
Skin  light  reddish,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  brown  dots  and  a  lilac  bloom. 
Stalk  rather  long  and  stout.  Cavity 
small.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  sweet; 
adheres  to  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good. 
September. 

Columbia. 

Columbian  Gage. 

Raised  by  L.  IT.  Lawrence,  Hudson, 
N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  productive,  but 
subject  to  rot. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  six  or  seven 
inches  in  circumference,  nearly  globular, 
one  half  rather  larger  than  the  other. 
Skin  brownish  purple,  dotted  with  nu- 
merous fawn-colored  specks,  and  cov- 
ered with  much  blue  bloom,  through 
which  appears  a  reddish  brown  tint  on 
the  shaded  side.  Stalk  about  an  inch 
Long,  rather  stout,  inserted  in  a  narrow, 
small    cavity.     Flesh    orange,  not    very 

juicy,  but  when  at  full  maturity  very  rich,  sugary,  and  excellent  ;  it 
separates  freely  from  the  stone,  except  a  little  on  the  edge.  The  stone 
is  quite  small  and  compressed.     Good.     Last  of  August. 


Coo'h  Violet. 


Comte  G ima vt;  d'Eggeb. 

An  Austrian  variety,  originated  with  M.   Liegel,  of  Braunau,  from 
seed  of  the  Abricotee.     Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit   small  or   medium,  oblong  oval.     Suture  half   round,  bi 
deep,  distinct.      Skin  pale  yellow,  bronzed  in  sun  ami  tinged  with  \ 
Flesh  yellowish,  tine,  sweet,  juicy,  delicious;  separates  from  thee 
September.     (An.  Pom.) 

Cooper's  Laiuje. 

cooper's  Large  Red.         Cooper's  Large  American.         La  D61icien»«  f 

Coxe,  who  firs!    described   this   Plum,  says  it   -,  b;     Mr 

Joseph  Cooper,  of  New  Jersey,  from   a  Btone  of  the  Orlean         II 


906  THE   PLUM. 

aiders  it  as  a  fine  large  plum,  but  exceedingly  liable  to  rot  upon  the  tree 
Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  dark  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Sides  unequal.  Suture  broad,  large,  often  ex- 
tending beyond  the  apex.  Skin  deep  bluish  purple,  pretty  thickly  covered 
with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  large,  deep.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish, not  very  j  uicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good. 
September. 

Cope. 

Raised  by  John  Cope,  near  Philadelphia. 

Fruit  large,  long  oval,  dark  purple.  Flesh  not  juicy,  acid;  senaratem 
from  the  stone.     Good  for  cooking. 

Copper. 
French  Copper. 

An  old  Plum,  very  productive  and  profitable.  Tree  vigorous. 
Branches  smooth.     Very  productive  and  a  good  market  sort. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oval,  without  suture  and  with  a  slight  mame- 
ion  neck.  Skin  deep  copper  color,  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom. 
Stalk  rather  long,  slender,  set  on  a  point  without  depression.  Flesh 
greenish,  juicy  and  acid  ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good.  Valued  for  cook- 
ing.    Last  September. 

Corse's  Admiral. 

Raised  by  Henry  Corse,  of  Montreal,  Canada.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  oval.  Skin  light  purple,  covered  with  a 
pale  lilac  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy  and  sprightly,  but  second- 
rate  in  flavor,  and  adhering  closely  to  the  stone.     Good.     September. 

Corse's  Field  Marshal. 

Skin  Lively  purplish  red.    Raised  by  Henry  Corse,  Montreal,  Canada. 
Fruit  rather  large,  oval.     Flesh  greenish   yellow,  juicy,  but  a  little 
tart;  adheres  closely  to  the  stone.     Ripe  middle  of  August. 

Corse's  Nota  Bene. 

Raised  by  Henry  Corse,  of  Montreal,  Canada.  Tree  very  vigorous, 
very  productive,  and  hardy.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  of  rather  large  size,  round.  Skin  pale  lilac  or  pale  brown, 
often  dull  green  on  the  shaded  side,  with  much  light  blue  bloom.  Stalk 
half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  round  hollow.  Flesh  greenish,  rather  firm, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  rich,  and  separates  from  the  stone.  Good.  First  of 
September. 

Cox's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Mrs.  Cox,  York,  Pa.  Tree  a  vig(irous  upright  grower 
Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oval,  slightly  compressed.  Suture  broad, 
Bhallow.     Skin  vellow,  sometimes  a  liitle  splashed  with  green,  and  cov- 


THE    PLUM.  'J<»7 

ered  with  a  light  bloom.  Stalk  rather  stout,  in  a  narrow,  rather  deep 
cavity.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  eweet;  separates 
from  the  stone.      Good.      Early  August. 

Ckoft's  Early. 

Fruit  small,  reddish  blue.  Flesh  yellow,  dry,  devoid  of  flavor 
August.     (Elliott.) 

Cruger's  Scarlet. 

Cruger's.  Cruger's  Seedling.  Cruger's  Scarlet  Gage. 

Raised  by  Henry  Cruger,  of  New  York.  Tree  of  free  growth. 
Branches  long,  downy,  very  productive. 

Fruit  rather  larger  than  a  Green  Gage,  roundish  oval,  with  an  obscure 
suture.  Skin,  when  fully  exposed,  a  lively  nil.  bur  usually  a  bright 
lilac,  covered  with  a  thin  bluish  bloom,  and  speckled  with  numerous 
golden  dots;  in  the  shade  it  is  pale  fawn-colored  on  one  side.  Stalk 
half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  shallow  depression.  Flesh  deep  orange,  not 
very  juicy  nor  rich,  but  with  a  very  agreeable,  mild,  sprightly  navor. 
It  hangs  well  after  ripening.      Good.      Last  of  August. 

Damson. 

Common  Damson.  Purple  Damson. 

Black  Damson.  Early  Damson  of  many. 

The  common  oval  Blue  Damson  is  almost  too  well  known  to  need 
description,  as  every  cottage  garden  in  the  country  contains  this  tree, 
and  thousands  of  bushels  are  annually  sold  in  the  market  for  preserves. 
The  tree  is  enormously  productive,  but  in  the  hands  of  careless  cultiva- 
tors is  liable  to  be  rendered  worthless  by  the  knots,  which  are  easily  extir- 
pated if  the  diseased  branches  are  regularly  burned  every  winter  Of 
spring.     Branches  slender,  a  little  thorny  and  downy. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  about  an  inch  long.  Skin  purple,  covered  with 
thick  blue  bloom.  Flesh  melting  and  juicy,  rather  tart;  separates  [par- 
tially from  the  stone.     September. 

As  the  Damson  is  frequently  produced  from  seed,  it  varies  somewhat 
in  character. 

The  Shropshire  or  Prune   Damson   is  an   English  purple   variety, 

rather  obovate  in  figure,  but  little  superior  to  our  common  Bort.     The 

r  Damson  re  embles  the  common  Damson,  and  is  but  slightly  acid. 

The  Lai  I  >amson,  Late   i'\  rple   I  >  • 

Damson,  Small   Red   1>.\m  ,  Larue  White 

Damson,  are  als  Gcient  vali  ■  len- 

der separate  descripl  i<  try. 

The  Winter   1>a  table  market   sort    from  its  extreme 

lateness.  It  is  small,  round,  purple,  covered  with  a  very  thick  light 
blue  bloom.    Fl  ,with  a  slighl   ^stringency,  but   makes 

good  pies-  ops,  and  will  hang  on  the  ti' 

the  middle  of  N"\  .  common    Damson,  un in 

jureu  by  the  early  froi 


908  THE    PLUM. 

Dana's  Yellow  Gage. 

A  New  England  variety,  raised  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Dan  i,  of  Ipswich, 
Mass.  It  is  a  very  hardy  and  healthy  tree,  and  bears  abundantly. 
Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval,  pale  yellow,  with  a  very  thin  bloom,  the 
skin  clouded  like  that  of  the  Imperial  Gage.  Flesh  adheres  to  the  stone, 
juicy,  sweet,  with  a  lively  peculiar  flavor.  Good.  Last  of  August  an! 
first  of  September. 

Date  Plum. 

Prune  Datte.  Quetsche  de  Hongrie. 

Prune  d'Autriche.  Quetsche  Datte. 

D'Autriche.  Dattelzwetsche. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  round.  Suture  distinct,  rather  flat.  Skin  yel- 
low, marked  with  touches  of  bright  red  in  the  sun,  and  covered  with  a 
whitish  bloom.     Flesh  yellow,  soft.     Early  September.     (Pom.  Mag.) 

De  Delice. 

A  foreign  variety  of  excellence.  Tree  moderately  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  with  a  slight  neck,  a  little  swollen  on 
one  side.  Suture  small.  Skin  green,  marbled  and  shaded  with  violet, 
and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long, 
rather  stout,  very  slightly  inserted.  Flesh  orange  yellow,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, with  a  rich,  sugary,  luscious  flavor ;  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone. 
Very  good.     Ripens  the  last  of  September. 

De  Montfort. 

A  seedling  of  Prevost.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  spreading,  very 
■productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oval.  Suture  large,  extending  ito  apex. 
Skin  dull  purple,  with  russet  dots  and  stripes,  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Stalk 
nearly  an  inch  long,  rather  stout,  without  depression.  Flesh  greenish, 
juice  abundant,  sweet,  and  rich  ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Very  good. 
Ripens  last  of  August. 

Denniston's  Red. 

Raised  by  Isaac  Denniston,  Albany.  Vigorous  grower,  productive. 
Branches  smooth,  dark  colored. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oval,  narrowed  towards  the  str.lk.  Su- 
ture running  half  round.  Skin  of  a  beautiful  light  red,  sprinkled  with 
many  small,  fawn-colored  dots,  and  dusted  with  a  very  light  bloom. 
Stalk  very  long  and  slender,  slightly  inserted.  Flesh  amber  color, 
juicy,  rich,  and  sprightly,  with  an  excellent  flavor.  It  separates  from 
the  stone,  wlrich  is  small,  oval,  and  compressed.  Good.  Last  of  Au- 
gust. 

Denniston's  Superb. 
Madison. 

An  excellent  seedling,  from  Mr.  Denniston's  famous  plum  orchard. 


THE    111  M. 


!»l'9 


neat   Albany,  N    V.,  of  the  Green  Gage  family,  a  third  Larger  than  the 

variety,  and  nearly  as  rich  in 
flavor.  Tree  very  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive.    Branches  downy. 

Fruit  round,  a  little  flattened,  and 
having  a  distinct  suture,  often  extending 
quite  round  the  fruit.  Skin  pale  yellow- 
ish green,  marked  with  a  lew  large  pur- 
ple blotches  and  dots,  and  overspread 
with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  rough,  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  long,  xei  in  a  cavity 
of  moderate  size.  Flesh  very  thick 
(the  stone  being  small),  moderately 
juicy,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavor;  stone 
parts  readily,  and  is  roundish  and  thick. 
Best.     Middle  and  last  of  August. 


Diamond. 

Branches 


origin 


long, 


Denniston's  Superb. 


English 
downy. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  oval.  Skin  black,  covered  with  a  blue 
bloom.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  coarse-grained,  and  rather  dry,  a  little  acid, 
and  without  flavor;  separates  from  the  long-pointed  stone.  Scarcely 
good.     Valuable  for  cooking  only.     First  of  September. 

Dictator. 

Raised  by  Henry  Corse,  of  Montreal.     Tree  vigorous  and  hardy. 
Fruit  very  large,  brownish  purple,  covered  with  a  bloom.     Flesh 
juicy,  rich,  and  high-tlavored.      (I  low  Mag.) 

Domine  Dull. 
Dutch  Prune.  Dutch  Quetzen. 

This  good  American  Prune  was  raised  from  a  seed  brought  from 
Holland  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Dull,  a  Dutch  minister,  who  afterwards  re- 
sided at   Kingston,  N.   V.     The  parent   tree  was  th< mmon   Dutch 

Prune.      Branches  long  and  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  long  oval,  with  little  or  do  suture.  Skin  very 
dark  purple,  nearly  black,  dusted  with  some  blue  blooni.  Stalk  nearly 
an  inchlong,  inserted  with  very  little  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  quite  juicy 
at  first,  illowed  bo  hang  on  the  tree  becomes  dry,  rich,  and  sweet ; 

a  adheres  closely   to  the  st. me.     ( lood.     A  prodigious  bearer,  and  a 
really  good  fruit.     September. 

Dorb'b   Favorite. 

Originated  with  Elisha  Dorr,  Albany,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderateiji 
vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  brownish. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  with  a  alight  nek.      Suture  hmad.      A.pe     B  little 
sunk.      Skin   yellowish,  marbled    and  dotted    in    the    sun    with    purplish 
crimson,  thin  lilac  bloom.     Stalklong.     Cavitysmall.     Flesh  yellowish, 
b  little  coarse,  juicy,  sweei  ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good  to  verj 
'.asc  of  September. 


910  THE   PLUM. 

Downing's   Earia 

Originated  at  Newburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Branches 
short-jointed,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Suture  half  round.  Skin  yellow,  slight  blush, 
and  minute  crimson  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  sweet ;  adheres  slightly  to  the 
stone.     Good.     Early  September. 

Downton  Imperatrice. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Knight.  A  strong,  upright  growing  tree.  Branches 
long,  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval,  narrowing  a  little  to  the  stalk.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  quite  thin.  Flesh  yellow,  melting,  and  sweet  when  fully 
ripe,  with  a  little  acidity  before  ;  adhering  to  the  stone.  Good  to  very 
good.     Ripens  last  of  September,  and  hangs  some  time  on  the  tree. 

Drap  d'Or. 
Miiabelle  Double.  Mirabelle  Grosse.  Yellow  Perdrigon. 

The  Drap  d'Or,  or  Cloth  of  Gold  Plum,  is  about  the  size  and  figure 
of  the  Green  Gage,  but  of  a  fine  golden  yellow,  and  ripens  a  week  earlier. 
Branches  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  round,  with  an  indistinct  suture,  a,nd  a 
dimpled  or  pitted  apex.  Stalk  slender,  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  rich 
bright  yellow,  with  a  few  crimson  specks  when  fully  exposed.  Flesh 
yellow,  sugary,  and  rich  ;  separates  freely  from  the  stone.  Good  to  very 
good.      Early  in  August. 

Dronet  Damask. 

Damas  Dronet. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  small,  oval.  Skin  yellowish,  with  a  thin  light  bloom.  Flesh 
greenish,  sweet ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Late  August. 

Duane's  Purple. 
Purple  Magnum  Bonum.  Pourpree  Duane. 

Raised  by  James  Duane,  of  Duanesburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  very  vigor- 
ous, distinct  from  the  Red  Magnum  Bonum  of  Europe.  Branches  very 
downy. 

Fruit  very  large,  oval  or  oblong,  considerably  swollen  on  one  side  of 
the  suture.  Skin  reddish  purple  in  the  sun,  but  a  very  pale  red  in  the 
shade,  sparingly  dotted  with  yellow  specks,  and  covered  with  lilac  bloom. 
Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  slender,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Flesh  amber-colored,  juicy,  sprightly,  moderately  sweet ;  adheres  par- 
tially to  the  stone.  Good.  Ripens  with  the  Washington  (or  a  littl** 
before),  about  the  10th  of  August. 

Dunmore. 

Dumore. 

Foreign  origin. 

Fruit  small,  oblong  oval.       Skin   thick  and  green,  becomes  golden 


THE    PLUM.  3  i  I 

yellow  at  maturity.     Flesh  yellow,  fine,  very  juicy,  sweet,  very  aioma- 
tic ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Ripens  the  first  of  October.     (Al.  l'om.) 

Early  Amber. 

Fruit  small,  somewhat  oblong,  broadest  at  apex.  Skin  pale  greenish 
yellow,  with  small  cm  bcnsi  n  specks  in  sun,  covered  with  a  thin  whitish 
bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  subacid  ;  adheres  to  the  stone. 
Early  August.      (Lind.) 

Early  Apricot. 

Abricote  H&tif.  Abricotee   Haisre. 

Fruit  small,  roundish.  Skin  prle  red,  darker  in  the  sun.  Flesh 
yellowish  green,  moderately  juicy,  acid ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good. 
Early  August. 

Early  Cross. 

Originated  with  Mr.  Cross,  Salem,  Mass.  Tree  moderately  vigorous, 
productive. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish.  Skin  reddish  purple,  covered 
with  a  thick  bloom.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  good  ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good.  Ripens  the  second 
week  in  August. 

Early  Favorite. 
Rivera's  Early  Favorite.  Rivers'  No.  1. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  Tree  moderately  vigorous. 
Branches  rather  slender,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish  oval,  with  a  shallow  suture.  Skin 
almost  black,  sprinkled  with  russet  dots,  and  covered  with  a  blu6 
bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous,  not  quite  as  early 
as  Jaune  Hative,  separates  from  the  stone.     Good.      First  of  August 

Early  Green  Gage. 

Reine  Claude  JLttive. 

Fruit  small,  round,  flattened   at   top.     Skin  yellowish   green,  with 
a  red    cheek,  and  a  few  dots.      Stalk   about    half  an   inch   long. 
yellow,  very  tender,  juicy,  Bweet,  rich;  separates  from  the  Btcne.     Last 
of  July.     (Hogg.) 

Early  Orleans. 

New  Early  Orleans.  Monsieur  H&tif  de  Montmonmcy. 

New  Orleans.  Wflmot's  < 

GriruwoocVs  Early  Orleans.  Will  Orleans. 

Hampton  Court.  Monsieur. 

Monsieur  II  tif.  Monsieur  Hative. 

Tree  a  moderate  grower.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  of  the   size   and  color  of  Hie   common   Orleans,  a  little  more 


5>12  THE    PLUM. 

oval,  and  with  a  moro  shallow  suture.  Skin  a  little  marbled.  Flesh 
yellowish  green,  of  brisk  flavor,  rather  richer  than  the  old  Orleans,  and 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Early  Prolific. 
Early  Rivers.  Rivers'  Earlv  Prolific.  Rivers'  Early  No.  2. 

Raised  by  Tlios.  Rivers,  England.  A  prolific  early  Plum.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  with  smooth  grayish  branches. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Skin  reddish  purple,  covered  with  a 
fine  blue  bloom.  Stalk  about  half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  very  small 
cavity.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasant ;  separates  from  the 
stone.     Good,     First  of  August. 

Early  Royal  of  Nikita. 

A  German  variety.  Tree  moderately  vigorous.  Branches  smooth, 
gray. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oval,  narrowing  towards  the  stalk.  Skin  vio 
let  purple,  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Stalk  set  with  little  or  no  cavity. 
Flesh  orange  yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  rich;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good  to 
very  good.     Early  September. 

Early  St.  John. 
Prune  de  St.  Jean.  St.  Jean. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Branches  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong.  Suture  shallow,  distinct.  Skin 
reddish  purple.  Flesh  green,  firm,  sweet,  sprightly  ;  separates  from 
stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Early  Yellow  Prune. 

A  foreign  sort.  Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive.  Branches 
down  . 

Frxiit  rather  large,  oval.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  very  slight  bloom, 
and  dotted  with  red  in  the  sun.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a 
small  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  sweet,  juicy,  with  somewhat  of  a  melon  fla- 
vor.    Separates  from  the  stone.     Good.    Middle  of  August. 

There  is  another  Early  Yellow  Prune  that  originated  in  Bedford 
Co.,  Pa.,  which  differs  but  little  from  the  above  either  in  appearance 
or  quality. 

Edouard  Sexeclauze. 

Branches  downy. 

Fruit  very  small,  obovate,  narrows  toward  the  stalk.  Skin  cleat 
golden  yellow.  Flesh  very  tender,  sweet,  and  rich  ;  separates  freelj 
from  the  stone.      July.      (Hogg.) 

Elfrey. 

Elfry's  Prune. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  small,  oval.  Skin  blue.  Flesh  greenish,  very  sweet,  dry,  and 
firm  ;   parting  very  freely  from  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 


THE    PLUM.  913 

Emerald  Drop. 

Origin,  Newburgh,  N.  V.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  and  very  pro- 
ductive.    Branches  long  and  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  long  oval.  Suture  strongly  marked,  and  the 
fruit  larger  on  one  of  its  Bides.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  sometim.  a 
dull  green  only  in  the  shade.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long, 
inserted  with  scarcely  any  depression.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  very 
juicy;  adheres  somewhat  to  the  stone,  which  lb  long  and  pointed.  Good. 
Last  of  August. 

English  Wheat. 

Wheat  Plum.  Wheaton.  Whitlow.  Nutmeg. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Suture  moderate,  skin  reddish  pur- 
ple, with  a  blue  bloom,  covered  with  numerous  white  dots.  Stalk  half 
an  inch  long,  rather  strong,  set  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  yellow, 
a  little  coarse,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  rich  flavor.  It  adheres  to  the  stone. 
Good.     Last  of  August. 

English  Yellow  Gage. 

Little  Queen  Claude.  Reine  Claude  Blanche.         Small  Green  Gage. 

Petite  Reine  Claude.         petite  espece.  Gonne's  Green  Gage. 

Wrhite  Gage. 

This  Plum,  formerly  known,  we  believe,  as  the  little  Queen  Claude, 
but  which  has  now  received  the  sobriquet  of  Yellow  Gage,  we  suppose 
for  good  reasons,  from  the  head  of  the  fruit  department  in  the  London 
Horticultural  Society's  garden,  is  an  old  French  variety  described  by 
Duhamel.     Branches  smooth  and  rather  long. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  round,  with  a  distinct  suture  on  one  side. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  slight  hollow. 
Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  speckled  with  a  few  reddish  dots,  and  over- 
spread with  a  good  deal  of  bloom.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  sweet,  and  plea- 
sant ;  separates  freely  from  the  ston<  .     Good.     Middle  of  August. 

Eugene  Furst. 
Sweet  Damson.  Quetsche  Precoce  de  Furat. 

A  new  German  variety.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  small,  obovate  pointed.  Skin  dark  purple,  with  a  thick  bloorn. 
Flesh  yellowish, juicy,  sweet;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good,  r^st  of 
August. 

Fine  Bonte. 

This  variety  originated  at  Moselle,  France.  Tree  vigorous.  Branches 
smooth. 

Fruit  small,  oval  pointed.  Skin  reddish  purple  or  lilac,  blue 
bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sweet ;  separates  from  the  stone. 
Last  of  July.     (  Verg. ) 

Foote's  Early  Orleans. 

Raised   by   Asahel    Foote,   Williamstown,    Mass.      Tree   vigorous, 

ipreading.      Branches  slightly  downy,  grayish. 


914  THE    PLUM. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  dot  at  apex.  Skin  deep 
black  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  medium,  slender,  se:  in  a  deep 
cavity.  Flesh  greenish,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant;  adheres  tc 
the  stone.     Good  to  very  good.     Early  August. 

Foote's   Golden  Gage. 

Same  origin  as  the  preceding.  Tree  very  vigorous,  upright.  Branches 
slightly  downy,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  globular.  Suture  shallow,  half  round.  Skin 
golden  yellow,  with  obscure  splashes  of  green,  and  shaded  with  red  in 
the  sun ;  thin  bloom.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  yellow, 
juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous;  adheres  very  slightly  to  the  stone.  Very 
good.     Early  September. 

Fotheeingham. 
Sheen.  Fotheringay.  Grove  House  Purple 

An  old  English  Plum  of  good  quality.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  with  a  distinct  suture.  Skin  reddish 
purple,  covered  with  a  pale  blue  bloom.  Flesh  pale  greenish  yellow, 
juicy,  sprightly,  and  rich;  separating  from  the  stone.  Good.  Middle  of 
August. 

Frost   Gage. 
Frost  Plum. 

A  late  Plum,  scarcely  yielding  to  any  other  late  vaiiety  in  the  excel- 
-mce  of  its  flavor.  It  appears  to  have  originated  in  Fishkill,  Dutchess 
Co.,  N.  Y.,  where  it  has  for  many  years  past  been  most  extensively 
cvdtivated  for  market ;  but  of  late  has  been  so  subject  to  knots  that  it 
is  not  now  much  grown.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium  size,  roundish  oval,  with  a  distinct  suture 
on  one  side.  Skin  deep  purple,  with  a  few  brown  specks,  and  a  thin 
bloom.  Stalk  half  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  length,  inserted  with 
little  or  no  depression.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  rich  and 
melting;  adhering  to  the  stone.     Good  to  very  good.     First  of  October. 

Fulton. 

Origin  uncertain.  Found  at  Johnstown,  Fulton  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tre«s 
vigorous  and  productive.     Branches  smooth,  reddish. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  shallow,  half  round 
Skin  whitish  yellow,  covered  with  a  bloom,  blotched  and  marbled  in  the 
sun.  Stalk  rather  stout.  Cavity  large.  Flesh  golden  yellow,  juicy, 
sugary,  vinous.  Good  to  very  good.  Separates  from  the  stone.  Early 
October. 

Galbraith. 

Originated  with  Mr.  Galbraith,  near  Boalsburg,  Pa.  A  straggling 
grower.     Tree  very  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  brownish  gray. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  pur 
pie.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  deep.  Flesh  tender,  juicy;  adheres  to  the 
stone.     Good.     Aiisust. 


the  PLUM. 


915 


Gem. 

Originated  near  Albany,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous.    Branches  d  >wny. 

Fruit  small,  roundish.  Suture  slight.  Apex  a  little  sunk.  Skin 
whitish,  mostly  shaded  and  mottled  with  violet  in  the  shade  ami  purple 
in  the  sun,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  rather  long.  Cavity 
large.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.  Its 
beauty  its  only  merit.      Last  of  August. 


GENL.    Hand. 

Origin  uncertain  :  supposed  to"  have  originated  on  the  farm  of  Oenl. 
Hand,  near  Lancaster,  Pa.     Tree  very  rigorous.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  oval.  Suture  obscure,  running  half 
round.  Skin  deep  golden  yellow,  slightly  marbled  with  greenish  yellow. 
Stalk  long,  set  in  a  shallow  cavity,  the  whole  of  that  end  being  flattened. 
Flesh  coarse,  pale  yellow,  moderately  juicy,  sweet  and  good,  hut  not 
high  flavor;  separates  freely  from  the  stone.     Good.     September. 

(  rEKMAJN    I'm  SE. 


Common  Quetsche. 

Trae  Larpe  German  Prune. 

Turkish  Quetsche. 

Leipzic 

Sweet  Prune. 

Damask. 

Imperatrice  Yiolette. 

Imperatrice  Yiolette  Grosse. 

Damns  Violet  Gros. 

Zwetsche. 


Quetsche  Grosse. 
Prune  d1 Allemagne. 

che  "VAllemagne  Grosse. 
i 
Covet 
Early  Russian. 

a  Quetsche.  Couetsche. 
KoetBche. 
sen. 
Large  German  Prune. 


So  many  Plums  are  cultivated  under  the  name  of  German  Pram. 
that  it  is  difficult  to  ii::  this  fickle  title,  a  eireumstance  owing  to  the  fact 
that  the  prune  frequen  •  the  same,  or 

nearly  th  .  and  in  prui  e-grow- 

ing  disui  i  popular  way  of  increasing 

them,  while   it,   >f  cour    .  to  many 

shades  of  character.     It  is  a  valuable  da 
plums,  of  fair  quality  !'  ible,  hut  most 

esteemed  for  drying  and  preserving  -  abundant 
bearers,  and  h  the  tree.   Branches 

smooth.   Thei  lerman  Prune  is  describ- 

ed as  follows  : — 

Fruit  long  oval,  uearly  two  inches  long,  pecu- 
liarly .  Idrawnoul  towards 
the  stalk.  pur- 
ple, with  a  thick  blu  Stalk  three-fourths 
ofaninch  ider,  slightly  inserted,  i 
firm,                                                            from 

the  stone,  which  is   llat,  very  long,  and  a  little 
curved.      Good  to 

her. 

This  prune  is.  perhaps,  the  most  unr 
and  mostvaluable  fruit-tree  in  Germany,  Bun- 
gary,  Saxony,  and  all  Central  Europe.     I 

Served,  it   is    used  ill  winter  as  a  substitute    fOT  Q«nnma  Prnao. 


916 


THE   PLUM. 


butter  by  the  laboring  peasantry ;  and  dried,  it  is  a  source  of  large 
profit  in  commerce. 

Tbe  Austrian  Quetsche,  Tliomp.  ( Quetsche  de  Breme,  Bremen 
Prune),  is  a  sub- variety,  much  like  the  foregoing,  purple,  a  freestone,  of 
rather  better  flavor,  and  ripening  somewhat  later. 

St.  James'  Quetsche  is  another  variety,  with  smooth  branches,  and 
oblong  fruit  of  medium  size.  Flesh  purple,  adheres  to  the  stone,  of  very 
good  flavor.     It  yields  good  crops.     September. 


Ghiston's  Early. 

Branches  smooth,  short-jointed. 

Fruit  lai*ge,  oval.     Skin  clear  yellow,  with  a  light  bloom. 
low  ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Poor.      Middle  of  August. 

Gifford's  Lafayette. 


Flesh  yel 


Tree  very  vigorous,  aud  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  long   oval,  purple,  with  a  bloom.     Flesh  greenish, 
coarse,  juicy,  not  rich  ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     Poor.     Last  of  August. 


Gisborne's. 
Gisborne's  Early. 


Paterson's. 


Tree  a  moderate  grower,  spreading,  productive.    Branches  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Suture  distinct,  one  side  often  enlarged.  Skin 
greenish  yellow,  with  red  next  the  sun,  marbled  and  spotted,  thin  bloom. 
Stalk  medium.  Cavity  deep.  Flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  moder- 
ately juicy  ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 


Golden  Cherry  Plum. 

Raised  by  Samuel  Reeve,  Salem, 
N.  J.    Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  small  to  medium,  roundish. 
Skin  fine  waxen  yellow,  becoming  bronzed 
in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  brisk, 
subacid ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     July. 

Golden  Esperen. 

Cloth  of  Gold  Esperen. 
Drap  d'Or  Esperen. 

Raised  by  Major  Esperin.  Tree  of 
moderate  growth,  spreading.  Buds  large 
pointed,  a  promising  variety.  Branches 
smooth,  reddish  brown 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Skin 
golden  yellow,  with  light  streaks  of  green 
oeneath,  covered  with  a  thin  bloom,  and  a  few  crimson  dots  on  the  sunny 
side.  Suture  shallow.  Stalk  short  and  rather  stout,  in  a  small  cavity. 
Flesh  light  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  very  juicy,  sugary,  and  rich.  Good 
to  very  good.     Adheres  partially  to  the  stone.      Ripens  last  of  August 


Golden   Esperin. 


THE    PLUM.  917 


Goliath. 


Caledonian.  Saint  Cloud. 

Steers's  Emperor.  Wilmot's  late  Orleans. 

A  large  and  handsome  Plum.  It  is  easily  distinguished  from  the 
Nectaiine  Plum,  with  which  it  has  been  confounded,  by  its  gray,  very 
downy  shoots. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  enlarged  on  one  Bide  of  the  suture. 
Skin  a  tine  deep  red,  approaching  purple,  a  little  paler  in  the  shade, 
.lustrd  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Mesh  yellow,  adheres  considerably  to  the 
stone,  rather  juicy,  with  a  brisk,  sprightly  flavor.  Good.  Last  of 
August. 

GONKE. 

Prune  Gonne. 

A  large  and  handsome  Belgian  Plum.  Tree  vigorous  productive. 
Branches  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  distinct.  Skin  reddish  purple, 
with  carmine  dots  and  specks  in  sun,  thin  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish 
rather  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet;  separates  from  the  stone.  Early 
September.      (An.  Pom.) 

Great  Damask  Violet  of  Tours. 

Gros  Damas  de  Tours  Largest  Damask  of  Tours. 

Damas  de  Tours  gros. 

This  French  Plum  is  described  by  Lindley,  whom  we  copy.  Branches 
downy. 

Fruit  medium,  somewhat  oval.  Skin  dark  blue,  covered  with  a  vio- 
let  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  and  loosely  adheres  to  the  stone.  Early 
August. 

Green  Gage. 

Bruyn  Gage.  Abricot  Vert  Schuyler  Gage,  incorrectly  . 

Bradford  Gage.  Dauphine.  Trompe  Gar«,on. 

Wilmot's  Green  Gage.  Louis  Brun  ?  Trompe  Valet. 

New  Green  Gage.  Abricot'-e  Sageret?  Verducia 

Late  Green  Gage,  bla  G  i  Verdochio. 

Islewortb  Green  Gage.  Cant's  late  Green  Gage.  Verte  Tiqi 
Brugnon  Gage.              Alo  Claudia. 

■'a.  Hiding's  Reine  •  llaudia. 

le  Claude     Great  Green  Damask.  Reine  Claudia  blanche  la  grossc. 
e  Reine  laa  yert. 

Damas  Vert  Mirabelle  Vert  Doable.  Livingston  Ma 

Sucrin  Vert.  Queen  Cla  Reine  CI  inde  I'uree. 

Vert  Bonne.  R< 

The  Green  Gage  is  universally  admitted  to  hold   the  first  rank  in 

11  Plums,  and  is  everywhere  highly  esteei 1.     In  Prance 

generally  known  a-  the  Kein  .  having,  it   is  said, 

been  introduced  into  that  country  n  Claude,  wife  of  Fiuii 

Durinj  ttury  an    English   family    by  the  name  of    Gaffe  ob- 

tained a  numberof  fruit-to  ■ 
Anion.'  theui  v.  ug  lost  its  name,  wu* 


918  THE    PLUM. 

called  by  the  gardener  the  Green  Gage.     It  is  pronounced,  by  Lindley, 

the  best  plum  in  England,  and  we  must  admit  that  we  have  no  superior 

to  it  here. 

The  Green  Gage  is  a  very  short-jointed,  slow-growing  tree,  of  spread- 
ing and  rather  dwarfish  habit.  It  is  an 
abundant  and  pretty  regular  bearer,  though 
the  fruit  is  a  little  liable  to  crack  upon  the 
tree  in  wet  seasons.  Branches  smooth. 
Buds  with  large  shoulders. 

Fruit  round,  rather  small,  seldom  of 
medium  size.  Suture  faintly  marked,  but. 
extending  from  the  stalk  to  the  apex.. 
Skin  green,  or  yellowish  green  at  full  ma- 
turity, when  it  is  often  a  little  dotted  or 
marbled  with  red.  Stalk  half  to  three-fourtha 
of  an  inch  long,  slender,  very  slightly  insert- 
ed. Flesh  pale  green,  exceedingly  melting 
and  juicy,  and  usually  separates  freely  from 
Green  Gage.  f-^g  st0ne.       Flavor    at  once    sprightly  and 

very  luscious.     Best.     Ripe  about  the  middle  of  August. 

There  are  several  seedling  varieties  of  this  Plum  in  various  parts  of 

this  country,  but  none  superior  or  scarcely  equal  to  the  old. 

Gundaker  Prune. 
Groundacre. 

Raised  by  Samuel  E.  Gundaker,  of  Lancaster,  Penn. 

The  Gundaker  Prune  is  of  a  yellowish  white  color,  nearly  as  large  as 
the  Blue  Prune,  and  of  the  same  oval  shape,  very  high-flavored,  and  a 
good  bearer. 

Gundaker  Plum. 

Same  origin  as  the  Prune,  of  a  purple  color  on  one  side,  and  the 
other  a  light  color,  heart-shaped,  resembling  a  Plum  called  Golden 
Drop,  but  larger  in  size,  and  a  great  bearer.        (Gundaker  in  Hort.) 

Guthrie's  Apricot. 
Guthrie's  Golden. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Guthrie,  Scotland.  Tree  very  vigorous,  hardy,  pro- 
ductive.    Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  very  slight.  Skin  yel- 
low, sprinkled  with  a  few  crimson  dots,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom. 
Stalk  rather  long,  set  in  a  small  depression.  Flesh  yellow,  coarse,  juicy, 
sweet,  but  not  high-flavored ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good. 
Ripens  the  last  of  August. 

Guthrie's  Aunt  Ann. 

Aunt  Ann. 

Same  origin  as  the  preceding.  Tree  vigorous,  upright.  Branches 
smooth,  reddish. 

Fruit  medium,  oval     Suture  shallow,  a  little  more  than  half  round 


THE    PLUH.  9,  4 

Apex  a  littlo  sunk.  Skin  pale  yellow,  somewhal  splashed  with  preen, 
covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  rather  long.  Cavity  moderate, 
Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  Bugary,  slightly  vinous;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good 
to  very  good.     Early  September. 


Guthrie's  Late  Green. 


A  very  rapid  grower.     Branches 


Minette. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Guthrie,  Scotland. 
smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  globular,  swollen  on  one  side.  Skin  yellow,  with 
splashes  of  green,  and  covered  with  a  thin  blown.  Stalk  three-fourth' 
of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small 
cavity.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy, 
sugary,  rich;  adheres  to  the  stone. 
Very  good.     Early  September. 


Guthrie's  Russet. 

Another  of  Mr.  Guthrie's  origi- 
nating. Tree  vigorous.  Branches 
smooth,  brown isl i 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Suture  large, 
half  round.  Skin  yellow,  covered 
with  a  thin  bloom,  sometimes  marbled 
in  the  sun  with  crimson.  Stalk  long, 
slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  yel- 
low, juicy,  sweet,  rich;  adheres  to 
the  stone.  Good  to  very  good.  Last 
of  August. 


Guthrie's  Lsto  Green. 


Guthrie's  Taybank. 

Same  origin  as  above.     Branches  smooth,  short-jointed. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.     Skin  greenish  yellow.     Flesh  yellowish, 
juicy.     Good.     Last  of  September.     (Elliott.) 


Guthrie's  Topaz. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Guthrie,  Scotland.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  with 
smooth  reddish  brown  branches,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  with  a  slight  neck,  one  side  somewhat  swollen. 
Suture  moderate.  Skin  golden  yellow,  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  an 
inch  long,  slender,  curved,  inserted  in  a  small  deep  cavity.  Flesh  yel- 
low, juicy,  Bweet,  not  very  rich,  but  pleasant;  adheres  to  the  stone. 
Good.     Middle  of  September. 

GWAL8H. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  oval.      Suture  shallow.     Skin  deep  purple,  with 


920  THE   PLUM. 

a  bloom.  Stalk  rather  short,  slightly  sunk.  Flesh  greenish,  coarse, 
not  very  juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasant ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good. 
First  of  September. 

Hallenbeck. 

Originated  with  Henry  Hallenbeck,  East  Greenbush,  Rensselaer  Co., 
N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  with  upright  stout  shoots  and  prominent  buds, 
rather  slow  growth.     Branches  smooth  or  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  one  side  often  enlarged.  Suture  broad, 
shallow.  Skin  deep  reddish  purple,  sprinkled  witli  numerous  minute 
dots,  and  covered  with  a  grayish  blue  bloom.  Stalk  stout.  Cavity 
large.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  very  juicy,  sugary,  with  a  brisk  flavor; 
adheres  closely  to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Hartwiss'  Yellow   Prune. 

A  German  variety.     Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  narrowed  toward  the  stalk,  next  which  is  a 
slight  mamelon  neck.  One  side  compressed.  Skin  fine  yellow, 
slightly  blotched  and  dotted  with  crimson,  thin  light  bloom.  Stalk 
long,  slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy, 
sugary.  Separates  freely  from  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good.  Early 
September. 

Henrietta  Gage. 
Early  Genesee. 

Originated  in  the  town  of  Henrietta,  Monroe  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  of 
rather  slow  growth.     Branches  brownish  gray,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Suture  shallow,  a  little  more  than 
half  round.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  with  a  thin  white  bloom.  Stalk 
rather  short,  stout,  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  not  very  juicy, 
sweet ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Early  August. 

Henry  Clay. 

Raised  by  Elisha  Dorr,  Albany,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous  and  pro- 
ductive.    Its  great  beauty  will  make  it  desirable.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  somewhat  oval,  inclining  to  a  neck,  with  a  slight 
suture.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  light  bloom,  and  the  cheek  beautifully 
marbled  and  shaded  with  red.  Stalk  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  small 
cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  and  sweet ;  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone. 
Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  August. 

Highlander. 

Origin,  Newburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive. 
Branches  gray,  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  ovate,  somewhat  swelled  on  one  side.  Su- 
ture moderate,  half  round.  Skin  deep  blue,  inclining  to  reddish  brown, 
covered  with  a  thin  bloom,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  brown  dots. 
Stalk  very  short,  inserted  in  a  slight  cavity.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
juicy,  sugary,  rich,  vinous  ;  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone.  Good  tr 
very  good.     Last  of  September. 


THE    PLUM. 

Holland. 


921 


Blie  Holland. 


Holland  Prone 


Tree  vigorous.     Branches  downy,  rather  slender. 

Frnit  round,  slightly  flattened.  Skin  blue  or  light  reddish  puqde 
covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  and  pleasant; 
separating  freely  from  the  stone.  Good.  Last  of  August  to  the  middl< 
of  September. 


IIoksi:    PlJTM. 


Large  Early  Damson. 


Sweet  Damson. 


Tree  vigorous,  upright.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval,  with  a  deep  suture  on  one  side.  Skin 
purple  in  the  sun,  reddish  on  the  shaded  side,  with  blue  bloom.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  rather  dry  and  acid,  separates  from  the  stone.  Scarcely 
good.     Last  of  August. 

Howard's  Favorite. 

Raised  by  E.  Dorr,  Albany,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  very 
productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  narrowing  toward  the  stalk,  and  flattened  at  apex. 
Suture  shallow,  a  little  more  than  half  round.  Skin  pale  yellow,  dotted 
and  marbled  with  carmine  in  the  sun, 
covered  with  a  thin  lilac  bloom.  Stalk 
rather  long.  Cavity  small.  Flesh 
yellow,  j  uicy,  sweet ;  adheres  to  the 
stone.    Good  to  very  good.    September. 

Howell's  Early. 
Sea.  Early  Purple.         Chapin's  Early. 

Origin  unknown ;  brought  from 
Virginia.  Tree  of  rather  slow  growth. 
Wood  slender,  gray,  and  downy. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium  size, 
oval,  without  any  suture,  one  side  a 
little  enlarged.  Skin  pale  red,  reddish 
purple  in  the  sun,  covered  with  a  light 
lilac  bloom.  Stalk  Bhort,  stout,  with 
a  Blightly  elevated  collar.  Flesh  yel- 
low, juicy,  rich,  sweet;  separates  from 
the  stone.     Good  to  very  good.     Marly 

August.  Howard'!  FsrorlU. 

How's  Amrer. 

Origin,  Portsmouth,  N.  BL     Tree  vigorous,  pn 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  nture.      Skin  amber-colored  in  the 

shade,  mottled  «nth  rose,  thinly  covered  with  pale  violet  bloom.  Stalk 
of  medium  lengtn,  inserted  without  cavity.  aelt- 

nicy;  adhering  to  the  stone.     First  of  September.     (Hov.  M 


922  the  plttm. 

Hudson  Gage. 
Reine  Claude  d'Hudson. 

Raised  by  L.  U.  Lawrence,  of  Hudson,  N.  Y.  Tree  thrifty,  produc 
fcive.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval,  a  little  enlarged  on  one  side  of  the  oh 
scure  suture.  Skin  yellow,  clouded  with 
green  streaks  under  the  skin,  and  covered 
with  a  thin  white  bloom.  Stalk  short, 
little  moi^e  than  half  an  inch  long,  insert- 
ed in  a  moderate  hollow.  Flesh  greenish, 
very  juicy  :uid  melting,  with  a  rich,  spright- 
ly, excellent  flavor.  It  separates  from  the 
stone  (adhering  very  slightly).  Very  good. 
First  week  in  August. 


Hulings'  Superb. 
Keyser's  Plum.  Gloire  de  New  York. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Keyser  of  Pennsylvania, 

and  brought   into    notice  by    Dr.    W.    E. 

Hulings  of   that  State.       Tree  very   vigo- 

Hndson  Gage.  rous,  upright,  large   foliage,  blunt  shoots, 

large-shouldered     buds,    moderate    bearer. 

Branches  downy. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oval,  with  a  distinct  though  shallow  su 

ture.      Stalk  strong  and  stout,  set  in  a  round,  small  cavity.      Skin  rathei 

dull  greenish  yellow,  thinly  covered  with  pale  bloom.     Flesh  greenish 

yellow,  rather  coarse,  but  with  a  rich,  brisk,  sprightly  flavor.     Good. 

It  adheres  to  the  stone.     Middle  of  August. 

ICKWORTH    IMPERATRICE. 

Knight's  No.  6. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Knight,  of  Downton  Castle.  It  hangs  a  long  while 
on  the  tree,  and  if  gathered  and  wrapped  in  soft  paper,  will  keep  many 
weeks.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  purple,  peculiarly 
traced  or  embroidered  with  streaks  of  golden  fawn  color.  Stalk  mode- 
rately long  and  thick.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  sweet,  juicy,  and  rich, 
mostly  adhering  to  the  stone,  which  is  rather  small.  Very  good.  Early 
in  October. 

Imperiale  de  Milan. 
Prune  de  Milan. 

Tree  vigorous,  rather  spreading.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  broad,  extending  two- 
thirds  around  one  side,  often  enlarged.  Skin  deep  purple,  covered  with 
ft  thick  blue  bloom.  Stalk  stout,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  greenish, 
juicy  ;  sugary,  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 


THK   PLUM. 


ra 


IMPERIAL   GAGE. 

Flashing  Gage.  ine  Clande  Imperial*. 

White  Gage.  Prince's  Gage. 

Prince's  Imperial  Gage.  Admiral  de  Rigny  ? 

Superior  Green  Gage.  Prince's  White  Gage. 

Prince's  Imperial 

The  Imperial  Gage  has  long    enjoj 
the  reputation  of  one  of  the  inosi  • 
and  productive  of  Plums.      It  was  raised  al 
Prince's  Nursery,    Flushing,  N.   Y.,   from 
the  .seed  of  the  ( l-reen  I  rage,  and 
of  the  fruit  of  a  single   tree  near  B 
having  produced  fruit  to  the  value  of  near- 
ly   fifty   dollars    annually,  lias    often    I 
repeated  as  a  proof  of  the  profit  of  its  cul- 
tivation for  market.     The  tree  grows  freely 
and  rises  rapidly,  and  has  Long  dark  sh< 
slightly  downy. 

Fruit  rather  above  medium  si/e,  oval, 
with  a  distinct  suture.  Stalk  Dearly  an 
inch  long,  slightly  hairy,  and  pretty  stunt. 
inserted  in  an  even  hollow.  Skin  pale 
green  until  fully  ripe,  when  it,  is  tinged 
with   yellow,  showing  a  peculiar  marbling  imperial  r;age. 

of  duU  green    stripes,  and  covered    with 

copious  white  bloom.  Flesh  greenish,  very  juicy,  melting,  and  rich,  with 
a  very  slightly  agreeable  flavor;  it  separates  pretty  freely  from  the  stone. 
The  latter  is  oval,  and  pointed  at  both  ends.     Best.      Early  September 

Imperial  Ottoman. 

A  very  neat  early  Plum,  of  good  flavor, 
and  a  prolific  bearer.  It  has  the  reputation 
of  having  been  brought  from  Turkey,  but  it  is 
uncertain  whether  this  is  correct.  Tree  \  igor- 
ous,  upright.   Branches  long,  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  scarcely  below  medium  size,  round- 
ish, between  Green  Gage  and  the  American 
Yellow  Gage  in  appearance,  and  having  a 
suture  on  one  side,  from  the  stalk  half  way 
down.  Stalk  downy, slender, curved,  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  long,  insei-ted  in  a  very 
Blight  cavity.  Skin  dull  yellow,  clouded 
with  darker  streak.-,  and  covered  with  a 
thin  bloom.  It  adheres  considerably 
to  the  stone.  The  flesh  is  juicy,  sweet, 
melting.  Good  to  very  good.  Last  of 
July. 

Imperial  Ottoman. 

Imperial  Purple 

Originated   with   Wm.   R.  Prince,  Flushing,  L.  L     Tree  vigoroua, 
fery  productive.     Branches  smooth. 


924  THE    PLUM. 

Fruit  medium,  roundibh  oval,  one  side  slightly  compressed.  Suturt 
Blight.  Skin  reddish  purple,  covered  with  a  pretty  thick  lilac  bloom. 
Stalk  rather  short,  slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  sweet ; 
adheres  to  the  stone.     Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  August. 

Incomparable. 
Nonpareil.  Incomparable  Prune. 

A  German  Prune  Plum.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  with  long  slendei 
smooth  branches. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  long  oval,  narrowing  at  ends.  Sutore  shal- 
low, pointed  at  apex.  Skin  deep  purplish  black,  covered  with  a  thick 
blue  bloom.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  yellowish, 
sweet;  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone.     Good      Last  of  September. 

Isabella. 

This  is  an  attractive-looking  English  Plum.  Branches  quite  downy 
and  gray. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oval,  rather  narrower  towards  the  stalk.  Skin 
dark  dull  red  in  the  sun,  paler  in  the  shade,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with 
darker  colored  dots.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  a  little  hairy, 
set  in  a  moderate  hollow.  Flesh  yellow,  rich,  juicy,  with  a  smart  flavor, 
and  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Italian  Damask. 
Damas  d'ltalie. 

Tree  thrifty,  vigorous. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Apex  slightlj 
sunken.  Skin  purplish  black,  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Stalk 
rather  stout.  Flesh  light  green,  a  little  firm,  moderately  juicy,  slightly 
vinous ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Late  August. 

Italian  Prune. 

Prune  d'ltalie.  Altesse  Double. 

Fellenberg.  Italian  Qnetsche. 

Quetsche  d'ltalie. 

Tree  vigorous,  spreading.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Suture  moderate.  Skin  dark  blue,  with  a 
bloom.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  stout,  inserted  in  a  very  small  cavity. 
Flesh  dark  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  and  good;  separates  from  the  stone. 
Grood.     First  of  October. 

Ives. 
Ives'  Washington.  Ives'  Seedling. 

Raised  by  J.  M.  Ives,  Salem,  Mass.  Tree  of  moderate  growth,  strag- 
gling and  irregular,  prominent  buds.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.    Suture  i  mere  line.     Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a 
light  thin  bloom.      Stalk  long,  slender.     Flesh  yellow,  melting,  juicy 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 


TH*    PLUM. 


Mi 


JA(  OB. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  with  a  neck,  one  side  enlarged,  Suture  large 
iSkin  violet  purple,  covered  with  lilac  bloom.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Cav 
ity  small.  Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  sweet;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good 
September. 

J  aim:    Hativk. 


Early  Yellow. 
I  iatalonian. 
White  Primordian. 
Jamie  de  Ci  I  alogne. 
Prune  de  St.  Barnabe. 
D'Avoine. 


Amber  Primordian. 

Ji  an  H.tive. 
Earlj  .lohu. 
Bilboa 

St.   Barnal 

Loudon  Plum. 


Prune  de  Catalo 
Avant  Prone  blanche. 
Cerisette  Blanche 
Pickett's  .Inly. 
Prune  Monsieur  Jaune. 
Prune  d'Alto  Bse  blanche. 


The  earliesl  of  Plums,  which  is  its  chief  recommendation.  It  is  a 
very  old  variety,  from  Catalonia  and  the  South  of  France, and  has  been 

in  cultivation  more  than  two  hundred  years.  It  is  a  pretty  little  fruit, 
and  is  worthy  of  a  place  in  the  garden  of  the  amateur.  The  tree  has 
long,  slender,  downy  branch  s. 

Fruit  small,  oval  or  obovate,  with  a  shallow  suture  on  one  ride. 
Stalk  slender,  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  pale  yellow,  thinly  coated  with 
bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  tolerably  juicy,  and  melting,  of  sweet  and  plea- 
sant flavor  ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good.  From  the  10th  to  the 
middle  of  July. 

Jefferson. 

If  we  were  asked  which  we  think  the  most  desirable  and  boautit'u. 
of  all  dessert  Plums,  we  should  undoubtedly  give  the  name  of  this  new 

variety.  When  fully  ripe,  it  is  nearly 
equal  in  flavor  to  the  Green  Gage, 
that  unsurpassable  standard  of  flavor. 

But  when  we  contrast  the  small  ap- 
pearance of  the  Green  Gage  with  tie 
unusual  si/.e  and  beauty  of  the  Jetfer- 

SOIl,  we  must  admit  that  it  takes  the 
very  first  rank.  It  is  about  ten  days 
or  a  fort  night  later  than  the  Washing 
ton,  ripening  tie-  last  .if  August. 

We  received  t  he  Jefferson  Plum,  a 
few  years  ago,  from  the  late  Judge 
Buel,  by  whom  it  was  raised  and 
named.  It  is  a  good  moderate  grower 
and  regular  bearer,  and  the  crop  is 
verj  handsome  on  the  tree.  Branches 
Blight ly  diiu ny. 

Frail  large,  oval,  slightly  narrow  ed 
on  one  side  towards  the  Btalk.  Skin 
golden  yellow,  with  a  beautiful  pur- 
plish-red   cheek,  and  covered  with  a 

thin  white  bloom.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,    pretty    Stout,    very    slightly    iu- 

1.      Suture     indistinct.       Flesh 

parts  freely,  and  al- 
most entirely  from  the  stone,  which  is  long  and  pointed.  Verj  rich, 
juicy,  luscious,  and  high-flavored.     Best. 


Jefferson. 


926  THE   PLUM. 

Jerusalem. 

Prunier  de  Jerusalem.  Prune  Viclet  de  Jerusalem 

Violette  Jerusalem.  De  Bordeaux. 

(Eil  de  Boauf. 

Fruit  large,  long,  egg-sh:iped.  Skin  dark  purple,  covered  with  a 
dense  blue  bloom.  Stalk  au  inch  long,  hairy.  Flesh  firm,  sweet,  brisk  ; 
separates  from  the  stone.      Middle   September.      (Hogg.) 

Jodoigne  Green  Ga<;e. 
Boulouf.  Reine  Claude  de  Jodoigne.  Royal  de  Vilvorde. 

Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  stout,  short-jointed. 

Fruit  large,  round,  inclining  to  oblate.  Suture  shallow,  half  round. 
Skin  thin,  greenish  yellow,  with  blush  red  strewed  green  and  yellowish 
dots  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  covex-ed  with  a  thin  blue  bloom. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  firm,  very  juicy,  tender, 
sugary,  rich.      Late  September.      (Hogg.) 

JUDSON. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Judson,  of  Lansingburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  thrifty  and 
productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  long  oval.  Suture  broad,  rather  deep.  Skin  reddish 
purple.,  covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Stalk  long,  stout.  Flesh 
greenish,  rather  coarse,  not  very  juicy,  sweet;  adheres  partially  to  the 
stone.      Scarcely  good.     Last  of  August. 

July  Green  Gage. 
Reine  Claude  de  Bavay  Hiltive.  Early  Bavay. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  oblong.  Suture  distinct,  a  little 
more  than  half  round.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  tinged  with  purple  in  the 
sun,  thin  bloom.  Stalk  rather  stout.  Cavity  broad,  shallow.  Flesh 
yellow,  juicy,  sweet;  separates  from  the  stone.  Very  good.  Last  Au- 
gust. 

Kester's  Green  Gage. 

Raised  by Weaver,  Mt.  Pleasant,  "Westmoreland    Co.,  Pa. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular,  one  side  enlarged.  Suture  rather  large. 
Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  with  splashes  of  deeper  green,  slight  bloom. 
Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  large  cavity.  Flesh  greenish,  juicy, 
Bugary,  rich.     Very  good.      Adheres  slightly  to  the  stone. 

Kester's  Yellow  Gage. 

Raised    by Weaver,  Mt.  Pleasant,  Westmoreland    Co.,  Pa. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Suture  broad  and  shallow.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  splashed  with  green,  and  covered  with  a  thick  white  bloom. 
Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  greenish  yel- 
low, juicy,  sugary,  rich.     Very  good.     Adheres  partially  to  the  stone. 

Kirke's. 
Kirke's  Plum  is  a  variety  which  came  to  us  from  England,  where 


THE   PLUM.  W7 

it  was  first   brought   into   notice   by  Mr.  Kirke,  the   narserymar,  at 
Brornpton.      Branches  .smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblong,  with  very  little  suture 
Skin  dark  purple,  with  a  few  golden  dots,  and  coated  with  an  unusually 
thick  blue  bloom,  which  adheres  pretty  closely.  Stalk  three-fourths  of 
an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  very  slight  depression.  Flesh  greenish  yel- 
low, firm,  and  verj  rich  in  flavor.  It  separates  freely  from  the  stone 
which  is  flat  and  broad.  Good  to  \vr\  good.  Last  of  August  and  first 
of  September. 

B  \ur. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  W.  Kolenkamp,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Fruit  large,  oval,  red.     Flesh  yellowish,  dry ;  separates   from  the 
stone.     Last  of  September.     (Am.  1'.  Sou.) 

Lady  Plum. 

Baised  by  Isaac  Denniston,  Albany,  N.  Y.  Tree  of  slender  growth, 
productive.  It  is  quite  a  pretty  fruit,  esteemed  highly  for  preserving, 
this  being  its  chief  quality.  It  IS  a  rampant  grower,  an  abundant 
bearer. 

Fruit  quite  small,  oval.  Sfalk  short  and  stout.  Color  light  yellow, 
spotted  with  red.  Stone  free  and  small.  Flavor  acid.  First  of  Sep- 
tember.    (E.  Don1  in  Cult.) 

Langdon. 

Langdon's  Seedling. 

Baised  by  Beuben  Langdon,  of  Hartford,  Conn.     Tree  vigorous  and 

productive.      Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rathe:-  large,  roundish  oval,  with  a  moderate  suture.  SkiD 
reddish  purple,  covered  with  a  thick  lilac  bloom.  Stalk  three-fourths 
of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  Cavity.  Flesh  greenish  yel- 
low, coarse,  juicy,  sprightly,  subacid,  and  adheres  mostly  to  the  stone. 
Good.     Last  of  August. 

Large  Green  Dbytko. 

Knight's  Large  Drying. 

A  late  variety,  raised,  we  believe,  by  .Mr.  Knight,  and  introduced 
here  from  the  gardenof  the  '  Soci<  ty  of  Loudon.     Tin-  tree 

is  vigorous,  and  the  branch*  >oth. 

The  fruit  large,  roun  yellow.     The  flesh  yellowish, 

derately  juicy,  sweet.     Good.  Adhert  Middle  oi 

tember. 

Late  Black  Oru 

Tree  vigorous,  with  long  and  slender  smooth  bran  ;.  produc- 

tive. 

Fruit' mecium,  nearly  round.    Suture  broad,  shall  pex. 

Skin  deep  black,  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom,  and  thickly  sprinkled 
witli    minute   brown   dots.      Stalk    rather   stout.      Cavity  small. 
deep  yellow,  juicy,  sugary ;  adheres  firmlj  to  the  i  rid.      1-ast 

of  September. 


928  THE  PLUM. 

Late  Bolmer. 

Winter  Bolmar. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Skin  yellow,  mottled  with  red  next  the 
sun.  Flesh  yellow,  rather  firm,  sweet,  but  not  rich ;  separates  from 
the  stone.     Good.     Middle  of  September. 

Late  Rivers. 

A  seedling  of  Thomas  Rivers,  England.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  round,  slight  suture.  Skin  dark  purple,  al- 
most black.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more  long,  slender.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy, 
sweet ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  October.      (Hogg.) 

Lawrence's  Early. 

A  foreign  variety. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oval,  flattened  at  ends.  Skin  dark  pur- 
plish red,  covered  with  a  thick  bloom.  Flesh  juicy  ;  separates  from  the 
store.     Good.     Middle  August. 

Lawrence's  Favorite. 
Lawrence's  Gage.  Reine  Claude  de  Lawrence. 

Lawrence's  Favorite  is  a  fruit  of  high  merit,  raised  by  Mr.  L.  U. 
Lawrence,  of  Hudson,  N.  Y.,  from  a  seed  of  the  Green  Gage. 

The  general  appearance  of  the  fruit  is  like  that  of  its  parent,  except 

that  it  is  much  larger.  It  hangs  well 
on  the  tree,  and  its  size,  flavor,  and  pro- 
ductiveness should  give  it  a  place  in 
every  garden. 

Lawrence's  Favorite  forms  an  up- 
right tree  of  thrifty  growth.  Young 
branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  heavy,  roundish,  a  little 
flattened  at  either  end.  Skin  dull  yel- 
lowish green,  clouded  with  streaks  of  a 
darker  shade  beneath,  and  covered  with 
a  light  bluish-green  bloom.  The  upper 
part  of  the  fruit,  when  fully  ripe,  is  cov- 
ered with  a  peculiar  brownish  network, 
and  a,  few  reddish  dots.  Stalk  short, 
only  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted 

in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  greenish, 
Lawrence's  Favorite.  ,  , .         .  i_    .      /•   .  i       r*  ?•, 

resembling  that  01  the  Green  Gage,  re- 
markably juicy  and  melting,  perhaps  scarcely  so  rich  as  the  latter,  but 
with  a  very  rich,  sprightly  vinous  flavor,  and  one  of  the  most  delicioua 
of  plums.  The  flesh  sometimes  adheres  a  little  when  not  fully  ripe, 
but  then  separates  freely.     Best.     Middle  of  August. 

Lawson's  Golden. 

Damas  Lawson.  Golden  Gage  Lawson. 

Tree  vigorous,  productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.     Suture  very  shallow.     Skin  pale  yel 


THE    PLl'M.  9St 

low,  lightly  shaded  and  mottled  in  the  sun  with  dull  crimson,  covered 
with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk  long,  Blender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  yellow 
juicy,  sweet.  Adheres  to  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good.  Last  df 
August. 

Lewiston  Egg. 

Origin,  Lewiston,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous  and  productive.  Branches 
iowny. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oval.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  bloom.  Flesh 
rellow,  adhering  closely  to  the  si  in  .  qo1  very  sweet,  and  only  second- 
rate  flavor.      Good.      Last  of  August. 

LlEGEL's    APRICOT. 

Abricotee  de  Braunau  Xouvelle. 

Branches  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Suture  deep.  Skin  like  Green  Gage, 
covered  with  a  white  bloom, becoming  yellowish  as  it  ripens.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  melting,  juicy,  sugary  ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Last 
of  September.     (Hog 

Lombard. 

Bleecker's  Scarlet.         Beekman's  Scarlet.  Montgomery  Prune. 

Tree  very  vigorous,  hardy,  baa  strikingly  crimpled  leaves,  bright 
purple  glossy  shoots,  very  productivi  .  popular. 

It  was  called  the  Lombard  Plum  by  the  Massachusetts  Horticul- 
tural Society,  in  compliment  to  Mr.  Lombard,  of  Springfield,  Mass., 
who  first  brought  it  into  notice  in  that 
State;  and  it  is  said  to  have  been  received 
by  him  from  Judge  Piatt,  of  YVhitesbo- 
rough,  N.  Y.,  who  raised  it  from  seed.  But  it 
was  previously  well  known  here  by  the  name 
of  Bleecker's  Scarlet.  Never  having  been 
described  under  that  name,  however,  we 
adopt  the  present  title. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oval,  slight- 
ly flattened  at  either  end.  Suture  obscure. 
Stalk  quite  slender,  scarcely  three-fourths  of 
an  inch  long, set  in  a  broad, abruptly  narrow- 
ing cavity.  Skin  delicate  violet  red,  paler  in 
the  shade,  dotted  with  red.  and  dusted 
thinly  with  bloom.  Flesh  deep  yellow. 
juicy,  and  pleasant,  but  not  rich;  adhering 
to  the  stone.      Good.      Middle  and  last  of  L«»b»i*. 

August. 

Long  Scarlet. 

Scarlet  Gage.  Red  Gage,  incorrectly. 

American.  Tree  very  vigorous,  and  very  productive.  Bho<  ts  downy- 
Fruit  of  medium  si/e,  oblong  obovate,  bwo11<  □  on  one  side  of  'he 
suture,  and  tapering  to  the  stalk.  Skin  bright  red  in  the  sun.  pale 
yellowish  red  on  the  shady  side,  covered  with  a  fine  lilac  bloom. 
deep  yellow,  juicy,  acid  at"  first,  but,  if  allowed  to  bang,  it  become*  rather 
rich  and  sweet.  '  It  adheres  to  the  stoni  Last  of  August. 

59 


930  THE    PLUM. 

Louisa. 

From  Missouri.  Tree  vigorous,  very  productive,  spreading.  Branches 
evidence  of  its  native  wild  character. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  round,  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  purplish 
red,  gray  dots,  thin  bloom.  Suture  slight.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy.  Good. 
Adheres  to  the  stone.     Last  of  August.      (Husmann.) 

.Lucombe's  Nonesuch. 

An  English  Plum,  raised  by  Lucombe,  of  the  Exeter  Nursery.  Tree 
-moderately  vigorous.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  roundish,  shaped  and  colored  much  Jikethe 
Green  Gage,  but  much  more  distinctly  streaked  with  yellow  and  orange, 
and  covered  with  a  whitish  bloom.  Suture  broad.  Stalk  straight, 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  wide  hollow.  Flesh  pretty  firm, 
greenish,  and  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  September. 

McLaughlin, 

Raised  by  James  McLaughlin,  Bangor,  Me.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous, 
and  productive,  a  valuable  variety,  nearly  or  quite  equal  to  Green  Gage. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  round,  oblate,  flat- 
tened at  both  ends.  Suture  slight.  Stalk 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a 
small  cavity  by  a  ring.  Skin  thin  and  ten- 
der, yellow,  dotted  and  marbled  with  red 
on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered  with  a  thin 
bloom.  Flesh  dull  yellow,  rather  firm,  juicy 
very  sweet  and  luscious,  perfumed.  It  ad 
heres  to  the  stone.    Best.    Last  of  August. 

Mamelonnee. 
Mamelon  Sageret. 
A  seedling  of  Sageret,  near  Paris.  Tree 
moderately    vigorous.     Branches   smooth, 
brownish  gray. 
McLaughlin.  j^   of    remarkable    gj^p^    having   a 

n^  or  (mamelon)  at  the  base  of  the  stock.  It  is  of  excellent  quality, 
hardy  and  prolific.  Fruit  of  medium  size,  oval,  tapering  towards  the 
apex,  and  a  well-marked  suture  on  one  side.  Stalk  small,  inserted 
without  depression.  Skin  pale  yellow,  a  few  splashes  and  streaks  of 
green,  dotted  and  marbled  with  crimson  in  the  sun,  covered  with  a  thin 
light  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  rich ;  separates  from  the 
stone       Good  to  very  good.     Middle  August. 

Manning's  Long  Blue  Prune. 
Manning's  Prone.  Large  Long  Blue.  Manning's  Long  Blue. 

Origin  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  with  long  dark-colored  shoots,  very 
productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  quite  large,  long  oval,  a  little  one-sided,  with  an  obscure  suture. 
Stalk  very  long  and  slender,  set  in  a  very  trilling  depression.  Skin  dark 
purple,  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.     Flesh  greenish  yellow,  firin,  rather 


THE    II. i  M.  931 

juicy,  with  a  sweet,  sprightly,  pleasant  flavor.  It  separates  pretty  readily 
from  the  stone,  which  is  long  and  pointed,  Good.  First  to  last  of  Sep 
teniber.     Ripens  gradually  and  bears  carriage  well. 

Mann's    [hpBBIAI 

Brandy  Gage.  .Mann's  Brandy  Oage. 

This  fruit  is  a  small  form  of  Coe's  Golden  Drop,  of  rich  flavor,  hut 
very  much  earlier.  It  differs  from  <  'oe's  '  i-olden  I  >*-op  by  having  dowuy 
shoots.     (Hogg. ) 

Makten. 

Garten's  Seedling. 

An  accidental  seedling  in  the  garden  of  Mr.  Marten,  Schenectady, 
N.  Y.    A  very  vigorous,  upright  grower,  productive.    Branches  smooth, 

grayish. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  irregular  suture,  rather  deep  from  stalk 
to  apex,  which  is  a  little  sunk.  Skin  yellow,  somewhat  streaked  with 
green,  and  dotted  with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Stalk  aearly  an  inch 
long,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  with  a 
brisk  sprightly  flavor.  Separates  from  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good. 
First  of  S  -ptember. 

Maugeuon. 

Damascene  Maugeron.  Mangeron. 

Damas  de  Mangeron.  .Maugeron  Damask. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  round,  depressed.  Skin  purplish,  dotted  with  yellowish 
dots,  and  covered  with  a  blue  bloom  Flesh  whitish  yellow,  not  very  juicy, 
breaking,  sweet;  separates  from  the  stone.     Early  September.     (LiegeL) 

M  EDITEBB  \N' 

Tree  vigorous,  productive.     Branches  smooth,  quite  reddish. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate-necked.  Suture  medium.  Skin  light  crimson 
Stalk  long,  slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  yellow,  BWeet,  sprightly;  sepa- 
rates from  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 

MEIGS. 

Fruit  large  roundish  oval.  Suture  indistinct.  Skin  dull  reddish 
purple,  with  numerous  b  Stalk  long, curved,  Blender,  set  in  a 

small  cavity.  Flesh  greennJi  y  sllow,  juicy,  rich,  sugary  and  excellent; 
adheres  to  the  stone.     G I.     Last  of  September. 

M  IN  Kit. 

Hinckley.  Gillett  Robinson, 

IsabeL  Townsend. 

This  is  an  improved  variety  of  the  wild  or  Chickasaw  Plum,  origi- 
nated with  Mr.  Miner,  Lane         .  Pa     Branches  smooth,  dark  red. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  point  d  at  apex,  skin  dark  purplish  red, 
with  a  tin-  bloom.  Flesh  soft,  juicy,  vinous ;  adhcrei  to  the  stone. 
Earl}  October. 


932  THE   PLUM. 

MlRABELLE. 

Mirabelle  Petite.  Mirabelle  de  Vienne.  Gelbe  MirabeUe. 

Mirabelle  Jaune.  White  Mirabelle.  Small  Mirabelle. 

Mirabelle  Blanche.  Mirabelle  Pr.coce.  Little  Mirabelle. 

Mirabelle  Perle.  Prune  de  Mirabelle.  Petit  Drap  d'Or. 

A  very  pretty  little  fruit,  exceedingly  orramental  on  the  tree 
the  branches  of  which  are  thickly  .sprinkled  with  its  abundant  crops. 
The  tree  is  small  in  all  its  parts,  and  although  the  fruit  has  a  tolerable 
flavor,  yet  from  its  size  and  high  perfume  it  is  chiefly  valued  for  pre 
serving.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  quite  small,  obovate,  with  a  well-marked  suture.  Stalk  half 
an  inch  long,  slightly  inserted.  Skin  of  a  beautiful  yellow,  a  little 
spotted  with  red  at  maturity,  and  covered  with  a  white  bloom.  Flesh 
orange,  sweet,  and  sprightly,  becoming  dry  when  over-ripe,  and  sepa- 
rates from  the  stone.     Good.     Middle  of  August. 

Mirabelle   de  Nancy. 

A  variety  resembling  the  foregoing,  except  in  its  maturing  later. 
Fruit   small,   nearly  round,  rich   yellow,  dotted  with    red.      Flesh 
juicy.      September.     (Hogg.) 

MlTCHELSON. 
Mitchelson's. 

Raised    by Mitchelson,    England.       Tree    hardy,    productive. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fi-uit  above  medium  size,  oval,  without  suture.  Skin  black,  dotted 
with  a  few  minute  fawn-colored  dots,  covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom. 
Stalk  stout.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  j  uicy,  sweet ;  separates  from  the 
stone.     Good.     Early  September.      (F.  and  F.) 

Monroe. 
Monroe  Egg. 

Raised  by  Miss  Dunham,  Penfield,  Monroe  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  very 
vigorous  and  productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oval.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  rarely  a 
blush.  Stalk  rather  long,  with  very  little  depression.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  not  very  tender,  sweet.     Good.     First  of  September. 

Morocco. 

Early  Morocco.  Black  Morocco. 

Early  Black  Morocco.  Early  Damask. 

A  good  early  Plum,  of  rather  slow  growth,  and  a  moderate  bearer. 
Branches  downy. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  with  a  shallow  suture  on  one  side, 
a  little  flattened  at  both  ends.  Skin  dark  purple,  covered  wi  th  a  pale 
thin  bloom.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  rather  stout.  Flesh  greenish 
jellow,  adhering  slightly  to  the  stone,  juicy,  with  a  smart,  rich  flavor, 
becoming  quite  sweet  at  maturity.  Good.  First  to  middle  of  Au 
gust. 


THE   PLUM.  933 

Moyret's  Gage. 
Reine  Claude  Moyret. 

A  new  French  Plum,  originated  by  M.  Moyret,  at  Neuville-sur-Ain. 
llee  vigorous.     Branches  slightly  down  v. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish.  Suture  half  round,  distinct,  not  deep 
Skin  light  reddish,  covered  with  an  amber-blue  bloom.  Stalk  rathei 
stout,  set  in  a  cavity  rather  deep.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  fine,  juicy 
sweet,  perfumed ;    separates  from  the  stone.     Early  August.      (Verg.) 

Mulberry. 

Raised  by  Isaac  Denniston,  of  Albany.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous 
grower. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  somewhat  narrowest  towards  the  stalk.  Skin 
pale  whitish  yellow,  sprinkled  with  white  dots,  and  dusted  with  a  pale 
bloom.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  very  slightly  inserted. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  good;  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone 
Good.     First  of  September. 

Muscle. 

This  variety  is  only  valuable  for  stocks  on  which  to  propagate  other 
sorts. 

Fruit  small,  oblong,  dark  red.     Stone  large. 

Musk  Damask. 

Prune  de  Malthe.  Damas  Musque. 

De  Chypre.  Prune  de  Chypre. 

Musque  de  Malta  ? 

Tree  vigorous,  upright.     Branches  smooth  or  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish.  Suture  distinct.  Skin  deep  purple 
or  bluish  black,  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellow  or 
greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  musky.  Good.  Adheres  slightly  to  the 
stone.     Last  of  August. 

Nectarine. 

Caledonian.  Peach  Plum,  erroneously. 

Howell's  Large.  Prune  Peche. 

Jenkins'  Imperial.  Louis  Philippe. 

Tree  vigorous,  upright,  stout,  blunt,  purplish  shoots,  nearly  smooth. 
A  fine-looking  fruit,  of  foreign  origin,  but  only  of  second  quality. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  regularly  formed,  roundish.  Stalk  about 
half  an  inch  long,  rather  stout,  and  set  in  a  wide  shallow  depression. 
Skin  purple,  dusted  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  dull  greenish  yellow,  be- 
coming tinged  with  red  at  maturity,  a  little  coarse-grained,  with  a  rich, 
brisk  flavor,  and  adhering  partially  to  the  stone.  Good.  Middle  of 
August. 

Nelson's  Victory. 
Knevett's  Late  Orleans. 

Tree  verv  vigorous,  an  abundant  bearer.     Branches  smooth. 
Fruit  medium-sized,  round,  marked  with  a  shallow  suture.     Skin 
ieep   purple,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.     Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  «*t 


9S4  THE    PLUM. 

in  a  shallow  cavity.     Flesh  firra,  rather  coarse,  sweet,  briskly  flavored 
adhering  to  the  stone.     Middle  September.     (Hogg.) 

Newman. 

A  variety  of  the  Chickasaw  family,  that  has  recently  come  into  no- 
tice through  D.  L.  Adair,  of  Kentucky.  Tree  healthy,  hardy,  vigorous, 
and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Skin  light  scarlet,  with  a  thin  bloom. 
Flesh  soft,  light  pinkish,  vinous,  juicy  ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Early 
August. 

NOKBERT. 
Prune  de  Lepine.  Prune  de  Prince. 

Branches  slightly  hairy. 

Fruit  very  small,  round,  inclining  to  oblate.  Skin  dark  purple, 
covered  with  a  thick,  clear,  light  blue  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
firm,  sweet,  not  juicy.     Separates  from  the  stone.     (Hogg.) 

Norman  Perdrigon. 
Perdrigon  Normand. 

A  French  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  round.  Skin  light  purple,  considerable  bloom, 
marked  with  fawn-colored  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  melting,  juicy,  sweet; 
adheres  to  the  stone.     Last  of  August.     (Pom.  Man.) 

North. 
North's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Professor  North,  Clinton,  N.  Y.  Tree  very  vigorous, 
very  productive.     Branches  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong  oval.  Skin  reddish  purple,  with  a 
thin  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  moderately  sweet,  perfumed.  Good 
to  very  good.     Early  September. 

NOUVELLE  L>E   DORELLE. 

Prune  Grosse  Quetsche  Nouvelle.  Dorelle's  Neue  Grosse  Zwetsche. 

Prune  Nouvelle  de  Dorrel.  Quetsche  de  Dorelle  Nouvelle  Grand. 

Dorelle's  New  Purple  Prune. 

A  German  variety.     Tree  moderately  vigorous.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  somewhat  pointed  at  the  stalk.  Suture  shallow,  dis- 
tinct, one  side  often  a  little  enlarged.  Skin  violet  purple,  covered  with  a 
thin  blue  bloom,  and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled  with  whitish  brown  dots. 
Stalk  rather  long  and  stout,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  yellow, 
juicy,  sugary,  vinous ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good 
Last  of  August. 

Oberley. 

Oberley's  Greenwood. 

Originated  in  Northampton   Co.,    Pa.,  on  the  farm  of  Ober 

ley.     Tree  a  thrifty,  upright  grower,  very  productive.     Brauohes  solooJl, 
greenish. 


THE    PLUM.  93C 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish.  Suture  shallow.  Apex  a  little  sunk. 
Skin  amber,  nearly  covered  with  rosy  red,  thin  light  bloom.  Stalk  me- 
dium, slender,  set  in  a  moderate  cavity  by  a  ring.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy, 
vinous,  rather  sweet ;    adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

October  Green  Gage. 
Late  Green  Gage.         Reine  Claude  Tardive.  Reine  Claude  d'Octobre. 

Tree  very  vigorous.     Young  wood  smooth,  stout,  and  short-jointed. 

Fruit  small,  roundish.  Suture  moderate.  Apex  dimpled.  Skin 
greenish  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin  white  bloom,  mottled  with  crimson 
in  sun.  Stalk  stout,  rather  long.  Flesh  green,  juicy,  sugary,  and  rich  ; 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good  to  very  good.     First  of  October. 

Orange. 
Orange  Gage.  Wager. 

Origin,  Rhinebeck,  Dutchess  Co.,  N".  Y.  Tree  a  vigorous  growei, 
productive.      Brandies  stout  and  smooth. 

Fruit  very  large,  oval,  flattened  at  both  ends.  Skin  bronze  yellow, 
marked  with  roughish  white  dots  and  clouded  with  purplish  red  near 
the  stalk.  The  latter  is  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  rather  rough,  in- 
serted in  a  narrow  round  cavity.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  a  little  coarse- 
grained, moderately  juicy,  sugar  and  acid  combined.  It  adheres  a  Little 
to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Orleans. 

Monsieur.  Anglaise  Noir.  Prune  de  Monsieur. 

Monsieur  Ordinaire.  English  Orleans.  Common  Orleans. 

Old  Orleans.  Prune  d'Orleans.  Red  Orleans. 

Red  Damask.  Late  Monsieur. 

A  popular  English  market  Plum,  being  hardy  and  uniformly  produc- 
tive.    Tree  vigorous.     Branches  gray,  and  very  downy. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  i-ound,  a  little  enlarged  on  one  side  of  the  distinct 
suture.  Skin  dark  red,  becoming  purple  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish, 
sweet,  mixed  with  acid,  and  separates  freely  from  the  stone.  Good. 
Middle  of  August. 

Oullin's  Golden. 

Reine  Claude  d'Oullins.  Oullin's  Golden  Gage. 

Reine  Claude  Precoce.  Monstrueuse  d'Oullins. 

Ouillin's  Gage. 

This  is  a  German  Plum,  huge  and  showy.  Tree  very  vigorous  and 
productive,  with  smooth  branches,  stout,  short  jointed. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong.  Suture  very  shallow.  Skin  rich  yel- 
low, flecked  and  shaded  with  green,  small  crimson  dots  in  sun,  and  cov- 
ered with  a  thin  white  bloom.  Stalk  inserted  in  a  broad,  moderately 
deep  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  very  tender,  juicy,  sugary  ;  adhering  slightly 
to  the  stone.     Very  good.      Middle  of  August.     (Hogg.) 


936  THE   PLUM. 

Parsonage. 

Origin,  lihinebeck,  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y.  Tree  very  vigorous,  ap 
right,  productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oval.  Skin  pale  yellow,  lightly  splashed  -w  ith 
green.  Stalk  of  medium  length,  inserted  in  a  small  depression.  Flesh 
yellow,  juicy,  with  a  rich  sugary  flavor.  It  separates  freely  from  the 
scone.     Good.     First  of  September. 

Peach  Plum. 
Prune  Peche.  Large  Peach.  Reine  Claude  Berger  ? 

Tree  upright,  vigorous,  only  a  moderate  bearer.  Tree  rather  tender 
at  the  North.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  very  large,  shaped  more  like  a  peach  than  a  plum,  roundish, 
much  flattened  at  both  ends.  Suture  shallow,  but  strongly  marked. 
Apex  much  depressed.  Skin  light  browuish  red,  sprinkled  with  obscure 
dark  specks,  and  covered  with  a  pale  bloom.  Stalk  short,  rather  stout, 
set  in  a  shallow  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little  coarse-grained, 
but  juicy,  and  of  pleasant  sprightly  flavor  'when  fully  ripe;  separates 
freely  from  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  July. 

Penobscot. 

Raised  by  James  McLaughlin,  Bangor,  Me.  Tree  vigorous,  hardy, 
productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  lai-ge,  oval.  Suture  distinct.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
long,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  yellow,  tinged  with  green  and  a  fain^ 
red  cheek.  Flesh  yellow,  sweet,  and  pleasant ;  adheres  to  the  stone 
Good.     First  of  September. 

Peoly's  Early  Blue. 

This  if  a  native  fruit,  of  medium  quality.     Branches  very  downy. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish.  Suture  scarcely  visible.  Skin  very 
dark  blue,  covered  with  light  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  of  pleasant 
flavor,  adhering  partially  to  the  stone.     Good.     Early  August. 

Perdrigon  Violet  Hatif. 

Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  productive.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish,  slightly  oval.  Suture  half  round, 
shallow.  Apex  a  little  sunk.  Skin  violet  or  reddish  purple,  sprinkled 
with  brownish  dots  and  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  short,  stout. 
Oavity  small.  Flesh  yellowish,  moderately  juicy,  with  a  sugary  pleasant 
flavor ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good  or  very  good.  Middle  A  a- 
gust. 

Pershore. 

An  English  variety.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  golden 
tinge.  Flesh  tender,  with  a  fine  subacid  flavor  ;  adhering  to  the  stone 
Last  of  August.      (Hogg.) 


THE    PLUM. 


937 


Peter's  Yellow  Gage. 

Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  short  branches,  which  are  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular,  a  little  depressed  at  base.  Sutura 
broad,  shallow.  Apex  broad,  shallow,  sunken.  Skin  pale  yellow,  some- 
times with  crimson  dots  hi  the  sun  and  a  thin  light  bloom.  "  Stalk  rather 
short  and  stout,  set  in  a  large  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  .sugary; 
adheres  slightly  to  the  stone.     Good  to  very  good.      Middle  August 

Pond's  Seedling. 
Pond's  Purple. 
American  origin.     Tree  very  vigorous.     Branches  downy. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish.     Skin  purple.    Flesh  yellowish,  rather 
dry,  separates  from  the  stone,  sweet,  mingled  with  acid.     Good.     Early 
in  August. 


Plum  de  llnde. 


Pond's  Seedling. 
FonthilL 


Pond's  Purple. 

English  origin.     Tree   very  vigorous  and   productive;  a  beautiful 
fruit.      Branches  smooth,  grayish. 

Fruit  very  large,  oval,  taper- 
ing a  little  towards  the  stalk,  some- 
times with  a  mamelon  neck.  Skin 
yellowish,  nearly  covered  with 
bright  red  or  carmine,  haA'ing  a 
thin  whitish  bloom,  and  sprinkled 
^with  brownish  dots.  Flesh  yel- 
low, a  little  coarse,  juicy,  and 
sugary,  but  not  rich.  Good. 
Middle  of  September. 

Precoce  de  Tours. 

Early  Violet. 
Violette  Hative. 
Early  Tours. 
Perdrigon  Violet. 
Blue  Perdrigon. 
Violet  de  Tours. 
Noire  Hitive. 
Prune  de  la  Madelaine. 
Damas  de  Tours. 
Prunt-  de  Gaillon. 

Of  foreign  origin.  Tree  vigo 
rous,  with  long,  slender  branches, 
moderately  productive.  Branches 
downy. 

Fruit  rather  more  than  an  inch  in 
diameter,  oval,  with  a  shallow  su- 
tuie.  Skin  deep  purple,  covered  with  a  thick  azure  bloom.  Stalk 
half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  at  hist  greenish,  but 
becoming  dull  yellow  at  matuiity  ;  a  little  fibrous,  but  juicy,  sweet,  melt- 
ing, and  slightly  perfumed;  it  adheres  considerably  to  the  stone-.  Good. 
First  of  August. 


Pond's  SeetJing  (English.) 


938 


THE   PLUM. 

Precoce  de  Bergthold. 


Tree  moderately  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular.  Suture  shallow,  but  distmct  point  at 
apex.  Skin  pale  yellow,  sometimes  with  marblings  of  green,  and  cov- 
ered with  a  thin  white  bloom.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Cavity  shallow. 
Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  sugary  ;  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone.  Good.  Early 
August. 


Prince  Englebert. 

From  Belgium.     This  is  a  promising  variety  for  market  growing,  as 

the  tree  is  a  great  bearer,  and  the 
fruit  valuable  for  dessert  and  cooking. 
Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  oval.  Suture 
very  slight,  one  side  a  little  enlarged. 
Skin  very  deep  purple,  sprinkled 
with  brown  dots,  and  covered  with  a 
deep  blue  bloom.  Stalk  rather  stout, 
set  in  a  deep  cavity.  Flesh  yellowish 
green,  j  uicy,  sugary  ;  separates  from 
the  stone.  Very  good.  Last  of  Au 
gust. 

Prince  of  Wales. 

Chapman's  Prince  of  Wales. 
Prince  Albert  ? 

English  origin.     Tree  very  vigo- 
rous,   very    productive.       Branches 
smooth  or  slighthr  downy. 
Prince  Engelbert.  Fruit  large,  globular,  inclining  to 

oblong,  with  a  moderate  suture  on 
one  side.  Skin  reddish  purple,  with  brownish  yellow  dots,  and  a  thick 
bloom.  Stalk  short  and  stout,  set  in  a  moderate  cavity.  Flesh  a  little 
coarse,  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  and  sprightly,  not  rich,  partially 
adhering  to  the  stone.     Good.     First  of  September. 


Prince's  Orange  Egg. 

Raised  by  William  Prince,  Flushing,  Long  Island,  N.  Y.  Tree  very 
vigorous  and  productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oval.  Skin  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin  bloom. 
Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  rather  stout,  set  in  a  small  cavity, 
Flesh  golden  yellow,  coarse,  j  uicy,  sprightly,  subacid,  not  rich ;  ad 
teres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Middle  of  September. 


Prince's  Orange  Gage. 
Fruit    modium,   roundish    oval.     Suture    moderate      Skin   yellow. 


THE    PLUM. 


939 


Stalk  long,  set  in  an  open  cavity.  Flesh  -ight  yellow,  coarse,  juicy, 
pleasant,  but  not  rich ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good.  First  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Prince's   Primorpian. 
Prince's  Bl  ae  Primordian. 

Originated  with  William  Prince,  of  Flushing,  L.  I.  Branches  slen- 
der, grayish. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  blue.  Flesh  pleasant ;  its  principal  value  is  its 
earlv  maturity.      (Pom.  Man.) 


Prince's  Yellow  Gage. 


American  Yellow  Gage  of  some. 


White  Gage  of  some. 


The  Yellow  Gage  was  raised  so  long  ago  as  the  year  1783,  by  the 
elder  Mr.  Prince,  of  Flushing,  L.  I.  Its 
great  hardiness  and  productiveness,  joined 
to  its  rich,  sugary  flavor,  make  it  a  favor- 
ite sort.  Branches  smooth,  short-jointed, 
and  the  tree  forming  a  large  spreading 
head. 

Fruit  a  little  above  medium  size,  oval, 
rather  broadest  towards  the  stalk.  Su- 
ture a  mere  line.  Skin  golden  yellow,  a 
little  clouded,  and  covered  with  a  copious 
white  bloom.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted 
in  a  small  round  cavity.  Flesh  deep  yel- 
low, rich,  sugary,  and  melting,  though 
sometimes  rather  dry ;  parts  freely  from 
the  stone.  Very  good.  Early  in  Au- 
gust. 

Provence  Damask. 


Damas  de  Provence. 
Early  Damask  of  Provence. 
Damas  de  Provence  Hutif. 


Prince's  Yellow  Gage. 


Tree  vigorous,  branches  downy. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish.  Suture  deep.  Skin  reddish  pur- 
ple, covered  with  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish  green  ;  sejmrates  from 
the  stone.      Good  foi  cooking.     Last  of  July. 


D'Agen. 

Prune  d'Ast. 


Prune  t>'Agen. 

Robe  de  Sergent. 
Agen  Datte. 

Prune  du  Roi. 


St.  Manrin. 

Prune  de  Brignole  of  some. 


A.  foreign  variety  of  excellent  quality.     Tree  of  moderate  growth, 
Branches  smooth.     Very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oval,  slightly  necked.     Suture  small.     Skin  vio 


940 


THE    PLUM. 


let  purple,. covered  with  a  thick  bloom  and  numerous  small  Jots.  Stalk 
nearly  an  inch  long,  a  little  curved,  set  in  a  small  depression.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  rich,  and  delicious,  slightly  adherent  tc 
the  stone.     Best.     Middle  and  last  of  September. 


Prone  d'Agen. 


Purple  Favorite. 


Purple  Favorite. 


This  delicious  fruit  received  its  name  from  us  some  years  ago.  The 
tree  from  which  the  stock  now  in  this  country  was  derived,  stood  for 
many  years  (until  it  died  of  old  age)  in  the  centre  of  the  principal  gar- 
den here,  and  was  planted  by  the  father  of  the  author.  Its  origin  we 
were  never  able  to  learn,  and  we  have  not  been  able  during  all  our 
pomological  researches  and  comparisons  to  identify  it  with  any  other 
^ort. 

The  Purple  Favorite,  when  in  perfection,  is  not  surpassed  by  any 
other  Plum  in  luscious  flavor.  It  is  more  juicy  and  melting  than  the 
Purple  Gage,  and  has  some  affinity  to  the  Diapree  Rouge,  or  Mimms. 
[t  should  have  a  place  in  every  garden,  as  it  bears  well,  and  is  very 
Lardy.  In  the  nursery  it  has  the  dwarfish  habit  of  the  Green  Gage, 
but  more  slender  shoots.     Branches  nearly  smooth,  short-jointed. 

Fruit  medium  size,  often  large,  roundish  obovate.  Suture  none. 
Skin  light  brown  in  the  shade,  brownish  purple  in  the  sun,  dotted  with 
numerous  golden  specks,  and  dusted  with  thin,  light  blue  bloom.  Stalk 
three-fourths  to  one  inch  long,  set  in  a  very  slight  depression.  Flesh 
pale  greenish,  very  juicy,  tender,  melting,  with  a  luscious  sweetness. 
Parts  freely  from  the  stone,  which  is  very  small  and  roundish.  Best. 
Begins  to  ripen  about  the  20th  of  August,  and  will  hang  for  a  fortnight 
ou  the  tree. 


Purple  Gage. 


Reine  Claude  Violette. 

Die  Violette  Koiiigin  Claudie. 


Violette  Queen  Claude. 
Violet  Gage. 


The  Purple  Gage  holds  the  first  place  for  high  flavor  among  purple 


THE    PLUM. 


941 


plums  abroad.     Although  it  is  well  known  in  France  Tinder  the  title  of 
•.he    Heine   Claude   Violette,  as  in   England   under  that  of  the  Purpie 
*age,   yet  its  native   country  is  not  precisely  determined.     Tree  mod- 
erately vigorous.      Branches  smooth,  much  like  those  of  the  Green  Gage 
Fruit  medium  sized,  shaped  like  the  Green  Gage,  roundish,  a  litth 
lattened.     Suture  shallow,   but   distinct.      Stalk   an  inch   long,    rather 
hick,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.      Skin   a  little    thick,  violet,  dotted  with 
pale  yellow,  and  covered  with  light  blue  bloom.      Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
rather  firm,  rich,  sugary,  and  very  high-flavored ;  separates  from  the  stone, 
which  is  oval  and  compressed.     Ripens  rather  late,  and  will  hang  on  the 
tree — shrivelling  a  little,  but  not  cracking — all  the  month  of  Septembei . 
Very  good. 

.    BOSS. 

Introduced  by  Mr.  Quackenboss,  of  Greenbush,  K  Y.  Origin  in 
the  garden  of  S.  0.  Groot,  Albany.  A  very  rapid  upright  grower,  and 
productive.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  roundish.  Skin  deep  purple,  covered  with  a  bit - 
ish  bloom.  Suture  scarcely  apparent.  Stalk  long,  slender,  and  set  in  a 
slight  depressed  cavity.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  sprightly,  juicy,  a  little 
coarse-grained,  sweet,  and  subacid  ■  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone.  Good. 
September. 


Red  Queen  Mother. 


Queen  Mother. 
Pigeon's  Heart. 


Damas  Violet. 


A  neat  little  reddish  Plum,  long  known  in  European  gardens. 
Branches  smooth,  rather  feeble  in  growth. 

Fruit  rather  small,  round,  about  an  inch  in  diameter.  Skin  dark, 
purplish  red  in  the  sun,  pale  reddish  amber  in  the  shade,  with  many  red- 
dish dots.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Flesh  yellow,  sweet  and  rich,  sepa- 
rating freely  from  the  stone.     Good.     September. 


Reagle's  Ancient  City. 

Originated  at  Schenectady,  N. 
Y.,  by  C.  Beagles.  Tree  very 
vigorous.      Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval. 
Skin  clouded,  orange,  red  in  the 
sun.  Suture  distinct.  Flesh  yellow, 
juicy,  sweet ;  separates  from  the 
stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

Reagle's  Gage 

Another  of  the  seedlings  raised 
by  C.  Reagles,  Schenectady,  N.  Y., 
from  seed  of  the  Washington.  Tree 
vigorous,  upright.    Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  me-dium,  nearly  globular, 
feuture  broad  and  shallow.      Apex 


Beagle  e  Gagfc. 


942  THE   PLUM. 

Bunkea.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  splashes  of  darker  green,  and  covered 
with  a  bloom.  Stalk  medium  in  length  and  thickness.  Cavity  large. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  .sweet,  slightly  vinous;  separates  from  the 
stone.    Very  good.     Last  of  August. 

Reagle's  Union  Purple. 

Same  origin  as  the  preceding.     Tree  vigorous,  blanches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Skin  reddish  purple,  covered  with  a  thin 
bloom,  suture  only  perceptible  near  the  stalk  and  apex.  Stalk  short, 
stout.  Flesh  greenish,  a  little  coarse,  vinous,  sweet;  adheres  to  the 
stone.     Good.     September. 

Red  Apricot. 

Abricotee  Rouge. 

A  French  variety.     Tree  moderately   vigorous.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish  oval.  Skin  of  a  fine  clear  red  in  the 
shade,  violet  in  the  sun.  Flesh  orange  color,  sweet,  but  rather  dry,  and 
without  much  flavor  ;  separates  freely  from  the  stone.  Good.  Last  of 
August. 

Red  Diaper. 

Diapree  Rouge.  Mimras. 

Roche  Carbon.  Imperial  Diadem. 

The  Diapree  Rouge,  or  Red  Diaper,  is  a  very  large  and  handsome 
French  Plum.     A  rather  slow  grower.     Branches  almost  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  obovate.  Skin  of  a  reddish  purple,  with  a  few  golden 
specks,  and  a  light  blue  bloom,  easily  rubbed  off".  Stalk  three-fourths 
of  an  inch  long,  slender,  hairy,  slightly  inserted.  Flesh  pale  green,  juicy, 
very  melting,  rich,  and  delicious,  separating  from  the  stone,  which  is 
quite  small.     Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  August. 

Red  Gage. 

An  American  Plum,  of  delicious  flavor,  very  hardy,  and  a  prodigious 
bearer.  It  is  a  seedling  raised  from  the  Green  Gage  by  the  elder  Wm. 
Prince,  of  the  Flushing  Nurseries,  in  1790. 
It  grows  very  vigorously,  and  is  distin- 
guished, when  young,  by  its  deep  green 
crimped  foliage.  Branches  dark  reddish, 
smooth. 

Fruit  about  as  large  as  the  Green  Gage, 
but  more  oval,  regularly  formed.  Skin 
brownish  or  brick  red,  with  little  bloom. 
Stalk  rather  slender,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Flesh  greenish  amber,  very  juicy,  melting, 
sugary,  and  luscious.  It  parts  freely  from 
the  stone,  which  is  small.  Best.  Middle  of 
August. 

Red  Gage  of  Dutchess  County. 

Ked  Gas«-  A  seedling  of  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y.    Tree 

vigorous,  uuright,  productive.     Branches  slightly  downy. 


THE    PLUM.  943 

Fruit  medivun,  roundish  oval,  a  little  compressed.  Suture  largt, 
often  extending  two-thirds  around  the  fruit.  Skin  yellowish,  nearly 
covered  with  a  light  reddish  purple,  and  with  a  thin  lilac  bloom,  thickly 
sprinklel  with  brown  dots.  Stalk  short,  stout.  Cavity  large.  Flesh 
yellow,  juicy,  slightly  vinous  ;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good.  Last  of 
Viigust. 

Red  Magnum  Bonum. 

Purple  Egg.  Imperial  Violet.  Prune  d'CEuf. 

Red  Imperial  Imperiale  Violette.         Red  Egg. 

Imperial.  Imp  riale  Rouge.  Askew's  Purple  Egg. 

Purple  Magnum  Bonum.  Dame  Aubert  Violette.  Die  Rothe  Eiperflaume. 

Florence.  Imp  riale.  Shepler  ? 

A  foreign  variety  of  moderate  growth,  slender  smooth  shoots,  dis 
tinct  from  the  American  variety,  which  is  a  vigorous  grower,  with 
downy  shoots. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  with  a  strong  suture,  on  one  side  of  which  the 
fruit  is  more  swollen.  Skin  rather  pale  in  the  shade,  but  deep  red  in 
the  sun,  sprinkled  with  many  gray  dots,  and  dusted  with  but  little  pale 
bloom.  Stalk  an  inch  or  more  long,  slender,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Flesh  greenish,  rather  firm  and  coarse,  with  a  subacid  flavor,  separating 
from  the  stone,  which  is  oval  and  pointed.     Good.     First  of  September. 

RED  Perdrigon. 
Perdrigon  Rouge. 

Foreign.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish.  Sides  often  unequal.  Skin  fine  deep 
red,  much  lilac  bloom.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little 
coarse,  moderately  juicy  and  sweet,  and  parts  from  the  stone.  Good- 
Last  of  August  to  the  middle  of  September. 

Red  Primordian. 

Originated  with  William  Prince,  Flushing,  L.  I.  Tree  vigorous, 
upright,  with  long,  smooth,  brownish  gray  branches. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  oval,  somewhat  pointed,  slightly  necked. 
Skin  light  lilac  or  chocolate,  and  covered  with  a  thin,  light  lilac  bloom. 
Stalk  rather  long,  slender,  set  in  a  small  ring.  Flesh  yellowish,  moder- 
ately juicy,  with  a  slight  acid  flavor ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good. 
Early  August. 

Reine  Yictoria. 

This  is  a  French  variety,  and  quite  distinct  from  the  Victoria. 
Branches  downy.  It  is  of  short  oval  shape,  much  like  Kirke's,  but  not 
quite  so  round.  Skin  dark  reddish  purple.  Flesh  very  juicy,  rich,  and 
agreeable,  and  separating  from  the  stone.  It  is  from  two  to  three  weeks 
later  than  Kirke's.  (Hogg.)  We  think  this  may  yet  prove  to  be  Sharp's 
Emperor 

Reizenstein's  Yellow  Prune. 

An  Italian  fruit.  Tree  very  vigorous  and  productive.  Branches 
smooth. 


94:4  THE   PLUM. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oval,  narrowing  at  both  ends,  often  enlarged  on 
one  side  and  swollen  on  one  edge.  Small  mamelon  neck.  Suture 
large,  extending  beyond  the  apex.  Skin  fine  yellow,  often  much  shaded 
and  marbled  with  rich  crimson,  and  covered  with  a  thin  lilac  Moom 
Stalk  long,  rather  slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  golden  yellow,  juicy, 
sweet;  adheres  closely  to  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good.  Last  Sep- 
tember. 

Rhixebeck  Yellow  Gage. 

Origin,  Rhinebeck,  N.  Y.  Tree  very  strong  and  vigorous.  Branches 
smooth. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Suture  deep.  Skin  yellow.  Stalk  rather  long, 
inserted  by  a  fleshy  ring  without  depression.  Flesh  coarse,  juicy,  sweet, 
and  pleasant;  adheres  to  the  stone.      Good.     First  of  September. 

Rhue. 

Rhue's  Seedling. 

Origin,  Pennsylvania.  Tree  vigorous,  productive.  Branches  slightly 
downy. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Suture  shallow,  broad,  half  round.  Apex  slightly 
sunk.  Skin  reddish  purple,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  rather 
short,  stout.  Cavity  deep.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  rather  coarse,  juicy, 
sweet,  vinous;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.  Good.  Middle  Au- 
gust. 

Richland. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Randall  Elden,  Richland,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa. 
Tree  upright,  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  long,  slend«r. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oval,  a  little  pointed  at  apex.  Skin  reddish  pur- 
ple, covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Stalk  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sugary  ;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.  Good. 
Last  of  August. 

Roby's  Yellow. 

A  seedling  raised  by  H.  R.  Roby,  Fredericksburgh,  Va.  Tree  mode- 
rately vigorous.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish.  Suture  broad,  shallow.  Sides  unequal. 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  a  copious  light  bloom,  and  a  few  red 
dots  in  the  sun.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
juicy,  sweet ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

ROLLANDE    GALLOPPI. 

Tree  very  vigorous,  upright.    Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  elongated  oval,  with  a  large  neck.  Suture  large,  half 
round.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  dotted  and  marbled  with  crimson  in 
the  sun,  and  covered  with  a  thin  light  bloom.  Stalk  slender.  Cavity 
small.  Flesh  yellowish  green,  juicy,  sweet ;  adherea  to  the  stone.  Good. 
Last  of  September. 


THE    PLUM.  941 

Ronald's  Fancy. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oval.  Suture  half  round.  Skin  yellow, 
Btriped,  marbled,  and  splashed  with  green,  and  covered  wi  fch  a  thin  light 
bloom.  Stalk  half  inch  long.  Cavity  moderate.  Flesh  greenish  yel- 
low, juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  sprightly ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good. 
Early  October. 

Rostrave  Bell. 

Originated  with  John  D.  Stephens,  Westmoreland  Co.,  Pa.  Tree 
very  vigorous  and  productive.    Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  broad,  shallow,  two-thirds  round, 
one  side  enlarged.  Skin  reddish  purple,  many  brown  dots,  and  covered 
with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  large,  rather  deep.  Flesh 
yellowish,  coarse,  not  very  juicy,  vinous  ;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone. 
Good.     Early  September. 

Royale. 

La  Royale.  Royal  Red.  French  Royal. 

Royal.  Sir  Charles  Worsley's.  Prune  Royale. 

The  Royale,  a  French  variety,  is  remarkable  for  the  exceedingly 
thick  coat  of  bloom  which  covers  the  skin.  The  tree  is  a  slow  grower, 
forms  a  bushy,  spreading  head,  and  its  very  downy  shoots  have  a  gray 
or  whitish  appearance.  It  bears  regularly,  but  moderately,  and  though 
not  fit  for  the  orchard,  it  is  a  first-rate  garden  fruit. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  often  quite  large,  round,  lessening  a  little  to- 
wards the  stalk.  Suture  distinct  at  the  apex  on  one  side  only.  Skin 
reddish  purple,  dotted  with  light  brown  specks,  and  covered  with  a  thick 
pale  bloom,  which  adheres  closely.  Stalk  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long, 
downy,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  dull  yellow,  rather  firm,  but 
melting,  very  juicy,  with  an  exceedingly  rich,  vinous  flavor  ;  it  sepa- 
rates from  the  stone,  which  is  small,  roundish,  pointed  at  both  ends. 
Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  August,  till  the  middle  of  September. 

Royale  de  Tours. 
Royal  Tours. 

A  French  variety,  received  from  several  sources,  but  they  do  not 
agree,  neither  do  the  authorities;  some  say  a  freestone,  and  others  a 
cling.     Branches  always  quite  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  but  marked  with  a  large  and  deep  suture  ex- 
tending quite  half  round,  and  enlarged  on  one  side.  At  the  apex  is  a 
small,  white,  depressed  point.  Skin  lively  red  in  the  shade,  deep  violet 
in  the  sun,  with  many  minute  golden  dots,  and  coated  with  a  thick  blue 
bloom.  Stalk  half  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  stout,  set  in  a  nar- 
row cavity.  Flesh  greenish,  rather  firm,  with  a  rich,  high-flavored, 
abundant  juice.     Good  to  very  good.     Middle  August. 

Royale  Hative. 

Early  Royal.  Marian. 

An  early  Plum,  of  French  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  with  stout  short 
branches.     Branches  very  downy. 

60 


946 


THE    PLUM. 


Fruic  of  medium  size,  roundish,  a  little  wider  towards  the  stalk 
8kin  light  purple,  dotted  (and  faintly  streaked)  with  brownish  yellow, 
and  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  stout,  in" 
serted  with  little  or  no  depression.  Flesh  yellow  amber,  with  rich,  high 
flavor,  and  parts  from  the  stone  (adhering  slightly  till  ripe).  Very 
good.     Early  August. 


Royale  Hative. 


Saint  Catherine. 


Saint  Catherine. 

Among  the  fine  old  varieties  of  late  Plums  the  St.  Catherine  is  one  of 
the  most  celebrated.  In  France  it  is  raised  in  large  quantities,  in  some 
districts  making  the  most  delicate  kind  of  prunes.  It  is  also  much 
esteemed  for  preserving,  and  is  of  excellent  quality  for  the  dessert. 
Branches  smooth,  upright,  rather  slender. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  narrowing  considerably  towards  the 
stalk,  and  having  a  strongly  marked  suture  on  one  side.  Stalk  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  or  more  long,  very  slender,  inserted  in  a  slight  cavity. 
Skin  very  pale  yellow,  overspread  with  thin  white  bloom,  and  occasion- 
ally becoming  a  little  reddish  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy, 
rather  firm,  and  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.  In  flavor  it  is  sprightly, 
rich,  and  perfumed.     Very  good.     Middle  to  last  of  September. 

Saint  Etienne. 

Tree  of  moderate  growth.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  heart-shaped.  Suture  shallow,  half  round. 
Skin  yellow,  shaded,  marbled,  and  dotted  with  rich  dark  crimson. 
Stalk  short,  rather  slender.  Cavity  small.  Flesh  fine  yellow,  juicy, 
Bweet,  and  rich  ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good.  Last 
of  August. 

Saint  Julien. 
Common  St.  Julien.  Petit  St.  Julien. 

French  St.  Julien.  St.  Julien  petit. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  dark  violet,  covered  with  bloom.  Flesh  greenish, 
■lightly  acid ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Last  of  August.     (Pom.  Man.) 


THE    PLUM. 

Saint   Martin's  Quetsche. 


947 


A  very  late  variety  of  Prune  from  Germany.  Hardy  and  a  good 
bearer.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  ovate,  or  considerably  broadest  towards  the 
stalk.  Suture  broad,  shallow.  Skin  pale  yellow,  covered  with  a  white 
bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  with  a  rich  and  excellent  flavor,  and  separates, 
readily  from  the  stone.     Good.     First  of  October,  and  will  hang  a  month. 


Schenectady  Catherine. 

Origin,  Schenectady,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  very  productive. 
Brancbes  smooth,  grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.    Suture  shallow  on  one  side.     Skin  red- 
dish purple,  covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.      Stalk  of  medium  length, 
slender,    set    in    a    small    cavity.        Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  very  juicy,    sugary,  and 
rich ;    separatee     freely    from    the    stone. 
Very  good.     First  of  September. 

Schuyler  Gage. 

Originated  with  Gen.  Schuyler,  Alba- 
ny, N.  Y.,  from  a  seed  of  the  Green  Gage. 
Tree  upright,  very  vigorous  and  produc- 
tive.    Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Suture  moderate. 
Skin  yellow,  with  small  green  splashes, 
dotted  and  washed  with  carmine  on  the 
simny  side,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom. 
Stalk  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  small  ca- 
vity. Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  and 
excellent ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Very  good 

Semiana  of  Boston. 
Blue  Imperatrice  of  some. 

This  is  quite  distinct  from  the  Semiana  of  Europe.  It  is  probably  a 
native  fruit.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  slender  shoots  nearly 
smooth,  very  productive,  late,  keeps  well — a  good  market  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  with  a  slight  rise  or  neck  next  tbe  stalk.  Skin 
deep  purple,  cohered  with  blue  bloom.  Stalk  short.  Cavity  very  small. 
Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  subacid,  not  rich;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good. 
1  ast  of  September  and  first  of  October. 

September  Damask. 
Damas  de  Septembre.  Prune  de  Vacance.  Prunier  des  Vacancea. 

Branches  downy. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  oval.  Suture  distinct.  Skin  dark  purple, 
covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  sweet;  sep*. 
rates  from  stone.     Poor.     Last  of  September. 


Schenectady  Catherine. 

Last  of  September. 


948  THE   PLUM. 

Sharp's  Emperor. 

Dolphin.  Denyer's  Victoria.  "Victoria. 

Dauphin.  Alderton.  Royal  Dauphine. 

Imperial  de  Sharp. 

A  beautiful  Plum,  brought  into  notice  by  Denyer,  of  Sussex,  England 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive.    Branches  strong,  downy,  and  foliage  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Suture  shallow,  but  distinct.  Skin 
light  yellow,  marbled,  spotted,  and  shaded  with  light  lilac  and  purple, 
thickly  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots,  and  covered  with  a  thin  lilac 
bloom.  Stalk  medium  length,  rather  stout,  set  in  a  rather  deep  cavity. 
Flesh  golden  yellow,'  coarse,  not  very  juicy  or  sugary,  a  little  vinous  ; 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Middle  September. 

Sheldon. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Wareham  Sheldon,  Huron,  Wayne  Co., 
N.  Y.  Tree  a  rapid  grower,  and  very  productive.  Branches  smooth, 
stout. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  deep  purple,  thick  blue 
bloom.  Stalk  short,  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  slightly 
acid  ;  separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     September. 

Siamese. 

Branches  long,  slender,  and  smooth. 

Fruit  mostly  in  pairs,  distinct,  but  closely  joined  on  one  side,  medium- 
sized  obovate.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  white  bloom.  Flesh  yellow, 
juicy,  and  sprightly,  of  second-rate  flavor,  and  adheres  to  the  stone. 
Good.     Early  September. 

Smith's  Orleans. 

Violet  Perdrigon,  incorrectly.  Red  Magnum  Bonum  of  some. 

Smith's  Orleans,  the  largest  and  finest  of  this  class  of  Plums,  is  a 
native  variety  raised  from  the  old  Orleaus  by  Mr.  Smith,  of  Gowanus, 

Long  Island.  It  is  one  of  the  most 
vigorous  of  all  plum-trees,  making 
straight,  glossy,  reddish  purple  shoots, 
with  dark  green  crimped  leaves.  Very 
productive.  Bearing  branches  smooth, 
or  nearly  so. 

Fruit  large,  often  of  the  largest 
size,  oval,  rather  widest  towards  the 
stalk,  a  little  irregular,  with  a  strongly 
marked  sutui'e  on  one  side.  Stalk 
quite  small  and  slender,  little  more 
than  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  ;t 
deep  narrow  cavity.  Skin  reddish 
purple,  covered  with  a  deep  blue 
bloom.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  a  little 
firm,  very  juicy,  with  a  brisk,  rich 
vinous  flavor  (not  sweet  and  cloying), 
and  adheres  to  the  stone.  Good  to 
very  good.     20(h  to  the  last  of  An 

Smith's  Orleans.  gust. 


THE    PLUM.  919 

Spanish  Damask. 

Damas  d'Espagne. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  round.  Skin  deep  purple,  covered  with  bloom. 
Flesh  yellowish,  not  rich,  mild,  sweet ;  separates  from  the  Btone.  Last 
of  August.     (Pom.  Man.) 

Spotted  Gage. 

Tree  vigorous,  very  productive.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Skin  greenish  yel- 
low, shaded,  mottled,  and  patched  with  crimson  and  lilac,  numerous 
light  dots,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Flesh  coarse,  yellow,  sugary, 
juicy,  a  little  vinous ;  adheres  partially  to  the  stone.  Good.  Early  Sep- 
tember. 

Standard  of  England. 

Said  to  have  been  raised  by  Mr.  Dowling,  of  Southampton,  England. 
Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth  or  slightly  downy. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate,  slight  character  of  neck.  Suture  shallow. 
Skin  purplish  lilac,  many  dots,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Stalk 
inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  moderately  sweet ; 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 

Stoneless. 
Kirke's  Stoneless.  Sans  Noyau.  Pitless. 

Branches  downy.     Of  no  value  except  as  a  curiosity. 

Fruit  small,  oval.  Skin  dark  purple,  covered  with  blue  bloom. 
Flesh  greenish,  harsh  acid.  Kernel  without  any  stone  surrounding. 
Early  September. 

Suisse. 

Simiana.  Swiss  Plum. 

Monsieivr  Tardif.  Monsieur  Tardive. 

Prune  d'Altesse.  Switzer's  Plum 
Prune  Suisse. 

A  foreign  variety,  of  free  growth,  with  long,  slender,  smooth  branches, 
distinct  from  Semiana  of  Boston. 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish  oval.  Skin  violet  red,  covered  with  a 
thick  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  firm,  rather  dry,  but  sweet,  and 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good.      Last  of  September. 

Thomas. 

A  handsome  native  fruit,  originated  in  the  garden  of  William 
Thomas,  of  Boston.  A  free  grower,  and  bears  abundantly.  Branches 
slightly  downy. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  a  little  irregular,  and  rather  compressed 
in  the  direction  of  the  suture.  Stalk  hairy,  lialf  an  inch  or  more  long, 
stout,  set  in  a  small  narrow  cavity.  Skin  salmon  color,  with  numerous 
dots,  and  a  soft  red  cheek.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little  coarse-grained, 
but  with  a  mild  pleasant  flavor;  separating  freely  from  the  stone 
Good.     Last  of  August. 


950  THE    PLUM. 

Thorndyke  Gage. 

A  native  fruit,  originated  near  Newburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish.  Suture  slight.  Skin  pale  green, 
with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  greenish,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant  ;  adheres 
to  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 

Tomlinson's  Charlotte. 
Charlotte. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Judge  Tomlinson,  Schenectady,  N.  Y.  Tree 
vigorous. 

Fruit  large,  oval.  Skin  yellow.  Flesh  sweet,  agreeable.  August 
(Pom.  Man.) 

Transparent  Gage. 

Reine  Claude  Diaphane.  Prune  Diaphane  Laffay. 

Diaphane  Laffay.  Reine  Claude  Transparent. 

Diaphane. 

A  French  variety,  evidently  from  seeds  of  the  Green  Gage,  raised 
by  M.  Laffay,  of  Paris.  Tree  vigorous,  with  long,  stout,  and  smooth 
branches. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oblate.  Suture  shallow,  distinct. 
Apex  sunk.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  marbled  and  specked  in  the  sun 
with  carmine  red.  Stalk  medium.  Cavity  small,  rather  deep.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  tender,  j uicy,  sugary,  rich.  Very  good  or  best.  Mid- 
dle of  September. 

Trouvee  de  Voueche. 

Found  in  the  woods  by  Gregoire,  and  by  him  introduced.  Tree  mo- 
derately vigorous  and  very  fertile. 

Fruit  medium  or  small,  regularly  oval.  Skin  thick,  reddish  vio- 
let with  a  shady  side,  and  a  violet  bloom  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
juicy,  sweet,  and  very  good.     Last  of  August.     (Al.  Pom.) 

Ulysses. 

A  variety  from  Western  New  York.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  above  medium,  roundish  oval.  Skin  whitish,  shaded  and  mot- 
tled with  violet  purple,  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  juicy,  sweet ; 
adheres  to  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 

Virgin. 

Virginale  Blanc.  Virginal  Blanc. 

White  Virginale.  Virginal  a  gros  Fruit  blano. 

Virginal  a  Fruit  blanc. 

A  foreign  variety,  of  free  growth.     Branches  smooth,  rather  slender 
Fruit  medium,  roundish.      Skin  reddish  purple,  with  a  thick  bloom, 

Flesh  greenish,  very  juicy,  sweet.    Good  to  very  good.    Adheres  slightly 

to  the  stone.     First  of  September. 


THE    PLUM. 

Wangenheim. 


951 


A  German  variety.     Tree  a  moderate  grower.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  oval.  Suture  shallow.  Apex  a  little  sunk.  Skin 
deep  purple,  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Stalk  rather  short. 
Cavity  small.  Flesh  rather  firm,  greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  rich, 
Separates  from  the  stone.     Good  to  very  good.     Last  of  August. 


Bolmar. 
Bolmer. 
New  Washington. 


Washington. 

Bolmer's  Washington. 
Franklin. 
Irving's  Bolmar. 
Jackson. 


Parker's  Mammoth. 
Washington  Jaune. 
Philippe  I. 


The  Washington,  although  not  equal  to  the  Green  Gage  and  two  01 
three  others  in  high  flavor,  yet  its  great  size,  its  beauty,  and  the  vigoi 
and  hardiness  of  the  tree,  are  qualities  which  have  brought  this  noble 
fruit  into  notice  everywhere.  The 
parent  tree  grew  originally  on  De- 
lancey's  farm,  on  the  east  side  of 
the  Bowery,  New  York,  but,  being 
grafted  with  another  sort,  escaped 
notice  until  a  sucker  from  it,  planted 
by  Mr.  Bolmer,  a  merchant  in  Chat- 
ham Street,  came  into  bearing  about 
the  year  1818,  and  attracted  uni- 
versal attention  by  the  remarkable 
beauty  and  size  of  the  fruit.  In 
1821,  this  sort  was  first  sent  to  the 
Horticultural  Society  of  London,  by 
the  late  Dr.  Hosack. 

The  Washington  has  remarkably 
large,  broad,  and  glossy  foliage,  is  a 
strong  grower,  and  forms  a  hand- 
some round  head.  Wood  light 
brown,  downy. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  round- 
ish oval,  with  an  obscure  suture, 
except  near  the  stalk.  Skin  dull  yellow,  with  faint  marblings  of  green. 
but  when  well  ripened,  deep  yellow,  with  a  pale  crimson  blush  or  do1  . 
Stalk  scarcely  three-fourths  of  an  inch  long,  a  little  downy,  set  in  a  shal- 
low, wide  hollow.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  very  sweet  and  luscious,  separa- 
ting freely  from  the  stone.  Good  to  very  good.  Middle  to  the  last  ,>f 
August. 


Washington. 


Wax. 

Raised  by  Elisha  Dorr,  Albany,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately  vigorous 
and  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval.  Suture  slight,  broad,  shallow.  Skin 
yellow,  with  a  bright  carmine  cheek,  and  covered  with  a  thin  whitish 
bloom.  Stalk  long,  slender,  set  without  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy, 
Bubacid,  sprightly ;   separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Early  October. 


952  THE   PLUM. 

White  Apricot. 

Abricote  Blanc.  Abricotee  Blanche. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  yellow.     Flesh  rather  firm,  slightly  acid 
separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Middle  August. 

White  Bullace. 

Branches  downy. 

Fruit  small,  round.  Skin  yellowish  white,  mottled  with  red  in  the 
sun.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet;  adheres  to  the  stone.  Cooking.  Early 
October. 

White  Damask. 
Damas  Blanc.  Damas  Blanc  Gros.  Damas  Blanc  Hatif  Gros. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oval.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with 
white  bloom.  Flesh  sweet,  pleasant ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Cook- 
ing.    Last  of  September. 

White  Damson. 

Late  Yellow  Damson.  White  Damascene. 

White  Prune  Damson.  Late  Cluster. 

Shailer's  White  Damson.  Frost  Plum. 

White  Winter  Damson. 

Branches  smooth,  and  of  thrifty  growth,  very  productive. 

Fruit  small,  oval.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  white  bloom,  and 
sprinkled  with  reddish-brown  spots  at  maturity.  Flesh  adheres  closely 
to  the  stone,  is  yellow,  and  when  fully  ripe  of  a  rich,  sprightly,  subacid, 
agreeable  flavor.     Good.     Last  of  September. 

White  Diaper. 

Diapre  Blanc.  Diapree  Blanche. 

Fruit  small,  round.  Skin  whitish  green,  covered  with  bloom* 
Flesh  rather  firm,  pale  yellow,  sweet.     Good.     Last  of  August. 

White  Imperatrice. 
White  Empress.  Imperatrice  Blanche. 

In  the  habit  of  the  tree,  appearance  and  flavor  of  the  fruit,  and  sea- 
son of  maturity,  it  strongly  resembles  the  St.  Catherine,  but  is  a  free- 
stone.    It  is  not  equal  to  the  latter  in  flavor.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  obovate,  a  little  flattened  at  the  ends.  Suture 
rather  obscure.  Skin  bright  yellow,  covered  partially  with  a  thin  white 
bloom,  and  spotted  with  a  little  red.  Stalk  a  little  more  than  half  an 
inch  long,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  yellow,  very  juicy,  crisp,  sweet,' 
and  quite  transparent  in  texture;  separates  freely  from  the  stone. 
Good.     Early  in  September. 


THE    PLUM.  953 

White  Perdrigon. 
Perdrigon  Blanc.  Maitre  Claude.  Brignole. 

Tree  rather  a  slow  grower.     Branches  downy. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  narrowing  towards  the  stalk.  Skin  pale 
greenish  yellow,  a  few  crimson  dots  in  the  sun  and  numerous  small 
wliite  dots,  and  thinly  coated  with  bloom.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  sweet, 
with  a  slight  perfume,  and  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone.  Good.  Last, 
of  August. 

Wilde's. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  dark  brownish  orange,  covered  with 
a  white  bloom.  Flesh  sweet,  not  juicy ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Early 
August. 

Wild  Goose. 

Nolen  Plum. 

An  improved  variety  of  the  Chickasaw,  evident  in  the  greater  vigor 
of  the  tree  and  increased  size  of  the  fruit,  which  is  nearly  as  large  as  a 
Green  Gage.  Skin  purple,  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  juicy,  sweet; 
adheres  to  the  stone.     Last  of  July. 

Wilkinson. 

Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth,  rather  slendei\ 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  slightly  necked.  Skin  reddish  purple,  covered 
with  a  thick  bloom.  Stalk  medium,  set  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  dark 
yellow,  rather  firm,  sweet,  not  rich  or  high  flavored  ;  adheres  partially 
to  the  stone.     Good.     Last  of  July. 

Winesour. 

Rotherham. 

An  English  Plum,  valued  for  cooking.     Branches  downy. 
Fruit  below  medium,  oblong  oval.     Skin  dark  purple.     Flesh  green- 
ish yellow,  acid  ;  adheres  to  the  stone.     September. 

Woolston's  Black  Gage. 

Of  same  origin  as  Angelina  Burdett  and  Standard  of  England.  Tree 
>rigorous.     Brauches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  with  a  shallow  suture.  Skin  very  deep 
purple,  with  many  small  dots,  and  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh 
melting,  juicy,  sugary;  sejjarates  from  the  stone.  Good.  Early  Septem- 
ber. 

Yellow  Damask. 
Damas  Jaune. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  below  medium,  nearly  round.  Skin  yellow,  with  a  fine  white 
bloom.  Flesh  very  juicy,  separating  from  the  stone.  Early  October 
(Hogg.) 


d54 


THE    PLUM. 


Yellow  Egg. 


White  Magnum  Bonum. 
Askew's  Golden  Egg. 
E?g  Plum. 
White  Egg. 
Magnum  Bonum. 
Yellow  Magnum  Bonum.* 
White  Mogul. 
Wentworth. 


White  Imperial. 
White  Holland. 
Dame  Aubert. 
Dame  Aubert  blanche. 
Dame  Aubert  jaune. 
Impi  riale  blanche. 
Grosse  Luisante. 
Prune  d  Inde  blanc. 


The  White  Magnum  Bonum,  or  Egg  Plum,  as  it  is  almost  universally 

known  here,  is  a  very  popular  fruit, 
chiefly  on  account  of  its  large  and 
splendid  appearance,  and  a  slight  acid- 
ity, which  renders  it  admirably  fitted 
for  making  showy  sweetmeats  or  pre- 
serves. When  it  is  raised  in  a  fine 
warm  situation,  and  is  fully  matured, 
it  is  pretty  well  flavored,  but  ordina- 
rily it  is  considered  coarse,  and  as  be- 
longing to  the  kitchen  and  not  to  the 
dessert.     Branches  smooth,  long. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  measur- 
ing six  ruches  in  its  longest  circumfer- 
ence, oval,  narrowing  a  good  deal  to 
both  ends.  Suture  well  marked. 
Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  stout,  insert- 
ed without  cavity  in  a  folded  border. 
Skin  yellow,  with  numerous  white 
dots,  covered  with  thin  white  bloom- 
when  fully  ripe,  of  a  deep  gold  color. 
Flesh  yellow,  adhering  closely  to  the 
stone,  rather  acid  until  very  ripe,  when 
it  becomes  sweet,  though  of  only 
second-rate  flavor.  Stem  long,  and 
pointed  at  both  ends.     A  pretty  good 

bearer,  though  apt,  in  light  soils,    o  drop  from  the  tree  before  matured. 

Middle  of  August. 

Yellow  Imperatrice. 
Altesse  Blanche.  Monsieur  a  fruits  Jaune. 

Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  marked  with  a  suture,  deep  at  apex, 
shallow  at  the  stalk.  Skin  deep  golden  yellow,  with  a  few  streaks  of 
red  about  the  stalk.  Flesh  yellow,  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  rich,  adheres 
to  the  stone.     Middle  of  August.     (Hogg.) 

Y"ohe's  Eagle. 

An  accidental  seedling  in  the  garden  of  Caleb  Yohe,  Bethlehem, 
Pa. 

*  There  is  really  no  practical  difference  between  the  White  and  the  Yellow 
Magnum  Bonum.  The  fruit  is  precisely  similar  in  appearance  and  quality,  though 
the  growth  of  the  two  trees  may  not  fully  agree. 


Yellow  Egg. 


THE    PLUM.  955 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblong  oval.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  slight  red 
cheek  in  sun,  thin  white  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  yellow,  melting,  juicy, 
sweet ;   separates  from  the  stone.     Good.     Early  September. 

Young. 
Young's  Seedling. 

From  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous.     Branches  smooth. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  deep  reddish  purple,  with  a  blue 
bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  not  juicy,  sweet ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Good 
Last  of  August. 


ORNAMENTAL  VARIETIES. 

There  are  few  varieties  of  Plums  which  are  considered  purely  orna- 
mental. One,  however,  is  a  remarkable  exception  to  this,  as  it  is  scarcely 
exceeded  in  beauty  in  the  month  of  May  by  any  other  flowery  shrub- 
we  mean  the  Double-Flowering  Sloe.  It  is  a  large  shrub,  only  10 
or  12  feet  high,  with  quite  slender  shoots  and  leaves,  but  it  is  thickly 
sprinkled,  every  spring,  with  the  prettiest  little  double  white  blossoms 
about  as  large  as  a  sixpence,  resembling  the  Lady  Banks'  Roses.  It  is 
one  of  the  greatest  favorites  of  the  Chinese  and  Japanese — those  flower- 
loving  people. 

The  Common  English  Sloe,  or  Blackthorn  (JPrunus  spirtosa),  is 
rather  an  ornamental  tree  in  shrubbery  plantations.  The  branches  are 
more  thorny  than  those  of  the  common  Damson,  and  the  fruit  is  nearly 
round,  quite  black,  but  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  In  the  spring 
fhis  low  tree  is  a  perfect  cloud  of  white  blossoms. 

The  Double-blossomed  Plum  has  large  and  handsome  double  white 
flowers.  Except  in  strong  soils,  however,  they  are  apt  to  degenerate 
and  become  single,  and  are,  indeed,  always  inferior  in  effect  to  the 
Double  Sloe. 

The  Cherry  Plum  we  have  already  described.  It  is  one  of  the  fruit- 
bearing  sorts. 


SELECTION  OF  VARIETIES  FOR  TABLE,  MARKET,   AND  COOKING 

Bavay's  Green  Gage.     Table  and  market. 

Bleecker's  Gage.     Table  and  market. 

Bradshaw.      Market  and  cooking. 

Coe's  Golden  Drop.     Table,  market,  and  cooking. 

D'enniston's  Superb.     Table  and  market. 

German  Prune.      Market  and  cooking. 

Green  Gage.     Table  and  market. 

Howard's  Favorite.     Table  and  market. 

Hudson  Gage.     Table  and  market. 

Imperial  Gage.     Table  and  market. 

Imperial  Ottoman.     Table  and  market. 

Jefferson.     Table  and  market. 

Lawrence's  Favorite.     Table  and  market. 

Lombard.     Market  and  cooking. 


J  THE    POMEGRANATE. 

McLaughlin.     Table  and  market. 

Pond's  Seedling  (English).     Market  and  market. 

Prince  Engelbert.     Table  and  market. 

Prince's  Yellow  Gage.     Table  and  market. 

Prune  d'Agen.     Table  and  market. 

Purple  Favorite.     Table. 

Smith's  Orleans.     Table  and  market. 

Transparent  Gage.     Table  and  market. 

Washington.     Table  and  market. 

Yellow  Egg.     Market  and  cooking. 


CHAPTER   XXIX. 


THE    POMEGRANATE. 


Punica  granatum,  L.  ;   Granatacea,  of  Botanists. 

Grenadier,  of  the  French  ;  Gfrcmatenbaum,  German ;  Melagran», 

Italian ;   Granado,  Spanish. 

This  unique  fruit,  the  most  singularly  beautiful  one  that  ever  appears 
at  the  dessert,  is  a  native  of  China  and  the  South  of  Europe.  It  grows 
and  bears  very  readily  in  this  country,  as  far  north  as  Maryland  and  the 
Ohio  River,  though  the  fruit  does  not  always  mature  well  north  of 
Carolina,  except  in  sheltered  places.  It  is  even  hardy  enough  to  stand 
the  winter  here,  and  will  bear  very  good  fruit  if  trained  as  an  espalier 
and  protected  in  winter. 

The  fruit  is  as  large  as  an  apple.  Its  skin  is  hard  and  leathery,  of 
a  yellowish  orange  color,  with  a  rich  red  cheek.  It  is  crowned  in  a 
peculiar  manner  with  the  large  calyx,  which  remains  and  increases  in 
size  after  the  flower  has  fallen.  There  is  a  pretty  bit  of  mythological 
history  told  by  Rapin,  the  French  poet,  respecting  this  fruit.  Bacchus 
once  beguiled  a  lovely  Scythian  girl,  whose  head  had  been  previously 
turned  by  the  diviners  having  prophesied  that  she  would  some  day  wear 
a  crown,  and  who  therefore  lent  a  willing  ear  to  his  suit.  The  fickle 
god,  however,  not  long  after  abandoned  her,  when  she  soon  died  of 
giief.  Touched  at  last,  he  metamorphosed  her  into  a  pomegranate-tree, 
and  placed  on  the  summit  of  its  fruit  the  crown  (calyx)  which  he  had 
denied  to  his  mistress  while  living. 

The  fruit  of  the  common  Pomegranate  is  acid,  but  the  cultivated 
variety  bears  fruit  of  very  agreeable,  sweet  flavor.  The  interior  of  the 
fruit  consists  of  seeds  enveloped  in  pulp,  much  like  those  of  the  goose- 
berry, but  arranged  in  compartments,  and  of  the  size  and  color  of  red 
c  irrants.  Medicinally,  it  is  cooling  and  much  esteemed,  like  the  orange, 
in  fevers  and  inflammatory  disorders. 

The  tree  is  of  low  growth,  from  twelve  to  twenty  feet,  with  nume- 
ious  slender,  twiggy  branches,  and  is  very  ornamental  in  garden  scenery, 
either  when  clad  with  its  fine  scarlet  flowers  or  decked  with  fruit, 
which  hangs  and  grows  all  summer,  and  does  not  ripen  till  pretty  late 
in  the  season.     It  is  well  worthy  of   a  choice  sheltered  place   at  the 


TBE    QUINCE.  957 

North,  on  a  wall  or  espalier  rail,  where  it  can  be  slightly  protected  with 
mats  or  si  raw  in  winter ;  and  it  deserves  to  be  much  more  popular  than 
it  now  is  in  every  Southern  garden.  If  raised  in  large  quantities  1  here, 
it  would  become  a  valuable  fruit  for  sending  to  the  Northern  cities,  a? 
it  is  now  constantly  sent  from  the  South  of  Europe  to  Paris  and  London 
Hedges  are  very  often  made  of  it  near  Genoa  and  Nice. 

Propagation  and  Culture.  This  tree  is  readily  propagated  by 
cuttings,  layers,  suckers,  or  seeds.  When  by  seeds,  they  should  be  sown 
directly  after  they  ripen,  otherwise  tbey  seldom  vegetate.  Any  good 
rich  garden  soil  answers  well  for  the  Pomegranate ;  and,  as  it  produces 
little  excess  of  wood,  it  needs  little  more  in  the  way  of  pruning  than  an 
occasional  thinning  out  of  any  old  or  decaying  branches. 

Varieties.     There  are  several  varieties.     The  finest,  viz. : — 

1.  The  Sweet-Fruited  Pomegranate  (  Grenadier  a  Fruit  Doux), 
with  sweet  and  juicy  pulp. 

2.  The   Subacid    Fruited  Pomegranate  ;    the  most  common  va- 
riety cultivated  in  gardens. 

3.  The  Wild  or  Acid-Fruited  Pomegranate,  with  a  sharp,  acid 
flavor,  which  makes  an  excellent  syrup. 

Besides  these,  there  are  several  double-tlowering  varieties  of  the 
Pomegranate,  which  are  very  beautiful,  but  bear  no  fruit.  They  are 
also  rather  more  tender  than  the  fruit  bearing  ones.  The  finest  are  the 
Double  Red  Pomegranate,  with  large  and  very  splendid  scarlet  blos- 
soms, and  the  Double  White  Pomegranate,  with  flowers  nearly  white. 
There  are  also  the  rarer  varieties,  the  Yellow  Flowered  and  the 
Variegated  Flowered  Pomegranate,  seldom  seen  here,  except  in 
choice  green-house  collections. 


CHAPTER    XXX. 


THE   QUINCE. 


Gydonia  vulgaris,  Dec. ;  Bosacew,  of  Botanists. 

Coignassier,  of  the  French  ;  Quittenbamn.  German  ;  Kivepeer,  Dutch  ;   Cotogno, 

Italian  ;  and   Membrillo,  Spanish. 

The  Quince  is  a  well-known  hardy,  deciduous  tree,  of  small  size, 
crooked  branches,  and  spreading,  bushy  head.  It  is  indigenous  to 
Germany  and  the  South  of  Europe;  and  it  appears  first  to  have  attracted 
notice  in  the  city  of  Gydon,  in  Crete  or  Candia,  whence  its  botanical 
xiame,  Cydonia.  The  fruit  is  of  a  fine  golden  yellow,  and  more  nearly 
resembles  that  of  the  orange  than  any  other.  It  was  even  more  highly 
esteemed  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  for  preserving,  than  by  us. 
"  Quinces,"  says  Columella,  "  not  only  yield  pleasure,  but  health." 

The  Quince  seldom  grows  higher  than  fifteen  feet,  and  is  usually 
rather  a  shrub  than  a  tree.  Its  large  white  and  pale  pink  blossoms, 
which  appear  rather  later  than  those  of  other  fruit-trees,  are  quite  orna- 
mental ;  and  the  tree,  properly  grown,  is  very  ornamental  when  ladeD 
in  October  and  November  with  its  ripe  golden  fruit. 


958  THE    QUINCE. 

Uses. — The  Quince  is,  in  all  its  varieties,  unfit  for  eating  raw.  It  isj 
however,  much  esteemed  when  cooked.  For  preserving  it  is  every- 
where valued,  and  an  excellent  marmalade  is  also  made  from  it. 
Stewed,  it  is  very  frequently  used  to  communicate  additional  flavor  and 
piquancy  to  apple-tarts,  pies,  or  other  pastry.  In  England,  wine  ia 
frequently  made  from  the  fruit  by  adding  sugar  and  water,  as  in 
other  fruit  wines ;  and  it  is  a  popular  notion  there  that  it  has  a 
most  beneficial  effect  upon  asthmatic  patients.  Dried  Quinces  are 
excellent. 

In  this  country  large  plantations  are  sometimes  made  of  the  Quince; 
and  as  it  is  in  good  soil  a  plentiful  bearer,  it  is  considered  one  of  the 
most  valuable  market  fruits.  The  Apple  Quince  is  the  most  productive 
and  salable  ;  but  as  the  Pear  Quince  ripens  and  can  be  sent  to  market 
much  later,  it  frequently  is  the  most  profitable.  The  Angers  is  also  a 
profitable  market  sort,  producing  abundantly,  and  keeping  equally  as 
well  as  the  Pear-shaped. 

Propagation. — The  Quince  is  easily  propagated  from  seed,  layers,  or 
cuttings.  From  seeds  the  Quince  is  somewhat  liable  to  vary  in  its 
seedlings,  sometimes  proving  the  apple-shaped  and  sometimes  the  pear- 
shaped  variety.  Cuttings  prepared  in  the  autumn,  heeled-in,  and  pro- 
tected during  winter,  and  planted  in  a  shaded  situation  early  in  the 
spring,  root  very  easily,  and  this  is  perhaps  the  simplest  and  best  way 
of  continuing  a  good  variety.  Another  way  is  to  bud  upon  free  grow- 
ing sorts,  as  that  of  the  Angers. 

Quince  stocks  are  extensively  vised  in  engrafting  or  budding  the  pear, 
when  it  is  wished  to  render  that  tree  dwarf  in  its  habit. 

Soil  and  Culture. — The  Quince  grows  naturally  in  rather  moist  soil, 
by  the  side  of  rivulets  and  streams  of  water.  Hence  it  is  a  common  idea 
that  it  should  always  be  planted  in  some  damp,  neglected  part  of  the 
garden,  where  it  usually  receives  little  care,  and  the  fruit  is  often  knotty 
and  inferior. 

This  practice  is  a  very  erroneous  one.  No  tree  is  more  benefited  by 
manuring  than  the  quince.  In  a  rich,  mellow,  deep  soil,  even  if  quite 
dry,  it  grows  with  thrice  its  usual  vigor,  and  bears  abundant  crops  of 
large  and  fair  fruit.  It  should  therefore  be  planted  in  a  dee})  and  good 
soil,  kept  in  constant  cultivation,  and  it  should  have  a  top-dressing  of 
manure  every  season  when  fair  and  abundant  crops  are  desired.  As  to 
priming  or  other  care,  it  requires  very  little  indeed — an  occasional 
thinning  out  of  crowding  or  decayed  branches  being  quite  sufficient. 
Thinning  the  fruit  when  there  is  an  overcrop  improves  the  size  of  the 
remainder.  Twelve  feet  apart  is  a  suitable  distance  at  which  to  plant 
this  tree. 

The  Quince,  like  the  apple,  is  occasionally  subject  to  the  attacks  of 
the  borer  and  a  few  other  insects,  which  a  little  care  will  pit  vent  or 
den  troy.     For  their  habits  we  refer  the  reader  to  the  Apple. 


VARIETIES 

Angers. 

This  is  the  variety  most  generally  used  for  stocks  on  which  to  bud 
the  pear.      It  is  only  within  a  few  years  that  its  value  as  a  fruit  has  been 


THE     QUINCE. 


959 


known.  The  tree  is  one  of  the  most  thrifty  growing,  and  an  abundant 
bearer.  It  does  not  cook  quite  as  tender  as  the  apple,  but  will  keep 
much  longer.  In  form  it  is  much  like  the  apple,  but  the  flesh  is  a  little 
harsher  and  more  acid. 

Apple-shaped  Quince. 
Orange  Quince. 

This  is  the  most  popular  variety  in  this  country.  It  bears  large 
roundish  fruit,  shaped  much  like  the  apple,  which  stews  quite  tender, 
and  is  of  very  excellent  flavor.  It  also  bears  most  abundant  crops 
Leaves  oval. 

There  are  several  inferior  varieties  of  the  Apple  Quince.  The  true 
one  bears  fruit  of  the  size  of  the  largest  apple,  fair  and  smooth,  and  a 
fine  golden  color. 

New  Upright. 
Paris  de  Fontenay. 

This  is  an  upright  growing  variety,  forming  quite  small,  compact  lit- 
tle trees.     Of  little  or  no  value  as  a  fruit. 

Pear-shaped  Quince. 

Oblong  Quince. 

The  Pear-shaped  Quince  is  drier  and  of  firmer  texture  than  the  fore- 
going It  is  rather  tough  when  stewed  or  cooked,  the  flesh  is  less  lively 
in  color,  and  it  is  therefore  much  less  esteemed  than  the  apple-shaped 
variety  The  fruit  is  of  medium  size,  oblong,  tapering  to  the  stalk,  and 
shaped  much  like  a  pear.  The  skin  is  yellow.  The  leaves  are  oblong 
ovate.  It  ripens  about  a  fortnight  later  than  the  apple-shaped,  and  may 
be  preserved  in  a  raw  state  considerably  longer. 

Portugal  Quince. 

The  Portugal  Quince  is  rather  superior  to  all  others  in  quality,  as  it 
is  less  harsh,  stews  much  better,  and  is  altogether  of  milder  flavor,  though 
not  fit  for  eating  raw.  For  marmalade  and  baking  it  is  much  esteemed, 
as  its  flesh  turns  a  fine  purple  or  deep  crimson  when  cooked 

The  leaf  of  the  Portugal  Quince  is  larger  and  broader  than  that  ot 
the  common  quince,  and  the  growth  of  the  tree  is  stronger.  The  fruit 
is  of  the  largest  size,  oblong  ovate,  obtuse.  The  skin  is  m  color  not  so 
deep  an  orange  as  that  of  the  other  sorts. 

The  Portugal  Quince  is  unfortunately  a  shy  bearer,  which  is  tue 
reason  why  it  has  never  been  so  generally  cultivated  as  the  Apple 
Quince. 

Rea's  Seedling. 

Van  Slyke. 

A  new  seedling,  raised  by  Joseph  Rea,  Coxsackie,  Greene  Co, 
N.  Y.     It  is  a  superb  fruit,  averaging  one-third  larger  than  the  apple  or 


960  THE    RASPBERRY. 

orange  quince,  of  the  same  form  and  color,  fair  and  handsome,  and 
equally  as  good,  and  by  some  preferred  to  the  apple  quince  for  culiuary 
purposes.  Tree  healthy,  a  thrifty  grower,  and  moderately  productive — 
an  acquisition. 

Ornamental  Varieties. — There  are  two  or  three  ornamental  varieties 
of  the  Quince,  which  are  natives  of  China  and  Japan,  and  are  now  among 
the  most  common  and  attractive  of  our  garden  shrubs.  They  are  the 
following : — 

Chinese    Quince. 

We  have  had  this  pretty  shrub  in  our  garden  for  several  years, 
where  it  flowers  abundantly,  but  has  as  yet  produced  no  fruit.  The 
leaves  are  oval,  somewhat  Like  those  of  the  common  Quince,  but  with  a 
shining  surface.  The  flowers  are  rosy  red,  rather  small,  with  a  delicate 
violet  odor,  and  have  a  very  pretty  effect  in  the  month  of  May,  though 
much  less  showy  than  those  of  the  Japan  Quince.  The  fruit  is  described 
as  large,  egg-shaped,  with  a  green  skin  and  a  hard  dry  flesh,  not  of  any 
value  for  eating.     The  leaves  assume  a  beautiful  shade  of  red  in  autumn. 

Japan  Quince. 
Cydonia  Japonica.  Pyrus  Japonica. 

The  Japan  Quince  is  a  low  thorny  shrub,  with  small  dark  green 
leaves.  It  is  the  most  brilliant  object  in  the  shrubbery  during  the 
month  of  April,  the  branches  being  clothed  with  numerous  clusters  of 
blossoms,  shaped  like  those  of  the  Quince,  but  rather  larger,  and  of  the 
brightest  scarlet.  The  fruit  which  occasionally  succeeds  these  flowers  is 
dark  green,  very  hard,  and  having  a  peculiar  and  not  unpleasant  smeil. 
It  is  entirely  useless. 

The  White,  or  Blush  Japan  Quince  ( C.  jap.fl.  alio)  resembles  the 
foregoing,  except  that  the  flowers  are  white  and  pale  pink,  resembling 
those  of  the  common  apple-tree. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 


THE    RASPBERRY. 


Rubus  Idmis,  4  ;  Rosacea,  of  botanists. 

Framboisier,  of  the  French  ;  Himbeerstrauch,  German  ;  Framboos,  Dutc'i  ;  Rom 

ideo,  Italian ;  and  Frambueso,  Spanish. 

The  Raspberry  is  a  low  deciduous  shrub,  which  in  several  forms  is 
common  in  the  woods  of  both  Europe  and  America.  The  large-fruited 
varieties  most  esteemed  in  our  gardens  have  all  originated  from  the  long 
cultivated  Mubus  Idceus,  or  Mount  Ida  bramble,  which  appears  first  to 
have  been  introduced  into  the  gardens  of  the  South  of  Europe  from 
Mount  Ida.     It  is  now  quite  naturalized  in  some  parts  of  this  country, 


THE    RASPBERRY.  961 

Besides  this,  we  have  in  the  woods  the  common  black  raspberry,  or 
thimbleberry  (JRnbxs  occidentalis,  L.),  and  the  red  raspberry  (Hubn8 
striffosus,  Michx.),  with  very  good  fruit. 

The  name  raspberry  (Jxasjio,  Italian)  is  probably  from  the  rasp- 
ing roughness  of  prickly  wood.     The  term  raspis  is  still  used  in  Scotland. 

Uses. — The  raspberry  is  held  in  general  estimation,  not  only  as  oi,e 
of  the  most  refreshing  and  agreeable  subacid  fruits  for  the  dessert,  but 
it  is  employed  by  almost  every  family  in  making  preserves,  jams,  ices, 
sauces,  tarts,  and  jellies ;  and  on  a  larger  scale  by  confectioners  for  mak- 
ing syrups,  by  distillers  for  making  raspDerry  brandy,  raspberry  vinegar, 
&c.  Raspberry  wine,  made  in  the  same  way  as  that  of  currant,  is  con- 
sidered the  most  fragrant  and  delicious  of  all  home-made  wines. 

Succeeding  the  strawberry  at  the  beginning  of  summer,  when  there 
is  comparatively  little  else,  this  is  one  of  the  most  invaluable  fruits,  and, 
with  the  strawberry,  generally  commands  the  attention  of  those  who 
have  scarcely  room  for  fruit-trees.  It  is,  next  to  the  strawberry,  one  of 
the  most  wholesome  berries,  and  not  being  liable  to  undergo  the  acetous 
fermentation  in  the  stomach,  it  is  considered  beneficial  in  cases  of  gout 
or  rheumatism. 

Propagation. — The  raspberry  is  universally  propagated  by  suckers, 
or  offsets,  springing  up  from  the  main  roots.  It  may  also  be  grown 
from  pieces  of  the  roots,  two  to  three  inches  long,  and  planted  in  a 
light  sandy  soil  early  in  the  spring,  covering  about  one  inch  deep,  and 
adding  a  slight  coat  of  light  mulch  to  prevent  the  earth  from  drying  or 
baking.  The  Black  Caps,  Yellow  Caps,  and  the  Purple  Cane  varieties 
are  grown  from  burying  the  tips  of  canes  in  the  latter  part  of  August 
or  September,  or  as  soon  as  the  ends  of  the  canes  stop  growing  about  one 
inch  deep,  when  they  will  form  roots  and  make  good  plants  for  trans- 
planting the  following  spring.  Seeds  are  only  planted  when  new  va- 
rieties are  desired.  The  seedlings  come  into  bearing  at  two  or  three 
years  of  age. 

Soil  and  Culture. — The  best  soil  is  a  rich  deep  loam,  rather  moist 
than  dry,  but  the  raspberry  will  thrive  well  in  any  soil  that  is  rich  and  deep. 
■  In  making  a  plantation  of  raspberries,  plant  the  suckers  or  canes 
in  rows,  from  three  to  four  feet  apart,  according  to  the  vigor  of  the 
sort.  Two  or  three  suckers  are  generally  planted  togethei',  to  form  a 
group  or  stool,  and  these  stools  may  be  three  feet  apart  in  the  rows,  or 
they  may  be  set  one  plant  in  a  place,  at  distances  of  one  foot  to  eighteen 
inches  along  in  the  row. 

The  plantation  being  made,  iis  treatment  consists  chiefly  in  a  single 
pruning  every  year,  given  early  in  the  spring.  To  perform  this,  ex- 
amine the  stools  iii  April,  and  leaving  the  strongest  shoots  or  suckers, 
say  about  three  or  five  to  each  stool,  cut  away  all  the  old  wood  and  all 
the  other  suckers.  The  remaining  shoots  should  have  about  a  foot  of 
their  ends  cut  off,  as  this  part  of  the  wood  is  feeble  and  worthless. 
It  is  also  a  good  plan  soon  after  the  fruit  is  gathered  to  cut  out  the  old 
canes,  which  have  fruited  so  as  to  give  the  new  a  better  chance  to  ripen. 
With  a  light  top-dressing  of  manure,  the  ground  should  then  be  dug 
over,  and  little  other  care  will  be  requisite  during  the  season,  except 
keeping  down  the  weeds. 

When  very  neat  culture  and  the  largest  fruit  are  desired,  more  space 
is  left  between  the  rows,  and  after  being  pruned  the  canes  are  tied  to 

61 


362  THE     RASPBERRY. 

long  lines  of  rods  or  rails,  like  an  espalier,  by  which,  means  they  are 
more  fully  exposed  to  the  sun  and  light. 

For  field  culture,  the  European  varieties  ought  to  be  planted  four  of 
five  feet  apart  each  way,  which  gives  room  for  the  plow  and  cultivator  to 
work  both  ways.  The  Black  Cap  varieties  should  be  five  or  six  feet 
each  way,  and  the  growing  canes  of  these  should  be  stopped  or  shortened 
in  when  about  three  feet  high,  which  causes  them  to  grow  stocky  and 
throw  out  lateral  shoots,  and  these  should  be  cut  back  to  within  eighteen 
inches  or  two  feet  the  following  spring. 

A  fine  crop  of  the  autumnal  varieties  of  raspberries  is  readily  ob- 
tained by  cutting  down  the  canes  over  the  whole  stool,  in  the  spring,  to 
within  a  few  inches  of  the  ground.  They  will  then  shoot  up  new  wood, 
which  comes  into  bearing  in  August  or  September. 

We  have  found  a  light  application  of  salt,  given  with  the  top-dressing 
of  manure  in  the  spring,  to  have  a  most  beneficial  effect  oh  the  vigor  of 
the  plants  and  the  size  of  the  fruit. 

A  plantation  of  raspberries  will  be  in  perfection  at  the  third  year, 
and  after  it  has  borne  about  eight  or  ten  years  it  must  be  broken  up 
and  a  new  one  formed  on  another  plot  of  ground. 

All  the  raspberries  except  the  hardy  American  varieties  should  be 
pruned  in  the  fall.  After  which  bend  the  canes  gently  on  the  ground, 
and  cover  them  an  inch  or  two  deep  with  earth ;  let  them  remain  in  the 
spring  until  the  cold  winds  are  over,  or  until  the  buds  begin  to  swell, 
then  take  them  up  and  tie  them  to  stakes  or  frames. 

Varieties. — The  finest  raspberries  in  general  cultivation  for  the 
dessert  are  the  Hudson  River  Antwerp,  Fastollf,  Orange,  Belle  de 
Pallan,  Knevett's  Giant,  French,  Franconia,  and  Clarke. 

The  common  American  Red  is  most  esteemed  for  flavoring  liqueurs 
or  making  brandy,  and  the  American  Black  is  preferred  by  most  persons 
for  cooking  and  drying.  The  Ever-bearing  varieties  are  valuable  for 
prolonging  the  season  of  this  fruit  till  late  frosts. 

Allen. 

Allen's  Antwerp.  English  Red  Cane.  False  Red  Antwerp. 

The  origin  of  this  variety  is  unknown.  It  is  said  by  F.  R.  Ellioft 
to  have  been  brought  to  Cleveland  by  an  English  gardener,  and  was,  by 
Mr.  Elliott,  sent  to  W.  H.  Sotham,  Black  Rock,  N.  Y.,  from  whose  gar- 
den Lewis  F.  Allen  obtained  it.  Canes  strong,  vigorous,  upright,  some- 
.vhat  branching.  Spines  purplish,  quite  numerous.  This  and  the  fol- 
lowing, in  foliage  and  fruit,  are  similar  to  American  Red,  and  no  doubt 
are  improved  seedlings  of  it,  or  a  cross  between  it  and  some  foreign  sort, 
both  throw  up  a  large  quantity  of  suckers,  which  should  not  be  allowed 
'■o  grow  if  a  crop  of  fruit  is  wanted. 

Fruit  medium,  nearl}r  globular,  light  red,  juicy,  not  very  firm ;  sep- 
arates freely ;  mild,  pleasant  flavor. 

Allen's  Red  Prolific. 

Same  origin  as  the  preceding.  Canes  strong,  upright,  without 
branches.     Spines  whitish,  rather  scattering. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular,  light  red  or  crimson,  rather  juicy, 
not  very  firm,  separates  freely,  productive. 


the   raspberry.  963 

American  Black. 

Common  Black-Cap.  Black  Baspberry. 

Thimbleberry.  Rubus  Occidentalis. 

This  Raspberry,  common  in  almost  every  field,  with  long,  rambling, 

Eurple  shoots,  and  flattened,  small,  black  berries,  is  everywhere  known, 
t  is  frequently  cultivated  in  gardens,  where,  if  kept  well  pruned,  it? 
fruit  is  much  lai"ger  and  finer.  Its  rich  acid  flavor  renders  it,  perhaps, 
the  finest  sort  for  kitchen  use  —  tarts,  puddings,  &c.  It  ripens  a  little 
earlier  than  most  of  the  European  sorts. 

American  Red. 
Common  Red.  Stoever. 

The  Common  Red  Raspberry  is  a  native  of  this  and  all  the  Middle 
States.  It  ripens  nearly  a  week  earlier  than  the  Antwerps,  bears  well, 
and  though  inferior  in  flavor  and  size  to  these  sorts,  is  esteemed  by  many 
persons,  particularly  for  flavoring  liqueurs. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  roundish,  light  red,  pleasant  subacid  in  flavor. 
Shoots  very  vigorous,  long,  upright,  and  branching,  grows  from  four  to 
six  feet  high.  Light  shiniug  brown,  with  purplish  spines.  Leaves  nar- 
row, light  green. 

American   White. 
Yellow  Cap.  Golden  Cap. 

A  variety  resembling  the  American  Black  in  all  respects,  except  in 
the  color  of  its  fruit,  which  is  pale  yellow  or  white,  and  the  flavor  not 
as  rich  or  sprightly. 

Arnold's   Orange. 

Originated  with  Charles  Arnold,  Paris,  Ontario,  C.  W.  Canes  strong, 
branching,  yellowish  brown,  almost  smooth,  and  produces  but  few  suckers. 

Fruit  large,  somewhat  shorter  than  Brinckle's  Orange,  and  of  a  dark 
er  orange  color,  unsurpassed  by  any  for  rich  flavor.      (Arnold's  MS.) 

Arnold's  Red. 

Same  origin  as  the  preceding.  A  strong  grower.  Canes  strong 
branching,  dark  purple,  somewhat  drooping.  Spines  slightly  purple, 
stout,  quite  numerous. 

Fruit  large,  red,  about  the  size  and  shape  of  Philadelphia,  but  of 
superior  flavor.  An  enormous  bearer  both  in  July  and  September. 
(Arnold's  MS.) 

August  Black. 

This  variety  was  received  from  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  Canes 
strong,  branching.      Spines  greenish,  quite  numerous. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  dark  red,  slight  bloom,  rather 
soft,  subacid. 

Autumn  Black. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  It  is  said  by  its  author  to  be 
propagated  only  from  seeds.     We  quote  his  description  of  the  fruit  • — 

"Fruit  medium  size  or  large,  dark  purple,  very  juicy  and  agree- 
able." 


964  the   raspberry. 

Bagley's  Perpetual. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  crimson,  brisk  subacid.     Of  poor  quality, 

Barnet. 

Cornwall's  Prolific.  Lord  Exmouth'a 

Cornwall's  Seedling.  Large  Bed. 

Barnet  Cane. 

An  old  English  variety.     Canes  long,  yellowish  green,  branching 
Fruit    large,  roundish  conical,  bright  purplish  red.      Pleasant   Os 
vor. 

Belle  de  Fontenay. 
Belle  d'Orleans. 

A  variety  producing  its  fruit  mainly  in  the  autumn.  It  suckers 
freely,  and  requires  to  be  carefully  thinned  out.  The  canes  should  all 
be  cut  down  in  spring  in  order  to  obtain  good  crops.  Canes  strong, 
stout,  branching.     Spines  purplish,  short,  and  stiff,  quite  numerous. 

Fruit  large,  long  conical.  Grains  large,  dark  crimson,  thin  bloom 
Flesh  moderately  firm,  juicy,  sprightly ;  adheres  slightly  to  the  core. 

Belle  de  Paluau. 

A  new  French  variety,  of  good  promise.  Canes  strong,  vigorous, 
upright.  Spines  short,  purplish,  rather  slender,  and  numerous  at 
base. 

Fruit  very  large,  conical,  a  little  obtuse,  bright  light  crimson. 
Grains  large,  regular,  a  few  hairs.  Flesh  quite  firm,  juicy,  rich.  Very 
good.      Separates  freely  from  the  germ  in  picking. 

Black. 

English  Black. 

This  is  a  hybrid  from  England.  An  old  variety.  Canes  mode- 
rately vigorous,  with  numerous  purple  spines. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  dark  crimson  or  purplish.  Grains  medium 
or  small,  compact.     Flesh  rather  firm,  brisk  subacid,  separates  freely. 

Brentford  Cane. 
English. 

Fruit  medium,  oval  conical,  dull  dark  red.  Inferior  to  the  best. 
Not  productive. 

Burlington. 
Prosser. 
Originated  by  Benjamin  Prosser,  of  Burlington,  N.  J.  There  is 
some  confusion  as  to  this  kind,  two  or  three  having  been  sent  out  under 
this  name.  The  one  we  have  is  moderately  vigorous  and  productive. 
Spines  greenish  white,  with  a  brownish  tinge,  slender,  and  more  numer- 
ous than  any  kind  we  have  ever  seen. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical.  Grains  rather  small,  compact,  scar- 
let.    Flesh  quite  firm,  juicy  sweet  and  good. 

Canada  Black  Cap. 

A  variety  of  American  Black,  which  we  have  not  seen,  Hit  said  to 
nave  been  brought  from  Canada  to  Piqua,  Ohio,  where  it  is  popular. 


the  raspberry.  961 

Carter's  Prolific. 
Prolific  (Carter's). 
An  English  variety.     Canes  strong,  with  purplish  spims. 
Fruit   large,  roundish   or   obtuse  conical,  deep  scarlet,  slight  bloom, 
Grains  medium  compact.     Flesh  rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet, 
pleasant.     Good. 

Catawissa. 

A  native  of  Columbia  Co.,  Penn.  Vigorous  and  very  productive. 
This  is  especially  valued  in  some  localities  as  an  autumn  or  late-bearing 
variety.  In  order  to  obtain  the  best  crops,  the  canes  should  all  be  cut 
away  in  spring,  and  as  the  new  sprouts  grow  they  should  be  thinned  to 
four  to  six  canes  only.  It  is  a  little  tender,  and  should  always  be 
covered  in  winter. 

Fruit  medium  size,  flattened,  dark  crimson,  covered  with  thick  bloom. 
Flavor  sprightly,  rather  acid,  more  suited  to  the  amateur  than  for  gen- 
eral cultivation.  Commences  ripening  about  the  first  of  August,  and 
continues  in  use  a  long  time. 

Clarke. 

Raised  by  E.  E.  Clarke,  New  Haven,  Conn.  Canes  very  strong,  vigo- 
rous, upright.  Spines  purplish,  rather  long  and  stiff.  Foliage  large, 
flat,  and  thick,  and  endures  heat  and  cold  better  than  any  European 
kind  wTe  have.  It  is  not  entirely  hardy,  but  more  so  than  any  foreign 
sort,  and  produces  better  crops  by  being  covered.  It  is  better  suited  to 
light  sandy  soils  than  any  of  its  class. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  regular.  Grains  large,  quite  hairy,  bright 
crimson.     Flesh  rather  soft,  juicy,  sweet,  and  excellent. 

Col.  Wilder. 

Originated  with  Dr.  Brinckle,  Philadelphia.  Strong  white  spines. 
Leaf  much  crimped.     Productive,  and  a  good  grower. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  semi-transparent,  yellowish  white  or  cream 
color,  pleasant  flavor,  but  not  rich. 

Cope. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Brinckle.  Canes  strong,  upright.  Spines  short, 
purplish,  numerous. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  conical,  or  nearly  globular.  Grains  compact, 
scarlet,  with  a  slight  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  and 
pleasant. 

Cretan  Red. 

A  rather  late  variety,  of  medium  quality. 

Fruit  of  medium  size,  globular,  inclining  to  conical,  deep  purplish 
red,  subacid,  and  good. 

Cushing. 

Originated  with  Dr.  Brinckle,  Philadelphia.  Canes  moderately 
rigorous.     Productive.     Spines  purplish,  long,  stiff,  rather  numerous. 

Fruit  roundish  conical,  regular  in  form,  crimson,  with  a  thin 
bloom,  sprightly  rich  acid  flavor.      Parts  freely  from  the  germ. 


•66  the  raspberry. 

Davison's  Thornless. 
Thornless  Black  Cap. 
Said  to  have  originated  in  the  garden  of  Mrs.  Mercy  Da  Tson,  G> 
wanda,  Angola,  Erie  Co.,  N.  Y.  It  differs  from  the  American  Black 
Cap  only  by  its  ripening  a  few  days  earlier.  It  is  nearly  as  vigorous, 
and  about. as  productive,  not  quite  as  large,  but  a  little  sweeter  and  th? 
canes  without  spines,  except  a  small  one  on  the  leaf  stalk. 

DOOLITTLE. 

American  Improved.  Joslyn's  Black  Cap. 

Doolittle's  Black  Cap.  Joslyn's  Improved. 

Joslyn's  Improved  Black  Cap. 

Introduced  by  Lean  tier  Joslyn,  of  Phelps,  Ontario  Co.,  N.  Y.  Canes 
very  vigorous,  branching.  Spines  whitish,  stout,  and  numerous.  Very 
productive. 

Fruit  similar  to  American  Black,  but  an  improvement  on  it,  and  is 
one  of  the  best  of  its  class  for  market. 

D  OUBLE-Be  ARING. 

Perpetual  Bearing.  Late  Liberian. 

A  variety  of  the  Antwerp,  formerly  esteemed  for  its  habit  of  bear- 
ing late  in  the  season  ;  but  is  now  surpassed  by  better  kinds. 

Duhring. 

Originated  with  Henry  Duhring,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Canes  strong. 
Spines  slightly  purplish,  not  very  strong,  but  quite  numerous. 

Fi'uit  large,  roundish  obtuse,  deep  red  or  crimson.  Grains  large, 
rather  soft,  sweet.     Good.     Separates  freely. 

Ellisdale. 

Described  by  H.  A.  Terry  as  having  been  found  growing  wild  upon 
the  Ellisdale  Farm,  in  Iowa.  It  is  a  variety  of  the  Purple  Cane  Family, 
but  of  stronger  growth. 

Fruit  large,  darker  in  color,  with  a  little  more  bloom,  and  about  the 
Bame  quality. 

Elm  City. 

A  hardy  sort,  size  and  flavor  much  like  Philadelphia.  Eight  to  ten 
days  earlier  than  other  sorts.    (F.  Trowbridge,  MS.) 

Elsie. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Samuel  Miller,  of  Bluffton,  Mo.,  who  describes 
it  as  very  large  and  excelleut.     We  have  not  fruited  it. 

Emily. 

A  seedling  from  the  Col.  Wilder.     White  spines. 
Fruit  large;,  conical,  sometimes  round,  often  shouldered,  which  dis- 
tinguishes it  from  the  other  varieties ;  light  yellow. 

English  Globe. 

Canes  strong.     Spines  short,  purplish,  moderately  numerous. 
Fnut    large,    obtuse    conical,     dark    crimson.       Flesh     soft,  juicy, 
sweet). 


the  raspberry.  967 

Fastollf. 
Filby. 

The  Fastollf  Raspberry  is  an  English  variety  of  high  reputation.  It 
derives  its  name  from  having  originated  near  the  ruins  of  an  old  castle, 
so  called,  in  Great  Yarmouth.  Canes  strong,  rather  erect,  branching, 
light  yellowish  brown,  with  few  pretty  strong  bristles. 

Fruit  very  large,  obtuse  or  roundish  conical,  bright  purplish  red, 
rich  and  high-flavored,  slightly  adhering  to  the  germ  in  picking. 

Franconia. 
Abel. 

This  was  imported  from  Viluiorin,  of  Paris,  under  this  name,  by  S. 
G.  Perkins,  Esq.,  of  Boston,  some  years  ago.  Its  crops  are  abundant, 
the  fruit  is  firm,  and  bears  carriage  to  market  well,  and  it  ripens  about 
a  week  later  than  Eed  Antwerp.  It  is  one  of  the  finest  for  preserving. 
Canes  strong,  spreading,  branching,  yellowish  brown,  with  scattered, 
rather  stout  purple  spines.    Leaves  rather  large,  very  deep  green. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  conical,  dark  purplish  red,  of  a  rich  acid  flavor, 
much  more  tart  and  brisk  than  that  of  the  Red  Antwerp. 

Naomi  so  closely  resembles  this  in  growth,  fruit,  &c,  that  we  ar« 
unable  to  see  any  difference,  yet  it  is  claimed  to  be  a  seedling,  differing 
in  the  canes  being  more  hardy  and  the  grains  of  less  size,  &c. 

French. 
Vice-President  French. 

Originated  with  Dr.  Brinckle.  A  little  later  than  most  sorts,  a  very 
productive,  vigorous  grower.  Canes .  very  strong,  tall  and  upright. 
Spines  purplish,  stout  and  short,  numerous  at  base,  few  at  top.  Foliage 
large,  deep  green,  with  many  deep  veins. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  or  very  obtuse  conical,  inclining  to 
oblate,  deep  crimson,  slight  bloom.  Grains  large.  Flesh  rather  firm,  sweet 
and  very  good.     Separates  freely. 

Fulton. 

A  seedling  of  the  French.     Raised  by  Dr.  Brinckle. 
Fruit   large,  round,  crimson,    productive ;  a    vigorous    grower,   red 
spines. 

Garden. 
Doc-little's  Red  Flavored  Black  Cap. 
A  variety  of  the  Black  Cap,  lighter  in  color,  more  acid.     Good  cook- 
ing sort. 

Gen.  Patterson. 

A  seedling  of  the  Col.  Wilder.  Raised  by  Dr.  Brinckle ;  vigorous 
grower,  very  productive,  red  spines. 

Fruit  large,  round,  crimson ;  does  not  part  readily  from  the  stem. 

Golden  Thornless. 

A  large  variety  of  the  American  white  or  yellow,  introduced  from 
the  west  by  Purdy  and  Johnston,  of  Palmyra,  N.  Y.  It  is  moderately 
vigorous,  very  productive,  and  has  but  few  spines. 


968  THE    RASPBERRY. 

Fruit  equal  in  size  to  the  McCor-mick,  oblate,  occasionally  conical 
slight  bloom,  dull  orange  or  darker  than  the  American  yellow,  rathe* 
firru,  juicy,  sweet  and  pleasant. 

HlLDRETBT. 

Introduced  by  Isaac  Hildreth,  of  Big  Stream  Point,  Yates  Co.,  N.  Y. 
as  a  native  sort  near  that  place.  It  does  not  grow  readily  from  the  tips 
of  the  canes  and  produces  but  few  suckers.  Canes  rather  strong.  Spines 
purplish,  stiff,  numerous. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  dull  red  or  maroon,  thick  bloom,  half 
firm,  juicy,  sweet,  subacid  and  similar  to  Purple  Cane  in  flavor. 

Hornet. 

Raised  by  Souchet,  near  Paris,  very  productive.  Canes  very  strong, 
vigorous,  upright.  Spines  purplish,  rather  stout,  and  numerous  at  the 
base. 

Fruit  very  large,  conical,  often  irregular.  Grains  large,  quite  hairy, 
compact,  crimson.  Flesh  rather  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  and  good.  Separates 
freely. 

Hudson  River  Antwerp. 

New  Red  Antwerp. 

Origin  unknown,  but  as  far  as  we  have  been  able  to  trace  it,  was  first 
brought  to  this  country  by  the  late  Mr.  Briggs,  of  Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y. 
Its  firmness  of  flesh  and  parting  readily  from  the  germ,  together  with  its 
productiveness,  render  it  the  most  popular  variety  for  market.  Canes 
short,  but  of  sturdy  growth,  almost  spineless,  of  a  very  peculiar  gray  or 
mouse  color. 

Fruit  large,  conical.  Flesh  firm,  rather  dull  red,  with  a  slight  bloom, 
not  very  juicy,  but  of  a  pleasant,  sweet  flavor. 

Huntsman's  Giant. 

Raised  by  Prof.  T.  W.  Huntsman,  Flushing,  L.  I.  Fuller  describes 
it  as  similar  to  the  Franconia  in  size,  shape,  and  quality,  but  the  canea 
taller,  and  having  a  peculiar  grayish  white  bark. 

Imperial. 

A  large  French  variety.  Canes  pale  green,  nearly  white,  with  a 
pale  red  blush. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  bright  red.  Flesh  firm,  excellent.  (Gar. 
Mon.) 

Imperial  Red. 

Red  Imperial. 

A  variety  grown  in  New  Jersey,  where  it  proves  hardy. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish,  scarlet,  half  firm,  j  uicy,  pleasant. 

Jouet. 

A  French  variety.    Canes  yellowish  green.     Spines  whitish,  numerous. 
Fruit  small,  long  conical,  bright  lemon  yellow,  with  a  whitish  bloom. 
Flesh  soft,  sweet.      Only  good. 


THE  BASPBERRY.  969 

KlRTLAND. 

Cincinnati  Red  ? 

Origin  unknown.  A  vigorous,  upright  grower,  not  much  branched, 
Spines  whitish,  not  very  stout  nor  numerous;  the  earliest  to  ripen,  suckers 
freely. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  or  obtuse  conical,  inclining  to  oval.  Grains 
small,  light  crimson,  slight  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  soft,  not  very  juicy, 
nor  high  flavored ;  separates  freely. 

Knevet's  Giant. 

This  is  one  of  the  strongest  growing  varieties.  Very  productive, 
and  of  excellent  flavor.  Canes  strong,  erect.  Spines  small,  reddish, 
very  few. 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  obtuse  conical,  deep  red,  firm  in  texture, 
and  hangs  a  little  to  the  germ  in  picking.  Berries  sometimes  double, 
giving  them  a  cock's-comb  appearance. 

Large-Fruited  Monthly. 
Rivers'  New  Large  Monthly. 

Canes  moderately  strong,  upright.     Spines  red,  stout,  and  numerous. 
Fruit  above   medium  size,   roundish  conical,  crimson.     Flesh  soft, 
sweet,  and  excellent. 

LlNDLEY. 

Raised  by  Joseph  B.  Lindley,  of  Newark,  N.  J.  Canes  strong,  tall, 
upright,  much  branched.  Spines  greenish  and  stout,  numerous ;  suckers 
too  freely. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  conical,  a  little  obtuse,  crimson.  Grains 
medium  to  large,  compact.  Flesh  rather  soft,  juicy,  sweet,  and  good; 
adheres  slightly. 

Lum's  Ever-Bearing. 
Autumn  Black  Raspberry. 

Raised  by  H.  B.  Lum,  of  Sandusky,  O.  This  variety  is  much  like 
the  Ohio  Ever-bearing  Black  Cap,  and  is  increased  by  layers  from  the  tips 
of  the  canes.  Like  the  Catawissa,  it  is  advisable,  when  a  full  autumn 
crop  is  desired,  to  cut  away  the  canes  in  spring.  It  is  similar  in  size 
to  the  Black  Cap,  but  not  quite  as  firm. 

McCORMICK. 

Miami  Black  Cap.         Large  Miami  Black  Cap.         Mammoth  Cluster. 
Collinsville  Miami       Improved  Miami.  Superior  Miami. 

A  variety  of  the  American  Black  Cap,  with  stronger  and  more  vigo- 
rous canes,  having  fewer  spines,  and  more  productive,  and  is  the  largest 
and  best  Black  Cap  we  have  yet  seen. 

Fruit  similar  in  form  to  American  Black  Cap,  bu;  of  much  largor  size, 
of  deeper  color,  more  bloom,  juice,  and  sweetness. 


970  the  raspberry. 

Magnum  Bonum. 

A  white  or  yellowish  fruit,  of  large  size,  rather  firm  flesh,  and 
finely  flavored,  similar  to  the  Old  Yellow  Antwerp.  Very  productive 
and  vigorous. 

Miami  Black. 

Little  Miami  Black  Cap. 

A  common  Black  Cap,  originally  found  growing  along  the  Miami 
River,  in  Ohio,  from  whence  its  name.  It  is  of  less  value  than  the 
McCormick,  but  very  vigorous,  very  productive,  of  a  more  bi*ownish 
red,  not  quite  as  sweet,  and  not  quite  as  late  in  ripening. 

Mrs.  Wood. 

Originated  with  Mrs.  Reuben  Wood,  near  Cleveland,  O.  Supposed 
a  hybrid  between  the  Black  Cap  and  Purple  Cane  families.  Canes 
very  strong,  much  branched,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse,  purplish  red,  with  a  bloom.  Flesh 
moderately  firm,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid ;  separates  freely.  Matures 
its  crop  quite  late,  and  is  on  that  account  valuable. 

Mote's  Ever-Bearing. 

Raised  by  L.  S.  Mote,  of  West  Milton,  O.  A  new  Ever-bearing  va- 
riety, of  vigorous  growth,  somewhat  like  Catawissa.  Canes  of  a  brownish 
color,  branching.  Spines  slender,  but  sharp,  and  quite  numerous  at  the 
base,  few  at  the  top. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse,  dark  red,  with  a  bloom.  Grains  quite 
large,  rather  firm,  juicy,  subacid ;  separates  freely. 

Northumberland  Fill-Basket. 

A  foreign  variety.  Canes  strong,  vigorous,  with  numerous  rather 
strong  crimson-colored  spines. 

Fruit  somewhat  globular  or  obtuse  conical.  Grains  large,  compact, 
deep  red,  with  a  good,  pleasant,  slightly  acid  flavor ;  adheres  a  Little 
to  the  core. 

Nottingham  Scarlet. 

An  old  English  variety,  of  medium  size,  obtuse  conical,  red,  good 
flavor. 

October  Red. 

Merveille  de  Quatre  Saisons. 

A  French  variety.  Requires  the  canes  to  be  cut  down  in  spring  ir 
order  to  produce  much  fruit.     Canes  strong,  upright.     Spines  purplish. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic  or  obtuse  conical,  crim- 
■on..     Flesh  rather  soft,  juicy,  sweet,  and  separates  freely. 

October  Yellow. 
Merveille  de  Quatre  Saisons. 

This  is  of  same  origin  and  similar  to  the  above,  except  that  th» 
fruit  is  of  a  yellow  color  and  not  quite  as  firm. 


the  raspberry.  971 

Ohio  Ever-Bearing. 

Ohio  Raspberry. 

This  is  a  native  of  Ohio.  It  is  precisely  like  the  American  Biach 
Raspberry,  or  Black  Cap,  in  all  respects,  except  that  it  has  the  valuable 
property  of  bearing  abundant  crops  of  fine  fruit  till  late  in  the  season. 

Orange. 
Brinckle's  Orange. 

Originated  with  Dr.  W.  D.  Brinckle.  It  is  unquestionably  the 
largest  and  finest  flavored  light-colored  Raspberry  yet  known,  and 
deserves  a  place  in  every  garden.  Canes  strong,  branched.  Strong 
white  spines.     Very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  sometimes  ovate,  beautiful  orange  color.  Grains 
large.     Flesh  juicy,  a  little  soft,  sweet,  rich.     Excellent. 

Philadelphia. 

Supposed  a  chance  native  variety,  found  wild  in  the  county  of  Phila- 
delphia, Pa.  The  canes  have  proved  hardy,  very  productive,  and  well 
suited  to  light  soils  in  the  southern  portions  of  the  Middle  States. 
Canes  vigorous,  tall,  branching,  almost  free  from  spines. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  dark  crimson  or  purplish  red.  Flesh 
rather  soft,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid;  separates  freely.     Good. 

Pilate. 

This  is  a  French  variety,  of  good  flavor.  Canes  moderately  strong, 
with  a  tinge  of  purple.     Spines  purplish. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  crimson,  with  a  slight  bloom.  Flesh  moderately 
firm,  juicy,  sweet.     Good.     Separates  freely. 

Prince  of  "Wales. 
Cutbush's  Prince  of  Wales. 

An  English  variety.     Canes  strong,  nearly  upright.    Spines  purplish. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  somewhat  obtuse.  Grains  small,  rather  com- 
pact, regular,  quite  hairy,  crimson.  Flesh  moderately  firm.  Sweet 
and  very  good.     Separates  freely. 

Prince's  Globose. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Pi'ince,  Flushing,  L.  I.  Canes  strong,  upright, 
branching.     Spines  long,  very  stout,  and  numerous.    Suckers  numerous. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  globular  or  very  obtuse  conical.  Graius  very 
large,  dull  red,  with  a  deep  bloom.  'Flesh  coarse,  rather  dry,  crum- 
bling.    Not  valuab's. 

Purple  Cane. 

Purple  Proline.  English  Purple.  Red  Prolific 

Huntsville.  English   [toil  Allen,  erroneously. 

A  native  variety.  Canes  strong  and  tall,  often  branenrng,  reddish 
purple.     Spines  rather  long,  still",  and  moderately  numerous. 


972  THE    RASPBERRY. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oblate,  purplish  maroon,  slight  bloom  Flesh 
soft,  juicy,  and  rich. 

Red  Antwerp. 

Old  Red  Antwerp.  Howland's  Red  Antwerp. 

Knevett's  Antwerp.  Framboisier  a  Gros  Fruit. 

True  Red  Antwerp.  Burley. 

This  is  the  common  Red  Antwerp  of  England  and  this  country,  and 
is  quite  disthirt  from  the  North  Paver  variety,  which  is  shorter  in 
growth,  and  has  a  conical  fruit.  Canes  strong  and  tall.  Spines  light  red, 
rather  numerous,  and  pretty  strong. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  globular  or  obtuse  conical.  Color  dark  red,  with 
large  grains,  and  covered  with  a  thick  bloom.  Flesh  juicy,  with  a  brisk 
vinous  flavor. 

Red  Pearl. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  light  red,  moderately  firm.  Scarcely 
good. 

Riley's  Early. 

From  New  Jersey.  It  is  described  as  of  medium  size,  good  flavor, 
and  quite  early.     We  have  not  seen  it. 

Rivers'  Orange. 
Large  Orange. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England.  Canes  strong,  branching. 
Spines  greenish,  stout,  not  numerous. 

Fruit  medium  to  large  size,  roundish  conical,  pale  reddish  orange  or 
deep  orange.  Grains  large.  Flesh  soft,  juicy,  subacid,  but  not  rich; 
separates  freely. 

Russell's  Red. 

Raised  by  Dr.  G.  W.  Russell,  of  Hartford,  Conn.  Belonging  to  the 
Antwerp  family.    Canes  strong.    Spines  short,  stout,  whitish,  productive. 

Fruit  large,  corneal,  scarlet.  Grains  medium,  compact.  Flesh  rather 
firm,  juicy,  sweet;  separates  freely. 

Semper  Fidelis. 

An  English  variety.  Canes  strong,  upright.  Spines  purplish,  short, 
and  stiff. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  somewhat  irregular,  dull  red,  with  a  thick  bloom. 
Grains  medium,  compact.     Flesh*  firm,  not  very  juicy,  subacid.     Good. 

Seneca  Black  Cap. 

A  variety  of  the  American  Black  Cap,  raised  by  Mr.  Dell,  of  Seneca 
Co.,  N.  Y.  It  is  larger  and  later  than  Doolittle,  very  vigorous,  very 
productive.     Spines  reddish,  strong,  and  numerous. 

Fruit  rather  larger  than  Doolittle,  not  as  black,  but  with  a  shade  of 
purple,  light  bloom,  juicy,  and  sweet. 


THE    RASPBERRY.  973 

SOUCHETTI. 
White  Transparent. 

A  French  variety,  raised  by  M.  Soucket,  near  Paris,  France.  Canes 
moderately  strong.     Spines  greenish,  short,  slender,  scatteiing. 

Fruit  rather  large,  conical,  a  little  elongated.  Grains  medium,  com- 
pact, pale  creamy  yellow.  Flesh  rather  soft,  moderately  juicy,  mild 
sweet,  not  rich  ;  separates  freely. 

Summit. 

Of  the  American  Yellow  Cap  class,  raised  by  O.  T.  Hobbs,  Kai 
dolph,  Pa.     Canes  strong,  branching.     Spines  stout  and  numerous. 

Fruit  large  for  its  class,  roundish  oblate,  orange  color,  with  pink  at 
the  base  of  most  of  the  grains,  which  are  rather  small  and  compact. 
Much  like  Yellow  Cap  in  form,  but  the  flesh  firmer  and  richer. 

Surprise. 

This  is  another  variety  of  the  American  Black  Cap,  found  wild 
and  introduced  to  notice  by  George  Husman,  of  Bluffton,  Mo.  In 
growth  its  canes  have  few  and  short  spines,  and  have  stiff  upright 
branches. 

The  fruit  is  larger,  more  conical,  darker  in  color,  with  a  peculiar 
deep  bloom,  and  fewer  seeds  than  the  Common  Black  Cap. 

Sweet  Yellow  Antwerp. 

An  old  English  variety,  sweet  but  unprofitable.     Canes  slender. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  light  yellow.     Grains  small. 
Flesh  soft,  juicy,  sweet. 

Thunderer. 

Foreign.  Strong  grower.  Canes  erect.  Spines  red,  not  numerous, 
productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  obtuse  conical,  deep  red,  rather  acid  flavor. 

Victoria. 

Roger's  Victoria. 

An  English  variety,  of  rather  dwarf  and  delicate  habit.  It  is  an 
autumn-bearing  sort. 

Fruit  rather  large,  dark  red.     Good. 

Walker. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Brinckle.     Canes  strong,  with  few  reddish  spines. 
Fruit   large,  round,  deep  crimson,  solid,  adheres  firmly  to  the  stem, 
keeps  long  in  perfection  on  the  plant,  bears  carriage  well. 

White  Canada. 

Raised  by  Charles  Arnold,  Paris,  Ontario,  C.  W.  Canes  vigorous, 
upright,  brownish  yellow      Spines  white,  quite  stout,  numerous. 

Fruit  about  the  shape  of  Biinckle's  orange,  pale  yellow,  of  a  decid- 
edly Antwerp  flavor.      (C.  Arnold,  MS.) 


974  THE    STRAWBERRY. 

WoODSIDE. 

Originated  in  New  Jersey.  One  of  the  Black  Cap  family  Canei 
ligit  crimson  or  dark  scarlet.     Spines  few  and  scattering. 

Fruit  very  large,  globular,  black,  with  little  bloom,  sweet,  juicy,  and 
good.     Produces  a  second  crop  in  autumn.      (Fuller.) 

Woodward. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Brinckle.  Tins  is  one  of  the  smallest  varieties, 
though  larger  than  the  ordinary  wild  Raspberry. 

Fruit  round,  sometimes  roundish  '>vate,  crimson,  ripens  quite  early. 

Yellow    Antwerp. 
White  Antwerp.  Double -Bearing  Yellow. 

The  Yellow  Antwerp  is  a  large,  light-colored  Raspbeny,  and,  v  ith 
high  cultivation,  a  good  sort,  but  greatly  surpassed  by  the  >  'range. 
Canes  strong  and  Vigorous,  light  yellow,  sometimes  with  many  bristles 
or  spines,  often  nearly  smooth.      Productive. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  conical,  pale  yellow,  sweet,  and  of  good  flavor. 

Yellow  Pearl. 

A  variety  of  the  Yellow  Cap.  More  vigorous,  very  productive, 
often  produces  a  fall  crop. 

Fruit  darker  in  color,  with  a  slight  bloom,  and  more  sprightly  in 
flavor. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

THE    STRAWBERRY. 


Fragaria  (of  species).  L.     Rosacea,  of  botanists. 

Fruitier,  of  the  French  ','Erdbei  German  ;   Aadbesie,  Dutch  ;    Pianta 

di  Fragola,  Italian  ;  and  Fresa,  Spanish. 

The  Strawberry  is  the  most  delicious  and  the  most  wholesome  of  all 
berries,  and  the  most  universally  cultivated  in  all  gardens  of  temperate 
climates.  It  is  a  native  of  the  temperate  latitudes  of  both  hemispheres, 
— of  Europe,  Asia,  North  and  South  America,— though  the  species 
found  in  different  parts  of  the  world  are  of  distinct  habit,  and  have  each 
given  rise,  through  cultivation,  to  different  classes  of  fruit. 

The  name  of  this  fruit  is  by  some  understood  to  have  arisen  from  the 
common  and  ancient  practice  of  laving  straw  between  the  plants  to  keep 
the  fruit  lean.  Another  reason  of  the  origin  of  the  name  conies  from 
the  custom  of  children  stringing  the  berries  on  straws. 

In  the  olden  times  the  variety  of  strawberries  was  very  limited,  and  the 
garden  was  chiefly  supplied  with  material  for  new  plantations  from  the 
woods.  Old  Tusser,  in  his  "  Five  Hundred  Points  of  Good  Husbandry,** 
points  out  where  the  best  plants  of  his  time  were  to  be  had,  and  turns 


THE    STRAWBERRY.  976 

them  over   with  an   abruj^.,   iarmer-like  contempt  of  little  matters,  to 
feminine  hands :   - 

"Wife,  into  the  garden,  and  set  me  a  plot 
With  strawberry  roots,  of  the  best  to  be  got ; 
Such  growing  abroad,  among  thorns  in  the  wood. 
Well  chosen  and  picked,  prove  excellent  good. " 

The  Strawberry,  though  well  known,  is  of  comparatively  little  value 
in  the  South  of  Europe.  Old  Roman  and  Greek  poets  have  not,  there- 
fore, sung  its  praises  ;  but  after  that  line  of  a  northern  bard, 

"  A  dish  of  ripe  strawberries,  smothered  in  cream," 

which  we  consider  a  perfect  pastoral  idyl  (as  the  German  school  would 
say)  in  itself,  nothing  remains  to  be  wished  for. 

Ripe,  blusliing  Strawberries,  eaten  from  the  plant,  or  served  with 
sugar  and  cream,  are  certainly  Arcadian  dainties  with  a  true  paradisiacal 
flavor,  and,  fortunately,  they  are  so  easily  grown  that  the  poorest  owner 
of  a  few  feet  of  ground  may  have  them  in  abundance. 

To  the  confectioner  this  fruit  is  also  invaluable,  communicating  its 
flavor  to  ices,  and  forming  several  delicate  preserves.  In  Paris  a  cooling 
drink,  bavaroi.se  a  la  grecque,  is  made  of  the  juice  of  strawberries  and 
lemons,  with  the  addition  of  sugar  and  water. 

The  Strawberry  is  perhaps  the  most  wholesome  of  all  fruits,  being 
very  easy  of  digestion,  and  never  growing  acid  by  fermentation,  as  most 
other  fruits  do.  The  often  cpioted  instance  of  the  great  Linnaeus  curing 
himself  of  the  gout  by  partaking  freely  of  strawberries — a  proof  of  its 
great  wholesomeness — is  a  letter  of  credit  which  this  tempting  fruit  has 
long  enjoyed,  for  the  consolation  of  those  who  are  looking  for  a  bitter 
concealed  under  every  sweet. 

Propagation  and  Soil.  The  strawberry  propagates  itself  very  ra- 
pidly by  runners,*  which  are  always  taken  to  form  new  plantations  or 
beds.  These  are  taken  off  the  parent  plants  early  in  spring,  or  in  Au- 
gust and  September,  and  at  once  planted  in  the  rows  or  beds  where  they 
are  to  fruit. 

The  best  soil  for  a  strawberry  is  a  deep  rich  loam.  Deep  it  irmst 
be,  if  large  berries  and  plentiful  crops  are  desired ;  and  the  wisest 
course,  therefore,  where  the  soil  is  naturally  thin,  lies  in  trenching  and 
manuring  the  plot  of  ground  thoroughly  before  putting  out  the  plants. 
But  even  if  this  is  not  necessary,  it  should  be  dug  deeply,  and  well  en- 
riched with  strong  manure  beforehand. 

The  best  exposure  for  strawberries  is  an  open  one,  fully  exposed  to 
the  sun  and  bight. 

Culture  in  Rows.  The  finest  strawberries  are  always  obtained 
when  the  plants  are  kept  in  rows,  at  such  a  distance  apart  as  to  give  suf- 
ficient space  for  the  roots,  and  abundance  of  light  and  air  for  the  leaves. 

In  planting  a  plot  of  strawberries  in  rows,  the  rows  should  be  two 
feet  apart,  and  the  plants  of  the  large-growing  kinds,  two  feet  from 
each  other  in  the  rows ;  of  the  smaller  growing  kinds,  from  one  foot  to 
eighteen  inches  is  sufficient.  The  runners  must  be  kept  down  by  cut- 
ting them  off  at  least  three  times  a  year,  and  the  ground  must  be  main- 
tained in  good  order  by  constant  dressing.     During  the  first  year  a  row 

*  Excepting  the  Bush  Alpines,  which  have  no  runners,  and  are  propagated  by 
division  of  the  roots 


576  THE    STRAWBERRY. 

of  any  small  vegetables  may  be  sown  in  the  spaces  between  the  rows. 
Every  atitumn,  if  the  plants  are  not  luxuriant,  a  light  coat  of  manure 
should  be  dug  in  between  the  rows;  but  if  they  are  very  thrifty  it 
should  be  omitted,  as  it  would  cause  them  to  run  too  much  to  leaf. 

A  light  top-dressing  of  leaves,  or  any  good  compost,  applied  late  in 
the  fall,  greatly  promotes  the  vigor  of  the  plants,  and  s<  cures  the  most 
tender  kinds  against  the  effects  of  an  unusually  cold  winter.  Before  the 
fruit  ripens  the  ground  between  the  rows  should  be  covered  with 
straw,  or  light  new-mown  grass,  to  keep  it  clean. 

A  plantation  of  this  kind  in  rows  will  be  found  to  bear  the  largest 
and  finest  fruit,  which,  being  so  fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  will  always 
be  sweeter  and  higher  flavored  than  that  grown  in  crowded  beds. 

Culture  in  alternate  Strips.  A  still  more  easy  and  economical 
mode  is  that  of  growing  the  strawberry  in  strips. 

Early  in  April,  or  in  August,  being  provided  with  a  good  stock  of  strong 
young  plants,  select  a  suitable  piece  of  good  deep  soil.  Dig  in  a  heavy 
coat  of  stable  manure,  pulverizing  well  and  raking  the  top  soil.  Strike 
out  the  rows,  three  feet  apart,  with  a  line.  The  plants  should  now  be 
planted  along  each  line,  about  a  foot  apart  in  the  row.  They  will  soon 
send  out  runners,  and  these  runners  should  be  allowed  to  occupy  a 
width  of  one  foot,  leaving  an  alley  of  two  feet,  which  is  kept  clear  from 
weeds,  and  is  used  to  walk  in  when  gathering  the  fruit. 

The  occupied  strip  or  bed  of  runners  will  now  give  a  heavy  crop  of 
strawberries,  and  the  open  strip  of  two  feet  will  serve  as  an  alley  from 
which  to  gather  the  fruit.  After  the  crop  is  over,  dig  and  prepare  this 
alley  or  strip  for  the  occupancy  of  the  new  runners  for  the  next  season's 
crop.  The  runners  from  the  old  strip  will  now  speedily  cover  the  new 
space  allotted  to  them,  and  will  perhaps  require  a  partial  thinning  out 
to  have  them  evenly  distributed.  As  soon  as  this  is  the  case,  say  about 
the  middle  of  August,  dig  under  the  whole  of  the  old  plants  with  a 
light  coat  of  manure.  The  surface  may  be  then  sown  with  turnips  or 
spinage,  which  will  come  off  before  the  next  season  of  fruits. 

In  this  way  the  strips  or  beds  occupied  by  the  plants  are  reversed 
every  season,  and  the  same  plot  of  ground  may  thus  be  continued  for 
years,  but  less  productive  than  when  new  land  is  taken. • 

It  may  be  remarked  that  the  Alpine  and  European  Wood  strawber- 
ries will  do  well  and  bear  longer  in  a  rather  shaded  situation.  The 
Bush-Alpine,  an  excellent  sort,  having  no  runners,  makes  one  of  the 
neatest  borders  for  quarters  or  beds  in  the  kitchen  garden,  and  produces 
considerable  fruit  till  the  season  of  late  frosts.  If  the  May  crop  of 
blossoms  is  taken  off,  they  will  give  a  moderate  crop  in  September. 

To  accelerate,  the  ripening  of  early  kinds  in  the  open  garden,  it  is  only 
necessary  to  plant  rows  or  beds  on  the  south  side  of  a  wall  or  tight 
fence.  A  still  simpler  mode,  by  which  their  maturity  will  be  hastened 
ten  days,  is  that  of  throwing  up  a  ridge  of  soil  three  feet  high,  running 
east  and  west,  and  planting  it  in  rows  on  the  south  side.  (The  north 
side  may  als<  be  planted  with  later  sorts,  which  will  be  somewhat  re- 
tarded in  ripening.) 

Hermaphrodite  and  Pistillate  Plants. — A  great  number  of  ex- 
periments have  been  made,  and  a  great  deal  has  been  written  lately,  in 
this  country,  regarding  the  most  certain  mode  of  producing  large  crop* 
of  this  fruit. 

Cultivators  divide  all  Strawberries  into  classes,  characterized  by  theii 


THE    STRAWBERRY.  97? 

blossoms.  The  first  of  these  they  call  staminate  (or  male),  from  the 
stamens  being  chiefly  developed.  The  second  they  call  hermaphrodite  (or 
perfect),  from  their  having  both  stamens  and  pistils  developed.  The  third 
are  called  pistillate  (or  female),  from  the  pistils  being  chiefly  developed. 

The  first  class  really  does  not  exist  among  cultivated  varieties,  be- 
cause a  pure  male  variety,  or  one  producing  only  male  flowers,  cannot 
bear  fruit. 

In  planting  strawberry  beds  it  is  important,  therefore,  to  the  cultiva- 
tor to  know  which  are  the  perfect,  or  hermaphrodite,  and  which  are  the 
pistillate  varieties — as  they  are  found  to  be  permanent  in  these  cha- 
racters. We  have  accordingly  designated  these  traits  in  the  descriptions 
of  the  varieties  which  follow. 

Upon  the  relative  proportion  of  hermaphrodites,  cultivators  are  not 
absolutely  agreed.  Some  considering  one  plant  of  a  hermaphrodite 
sufficient  to*  impregnate  ten  or  twelve  pistillates  j  others  again  set 
twenty  pnstillates  to  one.  The  hermaphrodite,  or  perfect  flowering 
sorts,  require  no  special  care  of  this  kind,  and  are  generally  preferred  by 
planters,  and  are  considered  fully  as  productive  as  an  entire  pistillate, 
even  when  most  advantageously  impregnated. 

STRAWBERRY    BLOSSOM& 


1 
Perfect  or  Hermaphrodite  blossom. 

Nothing  is  easier  than  to  distinguish  the  two  classes  of  strawberries 
when  in  blossom.  In  the  Hermaphrodite,  the  long  yellow  anthers  (a),  bear- 
ing the  fine  dust  or  pollen,  are  abundant.  In  the fiistillate,  only  the  cluster 
of  pistils  (b),  looking  like  a  very  minute  green  strawberry,  is  visible 
(that  is,  to  the  common  observer,  for  the  male  organs  are  merely  rudi- 
mentary, and  not  developed),  while  the  perfect,  or  hermaphrodite  flower, 
as  seen  in  the  drawing,  has  both  stamens  and  pistils  developed. 

Varieties. 

The  varieties  of  this  fruit  are  very  numerous,  indeed  quite  unnecessa- 
rily so  for  all  useful  purposes.  They  were  formerly  divided  into  classes, 
designated  as  the  pine  and  scarlet,  but  the  introductions  of  late  years 
have  become  so  intermingled  as  to  make  reference  thereto  of  no  prac- 
tical value,  if  indeed  it  can  be  done  correctly. 

The  characters  of  the  flowers  corresponding  with  the  above  are  noted 
in  the  text  by  the  words  Hermaphrodite  and  Pistillate. 

As  before  remarked,  the  varieties  of  the  Strawberry  are  very  nume- 
rous. They  are  also  comparatively  evanescent.  We  have  therefore 
omitted  to  name  or  describe  many  sorts  once  recorded,  because  of  a 
doubt  as  to  their  \  resent  existence.     Again,  others  have  perhaps  only  a 

62 


978  THE    STRAWBERRY. 

local  habitation  and  name,  and,  possessing  no  superior  qualities,  are  not 
worthy  of  perpetuation,  and  are  therefore  omitted. 

Adair. 

Nimorod. 

An  English  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  dark  red.      Flesh  deep  red,  soft,  hollow  at  corei 

Admiral  Dundas. 

An  English  variety,  of  vigorous  habit.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit  large.     Color  pale  scarlet.     Flesh  moderately  firm,  juicy,  with 
a  good  but  not  high  flavor. 

Agriculturist. 
Abraham  Lincoln.  President. 

Raised  by  Seth  Boyden,  Newark,  N  J.  Plant  vigorous,  foliage  dark 
green;  hardy  and  very  productive.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  elongated,  often  with  a  neck.  Sur- 
face somewhat  uneven ;  first  berries  often  cock's-comb  shape,  deep  crim- 
son.    Flesh  dark  red,  quite  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich. 

Ajax. 
i 

An  English  variety.      A   large  dark-colored  fruit,  of  a  blunt  ovate 

form,  with   a  deep-colored  flesh,  well  flavored  and  good.      Vines  not 

hardy.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Alice  Maud. 
Princess  Alice  Maud. 

A  foreign  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  conical.  Color  dark  glossy  scarlet.  Flesh  light  scarlet, 
juicy,  rich,  and  excellent. 

Ambrosia. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  dark  shining  crimson.  Flesh  juicy,  rich. 
(Hogg.) 

America. 

Raised  by  J.  Keech,  Waterloo,  N.  Y.,  who  informs  us  they  ripen 
nearly  all  at  the  same  time,  and  quite  as  early  as  the  Early  Scarlet. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  conical,  often  wedge  shape,  crimson.  Flesh  quite 
firm,  juicy,  rich  subacid. 

Ariadne. 

Pistillate. 

Fruit  rather  large,  conical,  slight  neck,  light  scarlet,  sweet,  fine  fl* 
Tor.     (Hov.  Mag.) 


the  strawberry.  979 

Austin. 
Austin  Seedling.  Austin  Shaker.  Shaker's  Seedling. 

Originated  at  the  Shaker  Settlement,  near  Albany,  N.  Y.  Hardy  and 
productive.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  light  scarlet.  Flesh  white,  rather  soft, 
acid,  and  deficient  in  flavor. 

Barnes  Mammoth. 

Raised  by  D.  H.  Barnes,  of  Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y.  Plant  very  vigo- 
rous, very  productive,  and  said  to  be  one  of  the  best  for  market. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical.  Surface  somewhat  un- 
even ;  crimscn.     Flesh  scarlet,  firm,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid. 

Baron  Deman  de  Lenniok. 

Fruit  very  large,  elongated  flattened  cone,  bight  scarlet.  Flesh 
pink,  solid,  sweet.     (Fuller.) 

Bicolor. 

Foreign. 

Fruii  large,  conical,  rich  blush  red.     Flesh  moderately  firm. 

Bicton  Pine. 

Barnes'  White.  Virgin  Queen. 

An  English  variety,  but  too  tender  for  our  climate. 
Fruit  large,  roundish.     Color  white,  with  a  tinge  of  pink  on  the 
eunny  side.     Flesh  tender,  delicate,  mild  and  pleasant,  but  not  rich. 


Bijou. 

Raised  by  M.  De  Jonghe.     Not  profitable. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  bright  crimson  or  scarlet.     Flesh  white,  firm. 

Bishop's  Orange. 

Bishop's  New.  Orange  Hudson  Bay. 

Pistillate.     Vines  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  conical,   regular.       Color  light  scarlet,  approaching 
orange.     Flesh  rather  firm,  rich,  and  excellent. 

Black  Prince. 
Black  Imperial.        CuthilTs  Black  Prince.        Malcolm's  Aberdeen  Seedling. 

A  foreign  variety,  and,  when  in  perfection,  of  the  best  quality. 
Variable.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  regular  roundish  or  ovate  depressed.  Color  very  deep 
crimson,  almost  black,  glossy.  Flesh  deep  crimson,  rather  firm,  rich, 
and  high-flavored. 


980  the  strawberry. 

Black  Roseberry. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  round,  dark  red  or  purplish,  pleasant  flavor 
moderate  bearer. 

Bonte  de  St.  Julian. 
A  foreign  variety. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  conical,  bright  scarlet.  Flesh  tinged 
with  red,  rich,  sugary. 

Boston  Pine. 

Bartlett. 

Raised  by  C.  M.  Hovey,  Boston,  Mass.  This  fine  Strawberry,  tc 
have  it  in  perfection,  requires  rich,  deep  soil,  and  to  be  grown  in  hills 
or  bunches  eighteen  or  twenty  inches  apart  each  way.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  slightly  conical.  Color  deep  glossy 
crimson.  Flesh  rather  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  of  excellent  flavor — an  un- 
certain variety  in  many  places. 

BOUDINOT. 

Originated  with  H.  Boudinot,  Alexandria,  Licking  Co.,  O.  Herma- 
phrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  rich  clear  scarlet.  Flesh  firm,  good 
flavor,  and  productive. 

Boule  d'Or. 

Boisselot. 

Plant  robust,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  flattened,  bright  glossy  orange  scarlet. 
Flesh  white,  sweet.     (Fuller.) 

Boyden's  Mammoth. 

Raised  by  Seth  Boyden,  Newark,  N.  J.  Plant  vigorous,  not  very 
productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  often  depressed,  dark  crimson. 

Boyden's  No.  30. 

Raised  by  Seth  Boyden,  of  Newark,  N.  J.  Plant  vigorous,  very 
productive.  Its  large  size,  productiveness  and  firmness  give  promise 
as  a  valuable  market  variety. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  regular,  often  with  a  short 
neck,  bright  crimson.     Flesh  quite  firm,  juicy,  rich  subacid. 

Brewer's  Emperor. 
English.    Hermaphrodite.    Medium  size,  ovate,  dark  red,  good  flavor. 

Brighton  Pine. 

Raised  by  T  Scott,  of  Brighton,  Mass.  Said  to  be  early,  hardy, 
and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  conical,  light  crimson,  rich  sprightly  flavor. 


the  strawberey.  981 

Brilliant. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Prince,  Flushing.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit  large,  conical,  deep  crimson. 

British  Queen. 
Myatt's  British  Queen. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Myatt,  England.  Flowers  hermaphrodite.  Plant 
vigorous,  rather  tender,  requires  deep,  rich  cultivation. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  conical,  occasionally  cock's-comb-shaped,  ol 
a  beautiful  shining  scarlet.    Flesh  rather  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and.  excellent 

Brooklyn  Scarlet. 

Raised  by  A.  S.  Fuller.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  elongated,  a  little  compressed,  bright  scarlet 
Flesh  rather  soft,  sweet,  rich. 

Bryan's  Satisfaction. 

A  new  sort.     Originated  with  S.  Bryan,  Vineland,  N.  J. 
Fruit  small,  heart-shape  pointed,  glossy  crimson.     Flesh  firm. 

Burr's  New  Pine. 

Raised  by  Zera  Burr,  Columbus,  O.  Vines  moderately  vigorous, 
productive.     Flowers  pistillate. 

Fruit  medium,  regular  roundish  conical.  Color  light  crimson. 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  sweet,  rich,  aromatic  flavor. 

Burr's  Seedling. 
Burr's  Old  Seedling.  Burr's  Staminate. 

Raised  by  Zera  Burr,  Columbus,  O.  Hermaphrodite.  Vines  hardy, 
vigorous,  and  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  conic.  Color  light  scarieu 
Flesh  tender,  juicy,  with  a  mild,  pleasant  flavor. 

Caleb  Cope. 

An  American  variety.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  pointed,  scarlet.     Flesh  white. 

Capt.  Cook. 

An  English  variety,  of  large  size,  somewhat  resembling  the  British 
O^ueen,  but  not  quite  so  large ;  the  color  is  dark  and  rich.  Poo* 
bearer. 

Carolina  Superba. 

An  English  variety.     Plant  hardy  and  productive. 
Fruit  very  large,  ovate,  sometimes  cock's-comb  shape.       Seeds  no* 
deeply  emledded,  pale  red.     Flesh  rl.-.-.v  white,  firm,  solid,  rich.   (Hogg.) 


THE    STRAWBERRY. 


Champion. 


Originated  by  Dr.  J.  C.  Neff,  Carlisle,  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.  Her 
maphrodite. 

Fruit  large.     Flesh  firm,  melting,  sweet.     (Dr.  Neff.) 

Charles  Downing. 

Raised  by  J.  S.  Downer,  Fairview,  Ky.  Plant  very  vigorous  and 
very  productive.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  very  large,  nearly  regular,  conical,  deep  scarlet.  Seeds  brown 
and  yellow,  rather  deep.     Flesh  quite  firm,  pink,  juicy,  sweet,  rich. 

Charles  Favorite. 

A  seedling  from  Hovey's  Seedling.  Size,  shape,  flavor,  and  color 
similar,  but  ripens  ten  days  earlier.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Charlotte. 
Pistillate. 
Fruit  large,  obovate,  dark  scarlet.     Flesh  sweet. 

Chillian. 

Pyramidal  Chillian,  or  Newland. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Newland,  in  New  Jersey. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  bright  crimson.  Flesh  rather  firm,  mild 
acid,  late.     Productive,  sometimes  very  good. 

Chorlton. 
Charlton  Prolific. 

Raised  by  William  Chorlton,  Staten  Island,  N.  Y.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit   large,    roundish    obtuse,    slight   neck,    scarlet.      Flesh    light 
scarlet,  rather  acid. 

Clinton. 

Raised  by  Elias  Camfield,  near  Newark,  N.  J.  Plant  hardy,  healthy, 
vigortms,  productive,  rather  early,  and  said  to  be  a  valuable  market 
sort. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  crimson.  Flesh  quite  firm,  juicy,  rich, 
sprightly  subacid. 

Cockscomb 

Obtained  in  the  Royal  Gardens,  Windsor,  England. 
Fruit  very  large,  ovate,  occasionally  cock's-comb-shaped.     Skin  pale 
icarlet.     Flesh  white,  with  a  rosy  tinge,  rich.     (Hogg.) 

Colfax. 

From  Indiana.  Plant  very  vigorous,  very  productive,  but  too  small 
to  be  of  much  value. 

Fruit  small  size,  round,  dark  crimson.  Flavor  subacid,  with  a 
peculiar  spicy  taste. 


the  strawberry.  983 

Colonel  Ellsworth. 

Raised  by  A.  S.  Fuller,  Ridgewood,  Bergen  Co.,  N.  J.  Plan* 
moderately  vigorous,  productive,  the  foliage  often  burns  with  the  sun. 
Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  somewhat  obtuse,  slight  neck,  dark 
scarlet.     Flesh  rather  firm,  not  very  juicy,  sweet. 

Columbus. 

American.  Pistillate.  Large,  roundish,  hardy,  productive,  dark  red, 
tender,  and  sweet. 

COMTE    DE    FlANDRE. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  crimson,  fine  flavor.  Excellent  bearer 
(Gar.  Mon.) 

Comte   de  Paris. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped.  Skin  scarlet,  becoming  deep  crim- 
son. Flesh  pale  red,  and  solid  throughout,  with  a  brisk  acid  flavor. 
(Hogg.) 

Cornucopia. 

Raised  by  Win.  R.  Prince,  Flushing,  L.  I.  Plant  vigorous,  moder- 
ately productive. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  scarlet.     Flesh  rather  soft,  nweet.    Good. 

Crimson  Cluster. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish,  sometimes  cock's-comb  shape,  dark  red. 
Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet.     (Hogg.) 

Crimson  Cone. 
Scotch  Pineapple.  Dutchberry.  Scotch  Runner. 

An  old  and  beautiful  variety,  a  hardy,  vigorous  grower,  productive. 
Pistillate. 

Fruit  medium,  irregular  elongated  conic.  Color  deep  crimson.  Seeds 
deeply  embedded.  Flesh  rather  firm,  sprightly,  with  a  rich  acid  flavor, 
rather  late  in  ripening.     One  of  the  best  for  preserving. 

Crimson  Favorite. 

Originated  with  A.  S.  Fuller.     Plant  vigorous,  not  productive. 
Fruit   large,  roundish   obtuse  conical,  somewhat   irregular.     Color 
crimson.     Flesh  rich,  juicy,  sweet,  sometimes  hollow. 

Crimson  Queen. 
Doubleday's  No.  2. 

An  English  variety,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  cock's-comb  shape,  irregular  bright  scarlet 
Flesh  firm,  brisk  acid. 


984  the  strawberry. 

Culverwell's  Seedling. 
An  English  variety. 

Fruit  long,  tapering,  much  furrowed,  very  dark  red,  almost  black. 
Flesh  firm,  and  rich  flavored.     (Hogg.) 

Cushing. 

Eaised  by  Dr.  W.  D.  Brinckle,  Philadelphia. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical.  Color  light  scarlet.  Flesh  tender, 
with  a  sprightly,  pleasant  flavor. 

Cutter's  Seedling. 
Bunce. 

Originated  in  Massachusetts.  Plant  vigorous,  productive.  Herma- 
phrodite. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  slight  neck,  bright 
Bcarlet.  Seeds  yellow  and  brown.  Flesh  scarlet,  rather  soft,  juicy, 
sweet. 

De  Bath. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval.  Color  pale  rose,  or  white  tinted  with  rose. 
Flesh  white,  fine,  sweet,  juicy,  excellent.     (Al.  Pom.) 

DElices  d'Automne. 
Not  productive. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  light  scarlet,  sweet,  rich,  high-flavored. 

Deptford   Pine. 

Myatt's  Deptford  Pine. 

English.  Hermaphrodite.  Large,  wedge-shaped,  bright  glossy  scarlet 
Flesh  solid,  rich,  subacid.     Shy  bearer. 

Diadem. 

Raised  by  William  P.  Prince.  Pistillate.  Large,  showy,  rounded, 
beautiful  light  scarlet,  pleasant  flavor,  a  fine  and  beautiful  berry.  (W. 
R.  P.,  in  Hort.) 

Doctor  Hogg. 

This  variety  is  from  Nottingham,  England.  It  is  described  by  for- 
eign authors  as  very  hardy,  holding  its  foliage  well,  and  one  of  the  finest. 

Fruit  very  large,  cock's-coinb-shaped.  Skin  pale  red.  Flesh  pale 
red,  sweet,  very  rich  flavor. 

Doctor  Nicaise. 

This  is  a  French  variety,  of  recent  introduction,  often  producing  fruit 
sf  extra  large  size.     It  is  hermaphrodite ;  not  productive. 

Fruit  very  large,  irregular  cock's-comb  shape,  bright  clear  scarlet  red. 
Flesh  moderately  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  a  little  hollow  at  centre. 

Downer's  Prolific. 

Raised  by  J.  S.  Downer,  Kentucky.  Hermaphrodite.  Plant  vigorous* 
very  productive,  early.     Valuable  for  near  market  growing. 


THE    STRAWBERRY.  985 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  light  clear  bright  scarlet, 
Flesh  rather  soft,  juicy,  rich,  but  a  little  acid. 

Downton. 

Knight's  Seedling. 

English.     Hermaphrodite.     Medium,  with  a  neck,  ovate,  dark  pur 
plish  scarlet,  good  flavor.     Poor  bearer. 

Due  de  Brabant. 

From  Belgium. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  scarlet,  good  flavor,  tolerably  productive, 
and  early. 

Due  de  Malakoff. 

Fruit  large,  handsome,  roundish,  a  cock's-comb  shape,  deep  red.  Flesh 
red,  sweet. 

Duke  of  Kent. 

Austrian  Scarlet  Early  Prolific  Scarlet. 

Nova  Scotia  Scarlet.  Oatland's  Scarlet. 

Globe  Scarlet.  Duke  of  York  Scarlet. 

English.     Plant  vigorous,  productive.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit  small,  roundish  conical,  blight  scarlet.     Flavor  sharp  and  good* 
Ripens  early,  which  is  its  chief  merit. 

Dundee. 

A  Scotch  variety.  Pistillate.  Medium,  roundish  oval,  light  scarlet, 
rich  acid  flavor,  productive,  late. 

DURAND. 

Durand's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Elias  W.  Durand,  Irvington,  N".  J.  Plant  moderately  vigo- 
rous, not  very  productive.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  irregular  in  form,  from  conic  to  oblong.  Color  scarlet. 
Flesh  somewhat  firm,  juicy,  nearly  white. 

Eclipse. 

Reeve's  Eclipse. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  corneal.  Seeds  small.  Skin  glossy  red, 
shining  as  if  varnished.     Flesh  firm,  solid,  white.      (Hogg.) 

Crystal  Palace. 

Myatt's  Eleanor. 

An  English  variety,  of  vigorous  growth,  hardy,  and  requires  plentj 
of  room. 

Fruit  large,  very  conical,  regular,  brilliant  glossy  scarlet.  Flesh 
firm,  fine-grai  led,  juicy,  aud  high-flavored. 


986  the  strawberry. 

Elton. 

Elton  Seedling.  Elton  Pine. 

An  old  English  variety,  that  ripens  quite  late. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  frequently  cock's-comb  shape,  bright  shining  crin> 
eon.     Flesh  red,  firm,  brisk  subacid. 

Elton  Improved. 

Raised  at  the  Royal  Garden  at  Frogmore,  England. 
Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  glossy  crimson.     Flesh  solid,  sweet,  and 
good.     (Fuller.) 

Emily. 

An  English  variety.     Plant  hardy,  not  very  productive. 
Fruit  large,  round,  pale  red.     Flesh  white,  juicy,  and  sweet. 

Emma. 

One  of  M.  de  Jonghe's  raising ;  vigorous,  moderately  productive. 
Fruit  medium  size,  obtuse  conical,  bright  deep  red.     Flesh  whitish, 
juicy,  moderately  sweet. 

Empress  Eugenie. 

A  variety  from  France.     Not  valuable. 

Fruit  large,  irregular  in  form,  deep  red.     Flesh  red,  sweet,  tolerably 
good. 

English  Lady  Finger. 

Fruit  medium  size,  oblong,  orange  scarlet.  Flesh  white,  sweet,  and 
good. 

Fairy  Queen. 

Raised  in  the  Royal  Gardens  at  Frogmore,  England. 
Fruit   large,  conical.     Skin   pale    scarlet,  shining   as  if  varnished. 
Flesh  pure  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  very  rich.     (Hogg.) 

Ferdinand  e. 

This  is  a  French  variety,  of  good  promise. 

Fruit  large,  regular  obtuse  conical,  rich  deep  scarlet  red.  Seeds 
light  yellow.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  high-flavored.      (Am.  Pom.) 

Filbert  Pine. 

Myatt's  Seedling. 

An  English  sort,  that  is  said  to  succeed  finely  in  light  soils.  Vine* 
prolific,  matures  late. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  conical,  occasionally  cock's-comb  shApe, 
dull  red.      Flesh  pale  pink,  firm,  rich,  brisk,  with  a  fine  aroma.     (Hogg.) 


the  strawberry.  987 

Fill-Basket. 

An  English  variety,  very  large,  roundish,  dark  scarlet,  beautiful, 
good  flavor. 

Fillmore. 

liaised  by  Samuel  Feast  &  Sons,  Baltimore,  Md.  Plants  mode- 
rately vigorous.  Pistillate.  In  deep  rich  soils,  under  high  culture,  this  is 
one  of  value  for  amateur  cultivation  ;  not  profitable  for  market. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  obtuse  conical,  rich  deep  scarlet.  Seeds  yel- 
low, and  near  the  surface.     Flesh  moderately  firm,  rich  acid. 

Fleming. 

Originated  in  Pennsylvania.  Plants  vigorous,  moderately  pro- 
ductive.    Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  deep  scarlet.  Seeds  yellow, 
not  deep.     Flesh  rather  soft,  sweet,  and  rich. 

Florence. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Prince ;  vigorous,  moderately  productive.  Her- 
maphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  scarlet,  fine  flavor. 

French. 
French's  Seedling. 

From  Moorestown,  N.  J.  Plant  vigorous,  moderately  productive. 
Hermaphrodite.     A  fine  early  variety  for  private  gardens. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  light  bright  scarlet. 
Flesh  rather  soft,  rich,  and  good. 

Frogmore  Late  Pine. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Ingram,  at  the  Royal  Gardens,  Frogmore,  England. 
Fruit  large,  conical  or  cock's-comb  shape,  with  a  glossy  neck,  bright, 
rich  dark  red.     Flesh  juicy,  rich,  high -flavored.     Late.     (Hogg.) 

Garibaldi. 

An  American  variety,  raised  by  W.  A.  Burgess,  near  New  York. 
Hermaphrodite. 

Fruifc  medium  size,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  light  scarlet.  Seeds 
yellow.     Flesh  soft,  rich,  sweet. 

Genesee. 

Raised  by  Ellwanger  &  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Hardy,  vigorous, 
moderately  productive.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  somewhat  oblate,  largest  at  centre, 
tapering  towards  base  and  apex,  generally  necked.  Color  scarlet, 
inclining  to  crimson.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  mild,  and  pleasant,  no* 
rich. 


088  the  strawberry. 

General  Scott. 

Raised  by  W,  A.  Burgess,  near  New  York.  Plant  vigorous,  pro 
ductive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse,  deep  scarlet,  rather  soft,  rich,  subacid. 

Globe. 
Myatt's  Globe. 
English.     Large,  rich  scarlet,  excellent  flavor,  moderately  productive, 

Globose  Scarlet. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Prince,  Flushing,   Long  Island,  N.  Y.     Plant 
vigorous,  moderately  productive.     Pistillate. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  light  scarlet.     (Pr.) 

Golden  Seeded. 

Raised  by  W.  H.  Read,  Port  Dalhousie,  C.  W.     Poor  bearer. 
Fruit  medium,  conical,  rich  crimson,  bright  yellow  seeds.      Flesn 
half  firm,  juicy,  rich,  mild,  pleasant. 

Goliath. 
Kitley's  Goliath. 

An  English  variety.  Hermaphrodite.  Plant  vigorous,  hardy,  and 
moderately  productive. 

Fruit  very  large,  irregular,  often  cock's-comb  shape,  bright  scarlet, 
rich,  high  flavor,  and,  like  all  the  English  varieties,  requires  plenty  of 
room  and  high  culture. 

Great  Eastern. 

Plants  vigorous,  not  very  productive.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit   large,  broadly   conical,  light  crimson.     Flesh  whitish,  rather 
firm,  sweet,  not  high-flavored,  a  little  hollow. 

Green  Prolific. 
Newark  Prolific. 

Raised  by  Seth  Boyden,  Newark,  N.  J.  Plant  hardy,  very  vigorous, 
very  productive,  and  is  highly  valued  by  some  as  a  market  sort. 
Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  orange  scarlet.  Surface  soft, 
eentre  of  flesh  firm,  rather  acid. 

Grove  End  Scarlet. 

Atkinson's  Scarlet.  Aberdeen  Beehive. 

English.  Hermaphrodite.  Medium,  globular,  bright  scarlet,  rather 
acid,  early,  productive. 


THE    STRAWBERRY. 


989 


Haquin. 


This  foreign  variety  is  of  good  rich  quality,  but  not  productive. 
Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  broadly  conical,  sometimes  irregular,  bright  scarlet 
Seeds  yellow  brown.     Flesh  pinkish,  rather  firm,  juicy,  rich. 

Harlem  Orange. 

Originated  near  Baltimore,  Md.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  orange  color,  pineapple  shape,  glossy.     Good.     (Hov.  Mag.) 

Hathaway. 
Hathaway's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  B.  Hathaway,  Little  Prairie  Ronde,  Mich.  Plant  vigo- 
rous, very  productive.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  or  oblate.  Seeds  yellow  and  brown. 
Color  deep  scarlet.     Flesh  scarlet,  j  uicy,  moderately  firm,  rich  acid. 

Hendry. 

A  new  foreign  variety,  very  beautiful. 

Fruit  large,  long  ovate,  slight  neck,  light  red  or  pale  red  at  point, 
glossy.     Flesh  moderately  firm,  juicy,  rich,  sweet. 

Hero. 

Fruit  large,  regular,  globular,  bright  red.  Flesh  carmine,  very 
sweet.     Early.     (Fuller.) 

Highland  Chief. 

This  variety,  Hogg  writes,  "  deserves  universal  cultivation."  It  is 
worthy  of  trial  here.      We  copy  his  description  : — 

Fruit  large,  roundish  ovate,  and  somewhat  flattened.  Seeds  not 
deep.  Skin  fine,  clear  red,  becoming  dark  red.  Flesh  dark  red,  firm 
very  juicy,  vinous,  with  a  rich  pine  flavor. 

Highland  Mary. 

An  English  variety ;  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  above  medium,  conical,  inclining  to  cock's-comb  shape,  dark 
red.     Flesh  white,  hollow  at  core.     (Hogg.) 

Hooker. 

Rained  by  H.  E.  Hooker,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Plant  vigorous,  hardy 
and  productive.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  broadly  conical,  regular,  very  large,  specimens  some- 
times cock's-comb-shaped  or  depressed.  Color  deep  crimson,  almost 
n»aroon,  with  a  polished  surface,  which  is  rather  soft.  Flesh  deep  crim- 
son, rather  tender,  juicy,  with  a  fine  rich  flavor. 


990  the  strawberry. 

Hooper's  Seedling. 

An  English  variety.  Hermaphrodite.  Medium,  conical,  deep  gloss? 
crimson,  rich  and  sweet,  not  productive. 

Hovey's  Seedling. 
Young's  Seedling.  Germantown. 

This  splendid  Strawberry  was  raised  in  1S34,  by  Messrs.  Hovey, 
seedsmen,  of  Boston,  and  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  finest  of  all  varieties. 
The  vines  are  vigorous  and  hardy,  producing  moderately  large  crops,  and 
the  fruit  is  always  of  the  largest  size,  and  finely  flavored.  It  is  well 
known  at  the  present  moment  throughout  all  the  States.  The  leaves  are 
large,  rather  light  green,  and  the  fruit-stalk  long  and  erect.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oval  or  slightly  conical,  deep  shining 
scarlet.  Seeds  slightly  embedded.  Flesh  firm,  with  a  rich,  agreeable 
flavor.     It  ripens  about  the  medium  season,  or  a  few  days  after  it. 

Hudson. 

Hudson's  Bay.  American  Scarlet. 

Late  Scarlet.  York  River  Scarlet. 

An  old  American  variety,  formerly  much  cultivated  for  the  markets, 
but  other  and  larger  kinds  are  taking  its  place.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  sometimes  with  a  neck.  Color  rich,  dark 
shining  red.  Seeds  deeply  embedded.  Flesh  firm,  of  a  high,  but  brisk 
acid  flavor.      Good  for  preserving. 

Huntsman. 

American.  Pistillate.  Large  roundish,  Light  scarlet,  poor  flavor,  very 
productive. 

Ida. 

Miss  Ida. 

Raised  by  E.  H.  Cocklin.  Plants  vigorous,  and  when  fertilized  very 
productive.     Pistillate.     Foot-stalks  long,  holding  the  fruit  well  up. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  dark  rich  red.  Flesh  moderately 
firm,  juicy,  sprightly,  rich,  a  little  acid.  Ripens  among  the  earliest,  and 
continues  late. 

Imi*eratrice  Eugenie. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  glossy  rosette,  handsome,  nrm,  sweet, 
perfumed. 

Imperial  Crimson. 

Raised  by  W.  R.  Prince.     Plant  vigorous,  productive.     Pistillate. 
Fruit  large,  short  cone,  or  rounded.     Color  dark  scarlet  or  c~' taaoo. 
Flesh  firm,  sweet,  and  line  flavor.     (Pr.) 


the  strawberby.  991 

Imperial  Scarlet. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Prince.     Plant  vigorous,  productive.     Pistillate 
Fruit  very  large,  obtuse  cone  or  rounded,  scarlet,  juicy,  ai~d  spright- 
ly flavor. 

Ingram's  Prince  Arthur. 

Raised  at  the  Royal  Gardens,  Frogmore,  England. 
Fruit  medium,  conical,  regular,  with   a  glossy  neck,  brilliant  scar- 
let.    Flesh  white,  solid,  juicy,  brisk,  rich  and  fine  flavor. 

Iowa. 

Early  Washington.  Washington.  Brook's  Prolific. 

A  seedling  of  the  Western  prairies.  Hermaphrodite.  Plant  hardy 
vigorous,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  light  orange  scarlet.  Flesh  tender, 
juicy,  very  acid ;  an  early  variety. 

Jenny  Lind. 

Raised  by  Isaac  Fay,  Cambridgeport,  Mass.  Hermaphrodite.  Vines 
hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive  ;  an  early  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  conical.  Color  rich  crimson,  glossy.  Flesh  rather 
firm,  juicy,  rich,  sprightly  subacid. 

Jenny's  Seedling. 
An  American  variety,  hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive.     Pistillate. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  conical.     Color  rich  dark  red.       Flesh  firm, 
rich,  sprightly  subacid. 

Jessie  Read. 

Raised  by  W.  H.  Read,  Port  Dalhousie,  C.  W.  Hermaphrodite. 
Moderately  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  light  scarlet.     Flesh  soft,  sweet,  rich. 

John  Powell. 

Fruit  above  medium  size,  long  ovate,  with  a  neck,  bright  shining 
red.      Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  sugary,  rich.      (Hogg.) 

Juounda. 
Knox's  700. 

A  foreign  variety,  that,  like  some  others  of  its  class,  does  extremely 
well  in  some  few  localities,  under  high  cultivation.  Plants  moderately 
vigorous.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  obtuse  conical  or  coxcomb  flattened,  bright 
light  scarlet.  Seeds  mostly  yellow.  Flesh  light  piok,  moderately  firm, 
sweet,  not  high  flavor,  often  hollow. 

Julien. 

Originated  with  W.  F.  Kramer,  Dubuque,  Iowa.  Said  to  be  from 
seed  of  the  Peabody. 


092  THE    STRAWBERRY. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  rich  scarlet,  glossy.  Flesh  moderately 
firm,  sweet,  well  fla  rored. 

Keen's  Seedling. 
Keen's  Black  Pine.  Murphy's  Child. 

An  old  well-known  English  sort  of  the  finest  quality,  but  does  noi 
generally  succeed  here.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  often  coxcomb-shaped,  dark  purplish  scarlet. 
Surface  polished.     Flesh  firm,  with  a  rich  high  flavor. 

Kentucky. 

Raised  by  J.  S.  Downer,  of  Fairview,  Todd  Co.,  Ky.  We  have  not 
seen  the  fruit,  and  give  Wm.  Parry's  description.  Plant  strong,  vigo- 
rous, very  productive,  with  long  fruit-stalks,  bearing  the  berries  well  up 
from  the  ground,  and  the  foliage  standing  the  heat  of  summer  and  cold 
of  winter,  and  is  a  week  later  than  most  varieties.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  conical,  bright  scarlet.  Flesh 
white,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  and  of  excellent  quality.  (Wm.  Parry's 
MS.) 

Kimberly  Pine. 

Fruit  large,  irregular  oval,  bright  crimson  scarlet.  Flesh  firm,  juicy, 
subacid. 

Kramer. 

Origin,  near  Dubuque,  Iowa.  Plant  vigorous,  hardy.  Hermaphro- 
dite.    Productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  rich  dark  red,  moderately  firm, 
juicy,  a  little  acid,  but  pretty  rich  and  good. 

La  Challonaise. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  pale  scarlet.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  sweet. 
.'Hogg.) 

La  Constante. 

A  foreign  variety  that  occasionally  succeeds,  but  generally  it  burns 
and  dies  out.  In  quality  it  is  excellent,  and  for  some  amateur  gardens 
a  desirable  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  bright  lively  crimson.  Flesh  white, 
tinged  with  rose-color,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  delicious. 

La  Delicieuse. 
Of  foreign  origin. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  pale  red.     Flesh  whitish,  sweet. 

Ladies'  Pine. 

Originated  with  W.  H.  Eead,  Canada.     TJnjnoductive.     Pistillate. 
Fruit   small,  roundish,  light  scarlet.     Flesh   soft,   sweet,  rich,  and 
delicious. 

Lady. 

This  is  comparatively  a  new  variety  from  England.     It  is  described 


THE    STRAWBERRY.  993 

as  large  in  size,  bright  salmon-color,  tinged  with  crimson.     Flesh  juicy, 
and  delicious  flavor. 

Lady  Finger. 

Ladies'  Finger. 

Originated  in  Burlington,  N.  J.  Plants  vigorous,  moderately  pro- 
ductive.    Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  dark  rich  clear  scarlet  or  red.  Flesh 
firm,  juicy,  rich,  sprightly  subacid.     Very  good. 

Lady  of  the  Lake. 

Raised  by  John  C.  Scott,  Brighton,  Mass.  Plants  vigorous,  hardy, 
productive.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  rather  uneven,  dark  red.     Flesh  firm.     (Jour,  of  Hort.) 

La  Fektile. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  red.  Flesh  white,  with  a  rosy  tinge, 
firm,  j  uicy,  sweet.     (Hogg.) 

La  Grosse  Sucree. 

A  German  variety.     Hermaphrodite, 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  dark  crimson.  Flesh  white,  solid,  sweet, 
pleasant. 

La  Liegeoise. 

French.  Hermaphrodite.  Large,  bright  scarlet,  medium  quality, 
unproductive. 

La  Perle. 
Foreign. 
Fruit  medium,  conical,  bright  red. 

La  Reine. 

A  foreign  sort.  It  is  described  as  of  large  size,  conical,  or  cox- 
comb shape.     Flesh  white,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  not  productive. 

Large  Early  Scarlet. 
Early  Virginia. 

An  American  variety,  one  of  the  earliest,  an  abundant  bearer  ;  popu- 
lar in  many  sections.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  ovate,  regularly  formed,  lignt, 
scarlet.    Seeds  deeply  embedded.  Flesh  tender,  of  a  rich,  excellent  flavor. 

La  Sultane. 

This  is  a  French  variety,  of  large  size,  conical  in  form,  light  clear 
red.     Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  perfumed. 

Laurella. 

Origin  unknown.     Plant  vigorous,  productive.     Pistillate. 
Fruit   large,  broadly  conical,   scarlet.     Seeds  yellow  brown.      Flesh 
rather  soft,  pink,  rather  acid,  not  rich. 

63 


994  the  strawberry. 

La  Versaillaise. 

A  French  variety. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong,  bright  scarlet.  Flesh  shaded  with  red, 
firm,  juicy,  rich,  sweet. 

Le  Baron. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Prince.     Hermaphrodite 

Fruit  early,  very  large,  obtuse  cone,  dark  scarlet,  not  showy,  sweet, 
rich,  melting. 

Lennig's  White. 

White  Pineapple.  Albion  White. 

Albino.  White  Albany. 

Origin,  supposed  Germantown,  Pa.  This  is  one  of  the  very  finest- 
davored  sorts  grown ;  but  unfortunately  it  does  not  produce  but  very 
moderate  crops,  and  is  therefore  unsuited  to  any  but  amateurs.  Plants 
vigorous.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical.  Seeds  reddish,  not  deep. 
Color  whitish,  tinged  with  red.  Flesh  soft,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  rich, 
delicious  pineapple  flavor. 

Lbonce  de  Lambertye. 

Fruit  very  large,  conical.  Skin  bright  shining  red,  as  if  varnished. 
Seeds  slightly  embedded.  Flesh  firrn,  rosy  white,  very  juicy,  rich  and 
sweet.     (Hogg.) 

Leopold  I. 

This  is  a  Belgian  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  rich  deep  red.  Seeds  yellow,  promi- 
nent.    Flesh  tinted  with  rose,  juicy,  sweet,  delicious.     (An.  Pom.) 

Little  Monitor. 

Originated  with  W.  A.  Burgess. 

Fruit  small,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  light  scarlet.     Flesh  soft,  rich, 

*weet. 

Lizzie  Randolph. 

American.  Pistillate.  Medium,  roundish,  light  crimson,  poor  flavor, 
productive. 

Longworth's  Prolific. 

Originated  at  Cincinnati,  on  the  lands  of  Mr.  Longworth,  in  the  Gar- 
den of  Eden,  by  Mr.  Schneicke.  Hermaphrodite.  Vines  vigorous  and 
very  productive.  Footstalks  long,  stout.  Leaves  large,  not  very  thick, 
considerably  ruffled. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  broad  at  base,  sometimes  oblate.  Color 
light  crimson.  Flesh  firm,  scarlet,  with  numerous  rays  (the  remains  of 
the  filaments).     Flavor  rich,  briskly  acid.     Valuable  for  preserving. 

Lorenz  Booth. 
Fruit  large,  oval,  bright  glossy  red.     Flesh  dark  crimson,  firm,  sweet 


the  strawberry.  995 

Lorio. 

A  new  German  variety. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  conical,  rich,  clear  dark  red.  Flesh  reddish 
kinged,  juicy,  vinous,  sweet. 

Lucas. 
Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  glossy  crimson.     Flesh  firm,  rich.     Good. 

Lucida  Ferfecta. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  light  clear  crimson,  conical  or  obtuse  conical, 
occasionally  coxcomb  shape.     Flesh  white,  juicy,  sweet. 

McAvoy's  Extra  Red. 
McAvoy's  No.  1. 

Same  origin  as  Superior.  Pistillate.  Vines  hardy,  vigorous,  and 
very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  oblate,  generally  necked.  Color  deep  scarlet. 
Flesh  tender,  juicy.    Flavor  exceedingly  acid.     Excellent  for  preserving. 

McAvoy's  Superior. 
McAvoy's  No.  12.  General  McLellan.  Buffalo. 

Origin,  Cincinnati,  on  the  lands  of  Mr.  Longworth.  Pistillate. 
Vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  irregularly  oblate,  more  or  less  necked.  Color 
bight  crimson,  becoming  deep  crimson  at  full  maturity.  Flesh  deep 
scarlet,  tender,  very  juicy,  with  an  exceedingly  rich  vinous  flavor. 
Surface  of  the  fruit  rather  tender,  and  will  not  bear  long  carriage. 

Mead's   Seedling. 

Raised  by  Peter  B.  Mead,  Tenafly,  Bergen  Co.,  N.  J.  Plant  a  good 
grower,  moderately  productive.      Pistillate. 

Fruit  medium  size,  long  conical,  inclining  to  a  neck,  light  scarlet. 
Seeds  brown  yellow.    Flesh  pinkish,  rather  firm,  sweet,  and  rich. 

Marguerite. 

A  French  variety. 

Fruit  large,  elongated  conical,  bright  shining  red.  Flesh  whitish 
pinkish,  sweet,  coarse,  hollow,  poor. 

Mammoth. 

Myatt's  Mammoth. 

English.  Hermaphrodite.  Large,  roundish,  dark  crimson,  poor  tla- 
vor,  unproductive. 

Melon. 
Scotch,  medium,  roundish,  dark  color  ;   not  of  much  value. 


996  the  strawberby. 

Metoalf's  Early. 

Origin,  Niles,  Mich.     Plant  hardy,  vigorous,  moderately  productive 
Fruit  small,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  light  scarlet.     Flesh  rati  «t 
Boft,  mild  acid.     Not  very  early. 

Methven  Scarlet. 

Methven  Castle.  Keen's  Seedling  of  some. 

Warren's  Seedling.  Higgins'  Seedling. 

Southampton  Scarlet,  British  Queen  of  some. 

An  English  variety,  of  large  size,  roundish  or  coxcomb-shaped,  rather 
dull  scarlet.    Flesh  soft,  and  of  indifferent  tlavor.     Pistillate. 

Monitor. 

Raised  by  A.  S.  Fuller.    Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  with  a  neck,  bright  scarlet. 
Flesh  dry,  coarse,  hrni.     Poor.     Carries  well  to  market. 

Monroe  Scarlet. 

Raised  by  Ellwanger  &  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Pistillate.  Plant 
vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  light  scarlet.  Flesh  tender,  juicy,  and 
of  very  good  flavor. 

Montevideo  Pine. 

Raised  by  Wni.  R.  Prince.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  pineapple  flavor,  ripening  late.  (W.  R.  P.  in 
Hort.) 

MOYAMENSING. 

Raised  by  Gerhard  Schmitz,  of  Philadelphia.  Pistillate.  Moderately 
vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  broadly  conical,  deep  crimson.  Seeds  numer- 
ous, deeply  embedded.  Flesh  red,  rather  Arm,  pretty  briskly  acid,  much 
like  Hudson. 

Myatt's  Eliza. 
Omer  Pacha.  Rival  Queen. 

An  English  variety,  of  fine  fla  or;  but.  like  most  of  its  class,  a  pool 
bearer.     1  [erraaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  with  a  glossy  neck,  light 
glossy  scarlet.     Flesh  rich,  sweet,  delicious. 

Naomi. 

An  accidental  American  seedling. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval,  quite  deep  scarlet.  Fleah 
white,  sweet,  soft,  not  high-flavored. 


the  8trawbebby.  997 

Napoleon. 

This  variety  originated  with  M.  Lorio,  of  Liege,  Belgium.  Herma- 
phrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  light  clear  red  or  scarlet.  Flesh  firm,  juicy, 
sweet. 

Napoleon  III. 

Originated  with  M.  Gloede.  Plants  vigorous,  productive.  Herma- 
phrodite. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  conical,  irregular,  sometimes  coxcomb- 
shaped,  light  scarlet.  Seeds  yellow,  reddish  near  the  surface.  Flesh  white, 
rather  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  rich. 

Necked  Pine. 
Unique  Prairie.  Pine  Apple. 

An  American  variety,  rather  early.  Pistillate.  Medium  size,  conical, 
with  a  neck,  light  scarlet.     Flesh  tender,  sprightly,  rather  acid. 

New  Jersey  Scarlet. 

Originated  near  Burlington,  N.  J.  Plants  vigorous,  moderately 
productive.     Hermaphrodite.    Early. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  with  a  neck,  light  clear  scarlet.  Flesh  mode- 
rately firm,  juicy,  sprightly,  mild  subacid. 

Nicanor. 

Raised  by  Messrs.  Ellwanger  &,  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Plants 
vigorous,  productive.     Hermaphrodite.     Footstalks  tall,  upright. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  bright  scarlet, 
somewhat  glossy.  Seeds  brown  yellow,  not  deeply  embedded.  Flesh 
juicy,  reddish,  rather  firm,  rich,  sweet. 

Old  Black. 

Black.  Mulberry. 

Black  Pine.  Black  Canterbury. 

Black  Beacon.  Turkey  Pine. 

A  very  old  variety,  described  by  Lindley,  as : — 

"  Fruit  middle-size,  conical  elongated  and  pointed,  with  a  neck, 
hairy,  very  dark  purplish  red.  Flesh  scarlet,  firin,  with  a  buttery  core, 
very  rich  and  high-flavored." 

Old  John  Brown. 

Raised  by  Dr.  H.  Schroeder,  of  Bloomington,  HI. 
Fruit  very  large,  broadly  conic,  pointed,  light  crimson,  sweet.     (FuL 
lex.) 


itfe  THE    STRAWBERRY. 

Old  Pine,  or  Carolina. 

Pine  Apple.  Old  Scarlet. 

Carolina.  Blood  Pine. 

Old  Scarlet  Pine.  Grandiflora. 

American.  Hermaphrodite.  Medium,  conical,  with  a  neck,  some- 
times coxcomb-shaped,  bright  scarlet.     Flesh  solid,  juicy,  and  rich. 

Orange  Prolific. 

Raised  by  Ellwanger  &  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Pistillate.  Vines 
hardy,  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  sometimes  oblate,  often  necked,  deep  crimson. 
Seeds  deeply  embedded.  Flesh  somewhat  firm,  with  a  brisk,  rather  acid 
flavor. 

Oscar. 

An  English  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  irregular  in  form,  from  ovate  to  coxcomb,  rich  deep 
crimson.     Flesh  red,  melting,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  sweet. 

Peabody. 
Peabody's  Seedling.  New  Hautbois. 

This  variety  originated  with  Charles  A.  Peabody,  Columbus,  Ga. 

Fruit  of  large  size,  foimi  irregular.  Flesh  firm,  sweet,  melting,  juicy, 
with  a  pineapple  flavor.  When  fully  ripe  the  color  is  a  rich  deep 
crimson. 

Peak's  Emperor. 

Originated  by  E.  Peak,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  conical,  dark  crimson.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  mild, 
subacid. 

Pennsylvania. 

Raised  by  Gerhard  Schmitz,  of  Philadelphia.  Pistillate.  Plant  mo- 
derately vigorous,  not  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  broadly  conical,  deep  crimson.  Flesh  red, 
very  similar  to  Moyamensing. 

Premier. 
British  Green  Seedling. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  or  roundish  ovate,  bright  red,  shining.  Flesb 
white,  firm,  juicy,  rich.     (Hogg.) 

President  Wilder. 

Raised  in  I860  by  Hon.  Marshall  P.  Wilder,  of  Dorchester,  Mass., 
from  seed  of  Hovey's  Seedling  impregnated  with  La  Constante,  and  dedi- 
cated to  him  by  the  Massachusetts  Horticultural  Society.  This  new  va- 
riety, as  grown  on  the  originator's  grounds,  promises  to  be  valuable,  and  if 
it  succeeds  as  well  in  other  soils  and  localities  it  will  be  an  acquisition. 
Plant  healthy,  hardy,  vigorous,  and  very  productive.     Fruit-stalk  short, 


THE    STRAWBERRY.  999 

utout,  erect.  It  is  said  to  stand  the  heat  of  summer  and  ccld  of  winter 
uninjured. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  very  regular, 
bright  crimson  scarlet.  Seeds  mostly  yellow,  near  the  surface.  Flesh 
rosy  white,  quite  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rich. 

There  is  another  President  Wilder,  originated  in  Europe,  that  is  de- 
scribed as  large,  ovate  conical,  with  a  neck,  bright  rich  deep  crimson. 
Flesh  rose-color,  moderately  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and  excellent. 

Primordian. 

Raised  by  Win,  R.  Prince.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  deep  scarlet.     (W.  P.  P.,  in  Hort.) 

Prince  Albert. 

English.  Hermaphrodite.  Large,  oblong  cone,  deep  scarlet,  not 
high  flavor,  moderately  productive. 

Peine  des  Belges. 

A  new  Belgian  variety. 

Fruit  large.  Form  variable,  from  long  conical  to  obtuse  conical, 
bright  rich  scarlet.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet.     Agreeable.     (An.  Pom.) 

Prince  Frederick  William. 

An  English  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  pale  red.  Flesh  with  a  rosy  tint,  sweet,  and 
good  flavor. 

Prince  of    Orleans. 
Hermaphrodite.     Medium.    Roundish,  dark  color,  poor  bearer. 

Prince  of  Wales. 

An  English  fruit  of  large  size,  with  a  bright  deep  red  glossy  sur- 
face, and  a  delicate  solid  flesh,  somewhat  acid. 

Prince's  Climax. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Prince,  Flushing,  L.  I.     Pistillate.     Productive. 
Fruit  large,  conical,  bright  scarlet.     Flesh  sweet,  good  flavor. 

Prince's    Excelsior. 

Raised  by  Wm.  R.  Prince.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  conical  or  rounded,  deep  scarlet.  Flesh  sweet, 
fine  flavor. 

Prince's    Magnate. 

Scarlet  Magnate. 

Originated  with  Wm.  R.  Prince.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  bright  scarlet.  Flesh  rather 
■oft,  pinkish,  hollow,  not  rich. 


luoo  the  strawberry. 

Princess  Royal. 

Ingram's  Princess  RoyaL 

This  is  an  English  variety.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  bright  deep  scarlet.  Flesh  firm, 
juicy,  rich,  perfumed. 

Princess  Royal. 

Originated  in  France,  by  M.  Pelvilian. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obtuse  conical  in  form.  Skin  very  bright  rich 
scarlet.     Flesh  half  firm,  juicy,  melting,  sweet.     (An.  Pom.) 

Princess  Royal  of  England. 

i 

CuthuTs  Princess  RoyaL 

An  English  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium  size,  roundish  ovate  or  conical,  with  a  neck.  Seeds 
deeply  embedded.  Skin  deep  scarlet.  Flesh  pale  red  at  the  surface, 
whitish  at  the  core,  rich,  high  flavor.     (Hogg.) 

Prolific. 

English.  Hermaphrodite.  Large,  conical,  light  glossy  scarlet,  rich 
flavor,  unproductive. 

Profuse  Scarlet. 

American.  Pistillate.  Medium ,  a  1  ittle  improvement  on  the  old  Early 
Scarlet,  which  it  much  resembles.     Productive. 

Randolph  Pine. 

Raised  by  O.  T.  Hobbs,  Randolph,  Pa. 

Fruit  medium,  long  conical,  blight  scarlet.  Flesh  sweet,  whitish, 
not  rich. 

Richardson's  Early. 

American.  Hermaphrodite.  Medium,  conical,  dark  crimson,  early, 
good  flavor.     Not  productive. 

Richardson's   Late. 

American.  Hermaphrodite.  Large,  roundish,  light  scarlet,  good 
6prightly  flavor,  moderately  productive. 

Rifleman. 

An  English  variety. 

Fruit  large,  ovate  or  coxcomb  shape.  Skin  bright  salmon-colored. 
Flesh  solid,  white,  firm,  juicy,  rich.      (Hogg.) 

Ripawam. 

Faulkner's  King.  Faulkner's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  J.  W.  Faulkner,  Stamford,  Conn.  Plant  moderate!} 
vigorous  and  productive. 


THE    STRAWBERRY.  1         i 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  sometimes  coxc  >mb  shape, 
ica:let.     Flesh  whitish,  rather  firm,  juicy,  sweet. 

Rival  Hudson. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Burr,  Columbus,  O.  An  improvement  on  the  old 
Hudson.     Plant  hardy  and  productive.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  medium,  conical.  Color  deep  crimson.  Flesh  firm,  with  a 
brisk  subacid  flavor. 

Rivers'  Eliza. 

Seedling  Eliza. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  England.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit  large,  ovate  conical,  glossy  scarlet.      Flesh  moderately  firm, 
good  flavor.         , 

Robinson's  Defiance. 

Raised  in  Ohio.     Plant  vigorous,  not  productive. 
Fruit   medium,  roundish    conical,  necked,   dull  red.      Flesh    quite 
firm,  acid. 

ROSEBERRY. 

Aberdeen.  Prolific  Pine. 

Scotch  Scarlet.  Rose. 

Aberdeen  Seedling.  Briekley  Scarlet. 

Foreign.  Pistillate.  Rather  small,  ovate,  dark  scarlet,  tolerable  fla- 
vor.    Poor  bearer. 

Rosebud. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  coxcomb  shape,  with  a  neck.  Skin  fine  bright 
red.     Flesh  rich.     (Hogg.) 

Ross's  Pikenix. 

Raised  by  Alexander  Ross,  Hudson,  N".  Y.  Hermaphrodite ;  does 
not  succeed  unless  with  deep,  rich  soil,  and  good  cultivation. 

Fruit  large,  generally  coxcomb-shaped.  Color  very  dark  red. 
Flesh  firm,  and  high-flavored. 

Ruby. 

English.  Medium  size.  Bright-colored  berry  of  a  long  ovate  form, 
Bimilar  in  shape  to  Scott's  Seedling.  Flesh  juicy,  rich,  and  excellent. 
Not  very  hardy. 

Russell's  Prolific. 

Originated  with  H.  Russell,  Seneca  Falls,  N.  Y.  Vines  vigorous, 
productive.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  conic,  compressed,  ribbed,  scarlet,  changing  to  crimson. 
Seeds  small,  pretty  deeply  embedded.  Flesh  mild,  moderately  rich, 
rather  soft,  pleasant. 


i0u2 


THE    STRAV. 


SaBREI'R. 


A  foreign  variety,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  conical,  bright  orange  scarlet.  Seeds  jrcminont 
Flesh  solid,  white,  sweet,  and  of  high  flavor.     (Fuller.) 

Salter's  Versaillaise. 

An  English  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  sometimes  flattened  or  coxcomb-shaped,  dark 
red.     Flesh  pale,  juicy,  and  rich.     (Thomp.) 

Scarlet  Cone. 

Raised  by  Ellwanger  &  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Pistillate.  Plant 
vigorous  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  perfectly  conical,  bright  scarlet,  beautiful. 

Scarlet  Melting. 

American.  Pistillate.  Medium,  conical,  light  scarlet,  showy,  very 
tender,  not  rich.     Very  productive. 

Scarlet  Nonpareil. 

English.  Large,  pretty  regularly  formed,  roundish  conical,  bright 
glossy  red,  saccharine,  and  rich. 

Scott's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Mr.  J.  Scott,  of  Brighton,  Mass.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit  rather  large,  elongated  conic,  regular,  light  crimson  or  scarlet. 
Flesh  pale  red,  not  very  juicy,  nor  high-flavored. 

Sir  Charles  Napier. 

An  English  variety.     Plant  tender. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  flattened  or  coxcomb-shaped,  light  scarlet, 
Flesh  whitish  pink,  juicy,  not  high-flavored. 

Sir  Harry. 

A  seedling  of  the  British  Queen,  impregnated  with  Keen's  Seed- 
ling. The  berries  are  large,  of  a  thick  coxcomb  form,  large  calyx,  and 
fitoul  fruit  stems.  Color  deep  dark  red,  or  mulberry,  glossy.  Flesh 
red,  solid,  fine-grained,  very  juicy,  and  of  delicious  flavor. 

Sir  Joseph  Paxton. 

A  fine  early  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  bright  shining  crimson.  Seeis  rrominenfc 
Flesh  salmon-colored,  firm,  and  rich.      (Hogg.) 


THE  STRAWBERRY.  1003 

SOUTHBOROUGH. 

Southborough  Seedling.  Marshall's  Seedling. 

English.     Pistillate. 

Fruit  medium,  ovate  conical,  rich  deep  scarlet.  Flesh  firm,  mild, 
rich  flavor.     (Elliott.) 

Souvenir. 
Souvenir  de  Kieff  ? 

Raised  by  M.  de  Jonghe,  of  Brussels. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  ovate  to  long  conical,  irregular  and  corrugatedj 
bright  shining  red.  Seeds  large,  even  with  the  surface.  Flesh  white, 
firm,  juicy,  rich. 

Stinger. 
Union.  Stinger's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Wm.  H.  Stinger,  near  Philadelphia.     Hermaphrodite. 
Fruit  large,  roundish,  sometimes   coxcomb  shape,  brilliant  glossy 
scarlet.     Flesh  firm,  juicy,  rich,  pleasant 

Stirling  Castle  Pine. 

Fruit  large,  ovate  or  conical,  bright  deep  scarlet.  Flesh  pale  scarlet, 
brisk.     (Hogg.) 

Swainstone's  Seedling. 

English.  Hermaphrodite.  Large,  ovate,  beautiful  light  glossy  scar- 
let, and  good  flavor.     Bears  only  very  moderate  crops. 

The  Prairie  Farmer. 

Originated  on  the  grounds  of  Wm.  D.  Neff,  of  Ottawa,  111.  Plam 
strong  aod  vigorous.  Foot-stalks  large  and  tall,  and  promise  well  as  a 
market  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  very  large,  oblong  compressed  or  ovate,  occasionally  coxcomb- 
shape,  irregular,  deep  scarlet;  texture  firm;  subacid.     (Prairie  Farmer.) 

Topsy. 

One  of  De  Jonghe's  seedlings,  not  valuable. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  conical,  light  scarlet.     Flesh  firm,  sweet. 

Triomphe  de  Gand. 

The  Triomphe  de  Gand  is  a  Belgian  variety,  which  appears  to  stand 
our  climate,  and  produce  more  crops  in  more  localities  than  any  other 
foreign  sort.  The  vines  are  vigorous,  hardy,  moderately  productive,  and 
well  suited  to  strong  clayey  soils,  requires  high  cultivation  and  to  be 
grown  in  hills.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse,  sometimes  coxcomb  shape,  bright  rich 
red  next  the  calyx,  almost  greenish  white  at  point,  glossy  as  if  varnished. 
Seeds  light  yellow  brown,  near  the  surface.  Flesh  linn,  white,  a  little 
hollow  at  core,  juicy,  with  a  peculiar  rich  and  agreeable  flavor. 


HI04  THE    STRAWBERRY. 

Romeyn  Seedling  so  closely  resembles  this  that  we  are  enable  to  see 
any  difference ;  but  the  originator  claims  that  it  is  a  seedling  of  more 
vigor  in  foliage  and  roots,  more  productive,  and  less  number  of  coxcomb 
berries. 

Triomphe  de  Liege. 

A  Belgian  variety,  raised  by  M.  Lorio. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  with  a  slight  neck,  bright  deep  scarlet.  Seeds 
few,  long-pointed.     Flesh  rather  soft,  juicy,  rich,  aromatic.     (An.  Pom.) 

Vicomtesse  Hericart  de  Thury. 
Duchesse  de  Trevisse.  Marquise  de  la  Tour  Maubourg 

A  French  variety,  of  fine  quality,  but  the  foliage  does  not  stand  our 
climate  well.     Hermaphrodite.     Moderately  productive. 

Fruit  largo,  roundish,  broadly  conical,  sometimes  coxcomb-shaped, 
deep  scarlet,  somewhat  glossy.     Flesh  rich,  sweet,  and  high-flavored. 

Victoria. 

Trollope's  Victoria.  Golden  Queen. 

Union.  Trembly's  Union. 

An  English  variety,  moderately  productive,  quite  handsome.  Her- 
maphrodite. 

Fruit  very  large,  nearly  globular,  regular.  Calyx  very  large,  in  a 
depression.  Color  light  crimson.  Flesh  light  scarlet,  tender,  juicy, 
sweet,  rich,  with  a  somewhat  peculiar  aromatic  flavor. 

Victory  of  Bath. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  bright  red.  Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  rich. 
(Hogg.) 

Vineuse  de  Nantes. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  flattened,  bright  glossy  crimson.  Flesh  red, 
solid,  sweet,  peculiar  vinous  flavor.      (Fuller.) 

Walker's  Seedling. 

Raised  by  Samuel  Walker,  Roxbury,  Mass.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  regular,  generally  conic.  Color  very  deep 
crimson,  becoming  maroon  at  maturity,  glossy.  Flesh  deep  crimson, 
tender,  juicy,  with  a  fine,  rich,  brisk  acid  flavor. 

"W  ard's  Favorite. 
Fruit  medium  i,o  large,  roundish,  deep  crimson.     Flesl:  sweet,  rich. 

Western  Queen. 

Raised  by  Prof.  Kirtland,  Cleveland,  O.  Pistillate.  Vines  hardy 
And  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical.  Color  rich  glossy  dark 
red.    Flesh  firm,  juicy,  subacid,  sprightly  and  agreeable  flavor.     (Elliott.) 


THE    STRAWBERRY.  1005 

WlLLEY. 

American.     Pistillate.     Yigorous,  hardy,  and  very  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  roundish.     Color  deep  crimson.     Flesh  firm,  with  a 
sprightly  acid  flavor.      A  good  sort  for  preserving. 

Wilmot's  Prince  Arthur. 

Fruit  medium  size,  conical.  Skin  deep  red  and  glossy.  Flesh  scar- 
let, firni,  hollow  at  core.      (Hogg.) 

Wilson's  Albany. 

Raised  by  the  late  James  Wilson,  Albany,  N.  Y.  Although  not  of 
high  quality,  because  of  its  superabundance  of  acid,  yet  no  variety  has 
become  so  generally  cultivated  as  the  Wilson's  Albany.  The  vine  is 
very  hardy  and  vigorous,  very  productive,  commencing  to  ripen  its  fruit 
early,  and  continuing  to  the  latest.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  broadly  conic,  pointed.  Color  deep  crimson.  Flesh 
crimson,  tender,  with  a  brisk  acid  flavor. 

Wizard  of  the  North. 

A  Scottish  variety.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obtuse,  dull  red.  Flesh  red,  soft, 
juicy,  not  rich. 

Wonderful. 

Jeyes'  Wonderful.  Myatt's  Prolific. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  frequently  coxcomb-shaped  and  fingered.  Skin 
pale  red,  whitish  at  apex.  Seeds  numerous.  Flesh  white,  tender,  melt- 
ing, juicy,  sweet,  with  a  fine  aroma.     (Hogg.) 


ALPINE  AND  WOOD  STRAWBERRIES. 

Brune  de  Gilbert. 

A  variety  of  the  Alpine,  with  larger  fruit  than  the  common,  ana 
remarkable  for  its  reddish-brown  color.  It  is  well  flavored,  and  an 
abundant  bearer.      (Hogg.) 

Galland. 

JThis  is  a  variety  of  the  Alpine,  of  a  dark  red  color. 

Red  Alpine. 

Red  Monthly  Strawberry.  Des  Alpes  a  Fruit  Rouge. 

Des  Alpes  de  Tous  les  Mois  a  Fruit  Rouge,  &c. 

The  common  Red  Alpine,  or  monthly-bearing  Strawberry,  is  a  native 
>f  the  Alps,  and  succeeds  well  with  very  trifling  care  in  this  country. 
The  Alpines  always  continue  bearing  from  June  till  November;  l>ut  a 


1006  THE    STRAWBERRY. 

very  tine  autumnal  crop  is  secured  by  cutting  off  all  the  spring  blossoms 
The  plant  resembles  the  Red  Wood,  and  the  fruit  is  similar  in  flavoi 
and  color,  but  long  conical  in  form.      Flowers  always  perfect. 

Red-Bush  Alpine. 

Ruisson.  Monthly,  without  Runners. 

Des  Alpes  sans  Filets.  Commun  sans  Filets. 

The  Bush  Alpines  are  remarkable  among  Strawberries  for  their  total 
destitution  of  runners.  Hence  they  always  grow  in  neat,  compact 
bunches,  and  are  preferred  by  many  persons  for  edging  beds  in  the 
kitchen  garden.  The  fruit  is  conical,  and  the  whole  plant,  otherwise,  is 
quite  similar  to  common  Alpines.  We  think  it  one  of  the  most  desira- 
ble sorts,  and  it  bears  abundantly  through  the  whole  season.  The  Bush 
Alpines  were  fiist  introduced  into  the  United  States  by  the  late  Andrew 
Parmentier,  of  Brooklyn.  To  propagate  them  the  roots  are  divided. 
Flowers  always  perfect. 

Red  Wood. 

English  Red  Wood.  Newland's  Mammoth. 

Des  Bois  a  Fruit  Rouge.  Stoddard's  Alpine. 

Common  Rouge.  Washington  Alpine. 

This  is  the  wild  Strawberry  of  Europe  (/•'.  vp,scn),  long  more  com 
inonly  cultivated  in  our  gardens  than  an;  other  sort,  and  still,  perhaps, 
the  easiest  of  cultivation,  and  one  of  the  most  desirable  kinds.  It  al- 
ways bears  abundantly  ;  and  though  the  fruit  is  small,  yet  it  is  produced 
for  a  much  longer  time  than  that  of  the  other  classes  of  strawberries, 
and  is  very  sweet  and  delicate  in  flavor.      Flowers  always  perfect. 

Fruit  red,  small,  roundish  ovate.  Seeds  set  even  with  the  surface 
of  the  fruit.      It  ripens  at  medium  season. 

Triomphe  d'Hollande. 

Triumph  of  Holland  Alpine.  Des  Quatre  Saisons. 

This  new  variety  of  the  Alpine  comes  from  the  Netherlands,  whcie 
it  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  M.  .1.  Verkroost,  Utrecht.  The  habit 
of  growth  is  very  vigorous,  compact,  and  the  plant  very  productive 
The  fruit  is  large  for  its  class,  regular,  roundish  conical,  light  scarlet  red. 
Feeds  light  yellow.      Flesh  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  aromatic,  delicious. 

White  Alim.nk. 

White  Monthly.  Des  Alpes  a  Fruit  Blanc. 

Des  Alpes  de  Tons  les  Mois  a  Fruit  Blanc.  &u. 

Precisely  similar  to  the  Red  Alpine,  except  in  color. 
Fruit  conical,  white. 

White-Bi  sh  Alpine. 

White  Monthly,  without  Runners.  Buisson  des  Alpes  Blanc,  Ac. 

This  iiffers  from  the  Red-Bush  Alpine  only  in  the  color  of  the  fruit, 
which  is  conical  and  white. 


the  strawberry.  1007 

White  Wood. 

This  is  precisely  similar  in  all  respects  to  the  Red  Wood,  except  is 
Its  color,  which  is  white.     It  ripens  at  the  same  time. 

HATJTBOTS  *  STRAWBERRIES. 

Belle  de  Bohdelaise. 

A  new  variety.     Plants  very  vigorous  and  productive. 
Fruit  medium  or  large,  ovate,  deep  rich  crimson.     Flesh  firm  and 
high -flavored. 

Prolific  or  Conical. 

Musk  Hautbois.  Double  Bearing.         Sir  Joseph  Banks. 

French  Musk  Hautbois.         Caperon  Royal.  Caperon  Hermaphrodite. 

Saoombe.  Regent's  Dwarf. 

This  is  a  capital  variety.  Its  strong  habit  and  very  large,  usually 
perfect  flowers,  borne  high  above  the  leaves,  distinguish  it.  The  fruit 
is  very  large  and  fine,  dark-colored,  with  a  peculiarly  rich,  slightly 
musky  flavor.      It  bears  most  abundant  crops.     Hermaphrodite. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  light  purple  in  the  shade,  dark  blackish  purple 
in  the  sun.  Seeds  pi'ominent.  Flesh  rather  firm,  sweet,  and  excel- 
lent.    It  ripens  tolerably  early,  and  sometimes  gives  a  second  crop. 

The  Common  Hautbois,  Globe,  Laroe  Flat,  &c,  are  scarcely  worthy 
of  cultivation  here. 

Royal  Hautbois. 

This  is  one  of  the  largest,  most  vigorous,  and  prolific  of  the  Hautbois 
family. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  regular.  Seeds  yellow, 
on  the  surface,  rich  dark  crimson.     Flesh  whitish,  soft,  sweet,  rich. 


CHILI  STRAWBERRIES. 

True  Chili. 

Patagonian.  Greenwell's  New  Giant.  Greenwell's  French. 

Fruit  very  large,  bluntly  conical  or  ovatp*,  dull  red.  Seeds  dark 
brown,  projecting.  Flesh  very  firm,  hollow-cored,  of  a  rather  indifferent 
sweet  flavor.     Ripens  late. 

Wilmot's    Superb. 

An  English  seedling,  raised  from  the  foregoing,  very  showy  in  size, 
but  indiffei*ent  fruit  and  a  poor  bearer. 

Fruit  roundish,  sometimes  coxcomb-shaped ;  surface  pale  scarlet, 
polished  ;  seeds  projecting.  Flesh  hollow,  and  of  only  tolerable  flavor. 
Medium  season. 

*  Haut-bois,  literally  high-wood,  that  is,  wood  strawberries  «rith  high  leaves 
and  fruit-stalks. 


1008  •        the  strawberry. 

Yellow  Chili. 

Fruit  very  large,  irregular  in  form,  yellow,  with  a  brown  check. 
Seeds  slightly  embedded.     Flesh  very  firm,  rather  rich. 

GREEN  STRAWBERRIES. 

Little  valued  or  cultivated,  being  more  curious  than  good.  They 
resemble,  in  general  appearance,  the  Wood  Strawberries.  Leaves  light 
green,  much  plaited.  Flesh  solid.  There  are  several  sorts  grown  by 
the  French,  but  the  following  is  the  only  one  of  any  value,  and  it  is  a 
shy  bearer. 

Green  Strawberry. 

Green  Pine.  Fraisier  Vert.  Green  Alpine. 

Green  Wood.  Powdered  Pine. 

Fnut  small,  roundish  or  depressed,  whitish  green,  and  at  maturity 
tinged  with  reddish  brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  solid,  greenish, 
very  juicy,  with  a  peculiar  rich,  pineapple  flavor.     Ripens  late. 

SELECTION  OF  VARIETIES. 

The  Strawberry  is  so  variable  in  soils  and  climates  that  it  is  very 
difficult  to  select  such  as  will  always  give  satisfaction.  We  present  the 
following  as  a  list  embracing  varieties  that  have  proved  satisfactory 
with  us : — 

Agriculturist,  Charles  Downing,  Downer's  Prolific,  French,  Green 
Prolific,  Hovey's  Seedling,  Jucunda,  Longworth's  Prolific,  Napoleon  III., 
Royal  Hautbois,  Triomphe  do  Gand,  Wilson's  Albany. 

Key  to  French  standard  names  of  Fruit. — To  meet  the  wants  of 
some  of  our  fanning  friends  in  various  parts  of  the  country  who  are 
zealous  collectors  of  fruit,  but  at  the  same  time  are  more  familiar  with 
plough-handles  than  with  the  sound  of  Monsieur  CrapaucPs  polite  ver- 
nacular, wre  have  prepared  the  following  little  key  to  the  pronunciation 
of  such  French  names  as  are  necessarily  retained  among  the  standard 
varieties. 

So  long  as  these  sorts  must  retain  their  foreign  names,  it  is  very 
desirable  that  they  should  be  correctly  pronounced.  To  give  to  these 
French  terms  what  appears  to  merely  English  readers  the  proper  sound 
is  often  as  far  as  possible  from  the  true  pronunciation.  A  skilful  Hiber- 
nian  gardener  puzzled  his  employer,  a  friend  of  ours,  during  the  whole 
month  of  September  with  some  pears  thai  he  persisted  in  calling  the 
"  Lucy  Bony,"  until,  alter  a  careful  comparison  of  notes,  the  latter 
found  he  meant  the  ZJouise  Bonne. 

We  have  therefore,  in  the  following,  eschewed  all  letters  with  signs, 
and  given,  as  nearly  as  types  alone  will  permit  us,  the  exact  pronun- 
ciation of  the  French  names. 


KEY  TO   FRENCH   NAMES. 


APPLES. 

Couit  Pindu  Plat.— Coor  Pahn  du  Plah. 

Drap  d'  3r — Drah  dor. 

Fenouihet  Gris. — Fen-nool-yai  Gree. 

Male  Carle.— Mai  Carl. 

Pomrae  de  Neige. — Puw.  de  Naije. 

Reinette  Blanche  d'Espagne. — Ren-ett-Blansh  d'Espagne. 

Reinette  Triornphante. — Ren-ett  Tre-ome-fant. 


AJbergier. —  Al-bare-je-ai.. 

Briancon. — Bre-ahn-sohn. 

Belle  de  Choisy. — Bel  de  Shwoi-sey. 

Belle  Magnifique. — Bel  Man-gne-feek. 

Bigarreau. — Be-gar-ro. 

Bigarreau  Rouge. — Be-gar-ro  Rooje. 

Bigarreau  Couleur  de  Chair. — Be-gar-ro  Coo-lur  de  Shair. 

Bigarreau  Gros  Cceuret. — Be-gar-ro  Gro  Keur-ai. 

Bigarreau  Tardif  de  Hildesheim — Be-gar-ro  Tar-deef  de  Hildesheim. 

Gros  Bigarreau  Rouge. — Gro  Be-gar-ro  Rooje. 

Griotte  d'Espagne. — Gre-ote  Des-pan. 


Chasselas  Musqutf. — Shah-slah  Meuskay. 

Chasselas  de  Fontainebleau. — Shah-slah  de  Fone-tane-blo. 

Ciotat. — Se-o-tab. 

Lenoir. — Lun-war. 

NECTARINES. 

Brugnon  Violet  Musque". — Brune-yon  Ve-o-lay  Meus-kay. 
Brugnon  Musque. — Brune-yon  Meus-kay. 
D'Ansdeter  =•  — Dahn-glet-are. 
J>uc  du  Telher. — Deuk  du  Tel-yay. 

PEACHE8. 

Abricote"e. — Ab-re-co-tay. 
Belle  de  Vitry. — Bell  de  Ve-tree. 
Grosse  Mignonne. — Groce  Mene-yon. 
Madeleine  de  Courson. — Mad-lane  de  Coor-son. 
Pavie  de  Porapone. — Pah-vee  de  Pom-pone. 
Pourpree  Hative. — Poor-pray  Hat-eve. 

Sanguinok  a  Chair  adheVente. — Sahn-gwe-nole  ah  Shair  Ad-hay-renfc 

f)4 


1  ( >  i< !  KEY    TO    FRENCH    KAJ1BB. 


Amire*  Joannet. — Am-e-ray  Jo-ahn-nay. 

Ananas. — An-an-ah. 

Ananas  d'Ete. — An-au-ah  Da-tay. 

Angleterre. — Ahn-glet-are. 

Beune\ — Bur-ray. 

Belle  de  Bruxelles. — Bel-de  Broos-eiL 

Belle  et  Bonne. — Bel-a-Bun. 

Belle-Lucrative. — Bel-lu-crah-teve. 

Beurre*  de  Capiuraont. — Bur-ray  de  Cap-u-monn. 

Beurre*  d'Amalis. — Bur-ray  Dah-mah-lee. 

Beurre*  Gris  d'Hiver  Nouveau. — Bur-ray  Gree  Dee-vair  Noc-TOt 

Beurre"  Diel. — Bur-ra}'  De-ell. 

Beurre  Bronzee. — Bur-ray  Brone-zay. 

Bezi  d'Heri. — Ba-zee  Daree. 

B'-zi  Vaet. — Bazee  Vali-ai. 

Beurre  Crapaud. — Bur-ray  Crah-po. 

B'-/.i  de  Montigny. — Bay-zee  de  Mon-teen-gnee. 

Bon  Chretien  Fondante. — Bone  Cray-te-an  Fone-dontn. 

Boucquia. — Boo-kiah. 

Calebasse  Grosse. — Cal-bass  Groce. 

Capucin. — Cap-u-san. 

Cliaurnontel  tres  Gros. — Sho-mone-tell  tray  Gro. 

Compte  de  Lamay. — Conte  de  Lah-me. 

Colmar  Epine. — Cole-mar  A-peen. 

Crassane. — Cras-sahn. 

Cuisse  Madame. — Kuees  Mah-dam. 

D' Amour. — Dam-oor. 

De  Lou  vain. — Dul-oo-van. 

Delices  d'Hardenpont. — Day-lece  Dar-dahn-pone. 

Doyenne*  d'Ete-. — Dwoy-on-nay  Day-tay. 

Doyenne  Panache. — Dwoy-on-nay  Pan-ah-Shay. 

Dumortier.  — Du-mor-te-ay, 

Duchesse  d'Angouleme. — Du-shess  Dong-goc-lame. 

Duchesse  d'(  >rle*ans. — Du-shess  Dor-lay-on. 

Enfant  Prodige. — On-font  Pro-deeje. 

Epine  d'Ete. — A-peen  day-tay. 

Figuc  de  Naples. — Feeg  de  Nah-pl. 

Fondante  d'Automne. — Pone-don  to  do-tonn. 

Forme  de  Delices. — Form  de  Day-lece. 

Forclle—  Fo-rel. 

Fondante  du  Bois. — Fone-dont  du  Bwoi. 

Fortunee. — For-tu-nay. 

Franc  Real  d'Hiver. — Fronk  Ray-ahl  Dee-vair. 

Gloul  Morceau. — Gloo  Mor-so. 

HeYicart. —  1  fay-re-car. 

Jaln<isi< — Jal-oo-zee. 

Jalousie  de  Fontenay  Vendee. — Jal-oo-zee  de  Fone-ten-ai  Yon-day. 

I. eon  [e  CI  ere— Lay-on  le  Clair. 

Linion.  —  Lee-mohn. 

Louise  Bonne — Loo-eze  Bun. 

Madeleine,  or  Citroc  des  Carmes. — Mad-lane,  or  Cee-trone  day  Cam 

Mmie  Louise. — Mah-re  Loo-eze. 

Miehaux. — Me-sho. 

Passans  'le  Portugal. — Pah-sahn  de  Por-tu-gaL 

Pailleau.— Pahl-yo, 

Paradise  d'Automne — Par-ah-deze  do-tonn. 

Passe  Colmar. — Pass  Col-mar. 

Quilletette. — Keel-tet. 


KEY    TO    FRENCH    NAMES.  1  0  [  1 


Reino  Caroline. — Rane  Car-o-lene. 

Reine  des  Poires. — Rane  day  Pwore. 

Rousselet  Hatif. — Roos-lay  Hat-eef. 

Sanspeau. — Sahn-po. 

Sieulle.— See-ull. 

Sucree  de  Hoyerswarda. — Seu-cray  de  Hoyersword^ 

Surpasse  Virgalieu. — Seur-pass  Vere-gal-yu. 

St.  Germain. — San  Tare-man. 

Sylvange. — Seel-vonje. 

Vallee  Franche. — Vol-lay  Fronsh. 

vrerte  Longue. — Vairt  Longh. 

Verte  Longue  Panachee. — Vairt  Longh  Pan-ah-sh»y. 

Virgo*  leuse. — Vere-goo-leuz. 

Wilhelmine. — Wil-el-meen. 


PL^MS. 


Abricote'e  Rouge. — Ab-re-co-tay  Rooje. 

Diapree  Rouge. — De-ah-pray  Rooje. 

Drap  d'Or. — Drah-dor. 

Jaime  H&tive. — Jaun  Hat-eve. 

Mirabelle. — Me-rah-bell. 

Precoce  de  Tours. — Pray-cose  de  Toof. 

Prune  Suisse. — Prune  Su-ece. 

Royale  Hative. — Rwoy-al  Hat-eve, 


INDEX  TO  THE  DIFFERENT  FRUITS. 


[The  standard  names  are  in  Roman  letters.     The  synonymous  names  In  Italic] 


ALMONDS. 

PAGE 

A.  e.  Dulcis 431 

Amande  Commune 431 

Amande  Pistache 431 

Amande  PHncesse 431 

Amande  Sultane 432 

Amandiei'  d  Cogue  Tendre 431 

Amandier  d  Gros  Fruit 432 

Amandier  d  Gros  Fruit  Dur 432 

Amandier  d  Petit  Fruit 431 

Amandier  Gommun 431 

Amandiei'  des  Dames 431 

Amandier- P<cher 431 

Amandier  Pistache 431 

Amandier  Sultane •  432 

Bitter  Almond  431 

Common  Almond 431 

Common  Sweet 431 

Doux  d  Coque  Tendre 431 

Dwarf  Double  Flowering  Almond..  .432 

Ladies'  Thin  SheU 431 

Large  Double  Flowering  Almond. .  432 
Long  Hard -Shell  Almond   432 

Peach  Almond 431 

Peach  Almond 431 

P:cher 431 

Pistachia  Sweet  Almond 431 

Soft-Shell  Sweet  Almond 431 

Sultan 432 

Sultan  d  Coque  Tendre   431 

Sultana  Sweet  Almond 432 


APPLES. 

Abbott 72 

Abbott's  Five-Sided  Spice 72 

Abbott's  Sweet 72 

Abe  Lincoln •'>'->;! 

Aberdeen 2Sfi 

Abram ~:; 

Accidental. . . 2 Si  > 


Acklam's  Russet 73 

Aclemy  Russet 73 

Adams 73 

Adams  Pearmain. 73 

jEsojms  Spitzenberg 164 

JEsopus  Spitzenburg 164 

Agate  D'Enckhuysen 73 

Agathe 73 

A^nes's 74 

Ailes 74 

Akin's  Winter. 422 

Alabama  Pearmain 265 

Alant 74 

Albemarle  Pippin 419 

Alexander 74 

Alfriston. 74 

Alleghany 286 

Allemand 74 

Allen's  Choice 75 

Allen's  Pippin 75 

All-Hallows 75 

All-Summer 75 

Allum 75 

Alsace 75 

Althorp  Pippin 267 

Amber  Crab 427 

Amelia 75 

American  Beauty 75 

American  Golden  Pippin 76 

American  Golden  Russet 76 

American  Mammoth   191 

American  Newtown  Pippin 201 

American  Nonpareil 77 

American  Peach 304 

American  Pippin. 77 

American  Plate.    77 

Ami  Hewn    Red  Juneating 157 

American  Summer  Pearmain. 78 

Ananas 78 

Ananas  de  Liege 79 

Angle 79 

Vmerican 79 

Amuiberger 341 

Api  .      '. 244 

Api   Petit 244 

Aporta 74 

Aralmtn  .\p]>le, 304 

Arhrmth   Pippin 29« 


1014 


APPLES. 


Archiduo  Antoine 79 

Arley 417 

Aromatic  Carolina 79 

Aromatic  Russet 79 

Arundel  Pearmain 222 

Ashland 79 

Ashmead's  Kernel 80 

Ashmore 80 

Asterus 80 

Astracan 422 

Astracanischer  Sommerapfel 401 

Astrachari 422 

AstTi  '.chan  Rouge 323 

August  Apple 155,  181 

A  ugust  Sweet 250 

Augustine 80 

Augustus  Pearmain 80 

Aunt  Anna 80 

Aunt  A  nun's  Seedling 80 

Aunt  Dorcas 199 

Aunt  Hannah 81 

Aunt  Susan's  Favorite 81 

Aunt's  Apple 81 

A  ufora   388 

A  limn:- , . . .   195 

Austin  Sweet 81 

Autumn  Golden  Pippin 81 

Autumn  Pearmain 81 

Autumn  Pippin 413 

Autumn  Romanite 81 

Autumn  Rose 82 

Autumn  Seek-No-Farther. 82 

Autumn  Strawberry 250 

Autumn  Sweet  Bough 82 

Autumnal  Swaar 82 

Autumnal  Sweet  Swaar . .     82 

Averill 83 

■Avery  Sweet 163 

Baccolinus 83 

Bathe's  Kernel 96 

Bachelor  109 

Bachelor's  Blush 83 

Bachelor's   Glory 83 

Backhouse's  Lord  Nelson 83,  284 

Baddow  Pippin 83 

Boer 215 

Bagby  Russet •  ■  •  159 

Bailey's  Golden 83 

Bailey's  Spice 84 

Bailey's  Sweet 84 

Baker 84 

Baker's  Sweet 84 

Baldwin •  •  •  •     85 

Baldwin 226 

Baldwin  Sweet 86 

Balgone  Pippin 194 

Ball  Apple 299 

Balm 84 

Baltimore 86 

Baltimore 74,  167,  191 

Baltimore  Greening |C!6 

Baltimore  Pippin ,86,  93,  191 


PAGE 

Baltimore  Bed 93,  98 

Baltimore  Bed  Streak 93,  98 

Baltzby 87 

Bar 87 

Barbour 87 

Barcelona  Pearmain 87 

Barchard's  Seedling 87 

Bardin 1 75 

Bark  Apple 88 

Barlow 135 

Bamham's  Sweet 87 

Bamhilt 87 

Barre 88 

Barrett 88 

BarreWs  Spiteenburgh 285 

Bars 88 

Bartlett 88 

Bartlett Ill 

Barton 88 

Barton's  Incomparable 88 

Batchdor 329 

Bauman's  Reinette 88 

Baxter's  Pearmain ...    89 

Bay  Apple 148 

Bayfordbury  Golden,  Pippin 194 

Beachemwell  Seedling 89 

Beadell 89 

Bean  Swirt 89 

Bear  Sweet *9 

Beard  Burden 152 

Beau 89 

Bi  a  "  Bouge 219 

Beauty 373 

Bin  ut //  of  America 75 

Beauty  of  Kent     .       89 

Bewuty  Bed 132 

Beauty  of  the  West 89 

Bid f<>rd  Sweet 323 

Bedfordshire  Foundling   90 

Beefsteak 90 

Peeler's  Russet 90 

Belden 90 

Belden  Sweet 90 

Bell  Dubois  332 

BelVs  Early 356 

B<  Ws  Scarlet  Pearmain 347 

Bell  Bonde 90 

Belle  d' Angers 91 

Belle  Bonne 91 

Belle  et  Bonne 91 

//,//,  et  Bonne  375 

Bem    Fille 204,  412 

BeUe-Flew 324,  418 

B(  tie-  Fit  ur  Rouge 324 

Belle  Grideline 91 

BeUe  GrisdeUne 91 

Josephine 191 

Belledge 91 

BeUedge  Pippin 91 

Bellflower  Pippin •     91 

Belmont 92 

Bi l!<  1hur  de.  France 183 

BeUefleur  YeUow ,418 


APPLES. 


1010 


PAOE 

Belly  Bounder 90 

Belpie  Keeper 92 

Bt  'nre  Russet 342 

Belvoir  Pippin 93 

Belzer     93 

Ben  Apple 165 

Ben  Davis 93 

Ben  Harris 210 

Bennet   94 

Bi  mi  ington 350 

Beuoni 94 

Bentley's  Sweet. 94 

Benwell's  Pearmain 95 

Bere  Court  Pippin 95 

Bergner 95 

Berliner  Olossapfel 341 

Berry 286 

Berry  Bough 358 

Bess  Pool 95 

Best  Bache 96 

Best  Pool.. 95 

Bethlemite 96 

Betsey 96 

Betsy's  Fancy 96 

Better  than  Good 97 

Sevan's  Favorite 97 

Big  Fruit 383 

Big  BM 286,  316 

Big  Red 310 

Big  Romanite 302 

Big  Sweet 392 

Big  Vandevere 391 

Bigg's  Nonsuch 97 

Billy  Barker 97 

Billy  Bond 90 

Billy's  Pippin 97 

Bischoff  s  Reinette 98 

Bishop's  Bourne 98 

Bishop's  Pippin  of  Nova  Scotia 418 

Birmingham 97 

Birmingham  Pippin 97 

Black  American 99 

Black  Annette 99 

Black  Apple 99 

Black  Apple  144 

Black  Coal 98 

Black  Detroit 144 

Black  Gilliflower 99 

Blackjack... 98 

Black  Lady  Apple 245 

Black  Oxford 98 

Black  Warrior 98 

Blackburn   109 

Blackstone  Valley  Sweet 98 

Blair 275 

Blake 99 

Blakely   99 

lVakily 265 

Bland's  Jubilee 99 

Blandilalie 212 

Blauberger 101 

Bleckensderfer 99 

Bledsoe  Pippin 99 


PA  OH 

Blenheim 100 

Blenheim  Orange 100 

Blenheim  Pippin 100 

Blinkbonny 100 

1 ll>  a  kin  urn  >/  Seedling 100 

Blockley 100 

Blockli  y  Pippin . .  100 

Blondin 10C 

Blooming  Orange 10C 

Blue  .Mountain 101 

Blue  Mountain  Sweet 101 

Blue  Pearmain 101 

nine  Sweet 313 

Bluff  Sweet 101 

Blush  June 118 

Boalsburg 101 

Boas 101 

Bodickheimer 341 

Bohannan 101 

Bon  ui'  de  Mai  . .     148 

Bon  ut  Rouge  219 

Bonne  Virginie 103 

Bonnra... 102 

Bordeauer  Hold  Reinette 197 

Borden's  Early 102 

Borovitsky 102 

Borsdorf  Ognon 103 

Borsdorffer 103 

Bossom 1 03 

Boston  Russet 342 

Botigne 103 

Bottle  Greening 103 

Bough 250 

Bourassa ...    104 

Bowker 104 

Bowling's  Sweei 104 

Bowyer's  Russet 104 

Box  ford 104 

Brabant  BeUe-fleur 105 

Brabant  Bellfiower 105 

Braddick's  Nonpareil 104 

Bradford's  Best 238 

Bradley's  Autumn 104 

Bradley's  Winter 399 

Ilia  inly  Apple 193 

Brandy  wine 104 

Brand yirine 27(5 

Braunschweiger  Milch     275 

Bread-dnd-  Cheese  Apple 319 

Breedon  Pippin 105 

Brennaman 105 

Brentford  Crab 229 

Brewer 105 

Brewer's  Pippin 105 

Brickley  Seedling 105 

Bridgewater  Pippin 106 

Brigg's  Auburn 105 

Brill's  Seedling 106 

Brimer 106 

Brinckeley  White  Sweet > . .    .   106 

Bringewood  Pippin 106 

Bristol 106 

Bristol  Pearmain IOC 


1016 


APPLES. 


PA  OK 

Brittle  Sweet 107 

Broad-End 107 

Broad-Eye  Pippin 107 

Broad  River 339 

Brooding 107 

BroadweH 107 

BroadweU  Street 107 

I  in  midia  Ananas 78 

Bronson  Sweet 108 

Brooke's  Pippin 201 

Brookes 1 08 

Broughton 109 

Brown 108 

Brown  Cockle 129 

Brown  Renting 108 

Brown's  Golden  Sweet 379 

Brown's  Summer  Beauty 108 

Brown's  Winter 108 

Brownite 108 

Brownlee's  Russet 108 

Ttnuridccft  Seedling  Russet 108 

Brubacker 167 

Brummage  Pippin 97 

Buclianan  . . . 101 

Buchanan's  Pippin 109 

BuchanarCs  Seedling 109 

Buck  Meadow 110 

Buckha/m 215 

Buckingham 109 

Buckley 124 

Bucks  County  Pippin 109 

Buel's  Favorite 110 

Buel's  Sweet 110 

Buff Ill 

Buffmgton's  Early 110 

Bull's  Golden  Reinette Ill 

Bullett Ill 

Bullocks  Pippin 76.  166 

Bullripe 152 

Buncombe 329 

Bunkum 329 

Burlington 285 

Burlington  Greening 332 

Burr  Knott 193 

Burr's  Seedling   Ill 

Burr's  Winter  Sweet Ill 

Burrell's  Red Ill 

Burroughs  Greening. 112 

Bursdorff 103 

Bursdorfer 103 

Burst  Open 112 

Bush 112 

Bush's  Beauty 112 

Bush  whacker 112 

Butter 112 

875 

ButU  r  Pippin 195 

Butters. 85 

Byam's  Sweet 113 

Byefs 109 

Byefs  Red 109 

By  son  Wood 113 

Byson  Wood  Russet 1 1 3 


Caas 184 

Cabashea. 113 

Cabbage  Head 113 

Cable's  Gittiflower 86 

Cache 113 

( 'nd e au  du  General 392 

Caillot  Rosat 328 

Cain 235 

Cake  Apple 113 

Ciddir,  V 344 

Caleb  Sweet 113 

Calef's  Sweet 114 

Calf  Pasture 133 

<  'alkin'8  Pippin 868 

Calville  Ananas  de  Liege 79 

CalviOe  Blanc 372 

Calville  Blanche  a  Cote's 114 

CalvHU  Blanche  d'titi 372 

CalviMe  Blatush,  a  11  in  r 401 

CidriUi  (PAngleterre 133 

<  'nlrilie  <r  A  utomne 324 

CdriUi'd'Etr 371 

( 'alviUe  d 'Hirer  de  Mensfield 272 

( 'ahiUe  des  Prairies 812 

( '<;1  rill,  Etoile 165,  360 

Calville  Malirigre 114 

( 'alviUe  Rouge 324,  328 

CalviMe  Rougt  tPAnjou 328 

t 'almUe  Rouge  cTAuUmine. 182,  324 

Calville  Rouge  de  Micoud 114 

Rouge  d?£U 371 

Calville  Rouge  d'Hiver 328 

Cal/tMe  Rougt  Normamde 328 

( \drWi  Boyale  d' Hirer 328 

Calville  Saint  Sawoeur 345 

Calritle  Talipee 387 

Cidcilh  vraie  des  Allemands 328 

Camack's  Sweet 114 

( 'a/macks  Winter  Sweet 114 

Cambridge  Pipjrin 90 

Cambusnethan  Pippin. 115 

Cum  in. snr 404 

Campbell 114 

CampbeUite 405 

Campfield 115 

Can 115 

( 'anada  Pippin 402 

Canada  Reinette 115 

Canada  Reinette  Oris 204 

Canada  Reinette  Grise 116 

Canada  Sweet 218 

Canadian  Reinette -   115 

Cane 235 

Cane  Creek  Sweet 116 

Cann .        115 

Cannon  Pearmain 116 

Canterbury  Reinette 116 

Capendu 134 

Capital 117 

Capron's  Pleasant 117 

( 'araway  Russet 117 

Garbage 117 

Cardinal  Red 117 


APPLES. 


1017 


PAGE 

Carey's  Seedling 117 

Carlisle  Codlin. 117 

Carmel  Sweet  117 

Camahan's  Favorite 117 

Carnation 118 

Carolina 402 

( 'aroUna  Baldwin 118 

Carolina  Greening  201 

Carolina  June 119 

Carolina  Red  June 118 

( 'aroUna  Red  Streak. 93 

( 'aroUna  Red  Stripe 328 

( 'aroUna  Spice 286 

Carolina  Striped  June 119 

Carolina  Sweet 119 

Carolina  Watson . .   119 

Caroline 118 

Caroline 286,  402 

Caroline  Auguste 118 

Carpenter 119 

Carpentin  Reinette 120 

CarrelVs  Seedling 306 

Carse  of  Goiorie 884 

Carter 120 

Garter  of  Ala 265 

Carter's  Blue.. 120 

Carter's  Winter 265 

( 'arthouse 191 

Carver 120 

Cary's  Summer 120 

Case 120 

Cash  Sweet 120 

Cassei  Reinette 87 

Castle  Major 121 

Cat's  Head 285 

Catface       121 

Cathead 169,  324 

Cathead  Greening 121 

Cathead  Sweet 121 

Catline 121 

Cato 121 

Catooga 121 

Catshead 121 

Catshead  Beau-fin 288 

CatteU  Apple. .'. 291 

Cattoogaja 121 

Cayuga  Red  Streak. 888 

Cay  wood 121 

Cedar  Falls 122 

Celestia 122 

Cellini 122 

Challenge 122 

Chalmer's  Large, 151 

( 'haltra/m  Pippin 286 

Champaigne  Reinette 122 

Clutrmphvin 368 

Chandler 122 

Chaney 123 

Chapman's  Orange 123 

Charles  Apple 263 

Charles  Pearmain 344 

Charley's  Winter 123 

phase's  Seedling 123 


Chase's  Winter  Sweet ...  422 

Chatham  Pippin 286 

Chattahoochie 123 

Cheat 147 

Cheatan  Pippin 286 

Cheataw 286 

Cheese 123 

Cheese 265 

Cheese  Apple 367 

Cheeseboi'o 123 

Cheeseborough  Russet 1 23 

Cheltenham 123 

Chenango  Strawberry 124 

Cheney 124 

Cherry 422 

Chestatee 125 

Chester   125 

Chester  Pearmain 125 

Chester  Red  Streak 125 

Chester  Spitzenberg. 125 

Chestoa 125 

Chicago 422 

Chicago 229 

Chief  Good 125 

Christ?*  Deutsche  Goldreinelte 126 

Christ's  Gold  Reinette 126 

Christiana 125 

Christie's  Pippin 126 

Chronical 126 

Chucket  Egg 382 

Church's  Late  Sweet 126 

Churchill  Greening 120 

Citron  des  Carmes 1 26 

Citronen  Reinette 126 

Clapper  Flat 127 

Clara  Pippin    127 

( '!<:!■(  moat  Pippin 158 

Clark'*  Seedling  255 


Clarke . 


127 


Clarke's  Delaware 127 

Clarke  Pearmain. 127 

Clarkson 127 

Claygate  Pearmain 1 28 

Clayton 128 

Clepington 128 

Cley  Pippin 128 

Clifton  Nonsuch 171 

Cling  Tight 147 

CMs&olcCs  Seedling ...  254 

ClotJm-  yard  Apple. .    199 

Cluster    128 

Cluster  Golden  Pippin 12S 

Cluster  Pearmain 128 

( lusti  r  Pippin 128 

Clyde  Beauty 128 

Coate's 421 

Coate's  Greening 416 

Co/Mr*  Fall  Pippin 404 

Cobham 129 

Cobourg  Pippin 12'J 

Coccagee 129 

Cockle  Pippin         129 

Cockliti's  Favorite 129 


1018 


ArPLES. 


PACE 

Cocko  Gee. 129 

Cockpit 129 

Coe's  Golden  Drop 129 

( ',;  ',v  Spice. .....   152 

( '"■>//■  de  Pigeon 304 

.11..  .' 130 

i  'oqxwett  Pearmain 130 

130 

Coleman 388 

Ooles  Quince    319 

I  raughn*8 392 

( 'dort  d  IliirhonVs  Pippin. 209 

Columbian 131 

( 'olumbian  Russet 127 

Colvert 131 

Cdvittt  Bairre 88 

■■'< 298 

( 'mi, stock's  Garden 186 

Conant's  Red 131 

<  '<,!,, ■mi,  bre  des  Cliartreux 345 

Gondii  Sweet 131 

Congress 131 

cticut  Gake 113 

aticut  Seek-no-  Further 399 

Connecticut  Summer  Sweet 131 

Connett's  Sweet 131 

Contin  Ileinette 131 

Conwav 132 

Cook's  Red  Winter 132 

Cooke's  Greening 410 

Cooledge's  Favorite 132 

Cooper 132 

Cooper's  Early  White 132 

Cooper's  Market 132 

Cooper's  R<  dZing 132 

Cooper's  Russeting 132 

Copmanthorpe  Crab 151 

Gorbin 121 

Coral 423 

Coral  Blush 134 

CordwaM 344 

( 'oridndre  Pose 134 

Collie's  Sweet 133 

Cornell's  Fancy 133 

t'oi-,,,  ii  &  Favorite. 133 

( '« .77/1  //'.v  s,iff in  11 346 

Cornfield 133 

Cornish  Aromatic 133 

Cornish  Gilliflower 133 

•>  July  Flower ; 133 

Cornish  Spice 133 

Corse's  Favorite 133 

Corn  waUisser 1 33 

Cos 131 

rd 134 

Cotsville  Spitzenberg 1 34 

Cotton  Apple 126 

CmWmrd 134 

Court  di    Wick, 135 

Court  of  Wick 135 

Court  of  Wkk  Pippin 135 

Court-pendu 13-1 

Court  Pendu  de  Tournay 134 


PACfl 

Court- pendu  Dore ........    19? 

Court-pendu  Extra 134 

t 'on rt  pendu  Gris 1 75 

( 'ourt-pendu  M usque .         134 

Court  Pendu  Plat 34 

Court-pendu  flat  rougedt/re , .  134 

Court-perdu  Bond  Gros 134 

( 'on  ft  I',  niln  Rosat 135 

Court  Pendu  Rose 135 

( 'ourt-pi  ndu  Rose 134 

( 'ourt-pendu  Rouge  Musque 134 

Cowarne  Red 135 

Cowarne's  Queening 135 

Cox's  Orange  Pippin 135 

Cox's  Pomona 135 

Cracking 135 

Cram 136 

Cranberry 136 

Cranberry  Pippin 1  :>>6 

Cranberry  Russet 136 

( 'ram  's  Pippin 296 

Crawford 136 

(  i.iw ford's  Keeper 136 

Cray  Pippin 136 

Crayton 137 

Cream 137 

Crede's  Quittenreinette 137 

s  a  nft,  a  Beinette 137 

Creed's  Marigold 137 

Creek 137 

Creeper 137 

Crego  Red  Streak 137 

i  'rimson  Pippin 1  14 

Crimson  Queening 137 

Crispin 138 

Crittenden 138 

Crofton  Pippin . .    138 

Crook's  Seedling 138 

( '/  ooki  d  Limb  P  vppin 151 

Cropsey's  Favorite. . .  . : 138 

Crotcher 138 

Crow  Egg 138 

Crow  Nest. 138 

Cullasaga 139 

Cullawh.ee 139 

Culp 139 

Cumberland  Pluck 146 

Cumberland  Seedling 139 

Cumberland  Spice 139 

Currant  Crab 423 

Curry's  Red  Winter 139 

( 'urtis  Pur///  Stripe 363 

Curl  is  Greening 140 

Curtis  Sweet 140 

( 'ushman's  Black 328 

Custard 140 

Cut  Pippin 140 

Cuttugaja 121 

Daddy.... 322 

Dahlongea 140 

Dahlton 14C 

Daldton  Pippi.n 14C 


APPLES. 


101S 


PAOR 

Dainty  Apple 218 

Dale's  Siceet  Fall  Queen 377 

Dame  Jeannette 140 

Dan  Pearmain 141 

Dana 141 

Dana  Greening 141 

Dana's  Striped  Sweet 141 

Daniel 141 

Daniel's  Apple 141 

Dan  vers  Winter  Sweet 141 

Dapper 141 

Darling  Pippin 142 

Darlington   142 

Darlington  Russet 142 

Dartmouth  Sweet 142 

B'Asterm 80 

Davis 142 

Davis 296 

Davis  White  Bcllfloicer. \.  29(3 

Davis's  Sweet .  .  142 

Dawson's  Cluster 142 

Day 142 

Dayton 142 

Be  Boutigne 103 

De  Bretagne. 115 

B'Espagne 404 

IT  Ere     148 

De  Saint  Julien 345 

De  Witt 14(5 

Defiance 143 

Delaware 143 

Delaware 319 

Delight 143 

Democrat 143,  144 

Der  Citrpentin 120 

Derrick's  Graft 334 

Berrikinan 334 

Derry  Nonsuch 144 

Beterding's  Early 323 

Detroit 144,  296 

Detroit  Black.  .  .• 144 

Detroit  Red 144 

Devonshire  Buckland 144 

Devonshire  Golden  Ball 144 

Devonshire  Quarrenden 145 

Devonshire  Queen 145 

Devonshire  Red  Streak 145 

Devonshire  Wilding 145 

Dickskill 145 

Dickson's  Emperor 145 

Did  Kernobst 145 

Diel's  Reinette 145 

Dietzer  Rothe  Mandel  Reinette.  ...  145 

Dillingham 140 

Dinsmore .    .......  144 

DircMs   Graft 3:!4 

Disharoon. 140 

Double  Flowering  Apple.    423 

Double  Flowering  Chinese  Crab. . .  423 

Double  White  Siberian  Crab 423 

Dobb's  Kernel  Golden  Pippin 14(i 

Dobbel  BeUefleur .      183 

Doctor 146 


TAOH 

Doctor  Fulcher 149 

Doctor  Harvey. 211 

Doctor  Helsham's  Pippin 146 

Dr.   Watson 82 

Dodge's  Crimson ...   146 

Dodge's  Early  Red 356 

Domine 147 

Donnekm's  Seedling 148 

Double  Bdleflt  w 183 

Doiix  d '.  1  ngt  rs 148 

Doux  d' Argent 148 

Dow's  Winter  Pippin 148 

Dowell's  Pippin 148 

Downing's  Paragon 148 

Dovmton  Golden,  Pippin 148 

Downton  Pippin ....   148 

Downy 218 

Drapd'Or 148 

Drop  if  Or 175 

Dredge's  Bra,,  ty  of  Wilts 211 

Dredge's  Fair  Maid  of  Wishford. ..   149 

Dredge's  Fame 149 

Dredge's  Golden  Pippin 149 

Dn  dye's  WMte  Lily 144 

Du  Haider 150 

Due  cPArsel  288 

Duchess  of  Oldenburgh 149 

Duchesse  deiBrabant 149 

Duckett         150 

Duffield  Pippin 150 

DuifApfel 304 

Duke  of  Beaufort's  Pippin 150 

Duke  of  Devonshire 150 

Dulce  Doman   151 

DvMng 130 

Dumelow's  Crab 151 

Dumelow's  Seedling 151 

Dumpling 151 

Duncan .    151 

Dundee 195 

Dusten 151 

Dutch  Codlin 151 

Dutch  Mignonne 151 

Butch  Pearmain 194 

Dutch  Tulip  387 

BuPihess  County  Siceet. 417 

Duzenbury 152 

Dyer  or  Pomme  Royale 152 

Earl  of  Yarmouth's  Pearmain 297 

Early  Chandler 1 5:3 

Early  Crofton 229 

Ear!,/  French  Reinette 153 

Early  Golden  Sweet 196 

Early  Harvest 153 

Early  Joe 154 

Ear!,/  Joe 259 

Early  J<  nnetting 402 

Early  Julien 155 

Early  Long  Stem 155 

Early  Marrow 155 

Early  May 402 

Early  Nonpareil 15C 


1020 


APPLES. 


Early  Pennock 155  |  English  Red  Stripe 

Early  Queening 156    English  Reinette . . 

Early  Red  Juncating 156    English  Russet  .  . . 

English  Sweet .... 

English  Sweet  .... 

English  Vandevere . 

Episcopal 

j  Epse's  Sweet 


Early  Red  Margaret 156 

Early  Red  Streak , 156 

Early  Red  Streak 211 

Early  Red  Sweet 156 

Early  Ripe 156 

Early  Spice 156 

Early  Spice 155 

Early  Strawberry 157 

Enib)  Sum    i  r  Pearmain 78 

Early  Sweet 157 

Early  Sw<  ■  t  i  tough 250 

Early  Tart 157  j  Ernsffs  Pippin 

Early  Tart  Harvest 15S  :  Esopus  Spitzenburgh 

Early  Tart  Harvest 313  ;  Esquire  Miller's  Best  Sort 

Early  Wax 158  !  Essex  Pippin 


Epsy 

Eptings  Premium  . . 

Eptings  Red  Winter 

Eguinetely    , 

Erd  Beere 

Erie  Sweet      


Esten . 

Etoile 

Eustis 

Ere 

Eve  Apple  of  the  Irish 

Eve  of  Scotland 

Evening  Party 

Evergreen  Apple  Crab 

Ewalt  

Excel 

Exquisite 

Eyer's  Greruing 


Fail-Me-Never 

Fair  Maid 

Fair  Maid  of  Taunton  . .  . 

Fair's  Nonpareil 

Fairbanks 

Fairfield  Summer  Queen 
Falder 


Early  Yellow  Reinette 158 

East  Grinstead 158 

East  Grinstead 400 

Easter  Pippin   158 

Eaton 158 

Edel  K.inig 158 

Edgar's    159 

Edg<  rlifs  Street 84 

Edit  r  Winter  Bor-sdorffer 103 

Edmonton's  Aromatic  Pippin 239 

Edward  Shantee 286 

Edward's         159 

Egg 402 

Egg  Top 159 

Eggermont    159 

montfs  CalviUe 159 

Egyptian  Belle 159 

Egyptian  Russet 159 

Eightt  en  Ounce  Apple 388 

Eldon  Pippin 159 

Elford  Pippin 160  i  Fall  Bough  .... 

Elgin  Piypin 404  !  Fall  Butter  . . . 

Elicke's  Winter  Sweet 160    Fall  Cheese 

Elizabet , 195  |  Fall  de  WaUdes. 

Ellijay 160  ;  Fall  Greening  . 

Ellis 160  |  Fall  Harvey 

Ellsworth 160 

Elton  Pippin .  148 

Embroidt  red  Pippin 148,  175 

Emperor 100 

Euijit  ror  Alexander 74 

fine's  Winter  Sweet 160 

Enfield  Pearmain 161 

English  Beauty 161 

vuty  of  Pa 147 

Englteh  <  'odlin 293 

English  Crab 161 

English  Gillitlower 161 

...   196 

.  Golo\  a  Russet 196 

English  Granat  Reinette    162 

English  Nonpareil 288 

h  Pippin 195 

English  Itambo  ...       147 

English  Red  Streak     147,  410 


.159, 


Fall  Jenneting 

Fall  Limbertwig 

Fall  Orange 

Fall  Pearmain 

Fall  Pippin 

Fall  Pippin 



FaU  Romanite 

Fall  Seek-No-Further, 
Fall  Spitzenburgh  . . . 

Swaar  of  West  .. 

cere 

Fall  Wine 

Fall  Winesap    , 

. ater  

FaUawalder , 

Falwalder 

Fania  Gusta 

Fameuse 


328 
162 

162 
16* 
218 
355 
169 
141 
163 
163 
163 
109 
324 
163 
292 
164 
314 
164 
165 
165 
165 
40)2 
156 
265 
165 
422 
166 
166 
166 
166 

166 
167 
167 
167 
166 
167 
167 

82 
167 
265 
167 
167 
168 
168 
168 
168 
168 
169 
404 
109 
319 
170 
169 

82 
391 
170 
171 
167 
167 
167 
171 
171 


APPLES. 


1021 


Family 

Fancher  

Fanny  

Farleigh  Pippin 

Farley  Pippin 

Farley's  Red 

Faros    

Fm-rur's  Summer 

Fi't  Apple 

Father  

Fattier  Apple 

Faust 

Fa  usfs  Winter 

Favorite 

Fay's  Russet . 

Fearns  Pippin 

Federal  Pearmain 

Felch 

Fell's  Winter  Sweet  

Fenley .  .    

FennouiUet  Jaune 

Fenouillet  Gris 

Fenouillet  Jaune 

Fenouillet  Rouge 

Fenton  Sweeting 

Ferdinand 

Ferris ... 

Ferris  Pippin 

Fett 

Field 

FindTay  Apple 

Findley 

Fink 

FinKs  Seedling 

Firdey 

First  and  Last 

Fish's  Seedling 

Fishkill  Beauty 

Fiske 

Five  Crowned  Pippin 

Flake's  Fall    

Flanders  Pippin 

Flanders  Reinette 

Flat  Apple, 

Flat  Pippin 

Flit  Pippin 

Flat  Sweet 

Fleet's  Nonpareil 

Fleiner 

Flint  Russet 

Flora  

Florence  Pippin 

Flory 

F lory's  BcUflower 

Flower  of  Kent 

Flushing  Seek- No -Further. 

Flushing  Spitzenburgh 

Focht  

Foote's  Nonpareil 

Forange 

Ford  Apple 

Forelle  . .  .  

Forest  ..  


.175, 


PAGE 

.  172 

172 
173 
173 
173 
173 
205 
337 
17G 
,  174 
306 
174 
.  174 
.  174 
.  174 
174 
174 
.  85 
174 
175 
148 
175 
175 
175 
386 
175 
176 
174 
176  | 
176 
367 
175 
176 
176 
175 
176 
176 
176 
177 
255 
177 
177 
178 
127 
178 
306 
178 
178 
178 
317 
178 
174 
179 
170 
1 79 
202 
179 
179 
179 
179 
179 
101 
180 


Forest  Styre 

Forest  Styre ... 

Forever  Pippin 

Forge 

Forman's  Crew 

Formosa  Pippin 

Foimwalder     ........ 

Forsyth  (not  of  Coxe) 
ForsytJir's  Seedling  . . . 

Fort  Miami 

Foster  Sweet 

Fouldon  Pearmain  . . . 

Foundling 

Fourth  of  July 

Foust 


Fowler 

Fox- Whelp 

Foxley  Crab 

Fragrant 

Fraise 

Framboise 

Framboos 

Franchot  

Frank 

Frank  Rainbour 

Frav kfort  Queen 

Franklin's  Golden  Pippin 

Franz  Rennette 

Franeosische  Edelreinette 

Freeman 

Freeze  and  Thaw 

Fremont  Pippin 

French  

French  Bellflower 

French  Crab  

French  Crab 158, 

French  Nonpareil. 

French  Pippin 

French  Pippin 184, 

French  Pippin  of  Indiana 

French  Reinette 

French  Russet 

French's  Sweet 

Friar 

Frisland  Reinette 

Frith  Pippin 

Frith  Pitcher 

Fronclin 

Front  Door 

Fry's  Pijuyin 

Fuller 

Fullerton  Sweet 

Fulton 

Fulton  Strawberry 

Fidwood 

Funkhouser 


PAUK 

180 

365 
123 
180 
18C 

;;:;:■ 

167 
158 
286 
180 

180 

181 

181 
181 
17-1 
354 
182 
423 
423 
182 
182 
182 
182 
124 
37(1 
109 
182 
184 
184 
183 
183 
183 
183 
183 
183 
27:1 
183 
184 
285 
151 
tM 
184 
184 
184 
184 
265 
265 
185 
185 
135 
354 
185 
is.-, 
185 
185 
93 


Gabriel 186 

Gaesdonker  Gold  Reinette 186 

Ganges 186 

Garden 186 

dunlin  Apple 90 

Garden  Royal 186 


1022 


APPLES. 


PA  OK 

Garden  Stripe 187 

Garden  Sweet 187 

Gardener's  Apple 281 

Gardnei  Sweet 188 

Gardner  Sweeting 188 

Gardner's  Sweet  Pearmain 188 

Garnon's  Apple 134 

Garret  Pippin 103 

Garrcttson's  Early . . .  188 

Garter 188 

Gatt 92 

Gault's  Bellflower 188 

Gaumont 188 

Gay's  Romamte 302 

General  Grant 423 

General  Haskell 188 

l^/nn/le 298 

Genesee  Chief 188 

Geneva  Pearmain 3G8 

Geneva  Pippin 1 89 

GennetUng 402 

Gentle's  Rarge  Red 189 

George 189 

Georgia  June 118 

Gestreifter  Somrner  Zimmetapfel. .  190 

Gewisa  Good 190 

/  /,  wisa  Gnth 190 

Giant 190 

Giles 190 

t nil,  it's  Seedling 340 

Gilpin ' 191 

Ginetting  402 

Gipson's  Kentucky 191 

Gipson's  Kentucky  Seedling 191 

Gvrkin  J'i/>j>in 417 

( }lac   Rouge 87 

Glace  de  Lelande 401 

Gladney's  Red 191 

( r It  tin  mis  i  'astte 384 

Glanz  Reinette 191 

aln:i  n  wood  Gloria  Mundi 191 

Gleason  Sweet 191 

Glendale 191 

Gloria  Mundi 191 

Glory  of  England 192 

Glory  of  the  West 192 

Glory  of  York 333 

Gloucester  Pearmain 127 

Gloucester  White 192 

Russet 192 

Gogar  Pippin 192 

192 

Gold  Reinette  von  Bordeaux 197 

Golden 192,  424 

Golden  Apple 70 

Golden  Ball 192 

Golden   Burr 193 

G  olden  Drop 135 

Golden  Goss 193 

Golden  Harvey ]  93 

Golden  Knob 193 

Golden  Lustre 193 

Golden  Monday 193 


FAGl 

Golden  Noble 193 

Golden  Nonpareil 194 

Golden  Pearmain 194 

Golden  Pearmain 127 

Golden  Pippin 194,   195 

Gold,  a  Pippin. . .  .76,  92,  109,  258,  29C 

Golden  Red 195 

Golden  Reinette 195 

Golden  Reinette  of  Yanderlaans. .   195 

Golden  Russet [..   196 

Golden  Russet 76,  303 

Golden  Russet  of  Massachusetts. . .   196 

Golden  Seedling 190 

( .  i  'ih  n    Spire 152 

Golden  Streak 190 

Golden  Sweet 190 

Golden  Sweet 290 

' :,  It  1 1  -a   Yining 224 

Golden  Wilding 197 

Golden  Worcester 197 

Guiding 76 

Goodyear 198 

Goodyea/r's  Seedling 198 

Gooseberry 198 

Gooseberry  Pippin 198 

Gould's  Sweet 198 

Governor 198 

Governor  Charter 198 

Governor   Charter's  Seedling 198 

Gmcden 286 

Gracey 198 

Ci  afton  Street 349 

Graham's  Red  Warrior 286 

Grand  Sachem 144 

Grandfather 129 

Grandmother. 361,  414 

Grandmother's  Apple. 199 

Grange 198 

Grange's  Pearmain 199 

Grange's  Pijrjnn 199 

Granite  Beauty 199 

Graniwinkle ...    199 

(rrttlll'l/    Huff Ill 

Granny  Earle 199 

Grape  Vine 114 

Grau  Osnabrucker  Reinette 296 

Gram  Portugiesisdie  Reinette 310 

a  run  ire  Frame  Rennett 412 

Gravt  Slije 199 

Gravenstcin 199 

Gray  Apple 308 

Gray  THppin 170 

Gray  Romanite 191.  319 

Greasy  Back 306 

(in  asy  Pippin 258,  296 

Great  Pearmain 413 

Great  Unknown , 20(1 

Green  Abram Ill 

<  h-een  ]:<  Uflower 296 

Green  Cheese 201 

(in  t  a  ( 'losings 344 

Green  Crunk 201 

Green  Domine 201 


APPLES. 


1022 


PAGT? 

Green  Fiilwood 185 

Green  Mountain  Pippin 201 

Green  Mountain  Pippin 167,  393 

Green  Newtown  Pippin 201 

Green  Nonpareil 303 

Green  Reinette 202 

Green  Seek-no-Further 202 

Green  Skin 201 

Green  Street  Apple 395 

Green  Sweet 203 

Green  Sweet 302 

Green  Sweet  of  Indiana 203 

Green  Tiffin 203 

Green   Yuudevere 391 

Green    Winter  Pippin 201 

Green  Woodcock 203 

Green's  Choice 301 

Greening 201 

Greenup's  Pippin 203 

Green  us's  Pippin 203 

Gregson  Apple 121 

Greist's  Fine  Winter 203 

Grey  Canada  Reinette 204 

Grey  French  Reinette 204 

Grey  Leadington 204 

Grey  Leadington  Pippin 204 

Grey  Reinette 204 

Greyhouse 204 

Griffith 204 

Grimes   Golden 205 

Grimes'  Golden  Pippin 205 

Grindstone 77 

Grise 308 

Groene  Frame  Benette 202 

Groene  React 202 

Grooveland  Sweet 200 

Gros  Api  Rouge 2 14 

Gros  Ccetwr  de  Pigeon 304 

Gros  Faros 205 

Grosh 205 

Grosse  Reinette  d'Angleterre 115 

Grosser  Gasselar  Reinette 151 

Grossei'  Edler  Prinzessinapfel. 314 

Groton 181 

Grouzier 200 

G ' rumas  Pijrpin 97 

<j  rummage  Pippin 97 

Grime  Reinette 202,  288 

Griinling  von  Rhode  Island 332 

Graver's  Early 200 

Guernsey  Pippin 206 

Gullett 206 

Gully 200 

Gully 205 

Guttry 220 

Haas 223,  259 

Habersham's  Pearmain 206 

Ha gl»e 367 

Hagloe  Crab 206 

Hague  Pippin 207 

Hain 207 

Haley .' ...  142 


PAS* 

HaU 207 

Hall  Door 207 

HalVsRed 207 

HaWs  Seedling. 207 

Hall's  Sweet 208 

Hnllum 75 

Hambleton  Deux  Ana 208 

Hamilton 208,  305 

Hammond 208 

Hampshire  Greening 350 

Hampshire  TeUow 240 

Hampton  Bellflower 208 

Hampton's  Fall  Sweet 208 

Hampton's  Honey- Sweet 208 

Hampton's  Late  Sweet 209 

Hampton's  Russet 209 

Hampton's  Siberian  Crab 424 

Hancock 209 

Hang-On 383 

Hannah 209 

Hanover  Seedling 89 

Hanwell  Souring 209 

Harbord's  Pippin 209 

Hardinghamtis  Rvsset 305 

Hardskin        220 

j  In nh:  ick 373 

Hare   209 

Hargreave's  Green  Sweet 210 

Harkn^ss  New  Favorite 326 

Harmony 155 

Harnish 210 

Harrigan 275 

Harris 210 

Harrison 210 

Harry  Sweet 210 

Hartford ^20 

Hartford  Sweet 210 

Harvest  Red  Streak 211 

Harvey   21i 

Harvey's  Pippin 211 

Harvey's  Wiltshire  Defiance 2 1 1 

Haskell  Sweet 211 

Haute  Bonto 212 

Ifiii rst/raw  Pippin 368 

Hawberry  Pippin 219 

Hawley 212 

Hawthornden 212 

Hay  Boys 213 

Hay's  Milder 410 

Haymaker 140 

Heaster 215 

Hector         213 

11  ie/ce's  Winter  Sweet 255 

Heideloclier 224 

Julians  Apfel 345 

Heister 215 

Helen's  Favorite 213 

Hemphill 213 

Hempstead 302 

//.  n  rick  Street 378 

Henry  Apple 213 

J h  a  ry  Siceet . .  378 

Henshaw 108 


1024 


APPLES. 


PAGTC 

Henwood 213 

Hepler 218 

Herbstrieh  Apfel 298 

fli  refordaMre  Golden  Pippin 194 

Herefordshire  Pearmain 214 

If  refordtMre  Queening 137 

rdshi/re  Red  Streak 328 

ii 214 

Ht  rmann 214 

214 

Hetterich 214 

Hewe's  Virginia  Crab 214 

Hewitt's  Sweet 215 

Hick's 215 

Hick's  Fancy 155 

i 215 

Sweet 215 

Highlander 216 

Hightop 216 

Hightop  Sweet 216 

Hill's  Favorite 217 

Hill's  Sweet 217 

Hilton 217 

mam 284 

Hinnersley 217 

Hoary  Morning 218 

Hobb's  Sweet 218 

Hockett's  Sweet 218 

Hocking 384 

Hodge's  Limber  Twig 218 

Hog  Island  Sweet 218 

Hogan 147 

en.. 168 

Holbert's  Victoria 218 

Holcomb 218 

Holdcn 168 

Heidi  n  Pippin 16S 

ilolla.lv 219 

Holland  Pippin 219 

Holland  Sweet 219 

ITollandbury. 219 

HoUingbvry 219 

.  Core    219 

Gore 321 

II  i/,,r-  <  >ored  Pippin 296 

Hollow  Crown   220 

Grown  Pea/rmam 255 

Hollow  Crown  Pippin 220 

HoUcno-Eyed  Pippin 220 

Holly 220 

Holmes 220 

Holmes's  Sweet 220 

Holsten  Sweet 220 

/   356 

Hommacher  Apfel 140 

Honemaker  Pippin 140 

Honej  Greening 221 

ll<>. nil  Greening 203 

Honey  Sweet 221 

Horn  y  Sweet 221,  404 

Hood 221 

Hood's  Seedling 221 

Hooker 221 


Hoopes 

Hoover 

Hopkins 

Hopper 

Hopsey 

Hormead  Pearmain 

Hormead  Pippin 

Horn 

Hoi-rex's  Pearmain 

Horse 

Horse  Apple 

Horse  Block 

Horsham  Russet 

Horsley  Pippin 

Hoskreiger  

House 

Housum's  Red . 

Howard  

Howard  Russet 

Howard's  Edgemont , 

Howard's  Sweet , 

Howburry  Pippin 

I/mce  Apple         

Hon  i  's  Russet 

HoWi  r 

Hubbard 

Hubbard 

Hubbard's  Pearmain 

HvbbaroVs  Russet  Pearmain 

Hubbard's  Sugar 

Hubbardston 

Hubbardston  Nonsuch 

Hubbardton  Pippin   

Hudson  la  d  Streak 

Hughes 

Hughes'  Golden  Pippin 

Hughi s'  I  "irginin  Grab 

'  Hull  Blossom 

Hull  Sweet 

Hunge 

H"ittj,  r 

Hunt 

I  Hunt's  Connecticut 

Hunt's  Deux  Ans 

Hunt's  Duke  of  Gloucester 

Hunt's  Fii'i  Green  Pippin 

Hunt's  Green  Neictoirn  Pippin 

Hunt's  Nonpareil 227, 

Hunt's  Russet 

Hunthouse 

Hurlbut 

Hurlbut  Stripe 

Hurlbut  Sweet 

Hutcheson 

Hutching's  Seedling 

Hutchison's  Winter  Sweet 

Hutton  Square 

J/i/i/i  '.v  Sweet 

Hyslop 

Imperial 

Imperial  Vandevere 

Indeed  Good 


pagv 
2U4 
221 
223 
222 
204 
222 
222 
223 
181 
175 
223 
265 
223 
219 
224 
170 
224 
286 
123 
224 
84 
219 
415 
342 
170 
224 
286 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
225 
235 
225 
225 
214 
226 
226 
226 
226 
226 
226 
226 
227 
201 
201 
288 
227 
226 
227 
227 
1/;:! 
22  j 
366 
424 
228 
416 
424 

228 
391 
190 


APPLES. 


1025 


PA  OK. 

Indian  Prince 228 

Indian  Queen 155 

Indiana  Beauty 228 

Indiana  Favorite 228 

■  i  Ja n Hitting 821 

Indiana  Vandevere 391 

Ingram 229 

Truman 296 

Irish  Codlin  265 

Irish  Peach  Apple 221) 

Irish  Pitcher 265 

Irish  Reinette 229 

Irish  Rusk,  t 340 

Iran  Apple 105 

Ironstone  Pippin 158 

Island  Beauty 229 

M  of  Wight  Orange 229,  294 

Isle  of  Wight  Pippin 229 

Isleworth  Crab 229 

Italian  Rose 329 

Jabe 230 

Jabez  Sweet 200 

Jack  Apple 29(3 

Jackson 230 

Jackson  Apple 124,  131 

Jackson  Red 286 

Jmksorts  Bed 829 

Jacques  Lebel 280 

James  River 409 

James  River 258 

Jane 230 

Januarea 115 

Jarminite 230 

Jefferis 2-0 

Jefferson  County 28 1 

Jeniton 321 

Jenkins 23 1 

Jennett ! 321 

Mng 402 

Jenning's  Sweet 281 

Seedling 207 

Jersey  Black. 99 

Jersi  a  Grei  ning 290,  382 

Jersey  Pippin 231 

Jersey  Sweeting 28' 1 

I,  rusalem 

Jewett's  Best 232 

Jewett's  Fine  Red 232 

Joanm  ting 

Joannetteris  Reinette 140 

Joe  Berry 285 

Joel  . .  . .' 282 

John  Carter 28  I 

John  May 224 

Jim.   Six pps1 856 

John's  Sweet 233 

Johnson 233 

Joh  tison 828 

Johnson  Russet 288 

Johnson's  Fine  Winter 420 

Joh ust on's  Favorite 2  >5 

Jolly  Beggar 234  , 

65 


pica 

Jonathan .   232 

Jones'1  Pippin 108 

Journalaskia 235 

Jubilee  Pippin 234 

Judge  Andrews , 284 

Juicy  Bite 284 

Julian 234 

Julii  ii 284 

Juling 284 

July  Apple 313 

July  Pippin 153 

Junaliska 285 

Junaluskee 285 

June  Sweeting 820 

J 'unfitting 402 

Jiini  ting 402 

J  uniting 402 

Kaigkn's  Spitzenburgh 235 

Kane 285 

Keddleston  Pippin. ...    285 

Keeping  Red  Streak 285 

Keeping  Russet 280 

Keim 280 

Keiser 280 

KeUey  White 92 

Kelsey 280 

Kelsey 220 

Kelsey  Sweet 236 

Kelter 101 

/.  fa  Pippin 100 

lump's  Sweet. 210 

Kennebec  Russet   280 

Kennedy's  Red  Winter 236 

Kenney 287 

Kenrick 287 

KenricKs  Autumn 237 

fe's  Hi d  Autumn 287 

Kent 237 

Kentish  Broading 287 

Kentish  Brooding 107 

Kentish  Fill-Basket 2::  7 

Kentish  Pippin. 237 

Kentucky. 238 

Kentucky  Cream 

Kentucky  King 238 

'.>:', 

■  y  Queen 109 

Kentucky  Red  Streak 238 

Kentucky  Sweet 238 

Kerry  Pippin 289 

Keswick  Codlin 239 

Lin's  Favorite 239 

Kikita 240 

Kilham  Hill 240 

Kinellan 240 

King 108,  109,  L13,  240 

K\  nij  Apple 241 

King  George  the  Third 103 

King  Philip 232 

King  of  the  Pippins 240 

King  Tom 241 

King  of  Tompkins  County 241 


1026 


APPLES. 


Kingsbury  Rvsset 

Kingsley 

Kingston  Black 

Kinney  

Kirk's  Lord  Nelson 

Kirkbridge  White   

Kirke's  Golden  Reinette. . . 
Kirki  .1  Lemon  Pippin. . . . 
Kvrke's  Scarlet  Admirable. 

Kirrland 

Kir  Hand1  s  Seedling 

Kittugeskee 

Klaproth 

Kieine  Casseler  Reinette. . . 
Kleim  Gra/ue  Reinette. . . . 

Knickerbocker 

Knight's  Codling 

Knight's  Golden  Pippin. . . 

Knight's  Red  June 

KniyMwick  Pippin 

Knobbed  Russet 

Knobby  Russet 

Knowles'  Early 

Knox  Russet 

K  inig's  Reinette 

Koi  fang's  Pippelin 

Kohl 

Kool-appel 

Kounte 

Kram 

Krauser 

Krauter  Reinette. ....... 

Krouser 

Krowser 


La  Candle 

l.n  J/'  re  des  Pommes 

Labute 

Lacker  

Lacy's  Nonpareil 

Ladies'  Blush 186, 

Ladu  s'  "Favorite 

Codies'  Sweet 246, 

Lady  Apple 

Lady  Blush 

I.mhi  CJ,eek  Siceet 

L  idy  <'rab 

Lady  Finger 

Fingt  r 

'itspatrick 

Lady  ,],    tin  y'.v 

Lady  Haley's  Nonsuch 

Lady  Washington 132,  257, 

Lady  of  the  Wemyss 

Lady's  Delight 

Lady's  Fancy 

Lady's  Winger 

Lady's  Seedling.    

Ladj  's  Sweet 

Lady's  Sweeting 

Lady's  White 

Lafayette 

Lake 


TAOK 

123 
241 
241 
241 
242 
241 
195 
252 
219 
241 
241 
242 
242 
8? 
120 
243 
416 
148 
118 
135 
243 
243 
243 
243 
243 
194 
24:! 
321 
285 
136 
243 
244 
243 
243 


190 
321 
244 
244 
155 
215 
109 
378 
244 
245 
215 
424 
245 
235 
120 
237 

24'; 

418 
246 
246 
246 

402 
246 
24' i 
246 
247 
247 
248 


Lamb  Abbey  Pearmain 

Lamb  Abbey  Pearmain 

Lancashire  < '■.■ab 

Lancaster  Crab 

Lancaster  Greening 

Lancaster  Pippin 

Lancasti  r  Qm  en 

Lancaster  Sweet 

Landon 

Lane's  Red  Streak 

Lane's  Sweet 

Lansingburgh 

Laquier 

Large  Black 

Large  Emit/  Red 

Large  Fall  Pippin 

Large   Golden  Pippin 195, 

Large  Ra/mbo 

Large  Red  Siberian  Crab 

Large  Romanite 

Large  Striped  Winter  Pearmain. .. 
Large  WMte  Incomparable  Crab... 

Large  White  JuneaUng 

Large  Yellow  Bough 

Large  Yellow  Siberian  Crab 

Largi   YeUow  Summer 

Larue's  Big  Green 

Lasting  Vandervere 

LoU    Bough 

Late  Carse  vf  Gowrie 

Late  Chandler 

Late  Golden  Sweet 

Late  Strawberry 

Late  Sweet 

Late  Wine 

Latham 

Lauren's  Greening 

Lawver 

Le  Grand  Bohemian  Borsdorffer. .. 

Lraiiingfo/i's  (j rauer  Pippin 

Leanham 

Leather  Apple 

Leather  Coat  Russet 293, 

Leaver 

Ledge  Sweet 

Leech's  Red  Winter 

Leicester  Sweet 

Leithemer  Streifling 

Leland  Pippin 

Leland  Spice 

Lt  mon 

Lemon  Pippin 

Lesher 

Lewis 

Lewis's  Incomparable 

Lexington  Queen 

Liberty 

Libhart 

Ligoz 

Lily  I  lackland 

Lima 

Limber  Twig 

Lincoln  Pippin 


Mai 

248 
248 
276 
376 
24b 
248 
370 
248 
248 
249 
249 
249 
244 
144 
323 
404 
368 
319 
424 
302 
363 
402 
153 
250 
425 
25!) 
25(1 
391 

82 
384 
122 

84 
251) 
251 
251 
251 
251 
251 
103 

204 
286 

308 
343 

251 
252 
223 

252 
252 
252 
338 
252 
252 
253 
253 
1(19 
253 
283 
253 
144 
388 
253 
415 


Arri.E.* 


1027 


Lincolnshire  Holland  Pippin 253 

Lindenwald 254 

Lindley's  Nonpareil 254 

Lippincott  Sweet 254 

LippincoWs  Early 371 

Litchfield  Pippin 254 

Little  Beauty 254 

Little  Pearmain 76 

Little  Rmanite 191 

Little  Vandevere 391 

Loan's  Pearmain 254 

Locy 254 

Lodgeinore  Nonpareil 254 

Loudon  Golden  Pippin 194 

Loudon  Pippin 255 

Loudon  Sweet 255 

Lyondon  Winter  Sweet 255 

Londonderry 144 

Long  Island 168 

Long  Island  Pearmain 255 

Long  Island  Pippin 255 

Long  Island  Russet 255 

Long  John 255 

Long  John , 235 

Long  May 402 

Jjong  Pearmain 235 

Long's  Red  Winter 256 

Long  Start 256 

Long  Stem 256 

Long  Stem  Sweet 84 

Longville's  Kernel 256 

Lop- Sided  Pearmain 270 

Lord  BwrgJdey 257 

Lord  Burleigh 257 

Lord  Gwydr's  Newtown  Pippin. ...  74 

Lord  Suffield 257 

Lorick  Cluster 257 

Loring  Sweet 257 

Loudon  Pippin 257 

Louise  Renard 257 

Loure  Queen 258 

Loveden'a  Pippin 288 

Lovett's  Sweet 258 

Lowell 258 

Lowre  Queen 258 

Luce's  Early  Joe 259 

Lueombe's  Pine- Apple 259 

Lueombe's  Seedling .  259  | 

Ludw  ig 259 

Lutticher  Ananas  Calville 79 

Lyman's  Large  Summer 2.7:1 

Lyman's  Pumpkin  Sweet 317 

Lyon's  Sweet 259 

Lyscom 259 

Mc  Adam's  June 181 

McAfee's  Nonsuch 260 

McAfee's  lied 260 

McCoy's  Pippin 260 

McDaniel 260 

McDowell's  Sweet 260 

McHemy 260 

Mclutii  e's  Sweeting 266 


PASS 

McKim's  Vandervero 261 

McKinley 261 

McLellan 261 

Mcr.oncrs  Family 172 

MacKay  Sweet 260 

MncMe's  Clyde  Beauty 128 

Maclean's  Favorite 261 

Macomber 262 

Madt  hiit. 371 

Mage's  Johnny 203 

Magi  ifqvi    .' 228 

Magnolia 262 

May  mini  Bonum 102 

Wagoun  .  ipple 114 

Maidt  n's  A  pple 263 

Maiden's  Blush 262,  425 

Ma! il(  it's  Bosom 283 

Maiden's  Favorite 263 

Major 263 

Mala  Carle 263 

Maltranche 228 

Mamma 263 

Mamma  Beam 92 

Mammoth 195 

Mammoth  June 264 

Manaen 264 

Mangura 265 

Mank's  Codlin 265 

Mannington's  Pearmain 265 

Manomet 265 

Manomet  Street 265 

Mansfield  Russet 265 

Marble  Sweet 266 

March's  Red  Seedling 266 

March's  Red  Winter 266 

Marengo 425 

Man/, i  ret 156 

Margaretha  Apfel 156 

Margil 266 

Maria  Bush 266 

Marietta  Russet 342 

Marigold  Pippin 294 

Marks 267 

Marmalade  Pippin 2(17 

Ma/rrow  Pippin 296 

Marshall 267 

Marshall's  Sweet 267 

Marston's  Red  Winter 267 

Martin 268 

Martin 261 

Martin  Nonpareil 268 

Mary 268 

Maryland  Beauty 268 

Maryland  Cheese 367 

Masten 268 

MasterCs  Seedling 268 

Master's 268 

Master's  Seedling 268 

Matapfel 341 

Matchless 73,  285 

Matlock's  Summer 269 

Matson 269 

Mattamusket 269 


1028 


APPLKS. 


Matthew  Stripe 

Mauck 

Ma  wrack's  Sweet 

Maxey 

Maxfeld 

May.    

May 

May  Apple 

May  of  Myers 

May  Pippin 

May  Seek-no-Faither. 
May  St  ■  I; -in)-  Further. . 

May  of  Virginia 

Meach 

Meachem  Street 

Meader's  Winter 

Meadow  Sweet 

Mear's  Seedling 

Mear's  Sweet 

Megginch  Favorite 

Mt  ig's 


270 


PAOE 

259 
269 
269 
270 
265 
270 
402 
270 
270 
402 
270 
271! 
402 
270 
2^2 
42.-» 
270 
271 
271 
1!).-, 
329 


Meister 

...  271  i 

Mela  Curhi 

...  2.;:; 

Mela  di  Carlo 

Mi  in  ili  Rosmarino  rossa 

263 
327 

Melon 

...   271 

Melrose 

»>->> 

Melt  in  the  Mouth 

2  72 

Melt  in  tin1  Mouth 

Melting  Pippin 

Melvin  Sweet 

Men  igere 

302 
296 

272 
. .  . .  272 

Menouisten  Reinette 

Mi  a  ift  '<■''  r  Cuiih  rling 

272 

. . .    272 

Winter  Galville 

ieldCaMLLe 

Mercer 

272 

272 

.  ...   278 

M  re  ile  Menage 

. ...   273 

Merit 

100 

I's 

273 

?S  Apple 

's  Sweet 

i 

27:; 
342 

27M 

....    27:! 

odist 

. . ..   273 

I! 

. ...   273 

i 

....   27! 

1  Henry  Pippin 

274 

Michigan  Golden 

258 

...     274 



Mh Mli  bourg  Reinette 

Mifflin  King 

27! 
....  275 

in-  (L'lliver 

.    .  .   275 

. . .     27."") 



Milch 

. .  .     27.-, 

Milch  Apfel 

....   275 

Mi.ler 

355 

27.-, 

21 5 

Millt  r\s  Apple 

;;i2 

Miller's  Seedling 

100 
....  194 

PAel 

Minchall  Crab 276 

MincharrHs  Crab 276 

Minier'a  Dumpling    270 

Minister ...   2717 

Minkler 276 

Minshul  ('rub 270 

Mishler's  Sweet 276 

Mississippi 101 

'  Janet 321 

Missouri  Keeper 

Missouri  /'/) ,  m 286 

Hid 286 

Missowrian :' 13 

Mitchelson 27  7 

Mitchelsoris  8i  <  dlin  g 27  7 

Mitt, 1 274 

Mr--.   Weaver's  Street 2.>r> 

Mobbs 286 

Molasses 277 

Molassi  s  Sweet 313 

Moll, i  Whopper 167 

Monarch 277 

Monarch  i.        277 

Monk's  Favorite 277 

Monkland  Pippin 277 

Monkton 277 

Monmouth  Pippin 27c 

Monstow's  Pepping 193 

Monstrous  Bellflower 27b 

Monstrous  Pippin 191 

Montalivet 278 

Montreal  Beauty 125 

Moore 270 

Moore's  Extra 279 

Moore's  Greening 279 

Mooj'i  '■■>•  Si  <  dling 279 

Moore's  Sweet 270 

Moorhen  Pippin 270 

Moose  Apple 282 

Moreland 

Morgan  White 270 

Morgaris  Favorite 

Morris's  Court  of  Wick 

Morris's  Russet I 

Morris*  Sack  an  I  8  igar 

Morrison  Sweet 

on's  Red 

Morton 

Morton\  280 

Moses  Wood... 280 

Moss's  [ncomparable 280 

Sweet 

Mother 

Mother  Davis 

Motti  uars  Seedling 

.Mountain  Belle 288 

Mountain  Pippin 107 

Mountain  Sweet 282 

Mini nt nin   Vandevere o91 

Mountaineer 282 

Mouse  Apple 282 

M 'undies  Pippin 2G() 

Munson  Sweet 283 


APPLES. 


102? 


Murphy 

Muscat  Reinette. . . 
Museau  de,  Levre. . . . 
Musqraois  Cooper. . 

Musk-  Spice 

nelon 

Muster , 

Mi/efs  Nonpareil. . . 
MygaWs  Bergamot. 


Naigle's  Winter 

Nanny 

Nantahalee 

Ne  Plus  Ultra 

i  BeUflower 

Nectar 

Ned 

Needle , 



Neisley  Bell  flower , 

y's  Winter  Penick. 

\   Apfel 

Nelson 

Nelson's  Codlin 

Nequassa 


Nequassa  Sweet 

Neverf  ail 

Neverfail 166, 

Neversink 

Neto  Brunswick 

New  Jersey  Red  Streak 

New  Late  Reinette 

New  London  Pippin 

New  Nonpari  il 

New  Rock  Pippin 

New  Scarlet  Nonpareil 

New  Small  Lemon  Pippin 

New  Y<>rk  Gloria  Mundi 

New  York  Greening 

New  York  Pippin 

New  York  8j  ice 

Newark  King- 

Newark  Pippin 

Newark  Swt  eting 

NewboM's  Adi  vir<  I  Duncan 

Newbola?s  Duke  of  York 

Newbury 

Newtown  Gn  ening 

Newtow     P       

Newtown  Spitzenburgh 

Nichols  Sweet 

ack 

!'<  inette 

Nieman's  Red  Reinette 

Xix  Green 

ad 

d 

Nonpareil 

Nonpareil  cP Angleterre 

Nonpareil  Russet 

Nonsuch 

Nonsuch 

Norfolk 


PA  OB 

282 
282 
.  304 
89 
170 
383 
283 
201 
152 

283 
283 

283 
100 
284 
2.83 
283 
284 
178 
284 
302 
133 
284 
284 
284 
284 
266 
321 
284 
149 
155 
285 
255 
155 
285 
347 
285 
191 
7<i 
93 


S53 
2*4 
285 
115 
344 
344 
285 
76 
201 
285 
286 
286 
287 
287 
288 
288 


288 
288 
288 
288 
288 
288 


r*«H 

Norfolk  Beauitn 28fc 

Norfolk  Beefing 288 

Norfolk  Caiman 412 

Norfolk  Paradise 288 

Norfolk  Pippin 73 

Norfolk  Stone  Pippin 289 

Norfolk   Storing 289 

Norfolk  Storing 412 

North  American  Best 313 

North  Carolina  Greening Ill 

Northern  Golden  Sweet 290 

Northern  Gr< ening 135 

Northern  Hardskin 220 

Northern  Spy 289 

Northern  Sweet 290 

Northfield  Beauty 290 

North  wick  Pippin 1 00 

Norton's  Melon 271 

Nottingham  Pippin. 290 

Nursery 290 

Nutmeg   Cockle 129 

Nutmeg  Pippin 129 

Nyack  Pippin 368 

Oakes 290 

Oat  Harvest 243 

Oblong-Fruited  Siberian  Crab 425 

Oconee  Greening 291 

Ofine 291 

Ogdensburg- 291 

Ogleby 291 

Ohio  Beauty 89 

Ohio  Favorite. 296 

Ohio  Nonpareil 291 

Ohio  Pippin 292 

Ohio  Red  Streak 292 

Ohio  Wine 170 

Ohlinger 293 

Old  English  Codlin 293 

Old  Field 293 

Old  Golden  Pippin 194 

Old  House 293 

Old  Hundred 293 

Old  Maid's 243 

Old  Nonpar)  11 288 

Old  Nonsuch 324 

Old  Pearmain 214.  4 1 3 

Old  Royal  Russet 293 

Old  Town  Crab 293 

'  1  1  Town  Pippin 293 

Old  Town  Pippin 224 

Oldakefs  New 74 

Oline 294 

Olive 294 

Omar  Pasha 294 

Onstine 410* 

Osceola 296 

Osgood's  Favorite 259 

Oskaloosa 296 

Oslin 296 

Osnabrucker  Reinette 296 

Osterley 297 

Osterley  Pippin 297 


1031 


APPLES. 


PA  OK 

Ostogate 297 

OstogaU 348 

Orange  294,  425 

Orange 168,  258,  309 

Orange  Pippin 294 

Orange  Pippin 229 

Orange  Sweet 295 

Orangt  Sim  *t 282 

Orange  Sweeting 196 

On!  .' 295 

Or(Fs  Apple 295 

Original  Nonpareil 288 

Orleans  Reinette 295 

Orndorf 295 

Orne's  Early 295 

Ortley 296 

Ortley  Pippin 296 

Overman's  Sweet 297 

Oviatt 297 

Oii-eiCs  Golden  Beauty 402 

Ox 297 

Ox  Apple. 191 

Ox-Eye 109,285 

Ox  Sweet 297 

Ox  Sweet 417 

Oxford  Peach 347 

Qxnead  Pearmain 297 

Padley's  Pippin 298 

Padley's  Royal  Oeorge  Pippin 298 

Palmer  Greening 396 

Panden  Sweet 298 

Panther 346 

Paper  Apple 368 

Paradise  Pippin 402 

Parodist   Wind r  Sweet 414 

Park  Apple. 298 

Park  Spice 298 

Parmentier  Reinette 298 

Parmin 214 

Parmin  Royal 2M 

Parrot  Reinette  29s 

Parry's  Pearmain 298 

Pas8(  Pomme 304 

Passe  Pomme  d'Automne 298 

Passe  Pomme  dt  Canada 343 

Passt  Pomme  <  'oteUt  e 298 

Passe  Pomme  Ronge 299 

Passe  Pomme  Rouge  d?Automne..  .  .  298 

Patch's  Russet  .  . '. 299 

Paternoster  Apf  el 151 

Paterson's  Sv                299 

PaU  rson's  Swet  t 84 

Patton 265 

Pawpaw 290 

Pawsan 20!) 

Peach 299 

Peach-Pond  .-weet 300 

Pear 300 

■Apple 300,  319 

Pear  Lot 408 

Tear-Tree  Lot 408 

Pearmain 413 


FJOl 

Pearmain  d'Hiver 413 

Pearsall's  Sweet 300 

Pearson's  Early 300 

Pearson's  Plate 301 

Peck's  Pleasant 301 

Pecker 85 

Pelham  Sweet 302 

Pelican 302 

Pennington's  Seedling 302 

Pennock 302 

Pennock's  Bed  Winter 302 

Pennsylvania   Cider 354 

Pennsylvania  Red  Streak 410 

Pennsylvania  Sweet 302 

P(  n  nsylmani  i  Sweeting 302 

Pennsylvania  Vandevere 391 

Pennsylvania  Wine  Sap 30? 

Peoples'  Choice 302 

Pepin  Limon  de  GaUes 252 

Pepin  (TOr 194 

Pepin  cVOr  AUemand 74 

Pepin  Par  main  dC  Angleterre 413 

P,  pin  Parmaiii  d'Hiver 413 

Pepin  Russe 303 

Peremenes 413 

Perry  Russet 303 

Persimmon 220 

Petersbxirgh  Pippin 201 

Petit  Api  Rouge 244 

Petit  Jean 303 

Pet  worth  Nonpareil 303 

Pfarrer  Walter Ki7 

Pfeifer 304 

PJrihul'lpJa',1  Pippin 16i> 

Phihuhiphia  Sweet 82 

Pl.i'i,  Rick 2:12 

PhiMp's  Reinette 135 

Phillippi 303 

Phillips'  Sweet 303 

Phoenix 304 

Pickard's  Reserve 304 

Pickman 304 

Pickman  Pippin 304 

Pie  Apple 219 

Pifer 304 

Pigeon 304 

Piip  on  Rouge 304 

Pigeonet  Plane 304 

aette '■'<<> I 

<rEt' 304 

tt,  Gros  d<  Rouen 304 

Pigeonette  de  Rouen ,  805 

i  Russet 305 

Piles  Russet 305 

PiUiken  270 

270 

Pirn's  Pi  auty  of  tin   West 167 

259 

/  'in  e-Apj  iJ    /  'ij  >pin 259 

Pine -Apple  Russet 305 

Pine  Creek  Sweet 305 

Pine  Sua  wherry. .    305 

Pink  Sweeting 305 


APPLES. 


103  I 


PAGE 

Pinned1*  Favorite 152 

Pinner 306 

Pin  tier  Seedling 306 

Pioneer 306 

Pippin 306 

Pitmaston 306 

Pitmaston  Golden  Pippin 306 

Pitmaston  Nonpareil 306 

Pitmaston  Pine- Apple 306 

Pittsburgh  Pippin 306 

Pittstown  Pippin 194 

Pitsn-  Hill 316 

Piatt's  Sweet 306 

Pleasant  Valley  Pippin 307 

Plum 307 

Plymouth  Greening 270 

Poland 324 

Polecat 370 

Polhemus 279 

Polinia  Pearmain 87 

Polish 307 

Polly  Bright 307 

Pomeroy 307 

Pomme  eVApi  Rouge 244 

Pomme  (F  Argent 346 

Pomme  d'Aunee 74 

Pomme  de  Berlin 134 

/  'omme  du  <  'aen 115 

Pomme  de  ( 'aractere 14s,  1  T~> 

Pomme  de  (  liarles  263 

Pomme  de  Codillac 341 

Pomme  de  ( 'uir 308 

Pomme  Double  Agathe 7;J 

Pomme  Finale 263 

Pomme  Granate 162 

Pomme  (arise.         308 

Pomme  de  Jaune 346 

Pomme  de  Jaune  de  la  Sartha. . .  .  846 

Pomme  de  LaaJc  151 

Pomme  <•>■  Maiingre Ill 

Pomme  in-  JSeige 171 

Pomme  d't  Grange 229 

Pomme  WOr 194 

Pomme  (V  Outre  Passe 298 

Pomme  de  Perroquet 366 

Pomme  Eegelans 133 

Pomme  RomaHn  Rouge 327 

Pomme  Rose 24  i 

Pomme  Roye 302 

Pomme  Rubanee 366 

Pomme  dt  Saint  JvMen 345 

.7  Swaveur 345 

366 

VioU  tte 324 

Pomme  Water 308 

Pomme   Water  Sioet  t 308 

Pommeroy ~  ''• 

Pom  in  a 392 

Ponto  Pippin 308 

Poorhouse 309 

Pope 309 

Popes  Apple ;'>li!) 

Poppy  Greening 221 


Popular  Bluff. 

Porter 195, 

Porter  Spitzenburgh 

Portsmouth  Sweet 

Portugal 

Portugal  Gray  Reinette 

Posey's  Red 

Posey's  Red  Winter  Sweet 

Posteley 

Postt  ley's  Seedling 

Pot/pie  Apple 

Potter's  Large 

Pott*  r's  Large  Apple 

Potter's  Large  Seedling 237, 

Potter  Sweet 

Pottinger 

PoiK/Jikeepsie  Russet 

Pound 167, 

Pound  Cake 

Pound  Pippin 

Pound  Royal 

Pound  Royal 169,  195, 

Pound  Royals 

Pound  Sweet 

Pound  Sweet 279, 

Pound's  July 

Poveshon  

Powell's  Russet 

Powers 

Powers  313, 

Powers'  Large 

Pownal  Spitzenburgh 

Procjrr   204. 

P; .  ii  i    Rambaur  Reinette 

Prairie  <  ialville 

,  ath,  r  Apple 

Pratt's  Sweet 

President 

President  De  Pay's  Dumonceau.  . . 

Press 

Press  Ewiug 

Pride  of  September 

Priest's  Sweet . . . 

PiieMley's  American 

Priestly ........ 

Priestly 

Primate 

Primiting 

Prince  of  Orange 

Princes  Ha/rvest 

Princes  La  rye  Pud  and  Gran  Sir,  el. 

Princely 

Princess  Noble  Zo'ete 

Princesse  Noble 

Princesse  Noble 

Princesse  Noble  des  (Jhartreaux. .  . 

Prinz    

Prior's  I  oil 

Progress 

Proliferous  Reinette 

Prolific  Beauty 

Prolific  Bt "  u(y 

i  Prolific  Sweet 


PA  OF 

354 
309 
310 
252 
115 
310 
310 

3io 

310 
310 
411 
310 
810 
310 
252 
31C 
162 
286 
311 
169 
311 
369 
369 
311 
317 
311 
311 
311 
312 
329 
42f> 
312 
41  "J 
:  : 


o67 
HI  2 
312 
313 
:;  3 
313 
350 
313 
313 
313 
111 
313 
402 
:J1 1 
153 
323 
:!l  1 
134 
314 
195 
HI  5 
315 
316 
315 
315 
315 
302 


i032 


APPLES. 


PA  OF. 

Prop 316 

Prussian 131 

Prussian  Pijyjnn 1 34 

Prvor's  Red 31 6 

Pricker  End 316 

Pumpkin  Russet 317 

Pumpkin  Sweet ;'  I  ? 

123,  317 

Purple  Siberian  Crab 42<i 

nataha 317 

Putnam  Harvey 317 

Putnam  Keeper 318 

Putnam  Russet 342 

Putnam  Sweet 318 

1'iit mi m's  Siiri'ircll 34(5 

Putneyite 318 

I'l/ir*  Russet 305 

Pyrus  Astracaniea 401 

Quaker 31s 

Quaker 362 

Quaker  Pippin 318 

Queen    109 

Queen  Anm 258,  281 

Queen  A  vple 288 

Queen  Charlotte 318 

Queen  of  the  Pippins 318 

Queen  of  Sauce 318 

Queen  of  the  Valley 319 

Qui  >  ns 1 03 

Quince 319 

Rabbits  Head 125 

Rabine 319 

Ragan 319 

Ragan'sRed 319 

Ram's  Horns 321 

Rambo 319 

RambouiUt t ;' ! '••' 

Rambour  $£ti. 370 

Ra/mbour  Franc 370 

it  Groa  320 

370 

Rambour  Papeleu 320 

Rai  ibour  Rose 321 

/.V  rnbour  Roitge 321 

u 320 

RamsdeWs  Red  Pumpkin  Sweet. .. .  163 

163 

// 163 

RnndaWs   Red  Winter 163 

ii,i ml    ':    B  4 321 

Is  Best 321 

Swt <t 274 

321 

Rattle-Box 321 

tii  nnetting 321 

/,''//  s  Jannetting 321 

Ravelston  Pippin 321 

Rawle's    Genet 321 

Rawle's  Janet 321 

Rmde's  Jannet 321 

Ra/rli/ii/.s  Fine  Red  Streak :!22 


Rawlins's  Red  Streak . 

Ray  Apple 

Rt  ad's  linker 

Rebecca  

Red  Apple 

Rt d  Ashmore 

Red  Astrachan 

Red  Autumn  Calville 

Red  Baldwin 

Red  Belle-Fleur 

Red  <  'alviUe 

Red  Canada, 

Red  Cathead 

Red  Cedar 

Red   Cheek 90, 

Red  Clieek 

Rt  fi  ('/in /.■  Pip/pin 

Rt  i!  ('mil in 

Hi  d  ( 'rofton 

Hi  ,i  Doctor 

Red  J''*'!  Pippin 

Red  Favorite 

Red  Gillirlower 

Red  GiMfiower 

Rt  ii  Gloria  Mundi 

Red  and  Green  Sweet 



Red  Horse 

Hi  ii  Horse 

Red  Ingestrie 

Red  Jewell 

Red   June 

Red  June  Sweet 

Red  Juneating 156. 

Red  Kentish  Pippin 

Red  Lady  Fingt  r 

Rt  d  ',  -iiiiln  r  Twig 

Red  Mormon 

Bed  Must 

Red   V<  verfail 

Ii,  d  Ox 

Rt  (I  Pt  armain 235, 

Red  Pennoek 

Rt il  Pliuitix 

Red  Pippin 93,  235,  286, 

Red  Polish 

R   !  Pou  id  Sweet 

Rt  il  Pumpkin  Street 

/'<■<  nden 

/,'.  d    (t>">  elting 

Red  Ranee 

Red    Republican 

!,'<  d  Romarin 

Red  Russet 

/,',  d  Russt  t 

i '  her 

Red  Seek-no  Farther , 

Red  8t  ek-no-Further 

Rt  -I  Shroj  s.i rim 

Bed  Siberian  Crab 

Rt  d  Spitsenburg 

itzenburgh 

Red  Streak - 


PASt 

322 
282 
288 
322 
383 

80 
328 
324 

85 
324 
328 
324 
324 
325 
325 
168 
278 
iso 
347 
146 
329 
326 
326 
133 
109 
323 
286 
326 
109 
326 
326 
lis 
326 
157 
237 
329 
253 
327 
327 
321 
302 

-m 

302 


362 
307 
323 
163 
14^ 
137 
327 
327 
327 
327 
194 
328 
826 
236 
356 
426 
235 
334 


APPLES. 


1033 


PAGE 

Red  Streaked  Rawiing 322 

Red  Stripe 328 

Red  Sweet 328 

-eet  Pifflrin 279 

/,'  d  Sweet  Wineswp 378 

II  d   Vandevere 329,  355,  391 

Red  Warrior 328 

■'.■■■'  Warrior 286 

Red  Winter  Calville 328 

Red  Winter  Pearmain 320 

Red  Winter  Pearmain 235 

Red  Winter  Sweet 329 

Rt  d  Winter  Sweet 377 

Redick 326 

Redling 132 

Reed 329 

/,',  in  ■  des  Reincttcs 318 

tie  eVALr 195 

Rt  in  Me  <T  Angleterre 162,  194 

Reinette  d'Anjou 330 

te  Bitardc 103 

Reinette  Baufnan 88 

Reinette  de  Bayeux 330 

.'.  '  <  tte  Blanche 184 

tie  BlancJie,  dite  Prime 184 

Reinette  Blanche  tVEspagne 404 

Reinette  de  Breda 330 

Reinette  Calville 331 1 

Rt  iia  tte  de  Canada   Qrise 343 

Rt  inette  de  Canada  Platte 343 

Reinette  du  Canada  Blanche 115 

Reinette  du  Canada  d  Cortes 115 

Reinette  de  Cantorbery 116 

R  inette  des  Cannes 87 

Reinette  de  Caux 331 

Rt  inette  de  Champagne 122 

Reinette  de  Citron 126 

Reinette  de  Clareval 331 

Reinette  Coulon 330 

Reinette  Daniel 330 

Rt  in  i  tte   Dit  1 145 

Reinette  Dore 331 

■',  Ih>r  e 151,  243 

tte  Duchesse  de  Brabant 149 

Reinette  <V  AY  \agne 404 

/■'.  int  tte  iTEt   Blanche 3  71 

Reinette  Etoile 360 

R  ,'.,,  tte  Etoile 165 

Reinette  de  Flaudre 178 

U    Franche 184 

Gramce 204 

Wrisland 184 

iden 195 

tte  Golden 1'X) 

Reinette  Grain  d'Or 331 

Rcinettt    'I rise 204,  412 

tte  Grise  BrownleSs 108 

ft  Grist  Extra 204.  412 

tte  Grist  Franraise 204,  412 

Ue  '/ns>   haute  bonU 212 

Rein, tte  Qrise  tV Hirer 204,  412 

Reinette  Grise  de  Portugal 310 

Reinette  Grosse  du  Canada. . .       . .  115 


Reinette  d'llollande 

Reinette  de  HongTie 

Reinette  Jaune  Hatif. 

•  Jaune  Sardwe 

Reinette  des  Menonites 

'joi/rg 

y/isnie 

isque 

•son,  e 

Reinette  Nonpareil 

Vormandy 

te  <r  Orleans 134. 

Reinette  (POxnabruck 

Reinette  Pippin 

tte  Plot,  

Reinette  Quarrendon 

Rt  inette,  de  la  RocheUe 

Reinette  du  Roi 

Rt  in  itt,'  li<,  ugt 

Reim  tte  Rouge  ele  JSTieman 

Rein dtr   Rousse. 87. 

Reint  tte  Rousse  de  Boston 

Reinette  St.  Lambert 

isse 

•  Tardive  Nouvelle 

Reinette  de  Thorn 

Reinette  Triomphante 

Rt ,',/,  tte  iter  Tyrol 

ft  doree  (le  Van  tier  Loans.  .  . 
'■     Von  Mints 

rsaiUaise , 

ft    Yi  He 

Reinette  Vervaene 

Reinette  du  Vigan , 

Renettt  i 

Republican  Pippin 

Revelstone  Pippin 

h  May 

Rhode  Island  Greening 

Rhode  Island  8eek-no-Further 

Rhode's  Orange 

in , 

Ribston  Pippin 



Richard's  Graft 

Richardson 

' 

Richmond 

Ridge  Pippin 

Riest , 

Rigley 





i  Pippin 

River 

Ji'oa  Yon 

Roadstown  Pippin 

Roane's  White  Crab 215 

j  Roberson's  White 

!  Robert  Bruce , 

Roberts 

Roberts  Seedling 

Robertson's  Pearmain 


PAOF 

219 
331 
15? 
331 

272 

27  • 

1()3 

41  s 

282 

! 

184 

295 

29,  i 

332 

103 

332 

o  o  rt 

243 
87 
287 
331 
342 
332 

285 

331 
332 
389 
195 

391 

392 
202 
o  12 
331 
312 
332 
321 
270 
332 
175 
333 
76 
333 

334 

33?' 

- 

335 

336 

240 
330 
336 
336 
336 
337 
337 
329 


' 


APPIXB. 


PACE 

Kobcy 337 

Robey's  Seedling 337 

Robin 337 

Robinson's  Pippin 337 

Superb  337 

Robin  on's  Sweet 337 

Rochelle  Reinette 337 

Rock     338 

Rock  Pippin 338 

iu  main 321 

Rock  Rimmon   321 

Rock  Sweet 338 

RoekhiWs  Russet 333 

RockhiU's  Summer  Queen ;.;2N 

S       in  i hum  Ji'id 75 

Rockport  Swei  t 338 

Roi  Trfo-Noble 158 

Rolen's  Keeper 338 

Rolla 338 

Rolland 91 

Rollin  338 

llo, mi n  KnigM. 191,  302 

Roman  Stem :  39 

Romanite  33L> 

Roman  ite 319 

Romanite  of  the  West 191 

Roma/rin  Blanche 403 

Rome  Beauty 340 

Rosa    ' 340 

Rose     340 

Rose  Calville 340 

Rose  de  la  Benauge 341 

Rose  <le  Uollande 341 

Rose  Tendre 341 

!{ns,  -colon d  Lady  Apple 245 

Roseau 340 

Roseau  d'Automne 340 

Ros  a  u  d'A  utomnt 82 

R       nary     341 

lary  Russet 34! 

Ross  Gret  ning  . 393 

lonpareil 341 

Rosseau 324 

icker 34  i 

Rosy  Red 341 

Rothe  Uernapfel 341 

Roth    So  nmerpasspomm 299 

Rothe  Stettiner 341 

■  Ananas 78 

Rather  Astrakan    323 

August  Apfel 299 

Rother  llerbstrichapfel 298 

Sommt  rcalville 37! 

ipfel 304 

Rouen  Transparent  Crab 426 

Rough  and  K<  ady 313 

Him   il  i  'atsliead  12 

Round  Top 159 

Round  Winter  Nonesuch 341 

Rowe 342 

ling 342 

R(  irlitnil    .... 338 

Roxbury  Russet 342 


tin 

Royal  Grist  Reinette 343 

Royal  Pearmain 342 

Royal  Pearmain .  .214,  311 

Royal  Pippin 86,  120,  142 

Royal  Reinette 343 

Royal  Russet 343 

Royal  Shepherd 343 

Royal  Somerset 343 

Royal  Somerset 2."55 

Royale 243 

Royale  d'  Angleterre 214 

Rubicon 2:>9 

RwkmwHs  Pearmain 1!<4 

RuckmarOs  Red 286 

Rules  Summer  Sweet 343 

Rum  Apple 343 

Runnells 343 

Rushock  Pearmain 344 

Russam 235 

Rum  t   Golden 196 

Run  '   Golden  Pippin 194 

Russet  Nonpareil 306 

Russet  Pearmain. 344 

Russet  Table  Pearmain 344 

Russian 134 

Russian  Emperor 74 

Russian  Transparent 344 

Russine 332 

Rusty  ('oat  Milam 275 

Rusty  Core 291 

Rymer , 344 

Sable  Sweet    344 

Sick  Apple 145 

Sack  and  Sugar 345 

Sailly  Autumn 345 

St.  John's  Nonpareil •. . . .  306 

Saint  Julian 345 

Saint  Julien 345 

St.  Lawrence 345 

St.  Mi  i  rif.i  Pippin 1 48 

Saint  Sauveur 345 

Salem 345 

Salem  Sweet 345 

SaUe 345 

Salopian  Pippin 346 

Sam  Rowlings 218 

Sam  Wingara 265 

Sam  Young 346 

Sam's  Crab 256 

Sanguineus 171 

Sanguinole 328 

Santouchee 346 

Sapson 340 

Sapson c>'ne 346 

Sartha's  Yellow 346 

Sassafras  Sweet 211 

s  Cheese 34(3 

ell 346 

Sawyer 347 

Sawyer  Sweet 347 

283 

Scarlet  Crof ton 3  f 


APPLES. 


103* 


84, 


Scarlet  Leadington 

Scarlet  Nonpareil 

Scarlet  Pearcnain 

Scarlet,  Pearmain 

Scarlet  Perfume , 

Scarlet  Queening , 

Scarlet  Sweet 

Scarlet  Tiffing 

Schaffer's  Early 

Sch  offer's  Early  Red 

Schaffer's  Garden 

Sclioolmocker 

Schoonmaker 

Schreveton  Golden  Pippin. . 

Schmteer  Apple 

Sciota  Beauty 

Scollop  Gilliflower 

Scolloped  Gilliflower 

Scotch  Bridget 

Scotch  Virgin 

Scott 

Scott's  Best 

Scrivener's  Red 

Scudamorda  Crab 

Seaconk  Sweet , 

Seager , 

Sea  go 

Seaman's  Sweet 

Seaver  Sweet 

Seedless 

SeedsviUe  Sweet 

Seek-No-Further 202,  319,  390 

Seever 

Seever's  Red  Streak. 

8i  igneur  cF  Orsay 

Selby  Bellflower 

Selnia 

Selma 

Selwood's  Reinette 

Seneca  Spice 

September 

Sergeant's  Sweet 

Settin  Pippin 

Shaker  Geeening 

Shaker  Pippin 

Shaker's  Yellow 

Shakespeare 

Sim  a  lion 

■ 'loupe's  Early 

Sharpe's  Greening 

.•  'harpers  Spice 

Sheepnose 

Sheep  Nose 76,  159, 

Shire 

Shell 

Shepherd's  Fame 

Shepherd's  Pippin 

Sheppard's  Sweet 

SJierioood's  Faro rite 

Shiawassee  Beauty 

Shipley  Green 

Shippen's  Russet 

Shirley 


PAGE 

347 
347 
347 
.  235 
130 
137 
347 
348 
348 
348 
348 
348 
348 
348 
306 
348 
348 
348 
349 
405 
313 
349 
349 
328 
349 
384 
21)5 
349 
349 
349 
417 
399 
350 
350 
345 
350 
350 
238 
350 
319 
350 
350 
151 
350 
350 
155 
351 
392 
370 
351 
170 
351 
235 
179 
351 
351 
74 
351 
124 
351 
352 

181 


PAGB- 

Shockley , 353 

Showy  Crab 426 

Siberian  August 181 

Sigler's  Red 347 

Simmon 220 

Simpson's  Pippin 295 

Simpson's  Seedling 295 

Simpson  Sweet 353 

Sin  rloir's  Yellow 153 

Sine-qua-non 353 

Sink 353 

Sir  William  Gibbons 353 

Skunk 353 

Skunk 362 

Sleeper 353 

Sleeping  Beauty 353 

Sleight's  Lady  Apple 353 

Slingerland  Pippin 354 

Shan's  Seedling 317 

Small  Black 99 

Saudi  Romonite 191 

Small's  Admirable 354 

Smalley 354 

Smith's 354 

SmiHi's  Beauty  of  Newark 149 

Smith's  Cider 354 

Smith  field  Spice 152 

Smokehouse 355 

Smyrna 124 

Snediker 355 

Snepps' 356 

Snorter , 363 

Snow 171 

Snow  Chimney 171 

Sol.  Carter 109 

Somerset 356 

Somerset  Harvest 188 

Sommerset  Lasting 356 

Sops  of  Wine 356 

Soskrieger 122 

Souisson  Russet 356 

Soulard 426 

Sour  Bough 357 

Sour  Bough 368,  380 

Sour  Harvest 313 

Southern.  Foil  Pijmin 329 

Southern  Golden  Pippin 201 

rn  Untiling 201 

Southern  Lady 357 

SoutJu  rn  RomaniU) 339 

Sovereign 357 

Spafford  Russet 357 

Spark's 357 

Spark's  Late 357 

Speckled 357 

Spie/.ied  Golden  Reinette 87 

Speckled  Oley 357 

Speckled  P&trmain 87 

SpcckM  Sweet 117 

or 357 

Spencer  Sweeting 210 

Soiei 354 

Spier.  Apjtlt 293 


1036 


APPLES. 


PAOF   I 

Spice  Russet 

Spice  Sweet 358 

Spia  d  Ox  Eye 285 

burgh 285 

Sponge 358 

'  Pippin 110 

Spragne 358 

Spring  83 

Grove  Codlin 358 

S]  ring  Pippin 358 

Springer 358 

Seedling. 358 

oort  Pippin 358 

Squire's  Greening :!">!) 

Staats'  Sweet 359 

Stack 359 

Stackyard 359 

/ 155 

te 391 

Stamford  Pippin 359 

Stanard 359 

rcPs  Seedling 359 

Stanley 360 

Stanley's  Serdtti  <j 360 

Stanley's  Winter  Sweet 360 

3tansill 360 

Star 360 

Star  Lady  Apple 245 

Star  Reinette 360 

Stark  360 

Starr 360 

Sti  <  li '«  ft  d  Win  ter 85,  324 

Steele's  Sweet 361 

SteJdy 215 

:nson's  Winter 361 

Su  rlmg  Beauty • 75 

Stctiing  Eouge 341 

is'  Gilliflower ;!,;1 

st,  ,r,i:  fs  Nonpareil lsl 

Stillman's  Early 361 

Stillwater  Sweet 361 

Stin 180 

Stirzaker's  Early  Square 361 

'-'^l 

77 

Stone  Pippin.  362 

97,  192.  289 

Stonewall  Jackson 362 

Stonor  Park 362 

' 364 

It ;!,»~ 

rry 124,  321.  334 

362 

,7 362 

Str<  aked  Pippin 362 

ing  ■r/i/rtf SO 

8t>  ipt  d  Ashmore 80 

Striped  Beaunn 362 

Striped  Belle  et  Bonne 363 

Striped  Bt  Ut  -  Fleur 324 

Striped  Fameuse 172 

Striped  <!  Mi  flower ;!48 

Striped  Harvest 211 


Striped  Holland  Pippin 369 

stri/n  il  Holland  Pippin 253 

Striped  June.    156 

Stri/n  d  June  itiitg 150 

Striped  Mohawk 363 

Striped  Monstrous  Reinette 363 

Striix  d  Pea rum in 363 

Striped  Porter 363 

Striped  Rcwnbo 1 93 

Striped  J,'.  !.  I Pr<  envng 147 

Striped  Shropsavine 363 

Striped  Siberian  Crab 426 

Sift  - t  Pi    'in 363 

391 

Striped  "Winter  Pearmain 3(  13 

Stroat 364 

v 364 

Strode's  Birmingham 36  1 

Strubel 365 

Stump    366 

Stunner  Pippin 365 

Stymws -I1)'"* 

Styrc 365 

Styre 180 

Sudbury  Sweet S65 

SvMow'8  FaU  Pippm 182 

Suffolk  Beauty 365 

Sugar  and  Brandy 366 

Sugar  Loaf  Pippin 

Sugar  Sweet 366 

Suisse 366 

Summer  Bell  flower 366 

Summer  Bell  flower  of  Pennsylvania  366 

Summer  Broaden 

Summt  r  Broach  nd 

Summer  Cheese :;'»7 

Suir im  ,  

Summer  Golden  Pippin 367 

Summer  Hagloe 367 

Summer  Harvey 367 

Summer  Horse 223 

Summer  Janet 367 

Sinn  mi  r  .'■  >  TH  'ing. 168 

Summer  Limbertwig 367 

Summer  Marigold 368 

ipareii L55 

Summer  Pippin 368 

r  Pippin 219 

Summer  Pound  Royal 369 

Summer  Queen 370 

Sum 'i,. .  g 137 

Summer  Rambo 370 

Si/mm< i  " 370 

Summer  Red  Calville 371 

Summer  Red  Streak 371 

Summer  Reinette 371 

r'B.  T.  Greening 369 

Summer  Rose 371 

Ru886t ..  377 

Summer  Sweet 372 

Summer  Sweet  216 

Summer  Sweet  Paradise 372 

Summer  Tcuc/tat  Egg 882 


APPLES. 


1037 


PAOK 

Summer  Thorle 372 

Summer  White  Calville 372 

Summerowr 286 

8um/m  'in)  Jinn  um 125 

Superb 372 

Superb  Sweet 372 

Surprise 373 

Surrey  Flat  Cap 373 

Susan's  Spice 373 

Susannah 373 

Sutton  Beauty 373 

Swaar 373 

Swasey 374 

Sweeney  Nonpareil 374 

Sweet  Baldwin 375 

Sweet  Belle  Bonne 375 

Sweet  Belliiower 37.*; 

Sweet  BeVflower 82 

Sweet  BellHower  of  Wyandot  Co. .  375 

Bough 250 

Sweet  Butter 375 

Sweet  Gann 115 

Sweet  Doctor 375 

Sweet  Fall  Pippin 375 

Sweet  Golden  Pvppin 82 

Sweet  Greening 375 

Harvest 250 

■■'.  i   (  Harvey 378 

8wt  1 1  Home 151 

Sweet  Janet 376 

Sweet  Jersey 209 

Sweet  June 216 

Sweet  King 376 

Sweet  Maiden's  Blush 115,  204 

Sweet  Mary 370 

Nonsuch 377 

Sweet  Pear 376 

Sweet  Pearmain 376 

378 

Sweet  Pippin 376 

Pvppi  218,  279 

Sweet  Queen 377 

Rum  bo 377 

378 

tabbed  Gillillower 

Romanite 377 

:)77 

t '....123,  31 

-no- Farther 378 

rther 192 

and  Sour 374 

Sponge 378 

hcaar. 82 

;                   "ervere 37s1 

Willie 378 

Wine 170 

Sweet  Winesap 378 

Sweet  Winter  Pennock 378 

ng,   Weirs 309 

[pple 306 

Pippin 'i(ii' 

Swiss  Reinette 378 

feyke-House  Russet 379 


PAOH 

Sylvan  Russet 349 

Sylvester 379 

Table  Greening 37!> 

Talhio  Apple 258 

Tollman's  Sioeeting 379 

Talmaii's  Sweet 379 

Tardi  i  e  de  Joncret 3S0 

Tart  Bough 380 

Tart  Bough 153,  368 

Tarvey  Codlin 380 

Taubenfarbige  Apfcl 304 

Taunton  . . .' 380 

Taunton 30? 

Taunton  Golden  Pippin 380 

outh 383 

Ten  Shillings 381 

Tenderskin 381 

Tenor  Hills 91 

Tenterden  Park 381 

Terral's  Late 3£  t 

Terry's  Bed  Streak 319 

Tetofsky 381 

Tetofsky 181 

Teuchat's  Egg 382 

■bury  Blush 382 

Tewkesbury  Winter  Blush 382 

Them's  Red  Streak 3    .* 

Thickset 

Thomas 383 

Thomas 275 

Thoral  Pippin 372 

372 

Tift's  Sweet 383 

Tillaqua 3l  3 

//  Titus  Sort 

Tinmouth 

Tinson's  Red 

Titus  Pippin 383 

Toccoa  



Toker's  Incomparable 

Tolbert 

,\  Sweeting 379 

Tom  Potter 

Red 



Toole's  Indian  Rareripe . .  : 

Tower  of  Glammis 

Tower's  Glory 

end.    . 

i  ad's  Smiling  Beauty 

Trader's  Fancy 

Transcendent 426 

Transparent  Codlin 

Transport at  de  Mbscovu 401 

'// 135 

Transparent  de  Zurich 385 

Transport 385 

Trovers' , 

Treadle  Bole 


1038 


APPI/FS. 


Trmhwn  286 

on  Early 385 

.-  Early 2!):! 

Trescott  Russet 386 

'    Horse 22:! 

Trout  Apple 101 

Tvm  S]  itz,  riburgk Hi  I 

Trumbull  Sweet 386 

Trumbull  Sin, tiny 386 

Trumpeter ''s<> 

TrttmpCngt/m 143,  319 

Tucker  . '. 386 

Tuebmr's  Cider 386 

Tuebner's  Golden 386 

Tuffs 386 

Tuffs  Baldwin :>v"'> 

Tulip 387 

n  <  'alviUe 387 

Tulp 387 

kocken KIT 

Tulpi  n 387 

Turk's  Cap :!N7 

Turkey  Greening 387 

Turn-off  Lans 387 

Turner1*  ■"/„,.-, 2<)1 

Tuscaloosa 387 

Tuscaloosa  Seedlivg 387 

Tuscaloosa  Sweet :>>s7 

Tuttle :s  : 

y  Ounce 388 

Tin  nty  Ounce  Apple 381 : 

2Q-Ounce  Pippin 113 

Twin 388 

Twin  ( luster  Pippin 128  I 

TwitchelTs  Sweet 388 

Tyler 220 

Tyler  Apple \-'>\ 

Tyre  Beauty 388 

'nette l!)l 

Tyroler  Pippin 389 

Uncle  John 389 

'■'>■)  i 

Sam's  Best. . .'. 170  ; 



Union 389 

Unique 389 

;  praff 389 

Utter 389 

\  ale  tfascal  Pearmain .'!!)() 

luren :!:)() 

]yne '3ur, 

Van  Mona  Et<  inette 391 

Vance's  Early 

Earvest 390 

uabeele 390 

y  in  lernool 390 

rspiegel ;;!)() 

"'tiitlt  rrc<r :',!)1 

Vandervere  Pippin 391 

'•'andevere 39 1 

I  andevere 2sr, 


PAOI 

Viimlr ere  of  Pa 39 i 

Vandiver 3i»J 

Vandyne 391 

Va/rick 143 

Vaugoyeau 392 

Vaughn's  Pippin 392 

Vaughn's  Winter 392 

Pvppin 

<//  <rEt: 

Vermilion  Royee 392 

Vt  rmont   Pippin 383 

I  "ertrit  nt  Pumpkin  Street 317 

Versaillaise  Reinette 39! 

I  'ifloritt 74 

Pippin 93 

I 'ieimiii  Tied 93 

1  'ifinritiiis  Reinette 332 

Victuals  and  Drink 392 

Violette 393 

Virginia  Greening 393 

I  irttiniii  Pvppin 391! 

Virginia  Quaker 393 

Virginia  Spice '■>\)>'< 

Virginia  Swt  et 266 

Voss'  Winter 393 

Vrai  Drop  $Or 148 

Wabash 393 

II  ahi       ';,  "'/  w&r ;>!);i 

Waddell  Hall 394 

Wadhurst  Pippin 394 

iea '■>')  I 

Wahr  Reinettt 115 

Wahrer  Weiser  Sommer-calwMt  ....  72 

Wall     286 

Walker's  Winter <:!>o 

Walker's  Yellow 39"5 

Watt 286 

Walnut  Stmt .     338 

395 

Waltharn  Abbey 395 

Waltham  Abbt  y  iSa  dling 395 

WalU  Ajiptr..'. :..  ■'   1 

Walworth 368 

/ 286 

••        tall 395 

Ward 395 

* 107 

Id 

■■..' 342 

1  

Warrascl  ■  aben 

nock 1-   i 

296,  -1  I'- 
ll .,,  i,  fs  Ooldi     Pippin 194 

Warwickshin   Pippin 4 1 7 

Waslvington  250,  356 

Pearmain 144 

Washington  Royal 39(i 

Washington  Strawberry 39(i 

Washington  Sweet 397 

Watch  Ajrple 115 

Water 397 


APrLES. 


1039 


Waterman.s  Sweet    . . . 

Watermelon 

Watermelon , 

Watrous  Dumpling. . . . 

Watson's  Dumpling  . . . 

Watson's  Favorite 

Watson's  Neio  Nonsuch 
Wa  toon's  Vandevere . . . 

Wattaugah 

Waugh's  Orab 

Wax 


.209, 


PA  OK 

398 
271 

271 
151 
398 
398 
372 
391 
221 
398 
398 


.92, 


Wax  Apple 

Waxen 

Wealthy 

Wealthy's  Favorite 

Webb's  Winter 

Week's  Pippin 

Weisse  Antillische 

l"~:t'.ise  Italia  nische  Bosmarinapfel . . 

Weisse  Reinette 

Weisse  Sommer  Reinette 

Weisse  Weick's  Reinette 

Weisser  Astrakan 

Werner  Winter  CalviUe 

Welcome  .'. 

Well  Apple 

'Well's  Sweet 

Wellford's  Yellow 

Wellington 

Wells 

Welsh  Pippin. . .  • 

West  Grinstead  Pippin 

West's  Spitzenberg 

H  estbrook 

Westchester  Seek  no  Further 

Westt  rn  Baldwin 

Western  Beauty 89, 

Western  Spy 

Westfield  Seek-no-Further 

Westmoreland  Longstart 

Weston 

Wheeler's  Extreme 

Wheeler's  Russet 

Wheeler's  Sweet 

T//.  dock  Sweet 

Whig 

Wliite  Apple 

White  Astrachan 

White  Beauty 

White  BeUfleur 

White  BeUflower 

Wliite  Calville 

White  CabMe 

White  ( 'ockle 

Dt  t/roit 

White  Doctor 

White  Fulwood 

White  Graft  of  Wis 

!(7  itt  Ihiicthurnden     

White  Incomparable 

White  June 

White  Juneating 

White  Lily 


158 
398 
398 

399 
399 
135 
414 
229 
184 
371 
371 
401 
401 

98 
383 
399 
399 
151 
147 
2G7 
400 
140 
357 
175 
299 
291 
399 
399 
256 
400 
400 
401 
401 
323 
401 

92 
401 
401 
296 
296 
401 


129 
296 

-40-2 
1 85 
168 
212 
402 
419 
402 
144 


White  Melrose , 

White  Nonpareil 

White  Oslin 

White  Paradise 

Wliite  Pippin 

Whiti  Pippin 289, 

White  Rambo  . 

White  Roi  Larin 

White  Russet 

Whiti  S(  <  I.- -no- Further 202, 

White  Spanish  Reinette 

White  Spice 

White  Spice, 

White  Spitzenberg 

White  Stone  Pippin 289, 

White  Sugar 

White  Summer  Pippin 

White  Sweet 

White  Vandevere 

White  Virgin 

White  Wine 

White  Winter 405, 

White  Winter  Calville 

White  Winter  Pearmain 

White's  London  Pippin 

White's  Red  Winter 

White's  Winter 

Whitewater  Sweet 

Whitman 

Whitmore's  Pippin 

Whitney  Russet 

Whorle  Pippin 

Wiek  Pi  iiruiiiin 

Wickham's  Pearmain 

Wier  Sweet 

Wigwam 

Wildcat 

WUden  Apfel 

Wilfong 

William  Penn 

n  Tell 

William's  Early 

William's  Favorite 

William's  Pippin 

William's  Bed 

William's  White 

Willis  Sweet 

Willis's  Russet 

WiOffw 

Willow  Leaf  Pippin 

Willow  Twig 

Willsboro 

Wilmot 

1 1  Unnot's  8t  <  dling 

Wilson 

Wilson's  J  line 

Wilson's  Summer 

Wilson's  Volunteer 

WincheU  Sweet 

Windham  Russet . 

Wine 

Wi-te 159,  285 

Wine  of  Connecticut 


PAflF 

272 
402 
296 
402 
402 
296 
403 
403 
404 
296 
404 
404 
159 
404 
363 
82 
404 
404 
391 
405 
405 
427 
401 
405 
257 
404 
405 
405 
406 
406 
40<) 
372 
406 
406 
407 
324 
346 
312 
407 
407 
306 
407 
407 
407 
407 
407 
408 

409 
296 
409 

400 
40" 
400 
410 
118 
410 
410 
410 
410 
410 
334 
888 


!(H0 


APPLES — APRICOTS. 


PAGE 

WineSop 411 

Winesap 411 

Win-  Sweet 411 

Win 1 1 's  Russet   412 

Winslow   412 

'.  1 ,'u  tt  r  Belle  and  Bonne 91 

Win  ter  Belle  boon 91 

Winter  Blush 167 

■  B  ugh 115 

Branding 107 

Winter  Cheese 201 

Winter  Citr>menapfel 243 

Winter  Codlin 412 

Winter  Colinan 412 

Winter  Golden  Sweet 84 

Winter  Gray  Reinette 412 

Winter  Greening 201 

Winter  Harvey 413 

Winter  Hog  Island  Sweet 413 

280 

Winter  Jannetting 321 

Winter  Lading 413 

Winter  Maiden's  Blush 413 

Winter  Majettin. ...    413 

Winter  May 270 

Winter  Pearrnain 413 

Pearmain 81,275.  363 

■  Pippin 413 

Winter  Pippin  of  Geneva 189 

Winter  Pippin  of  Vermont 414 

Wintt  r  1'  und  Royal. 311 

109 

Winter  Etd  Streak 115,  238 

Winter  Reinette 414 

r  Reinette 414 

r  Rose 286 

r  Ernst  t 243 

Uing 399 

Winti  r  Seek-no- Further 170 

ping  Beauty ... 

Winter  Strawberry 41) 

..-  Strawbi  rry 

ugh 1 1  5 

Sweet  Paradise 414 

410 

r<  ening 415 

larmain 41o 

41. o 

Swett 404 

83 



208 

410 

jdon 135 

>et 416 

415 

i ST 

ring   41(1 

152 

took  Pippin 100 

wr  A  Pippin 296 

Woolfolks 416 

WoU:w  >Ss  Harvest 371 


PAOt 

Woolman's  Lcng ..  296 

Worden's  Pie  App^.e 356 

World's  Wonder 286 

Wormsley  Pippin 416 

Wright 410 

Wright's  Janet 417 

Wygera 19"> 

Wyken  Pippin 417 

Pippin 195 

Wythe 306 


Yacht 

Yakdin 

Yahoola 

Yankee  Spy 

Yates 



Yellow  Bellflower 

TelloiD  Crank 

Yellow  Foster 

1 1 in  Reinette 

Harvest 

Hoss 

Yellow  Ingestrie 

t 

Yellow  June 

1/  y. 

Yellow  Meadow 

Newtown  Pippin 

Pearrnain 

YiUoto  Pippin 285, 

Yellow  Siberian  Crab 

Yellow  Sweet 

■  e 

Voder 

Yopp's  Favorite 

York 

York  Imperial 

York  Pippin 169, 

Fork  Russet 123, 

Yorksh  Sauce 

me  Greening 




Young's  Long  Ke< 


417 
417 
417 
417 
418 
135 
418 
201 
419 
195 
153 
223 
419 
321 
419 
402 
419 
419 
127 
296 
427 
419 
391 
106 
420 
420 
420 
195 
317 
421 
421 
421 
158 


Zane 421 

ing 421 

421 

Zoar  Greening 421 

Zour  Bough 313 

>f el 103 

APRICOTS. 

o 442 

nmun 440 

ce 439 

i  hut  if  Musguie 440 

439 

I  Precoce 440 

440 

Abricotier  Blanc 44i 


APRICOTS. 


1041 


PAGE 

Abrfcotier  hdtif 440 

Alder  ge 433 

Alberge  de  Montgamet 437 

Albergier 433 

A  mcmde  Aveline 434 

Amygdalus  dasycarpa 434 

Ananas 434,  439 

Angoumis 434 

Anjou 434 

Anson's 438 

Anson's  Imperial 439 

Beauge 434 

Black 434 

442 

vm 441 

Ek  frJwd-leaved  Roman 440 

Blotched-leaved  Turkey 441 

Breda 434 

Brianeon  Apricot 442 

Briancon  Plum 442 

Brown  Masculine 440 

Brown's  Early 435 

Brussels 435 

Burlington 435 

Canino  Grosso 435 

Claude  Bidot 435 

Cornice  de  Toulon 435 

Crotte •. 4.37 

D 'Alemndrie 438 

Des  Farges 435 

De  Holltuide 434 

J)e  Nancy. 438,  439,  441 

De  Sardaigne 441 

l)>  St.  Jean 437 

Jean  Rouge 437 

Double-flowering  Apricot 442 

Du  Luxembourg 439 

Du  Pope 434 

.Dubois'  Early  Golden 436 

Dun  more 438 

Dun  more' a  Breda 438 

Golden 43(5 

\faseuline 440 

Early  Moorpark 436 

Orange 438 

White  Masculine 442 

Muscateher 440 

■ne 440 

Gold  Blotched 441 

Golden  Drop 436 

Green  Gage 441 

Gros  (P.  W.randrie 437 

Gros  Fruhe 437 

Gros  Prcoce 437 

Gros  Rouge 437 

Gros  Rouge  Hdtif 437 

Grosse  G<  rmint 440 

66 


Hasselnussmandd 434 

Hemskirke 436 

Hunt's  Moorpark 438 

Jaques 436 

Kaisha 436 

Lafayette 436 

Large  Early 437 

Large  Red 437 

Large  Turkey. 441 

Liabaud 437 

Luizet 437 

Male 439 

Mexico 437 

Montgamet. 437 

Moorpark 438 

Musch-Musch 438 

Newhall's  Early 438 

Noir 434 

Oldaker's  Moorpark 438 

Orange 438 

Oullins  Early  Peach 439 

Peach    439 

Pe  die 439 

Peche  Grosse 439 

Persian 438 

Persique 434 

Pfirsiche 439 

Pine  Apple 439 

Portugal 439 

Pr.'coce  cPEsjierin 437 

Pr'coce  oVHongrie 437 

Provence 439 

Purple  Apricot 434 

Red  Masculine 440 

Ringold 440 

Roman 440 

Royal 4  10 

Royal  George 438 

Royul  Orange 438 

Royal  Peach 43!) 

Persian 438 

Rouge 434 

St.  Ambroise 441 

Sardinian 441 

Shipley's 441 

Sldpley's  Large 441 

Sodlmr's  Moorpark 438 

Suker  Para 441 

Temple's 438 

Texas 441 

Transparent 440 

Turkey 441 


L042 


BERBERRIES    AND     BLACKBERRIES CHERRIES. 


PAGE 

Violet 434 

Walton  Woorpark 438 

White  Algiers 442 

White  Apricot 442 

White  Masculine 442 

Wurtemburg 439 


BERBERRIES  &  BLACKBERRIES. 

THE  BERBERRY. 

Common  Red 443 

BLACKBERRIES. 

Adair's  Claret 443 

Albion 443 

Cape  May 444 

Colonel  Wilder 444 

Crystal  White 444 

Cumberland 444 

Cut-Leaved 444 

Cutter's  Mulberry 444 

]),  wberry 445 

Doctor  Warder 444 

Dorchester 444 

Double  Pink  Blossomed 446 

Double  White  Blossomed 446 

Duncan's  Falls 445 

Farley 445 

Felton 445 

Holcomb 445 

Kentucky  White 445 

Kittatinny 445 

Lawton 446 

Low  Blackberry 445 

Mason's  Mountain 445 

Missouri  Mammoth 445 

New  Rochello 446 

Newman's  Thornless 446 

Orange's  Ci'ystal 444 

Parsley  Leaved. 444 

Rose  Flowering  Bramble 447 

Rubus  t 'anadensis 445 

Jtnbus  odoratus 447 

Sable  Queen 446 

Seacor's  Mammoth 446 


Trailing  Blackberry 


445 


PAOTI 

Wachnsett 440 

Washington 446 

Wilson's  Early 448 


CHERRIES. 

A  Courte  Queue  de  Provence 480 

Adam's  Crown 450 

Admirable  de  Soissons 476 

All-Saints 487 

AH i  /i's  Sweet  Montmorency 474 

Allerheiligen  Kirsche 487 

Amber 450 

Amber 453 

Amber  Gean 451 

Amber  Heart 462 

Amber  a,  petit  fruit 476 

Arnbree 451 

A  mbree  de  Choisy 477 

Ambr  e  d  Gros  Fruit 477 

American  Amber 451 

American  Heart 451 

Anglaise   Tardive 482 

Anne 451 

Ami  Ws  Fine  Black 455 

Apple  Cherry 464 

Arch  Duke 477 

Arden's  Early  White  Heart 462 

Argental's  L^te 451 

A  utumn  Bigarreau 452 

Baramdam 484 

Baumann's  May 452 

Belle  Agathe 452 

B<  -  .  igathe  de  Novembre 452 

Belle  Audegoise 477 

Belle  de  Bway 485 

Belle  de  Chatenay 477 

Belle  de  Choisy 477 

Belle  Maguifique 477 

I),  U,  1 1  Magrdjique 477 

Belle  d'Orleans    452 

Belle  Polonaise 479 

Belle  de  Bocmont 463,  467 

Belle  de  Sceaux 477 

Ihlh  de  Sceaux 477 

Belle  de  Soissons 476 

BenlwmCs  Fine  Early  Duke 483 

Bigarreau 453 

Bigarreau  Ca  ur  de  Pigeon 453 

Bigarreau  Couk  ur  de  Chair 463 

wu  Blanc 47i> 

Bigarreau  Blanc  cU  Drogan 401 

Bigarreau  Blanc  Tardif  de  Hildes- 

lieim 465 

Bigarreau  <r  Esperin 463 

Bigarreau  Guubalais 454 

Bigarreau  Gros 453 

Bigarreau  Gros  Cceuret 453 

Bigarreau  d  Oros  Fruit  Blanc  ....  463 

Bigarreau  *;  Gros  Fruit  Iiougt 4(>7 

Jiigarreau  Gros  Monstrueux 453 


CHERRIES. 


104: 


PAGE 

Bigarreau  Gros  Noir 474 

Bigarreau  Jaboulay 453 

Bigarreau  Jaune  de  Drogar. 461 

Bigarreau  La  nermann 470 

Bigarreau  de  Ludtcig 4G9 

Bigarreau  de.  Lynn 453 

Bigarreau  de  Mai 452 

Biga/m  a/a  Maria  llin 453 

Bigarreau  marbri  de  HUdeshevm    ..  4(55 

Bigarreau  of  Mezel 454 

Bigarreau  Novr 454 

Bigarreau  Novr  de  Sa/ooi 454 

Bigarreau  liadmoesnitner 456 

Bigarreau  Riverchon 454 

Bigarreau  de  Roomont 4G3 

Bigarreau  Rouge  de  Gouben 4'i'2 

Bigarreau  Royal 45:! 

Bigari'eau  Turd  if 453 

Bigarreau  Tardif  de  HildesJteim  ...  4(55 

Bigarreau  Tardive  d'Argental 451 

Bigarreau  des  Vignes 463 

Bigarreautier  <i  FeuiUes  de  Tabac  . .  474 
Biqa/rreautier  d  Grandes  FeuiUes.    .  474 

Biil  and  Coo   454 

Bishop's  Large 456 

Black  Bigarreau  of  Savoy 454 

Black  ( 'aroon 455 

Black  ( 'ircassian 456 

Black  Eagle 454 

Black  Hawk 455 

Black  Heart 455 

Black  Honey 455 

Black  Mazzard 455 

Black  Russian 455,  456 

Black  Spanish 480 

Black  Tartarian 456 

Black  Wild  Cherry 486 

Bin  ding  Heart 464 

Blood goorTs  A  ml>er  451 

Bloodgood's  I  font;! 451 

BloodgoocPs  New  Honey 451 

Bohemian  Black  Bigarreau 45G 

Bouquet  AmareUe 478 

Bo  wy  er's  Early  Heart 456 

Brandvvvine ■••'....  456 

Brant 457 

Brennemarts  Early 475 

Bristol  ('/terry 455 

Browns  Seedling 457 

BvcJianan's  Early  Duke 483 

BiiUock's  Heart 470 

Burr  s  Seedling 457 

Basel,   W,  ichsel 47* 

■  •■h<- 478 

Buttner's  Black  Heart 457 

Buttner's  October  Morello 478 

Buttner's  Yellow 457 

Byrnsville 458 

Carmine  Stripe 457 

Carnation 478 

Caroline 457 

Caroon 455 


PAOI 

Ceramic  avium 455 

Cerams  serrvlata 486 

Cerasus  sylvestris  flore  plena 48C 

('eras, /s  Vinjiuiana 486 

C.  nilgai  is  semperflorens 487 

Ceiise  Ambrie 451,  453 

C<  rise  <l  Bouquet 478 

Cerise  a  Courte  Queue 480 

Cerise  Doucette 477 

Cerise  Gvigne 483 

( 'erise  Indulle 479 

<  'i  risi  ,hi  Nurd 484 

( ',  rise  NowoeUe  cV AngUtcrre 478 

( '•  rist  a  Noyau  Tendre 477 

Cerise  de  la  Palembre 477 

( 'erise  de  Portugal 478 

Cerise  dt  St  Ma  rtin 487 

Cerise  Tardive 487 

(',  rise  de  la  Toussainte 487 

( ',  rk  ■'.  r  ..  Fleurs  Doubles 486 

c,  risier  de  4  d  Livre 474 

r  Nain  d  Fruit  Rond 479 

( '  <'V<  /•  Nain  Precoce  479 

( '<  risier  Pleurant 487 

Cerisu  r  d  Trochet 478 

Cetisier  de  Virginie 486 

Champagne 458 

GJiati  nay 477 

GJu  rry  Cluster 481 

Cherry  Duke 481,  483 

( %  ,■  reuse 478 

China  Bigarreau 458 

Chinese  Double  Flowering 486 

( 'hi,,,  se  Heart 458 

Choke  Cherry 486 

( 'ircassian 456 

Clarke's  Bigarreau 470 

Clarke's  Superb '470 

Cleveland 458 

( 7  veland  Bigarreau 458 

Cluster 478 

Cocklin's  Favorite 458 

Coe's  Late  Carnation 478 

Coe's  Transparent 458 

'    Pigeon 463 

Columbia 459 

Cmii  man  English 455 

Common  Red 481,  489 

Com  nun, "  Sour  Cherry 483 

Commune 

Commune  d  Trochet 

Conestoga 459 

Cornelia 459 



Coularde 483 

Couronne 455 

Croirn 478 

Cumberland  Seedling 475 

Dacotah 459 

D1  Allemagne 478 

Dauphine ,.  479 

Davenport 459 


1U44 


CHERRIES. 


Dameivports  Early 

Davenport's  Early  Black 

De  Cliaus 

D'Espagne 

De  HoUande 

De  Kalb 

l)t  Kleparow 

De  Somons 

De  la  Toussaint 

Delicate 

Dochenaut 

Doctor 

Donna  Maria 

Jh,],  .  //..  Natte 

Jh/ir  i,  Ffowt  ring  KenUsh. . 

Don  Me  French  Cherry 

Doubk  Glass 

Double  Heart  

Double  Xatte 

Double  Volgers 

Doulin  Bigarreau 

Downer 

Downer's  Late 

Downer's  Late  Red 

Downing's  Red  Check 

Downton 

Drt dgt 's  Et  /'//  Wh ite  1I> art. . . . 
Drogan's1'  Oelbe  Bjiorpelskirsche. 

Drogan's  White  Bigarreau 

Drogan's  Yellow  Bigarreau  .... 

Duchesse  de  Palluau 

Dutch  MoreUo 

Dwarf  Double-Flowering 


Early  Black 

Early  Black  Bigarreau 

Duke 

Early  Lamaurie 

Lyons 

Early  May 

i'rolirie 



Purple  Gruigne 

Early  1 ;     I   I  '•  

Richmond 

Early  V  

Elizabeth 

Etkhorr     





Elton 





I  





1  y 

Kxcellente  Douce  Tardive. .  . . 


.470. 


r-AOE 

459 

459 

478 

483 

483 

481 

470 

476 

47!) 

.   4(10 

47S 

4H0 

.   470 

470 

48(5 

.  486 

.   480 

.  456 

.   479 

.  480 

.  460 

.  460 

.  400 

.    160 

.  461 

.  401 

.  402 

.  461 

.  401 

.   401 

.   484 

.  4.-).-) 

.  40! 

.  483 

.  461 

.  462 

480 

' ,  \ 

463 
463 

463 

487 

460, 


Favorite 

Flandrische  Weic/isel. 
Flemish 


403 
478 
480 


PAO« 

Flesh-  Colored  Bigar  y.a  m 40?. 

Florence 40* 

Four  to  the  Pound 474 

Frankische  Wvcher  KirscJie 484 

Fraser's  Black 456 

Eraser's  Black  Heart 45(5 

Fraser's  Black  Tartarian 456 

Fraser's  TartariscJu 45C 

Fraser's  White  Tartarian 470 

Fraser's  White  Transparent 470 

Frogruore  Early  Bigarreau 404 

FriiJie  Kleine  Tin  rale 47!) 

/  'ruhe  Zwi  rg  Weichsel 470 

Gascoigne's  Heart 404 

Gean   Amber 451 

(,',  nnan  Mayduke 462 

Gilford's  Seedling 404 

( 'ourtt   Qui  ue. 480 

G  olden 407 

Governor  Wood 464 

Oraffion 453 

On  at  Bigarreau 454 

Great  Bigarreau  ofMezel 154 

Great  Cornelian 480 

Gridley   464 

Griotti  (PEsjwgm 483 

Griotte  Grosse  Noire 483 

Griottt  Ordinaire  >ln  Nord 484 

Griotte  de  Portugal 477 

(in..; . ,-  Pi  <t>cc 483 

ues 418 

Grivttier  "  Bouquet 478 

Griottiw  Haiti  Precoci 479 

Griotti                  I'aii 478 

fiexs  . .   45:-} 

Gros  Bi         >>     Bli   ic 463 

Gros  Bi,              Couleur  de  Chair. .  4(53 

Gros  Bigarreau  Rouge 407 

453 

480 

■7 474 

(fl'oxtil    '  47S 

GronKi  '    ■  ..   455 

......        "> 

ubnc:.  .    - 

Giviym  ■  •  5 

180 

174 





ndans 187 

'/• 

47(: 

Uiitivi 479 

Hative  Malgre  Tout 480 

Hensel's  Early 405 

//.  n  fordshire  Heart 404 

UerefordsMre  White 462 

1I<  rz  KirscJie 475 

Hddesheim  Bigarreau 461 


CHERRIES. 


]04f 


PAGK 

tltidesheirner   gam  Spate    Knorpel 

Kirsche 465 

Uildesheimer  Spate  Herz  Kirsche. . .  465 

Hoadley 465 

Holland  Bigarreau 470 

HoUandische  Orosse 453 

Holraan's  Duke 480 

Honey 465 

Hovey 465 

Hyde's  Late  Black 466 

Hyde's  Red  Heart 466 

Impera  trice  Eugenie 480 

Imperial 453 

Imperial  English  Amber 450 

Imperial  Morello 481 

Italian  Heart 453 

Jaune  de  Prusse 466 

Jeffrey's  Duke 481 

Jeffrey's  Royal 481 

Jeffrey's  Royal  Caroon 481 

Jocosot 466 

June  Duke 481 

Kennicott 466 

Kentish 481 

Kentish 480 

K,  ntish  Red 481,  482 

Keokuk 466 

Kirsch  von  der  Watte ,  479 

Kirsche  mit  SufUgen  Fleisch 474 

Kirtland's  Large  Morello  482 

Kirtland's  Mammoth 466 

Rutland's  Mary 467 

Kirtland's  Morello 482 

K.i  sett's  Late  Bigarreau 464 

Knight's  Early  Black 467 

Kdniglielte  Amardle 471) 

Lady  of  the  Lake 467 

Lady  SoutJiampton's  Duke 467 

Lady  Southampton's  Golden  Drop . .  467 

Lady  Southampton's  Yellow 467 

Large  Black  Bigarreau 474 

Large  Double  Flowering 486 

Hi  i  rt-shaped  Biga rrea a.  453,  463 

Large  Honey 465 

Large  Mayduke 483 

Large  MoreUo 484 

Large  Red  Bigarreau 467 

Tied  Prool 454 

White  Bigarn  an 476 

Wihl  Black 455 

Imber 458 

Late  An-,'/  Duke 477 

Late  Bigarreau 4<W 

Late  Duke 

Late  Dale 177 

Late  Honey 465 

Late  Kentish • 

Late  Purple  Guigne   

Laueruiauiis  Groxse  Kirsche 


PACT 

Lauermann's  Herz  Kirsche 470 

Lauermann's  Kirsche 470 

Laura 468 

Leather  Stocking 468 

Lemercier 485 

Lincoln 468 

Lindley 468 

Lion's  Heart 470 

Logan 468 

Louis  Philippe 4^3 

Love  Apple 483 

Ludwig 469 

Ludwig's  Bigarreau 4(59 

Lundie  Gean 469 

Madison  Bigarreau 469 

Magnifique  de  Sceaux. 477 

Manning's  Early  Black  Heart 469 

Manning's  Late  Black 469 

Manning's  Mottled 469 

Martin's  Weiclisel 487 

May  Cherry 479 

May  Cluster 481 

Mayduke 483 

Maszard •  455 

Merisier  d  Fleurs  Doubles 486 

Merisier  d  fruit  Mane 465 

Mcriner  d  petit  fruit 455 

Merisier  d  petit  fruit  noir 455 

Merry  Cherry. 455 

Merveille  de  Septembre 469 

Milan 484 

Millet's  Late  Heart  Duke. 483 

Monats  AmareUe 487 

Monstreuse  de  Bavay 485 

Monstrous  May 475 

Monstrous  de  Mezel 454 

Montmorency 480,  481 

Montmorency  a  Cros  Fruit 480 

Montmorency  a  longue  queue 481 

Morello 484 

Morello  de  Charmeux 484 

Morris  Duke 483 

Mwris  s  Early  Duke.    483 

MoWa. d  Bigarreau 469 

Moyer's  Honey  Heart 469 

Muscat  de  Prague 481 

Nancy 470 

Napoleon  Bigarreau 470 

Ni  ir  Large  Black  Bigarreau 454 

.V  w  Mayduke 459 

Noir  Pr  coce  de  St/rass 473 

Nouvelle  Royale   484 

OrJtsen  Hi  rz  Kirsche 470 

Ohio  Beauty 470 

Osceola..  . . 470 

Ostheim 484 

(Mlu  i/ner  Kirsche 484 

isd 484 

Ox  Heart 47C 

Ox-Heart 476 


1046 


CHERRIES — CR  AN  BERRIES. 


PAGE  | 

Paramdam 484  I 

Petite  Cerise  Rouge  Pricoce 479  | 

Pie  Cherry 481,  482 

Pierce's  Late 471  I 

Plan  choury 477  I 

Plumstone  Morello 484  ' 

Pontiac 471  I 

I  Duke 477,  483 

Powhatfcan 471 

r 479 

President 471 

Prince's  Black  Heart 471 

Prinzessin  Kirsehe. -.  453 

Proudfoot 471 

Prunus  cerasuspleno 48(3 

Red  Heart 464 

Red  Jacket 472 

Reine  Hortense 485 

Remington 472 

Remington  Heart 472 

Remint  ton  White  Heart 472 

Richardson 472 

Rival 472 

Rivers's  Early  Amber. 472 

Rivers's  Early  Heart 472 

Roberts'  Red  Heart 473 

Rockport 473 

Rockport  Biga/rreau 473 

Vs  Heart 456 

Ronald's  Large  Black  Heart 456 

Vs  Large  Moretto 484 

Rost  de  Lyons    462 

Royal  Duke 485 

Royale 481 

Moyale  A  nglaise  Tardive 485 

Royale  Ilatiee 483 

Royale  Ordinaire 481 

Rumsoy's  Late  Morello 485 


St.  Martin's  AmareUe 

Schdm  von  Choisy 

Schwarze  Hers  Kirsehe 

"  Litre. 

September  Weichsel  Grosse 

•  fed  Leaved  Cherry 

Shannon 

n.  ...    

Double  Flowering 

May 

Wild  Black 

h  Black  Heart . . . . 

•   Yellow 

awk's  Honey 

!- n  i  rrowhawk's  Honey 

////  lesheimer  Marmor Kirsehe . 

Strass's  Early  Black 

Street's  May 

Sumner's  Honey 

Superb  Circassian 

Sussex  

Swedish 

8weet  Montmorency 


487 

477 

456 

485 

484 

486 

485 

481 

486 

470 

455 

455 

467 

473 

473 

465 

473 

475 

473 

456 

481 

462 

474 


PAOH 

Ta  >  dire,  de  Mens 469 

Tartarian 456 

Tecumseh 474 

The  Doctor 460 

Thompson's  Duke 483 

Tobacco-Leaved 474 

Tomato 483 

Townsend '. 474 

Tradescanfs 474 

Tradescant's  Black  Heart 474 

Transparent 475 

Transparent  Gean 475 

Transparent  Guigne 475 

Tran iien  AmareUe 478 

Trempe  Pr coce 462 

Tres-Fertile 478 

Triumph  of  Cumberland 475 

Turkey  Bigarreau 453,  476 

Vail's  August  Duke 485 

Very  Large  Heart 470 

Vier  auf  fin  Pfund 474 

Virginian  May 481 

Virginian  Wild  Cherry 486 

Virginische  Kirsehe 486 

Warren's  Transparent 475 

Waterloo 475 

Wax  Cherry 478 

Weeping 487 

Weichsel  mit  ganzkurzen  Stiel 480 

Wellington 475 

Wendell's  Mottled  Bigarreau 475 

Werder's  Early  Black  Heart 475 

Werdsche  Fruhe  Schtrarze 475 

Wesfs  White  Heart 453 

Wetherill 481 

White  Bigarreau 476 

White  Bigarreau 453,  476 

White  French  Guigne   476 

White  Heart 462 

White  Mazzard 456 

WMa  Ox-Heart 476 

White  Tartarian 476 

White  Transparent 462 

Whiccley  Black 455 

Wild  Black  Fruited 455 

Wild  'la mi 486 

Wild  English  Cherry 455 

Wilder'8  Bigarreau  de  Mai 452 

Wilkinson 476 

Yellow 467 

Yellow  Honey 465 

Yellow  Spanish 453 

Yung  T<> .  486 

Zwerg  Kirsehe 484 


CRANBERRIES 
Bell-Shaped 


49t 


CRANBERRIES CURRANTS FIGS. 


1047 


Bugle,  Oval,  or  Egg-shaped 493 

Cherry 493 


CURRANTS. 

Attractor 489 

Bang  Up 492 

Black  English 492 

Black  Naples 492 

Black  Grape 492 

Blanc  Transparent 491 

Buist's  Long-Bunched 489 

Oasis 492 

Caucase 490 

Champagne 489 

Cherry 489 

Common  Black 492 

Dana's  New  White 492 

Fertile  (V Angers .  490 

Fertile  de  Palluau 489 

GoUath 491 

Gondouin  Red 490 

Gondouin  White 490 

GroseiMiera  F '/■  ait  Couleur  de  Chair.  489 

Groseillier  Rouge  a  Gros  Fruit 491 

Grime  Range  de  Holland. 491 

Grosse  Weiss  und  Rothgestreifte  Jo- 
hannesbeere 491 

HdUve  de  Bertin 490 

Houghton  Castle 491 

Imp  'rial  Blanc 492 

Imperial  Red 490 

Imperial  White      ... .  492 

Knight's  Early  Red 490 

Knight's  Large  Red   490 

Knight's  Sweet  Red 490 

La  Fertile 490 

La  Hative   490 

La  Versaillaise 490 

[.urge- Bunched  Red. 491 

Large  Red  Dutch 491 

Long-Bunched  Red 491 

Macrocarpa 490 

Mag's  Victoria 491 

Missouri  Currant 493 

Morgan's  Red 491 

Morgan's  White 492 

Nvjs  Red  Dutch 491 

New  White  Dutch . .     492 

Ogam's  Black  Grape 492 


pass 

Pheasant's  Eye 486 

Prince  Albert 491 

Baby  Castle 491 

Red  Dutch 491 

Red  Flowering  Currant 493 

Bed  Grape 401 

Bed  Provens 490 

Reeve's  White 493 

Short-Bunched  Red 491 

Silver-Striped 491 

Striped-Fruited 491 

Transparent 491 

Victoria 491 

White  Antwerp 492 

White  Clinton 492 

White  Crystal 492 

White  Dutch 492 

White  Grape 492 

White  Leghorn 492 

White  Provence 492 

WilmoVs  Red  Grape 491 

FIGS. 

Angelique 498 

Bayswater 497 

Black  Genoa 496 

Black  Ischia 496 

Black  Naples 497 

Blue  Ischia 496 

'/uz    498 

En  urn  Hamburg 497 

Brown  Ischia 497 

Brown  Italian 497 

Brown  Naples , 49? 

Brown  Turkey 497 

Brunswick 497 

Chestnut 497 

Chestnut-colored  Iscliia 497 

Clementine 497 

Concourelle  Blanche 498 

Early  Forcing 496 

Vigue  Blanche 498 

Ford's  Seedling 498 

Green  Ischia 499 

Hanover 497 

Italian  497 

Large  Blue 497 

Large  White  Genoa. 49? 


1048 


JIGS GOOSEBERRIES. 


Lee's  Perpetual 497 

Madonna 497 

Malta 498 

Marseilles 498 

Melitte 498 

Murrey 497 


Nerii 


498 


Pocock 498 

Pregussata 499 

Red 497 

SmnU  Brown 497 

Small  Brown  Ischia 497 

Violette 498 

Violette  de  Bordeaux 498 

White  Isohia 499 

White  Marseilles .  498 

White  Naples 498 

Wliite  Standard 498 


GOOSEBERRIES. 

American  Red 504 

American  Seedling. 504 

Atlas 503 

Banks  Dublin 503 

Berry's  Greenwood 502 

Boardman's  British  Crown 501 

Briton 503 

Broom  Girl 503 

BuerdsilTs  Duckwing 502 

Capper's  Bonny  Lass 503 

Capper's  Bunker  Hill 502 

Capper's  Top  Sawyer 501 

Champagne 501 

Cleworth's  White  Lion 502 

Cluster         501 

Colliers  Jolly  Angler 502 

Conquering  Hero 503 

Cook's  White  Eagle 503 

Crompton  Sheba  Queen 502 

Downing 503 

Dutch  Joe 504 

Early  Green  Hairy 502 

Echo 503 

Edward's  Jolly  Tar. 502 

Elijah 503 

Farrow's  Roaring  Lion 501 

Favorite 503 

Freedon: 503 


PAOl 

Gfreen  Gasccigne 503 

Green  River 503 

Green  Walnut 503 

Guido 503 

Hapley's  Lady  of  the  Manor 503 

Hartshorn's  Lancashire  Lad 501 

Hepburn  Green  Prolific 502 

Hill's  Golden  Gourd 502 

Hobbs'  Seedling 504 

Hopley's  Companion. 503 

Houghton's  Seedling 504 

Huntsman ' 503 

Husbandman 503 

Independent 503 


Jolly  Cutter. 


503 


Keen's  Seedling 501 

Keepsake 503 

Lady  Delamere 503 

Leigh's  Rifleman 501 

Marigold 503 

Massey's  Heart  of  Oak 502 

Melling's  Crown  Bob 501 

Miss  Bold 501 

Mountain  Seedling 504 

Ohio  Prolific 504 

Ohio  Seedling 504 

Ostrich . .  503 

Overall 503 

Pale  Red 504 

Parkinson's  Laurel 502 

Part's  Golden  Fleece 502 

Pilot 503 

Pitmaston  Green  Gage         502 

Prince  Albert ...   503 

Prince  Regent 503 

Profit 503 

Prophets  Rockwood 502 


Queen  Caroline . 


503 


Red  Warrington 502 

Riley's 503 

Riley's  Tallyho 502 

Robert's  Sweet  Water 504 

St.  Clair 504 

Saunders'  Cheshire  Lass 503 

Scorpion ^03 

Smiling  Beauty O03 

Smith's  Improved 504 

SmitlCs  Seedling 504 

Sovereign 503 

Glenton  Green 502    Taylor's  Bright  Venus 603 

Gorton's  Viper 502  [  Teazer 503 


GOOSEBERRIES GRAPES. 


10  Hi 


Thumper 503 

Wainman's  Green  Ocean 502 

Wellington's  Glory 503 

White  Honey 503 

Wistastoa  Hero 503 

Woodward's  White  Smith '.  503 

Yellow  Bail 502 

Yellow  Champagne 502 

Young  Wonderful 503 


Black  Frontignae 514 

Black  Frontignan 514 

Black  German ...  5gg 

Black  Grape  from  Tripoli ...  51(1 

Black  Hamburgh 514 

Black  Hawk 531 

Black  July 531 

Black  Lisbon 5-3 

Black  Lombardy 515 

Black  MoriUon 514 

Black  Morocco 51."") 

Black  Muscadel 515 

Black  Muscadine 515 

Black  Muscat  of  Alexandria 515 

Black  Palestine 513 

Black  Portugal 513 

Black  Prince 515 

Aik?n 545    Black  St.  Peters .' .' .  513 


GRAPES. 

Adirondac 528 

Agawam 528 


Albino 528 

Aleatica  du  Po 520 

Aleppo 513 

Alexander's 528 

Alexandnan  Frontignan 521 

Alicante 513 

Alicantenivein 513 

Allah* 528 

Alvey '..  530 

Amber  Muscadine  521 

American  Muscadine ....  554 

Amiens    521 

Amoureux. 554 

AnsclVs  Large  Oval  Black 515 

A  ramon 516 


Black  Spanish 513 

Black  Spanish  Alabama 551 

Black  Sweetwater 515 

Black  Tripoli 516 

Black  Valentia 513 

BlacksmiWs  White  Cluster '. .  522 

Blanc  de  Bonneuil 518 

Bland 531 

Bland's  Madeira 531 

Bland's  Pale  Red 531 

Bland's  Virginia 531 

Blauer  von  Alicante 513 

Blood's  Black 532 

Bloomburg  536 

Blue  Favorite 532 


Archer 530  j  Blue  Grape 531 

Blue  Imperial 532 

Blue  T rolling  er 514 

Bogue's  Eureka 545 

Boston 515 

BourdaZes  des  Hautes  Pyrim'es 514 

Bowood  Muscat 516 

Brandywine 532 

Brant  532 

Brinckle 532 

Brown 532 

Brown  Hamburgh 514 

Bull 55  1 

Bullett 554 

Burckhardt's  Prince 516 

Burgunder 514,  517 

Burg u mil/  of  Georgia 552 

Burroughs 532 

Burton's  Early 532 

Busby's  Golden  Hamburgh 51'J 


Arcott 530 

Arkansas    530 

A  molds  No.  I 552 

Arnold's  No  2 536 

. !  molds  No.  5 530 

Arnolds  No.  8 532 

Arnolds  No.  16 533 

Aughwick 530 

August  Pioneer. 530 

August   Traube 517 

Autuchon 530 

Auvema 514 

Auvernas  Rouge 514 

.  1  uverne 514 

Baker 545 

Baldwin  le  Noir 530 

Barnes   531 

Barry 531 

Baxter 5:;  I 

fid 556 

Bird's  Egg     531 

Black  Burgundy 514 

Black  Cape  ... 528 

Black  Champion 514 

Black  Chasskas 515 

Black  Cluster 514 

Black  Const  a  nt  ia 514 

Black  FvanhenthaU 514 


Camden 532 

Campa  ;a 521 

Canada 533 

Canadian  Ha  iburg7i 552 

Canadian  Hybrid 552 

Caiil>i/'s  A  ■ignst 558 

Canon  Hall  .Muscat 516 

Cape  G-rape 528 

Carter 5:W 


i050 


GRAPES. 


PA  OF.  I 

Carter 556 

Cassady 533 

Catawba _. 533 

'  a  Tokay 533 

Gatawissa  Bloom 536  ; 

(',  rest  Septembro 521  ' 

Challenge  .    533 

Chaptal 516  i 

Charlsworih  Tokay 516 

Charlesworth  Tokay  Malaga 521 

Charter  Oak 533 

Chasst  las  blanc 521 

)•■' 521 

( '/,,  issi  las  <!'  Fontainebleau 521 

Chasselas  Musque 516 

( '),,iss(  I,  ix  Now 515 

Chasselas  panache 513 

Chasselas  Prkcoce 524 

( Ttasselas  Rouge 521 

Chasselas  Rouge  Foncee 521 

Chasselas  Rcyal 517 

( 'Iiassi  las  Royal 524 

Chasselas  Vibert 517 

Chippewa 534 

Christies  Improved  Isabella 542 

Christine. : 556 

Cigar-Box  Grope 551 

Clara 534 

Claret 534 

Clermont 533 

( liftotfs  Constantia 528 

Clinton 534 

Cloanthe 545 

Clover  Street  Black 534 

Clover  Street  Red 5:54 

Columbia 534 

Colu  Tibia  County 536 

Concord 536 

Conqueror 536 

vntia 528 

Cornucopia 536 

Cottage  536 

Cowan 536 

Crevelling 536 

Cmton 537 

Cumbi  rland  Ix)dge 518 

Cunningham 537 

Cuyahoga 537 

Cynthiana  537 

Dana 537 

DArbois 521 

Delaware 537 

t'i   St.  Jean  517 

Detroit 539 

ux 53! 

Diamant 522 

l)i<i on i nt  Traube 522 

Diana 539 

Diana  Hamburgh 539 

Dracut  Amber 539 

Duchess  of  Buccleugh 517 

hu *ch   Hamburgh 514 


PAdl 

Dutch  Sweetwater 524 

Early  Black 514 

Early  Black  Bordeaux 517 

Early  Black  July HI  7 

Early  GhasseUu 518 

Early  Golden  Frontignan .r>  1  7 

Early  Hudson 539 

Early  Kienzheim 518 

Early  Saumur  Frontignan. 517 

Early  Silver  Frontignan 518 

Early  Smyrna  Frontignan 518 

Early  Sweetwater 524 

Early  White  Teneriffe 521 

Early  White  Malvasia 518 

Early   White  Muscadine 524 

Elizabeth 539 

irough •r)40 

Elsinboro 540 

Elsingburgh 540 

Emily 540 

Erbalus 522 

Espagnin  Noir 513 

Esperione 518 

Eumelan 540 

Fancher 5:53 

Farineux  noir 520 

Fintindo 518 

Flame-  Colored  Tokay 520 

Fit  isch  Traube .  514 

Flora     540 

Foster's  White  Seedling 519 

Framingham 541 

Franc  Pinenu 514 

Frankendale 514 

Frankmthaler 514 

Frankenthaler  Grot  Noir .    ..  T>14 

Franklin 540 

Fromente 520 

Garber's  Albino 528 

Garrigues 540 

Gen  nine  Tokay 524 

Germain  'Wine 558 

Gibraltar 514 

Goethe 540 

Golden  Champion 519 

i  'hassi  las 521 

Golden  Clinton 541 

Golden  Hamburgh 519 

Graham 541 

Grauer  MuscateUer 519 

Gray  Tokay 524 

Green's  Prolific 519 

y  Frontignao 519 

Grizzly  Frontignan    5  9 

Gros  Maroc 519 

Grosser  RiessUng 524 

Grove  End  Sweet  Water 518 

Ilagar 53C 

Hall 54J 


GRACES. 


1051 


PAGE 

Hampton  Court  Vine 514 

Hardy  Blue  Windsor 518 

Hart 531 

Hartford  Prolific 541 

Hattie 541 

Heath 5:17 

Herbemont 541 

Hcrbemont's  Madeira 541 

Hettie    541 

Hine 542 

Hopkins  Early  Bed 558 

Howell 542 

Hudler 514 

Hudson 542 

Husson 531 

Hyde's  Eliza 542 

Iden 546 

Imitation  Hamburgh 557 

Iona 542 

Isabella 542 

Imker  Daisiko 518 

Tsraella 545 

Italian  Wine 537 

Ives 545 

Ives1  Madeira 545 

Ives'  Seedling..    .'. . 545 

Jack 551 

Jacob's  Traube 517 

Jacguez 551 

James'  Seedling 533 

Jeios 522 

July  Grape 517 

Jura  Muscat 520 

Keuka 550 

Kilvington 545 

King 541 

Kingsessing 545 

Kitchen 545 

Kittredge 545 

Kit  iner  Riessling 524 

Knight's  Variegated  Chasselas. . . .  520 
Kiimmel  Traube 519 

Loan  Hdtif 52? 

Labe. 545 

Lady  Downe's 520 

Lady  Downe's  Seedling 520 

Lake 546 

Languedoe 514 

Large  German 558 

Laura  Beverly ....  536 

Le  Ccwr 515,  516 

LeMelier  518 

Le  Meunier 520 

Lee's 545 

Lenoir 546 

Ler.oir 531 

Lincoln 531 

Lindley  546 

Logan      546 


PASS 

Lombardy .  52C 

Long , , .  537 

Long  Noir  cPEspagnt 5.82 

Longworth's  Ohio 55 1 

Louisa 546 

Louisiana 546 

Lydia 546 

Lyman 547 

Mb  (landless. 551 

McCoun .      547 

Mc  Co/pan  53(j 

Me  Lean . .    531 

McNeil 54? 

Madeira  Wine  Grape . .  523 

Madeira  of  York,  Pa 528 

Madeleine  517 

Madeleine  Musquee  de  CourtiUer. . .  517 

Madeleine  Noir 517 

Mammoth  Catawba 53a 

Manhattan 548 

Marion 548 

Marion  Port 558 

Marocain 519 

Martha 548 

Mary 548 

Mary  Ann 548 

Massasoit 548 

Mauritian  noir  panache 513 

MauriSan  panache 513 

Maxatawney .   548 

Mead's  Seedling 533 

M  Her  blanc  518 

Meredith's  Alicante 513 

Merrimack  ....    549 

MerritPs  Seedling 550 

Michigan 533 

Miles 550 

MiUer  Grape 520 

Miller's  Burgundy 520 

Miner's  Seedling 557 

Missouri 550 

Missouri  Seedling 550 

Modena 550 

Mohrendutte 514 

v  515 

Monteiih 558 

Montgomery  . 550 

MoriUon  HdMf 517 

MoriUon  noir 514 

MoriUon  Taconne 520 

Mama  Chasselas 51s; 

Mornair  Mane 518 

Morone  Farinaccio. 520 

Moscado  Bianco 

Moscatel  Commun 523 

Moscatel  Gordo  Blanco. 521 

Mosclmta  Bianca 523 

Mottled 550 

Mount  Lebanon 550 

MiiUer 52C 

Midlevrebe 530 

Muscado  Rosso 519 


1052 


GRAPES. 


Muscat  of  Alexandria 

Muscat  Blanc  .     

Muscat  BLinc  de  Jura 

Muscat  EscJiolata 

Muscat  Escldata 

Muscat  Grec 

Muscat  Oris 

Muscat  Hamburgh 

Muscat  Ildtif  de  Saumur 

Muscat  of  Jerusalem 

Muscat  of  Lunel 

Muscat  Noir 

Muscat  Noir  de  Jura 514, 

Muscat  Noir  Ordinaire 

Muscat  Romain 

Muscat  Rouge 

Muscat  de  Saumur 

Muscat  de  Smyrne 

Muscat  Troveren 

Muscat  Troveren  Blanc 

Muscateller 

Musk  Chasselas  


PAGE 

521 

523 
523 
521 
521 
521 
519 
515 
517 
521 
521 
514 
520 
514 
521 
519 
517 
518 
523 
523 
523 
516 


Neil  Orape 541 

Neff 550 

Nepean's  Constantia 523 

Noi.rin 520 

Nonautum 550 

North  America 551 

North  Carolina . .  551 

North  Carolina  Seedling 551 

Northern  Muscadine 551 

Norton"1*  Seedling     551 

Norton's  Virginia ....  551 

Ohio 551 

Ontario 557 

Onondaga 551 

Oporto     552 

Osmond 552 

Othello 552 

Paign's  Isabella 542 

Palestine 522 

Pause  Musquie 521 

Passe  Musquie 521 

Pauline 552 

Payn  e's  Early 542 

Perkins 552 

Petit  Riessling 524 

Ptneau  514 

Pitmaston  White  Cluster 521 

Hide 516 

'.v  Damascus 515 

Pceschel's  Mammoth 5:!:l 

Pollock 552 

Pond's  Seedling 5:!:! 

l'ltonah 515 

Powell 531 

I  '/"'<■<  06  Musque 517 

Piimavis  Frontignan 521 

Purple  Constantia 514 

Purple  Frontign.tn 514 


Purple  Hamburgh 514 

PuUerulenta 52C 

Raabe 552 

Raisin  eTAless. 513 

Raisin  de  Bourgne. 514 

Raisin  des  Cannes 515 

Raisin  de  Champagne 521 

Raisin  de  Cuba. 515 

Raisin  de  Frontignan 523 

Raisin  Pricoce 517 

Raisin  Suisse 513 

Raisine  cPEspagne 515 

Rebecca 553 

Red  Chasselas 521 

Red  Constantia 519 

Red EJhen. ..." 554 

Red  Front  ignac  of  Jerusalem 515 

Red  Frontignan 519 

Red  Grape  of  Taurida 520 

Red  Hamburgh  . .         514 

Red  Lenoir 552 

Red  Muncy 533 

Red  Muscadine 521 

R<  d  Muscat  of  Alexandria 515 

Red  River 537 

Red  Scuppernong 531 

Reeves'  Muscadine 521 

Rentz 554 

Rhemish  Red ...  520 

Richmond 545 

Riessling 524 

Roanoke 554 

Rossling 524 

Rogers'  No.  1 540 

Rogers'  No.  3 548 

Rogers'  No.  4 557 

Rogers'  No.  9 54fi 

Rogers'  No.  15 528 

Rogers'  No.  19 549 

Rogers'  No.  22 554 

Rogers'  No.  43 531 

Rather 514 


Rothrock 


52S 


Royal  Muscadine 521 

RudesJieirnerberg 524 

Rulander 554 

St  Albans 516 

St.  Catherine 554 

St.  Genevieve 554 

St  Peters 513 

Sonet  Peter's  Traube 513 

Salem 554 

Salisbury  Violet 514 

Sanbornton 545 

Sanbornton 542 

Saratoga 533 

Sauvignien  noir 520 

Sr/ih  >ss  Johanieisberg 524 

Sch  uylkiU  Madeira 528 

8ch  a  i/l !,  ill  Mu  sea  del 528 

Sch  uylMU  Muscadine 528 


GRArT.S. 


105S 


PAGE 

Schwarztr 514 

Schwarzer  Fruhzeitiger 517 

Sclurarzer  Spanischer 513 

Scotch  White  Cluster 522 

Scuppernong 554 

■ 541 

Shaker  Grape 557 

Sheppard's  Delaware 555 

Sherman 547 

Sherry 531 

Shurtleffs  Seedling 556 

Sir  A.  Pytches'  Black 515 

Sir  William  Bmcley's  Black 514 

SmaU  Black  Cluster 514 

Small  German 558 

Smart's  Elsingburg 540 

Spofford  Seedling 556 

SpringmM  Constantia 528 

Steward's  Black  Prince 515 

StiMward's  Sweetwater 524 

Stoekwood  Park  Golden  Hamburgh . .  519 

Striped,  Muscadine 513 

Sumpter 531 

Switzerland  Grape 513 

Syrian    522 

Tosher's  Grape 528 

Taylor's  Bullet 556 

Telegraph 556 

Terra  de  la  Promise 522 

Thurmond 531 

To  Kalon 550 

Tokai  blanc 524 

Tottenham  Park  Muscat 521 

Trebbiano 522 

Trebbiano  Bianco 522 

Trebbiano  Vero 522 

Trentham  Black 522 

TroUer 514 

TroUinger 514 

Troveren 523 

Troveren  Frontignan 523 

True  Burgundy 514 

Tryon 558 

Tuley •">:;1 

Turner's  Black 518 

Tyningham  Muscat 523 

\gham  Muscat 516 

Blanc 

Wow    516 

Una ~™ 

7nde¥uifl ;,',(> 

Underbill's  Celestial 556 

■hiU's  Seedling 556 

Union  Village 55"i 

Urbana 557 

Urn  Salamana .  ...   521 

Valentine's 514 

Van  4er  Jjian  Piecoce. . .   522 

Variei,  rted  Chasselas 513,  520 

Vonang.. 557 


Verdal 523 

Verdelho 523 

Vei-dkliio 523 

Vevay 528 

Victoria 514 

ViUs  rotundifolia 55 1 

Vitis  Vidpina 554 

Vrai  Aiivemas 514 

Walter 557 

Wantage 520 

Warner's  Black  Hamburgh 514 

Warren 541 

Warrenton 541 

Water  Zoet  Netir 515 

Water  loete  Blanc 524 

Weisse  Muscaten  Traube 523 

Weisser  MuscateUer 523 

Weissholzigcr  TroUinger 514 

Welscher 514 

Wemple 5:57 

West's  St.  Peters 515 

White  Cape 528 

White  Catawba 533 

White  Chasselas 521 

Wldte  Constantia 523 

White  Frontignan 52;! 

White  Frontniac 523 

White  Hamburgh 523 

White  Lisbon 528 

White  Melier 518 

White  Muscadine 524 

Wldte  Muscat  of  Alexandria 521 

White  Nice 524 

Nice 521 

White  Portugal 523 

White  Raisin 523 

White  Ressling 524 

White  Sweetwater 524 

White  Tokay 524 

Wilder 55  7 

Wilmington 

Winne 528 

Winslow 558 

Wolfe 558 

Woodward 542 

Worthington 534 

Wright's  Isabella 545 

n  556 

Wyoming  Red 558 

Xeres 521 

Yeddo 524 

York  Lisbon 538 

York  Madeira 558 


Zane. 


MELON  FAMILY. 
1.   MELON& 


Allen's  Superb. 


533 


0M 


7054 


WATER-MELONS — MULBERRIES — NECTARINES. 


PAGK 

Award's  Hybrid 560 

Bes>  mwood 560 

Christiana 560 

Dampsha 561 

Green  Citron 560 

Green  Melon 561 

Ispahan 560 

Jenny  Lind. 560 

Large  Musk  Cantelope 561 

Nutmeg 561 

Persian 561 

Pine-Apple. , 561 

Skillman's  Fine  Netted 561 

Valencia 561 

White  Japan 561 

Winter  Melon 561 

2.    WATER-MELONS. 

Apple-Seeded 562 

Baugh 562 

Black  Spanish 562 

Bradford 562 

Carolina 562 

Citron  Water  Melon 563 

Clarendon 562 

Ice  Cream 563 

Imperial   563 

Mountain  Sprout 563 

Mountain  Sweet 563 

Odell's  Large  White  563 

fe 563 

\'     enscroft 563 

Souter 564 

MULBERRIES. 

Black  Mulberry 564 

English  Mulberry 564 

Everbearing 564 


PA.ll 

Hick's  Everbearing. 564 

Johnson. 564 

Red  Mulberry o6~> 

White  Mulberry 565 

NECTARINES. 

Albert 566 

Anderson's 567,  570 

Anderson's  Round 570 

Aromatic 572 

Balgone 566 

Balgowan 566 

Black 567 

Black  Murry 56J> 

Boston 5(36 

Broomfield 566 

Brugnon  Jfdif. 572 

Brugnon  Musquee 571 

Brugnon  de  Newington 570 

Brugnon  Red  at  the  Stone 572 

Brugnon  Violette  Musguie 571 

Chauviere 566 

<  'lurcmont 567 

Common  Elruge 567 

Coicdray  W7dte 570 

U  A  ngleterre 570 

Be  Bnlgone 566 

De  Feligny 568 

Dovvnton 567 

Du  Haina/ut 568 

Du  nay's 567 

Due  du  Tellier's 567 

Due  de  Tello 567 

Due  77 liters 567 

Dukede  TiUy 567 

Early  Black 567 

Early  Black  Newington 567 

Brugnon 572 

Early  Newington 567 

Violet 573 

Elruge     567 

Eim  rtoWs  New  White 570 

Fairchild's 56E 

FairdvMa  Early 568 

Feligny 568 

Fine  ( inld-Jleshed 568 

Flanders 570 

French  Newington 578 

Gulopin 568 

Gathoye 568 

Golden 568 


HICTARIKES — NUTS. 


105c 


PAOK 

Hampton  Court 572 

Hardwicke 569 

Hardwicke's  Seedling    569 

Hunts  Early  Tawny 569 

Hunts  Large  Tawny 569 

Hunt's  Tawny 569 

Large  Scarlet 572 

Large  White 570 

Late  Green 570 

Lewis 506 

Lewies 506 

Lord  Napier 569 

Lard  Betsey's  Elruge 572 

Lucombe's  Black 567 

Lucombe's  Seedling 567 

Muffrum 5^9 

Murrey 569 

Murry 569 

Neat's  WJdte 570 

New  Dark  Newington 567 

New  Early  Newington 567 

New  Scarlet 572 

New  White 570 

Newington 570 

Oatlands 567 

Old  Newington 570 

Old  Roman 571 

Old  White 570 

Orange 568 

Perkins1  Seedling 560 

Peterborough 57  0 

Peterborough 567 

Petit  Violette  Hdtive o72 

Pine-Apple 570 

Pitmaston  Orange 57 1 

Red  Roman 571 

Rivers'  Orange 571 

Ri  vers'  White 571 

R/man 571 

Rough  Roman 570 

Scarlet 570 

Scarlet  Newington 570 

&ion  mil 570 

Smith's  Newington 570 

Spring  Grove 567 

Btanwick 571 

Temple's 567 

Vermash 570 

Victoria 572 

Violet 572 

Violet  Musk 572 

Violet  Red  at  the  Stone 572 

Violette  Angervilliires 572 

Violette  Grosse 572 


Violette  Hdtive 579 

Violette  Musquee 572 

Williams'  Orange. 571 

Williams'  Seedling 571 


NUTS. 

1.  CHESTNUTS. 

Chestnut 572 

Chinquapin 573 

Dwarf  Chestnut 573 

Spanish  Chestnut 573 

2.    FILBERTS. 

Cosford 574 

Dwarf  ProUfie 574 

Filbert  Gob 574 

Frizzed 574 

Kentish  Gob 574 

Lambert 574 

Northamptonshire  Prolific 574 

Nottingham  Prolific 574 

Pearson's  Prolific 574 

Pujple  Filbert 574 

Purple-Leaved 574 

Red  Filbert 574 

White  Filbert 574 

3.    HICKORY  NUTS,   BUTTERNUTS. 

Hickory  Nut 574 

Shell  Bark 574 

The  Butternut 574 

4.    WALNUTS. 

.4  Goque  Tendre 574 

Black ...  574 

DeJauge 573 

Double ..    ••  573 

Dwarf  Prolific 578 

Early-Bearing 578 

European 573 


1036 


-fUTS — OLIVES — ORANGE    FAMILY — PEACHES. 


TAGE 

Fertile 573 

French 573 

Large-Fruited 573 

Precious 573 

Thin-Shelled 574 

OLIVES. 

Broad-leaved 576 

Devil-wood 575 

Long-leaved 576 

Olivier  a  Fruit  Arrondi 576 

Olivier  Picholine 570 

Olivier  Pleureur 57G 

Weeping  Olive 576 

Wild  American 575 

ORANGE  FAMILY. 

1.     ORANGES. 

Bergamot 578 

Bitter-  Orange 578 

Blood  Red 578 

Common  Sweet 578 

Double  Bigarade 578 

Fingered 579 

Havana 578 

Maltese 578 

Mandarin 578 

Orange '  578 

imped 579 

Bibbed 579 

St,  Augustine 578 

St    Michael's 578 

Seville 578 

Shaddock 579 

Sweet  Skinned 579 

2.   LEMONS. 

Common 579 

Sweet 579 


P18I 

3.     LIMES. 

Common 579 

Porno  cP  Adamo 579 

4    CITRONa 

Common ....  579 

Madras 579 

PEACHES. 

A  Bee 596 

Abricotee 597 

Acton  Scott 597 

Admirable 608 

Admirable  Jaune 597 

Admirable  Tardive ,!,)|1 

Alberge  Jaune 687 

Albert's  Late  Rareripe 597 

Alexandra 597 

Alexandra  Noblesse 597 

Algiers  Winter 621 

Algiers  Yellow 62l 

Alida 597 

Allen 598 

Allison '',21 

Amelia 598 

Anne 609 

Apricot  Peach 597 

Aremie . .  598 

Astor 598 

Atwood 598 

Austin's  Late  Red 598 

Avant  Peche  de  Tropes 639 

Araitt  Rouge 629 

Baldwin's  Late 599 

Barnard's  Early 637 

Barnard's  Yellow  Honest  John 637 

Barrington 599 

Batchelder 599 

n.i.vt:  fa  Seedling,  No.  1. 618 

BeUe  Bav.ce 599 

BeUe  Bausse 599 

Belle  de  Beaucaire 600 

it  Bonne 000 

■  hevreuse 599 

le  l;i  Croix 600 

Belle  de  Douai 600 

Belle  do  Done 600 

Belle  de  FiU'emont 600 

Pans 022 

Le  Vitry 600 

t   Vitry  008 

Bell^arde 600 

BeUia 600 

Bergen's  Yellow . .  601 

Blanton  Cling 601 

Blood  Clina 001 


PKACHE8. 


1057 


PAOTC 

tilood  Clingstone 601 

Bonne  Gros  de  Noisette 601 

Bordeaux  Cling 602 

Br<  n  tford  Mignonne 600 

Brevoort 602 

Brevoorfs  Morris 002 

BremorVs  Seedling  Melter 602 

Briggs 602 

Brown  Nutmeg 629 

inghcm  Mignonne 599 

Cable's  Late 602 

's  Late  Mi  locoton   002 

Cambridge  Belle 002 

Camellia- flowered 638 

Canary 602 

Carnation-flowered 688 

Carpenter's  White 603 

Catherine 603 

Chancellor 603 

Ghancelli  re 603 

Chinese  Cling 603 

('him «■  Peach 638 

Christiana 603 

Claret  Clingstone 601 

Clemence  Isaure 603 

Clinton 004 

Cole's  Early  Red 604 

Cole's  White  Mehcoton (124 

!  Ausley's 599 

Columbia 604 

Columbus,  June 604 

Comet 604 

Comtesse  de  Hainaut 605 

as ,   603 

/  \v  Early  Red  Rareripe 605 

Cooledge's  Fa vc  rite 605 

Count's   605 

Crawford's  Early 605 

'  y  Mehcoton 605 

Crawford's  Late 605 

■  Superb  Malacatune 605 

Crimson-flowered 638 

Crimson  Galande 

(  -,i  Mignonne 

Crockett's  Late  White 60G 

Jut-Leaved 612 

Cutti  r\s  Ydlow  638 

DAhrimt 507 

Dagraar 606 

De  Benrre 

De  Bonlez 

v 017 

Desse  Tardive 606 

De  Zelhern COO 

Hogg 607 

D'Oignes 607 

Donahoo  Cling 607 

If  Orange 507 

Dors<t*h!ri> 625 

Double-Blossomed 638 

Double  Flowering  reach 638 

67 


Double  Montague. 
Double  Mountain. . 

Double  Swalsh 

Druid  Hill 

Duff  Yellow 

Duperron 

Dwarf  Orleans.  .  . . 


.610, 


Early  Admirable 

Early  Albert 

Early  Alfred 

Early  Anne  - 

Early  Beatrice 

Early  Four  line 

Early  -1 



Early  Garlande 

Early  German 

Early  Crosse  Mignonne 

Louise 

Early  Maiden 

May. , 

Early  Newington  Freestone 

Purple 

/  'urple  Avant 

Early  R<  il  Nutmi  g 

Early  Red  Rareripe. 

Early  Rivers 

Royal  George 600, 

Early  Silver 

t  Water 

Early  Tillotson 

E;.:ly  Victoria 

Early  J  'ineyard 

I  Vhiie  N-utmeg 

Early  York 

E:isttmrn 

Eastburn's  Choice 

Eaton's  Golden 

Edgar's  Lute  .'fating 

Eliza  Peach    

Elmira  Cling. 

Emperor  of  Russia 

'  Galand 

Emoult 

Exquisite 

Favorite 

Favorite  Red. 

■-'/A 

Flat  Peach  of  China 

Flatcr's  St.  John 

Flewellen  Cling   

ig   



ne  lb.  nth 619, 

French  Bmirdine 

French   <  'luliii'eUor 

French  M  <gdalen 

Frencli  Mignonne  ...... 

Royal  George. ... 

Fruitlaud 


PAOl 

607 

607 
,  631 

607 

.  008 
008 
608 

008 

oos 

608 
609 

609 
631 
609 

005 
000 
015 
609 
00!) 

609 

015 
082 
610 
011 
615 
02!) 
029 
010 
631 
oio 
610 
010 

(ill 

615 
637 

011 
Oil 
OH 

on 

oil 
012 
012 

012 

012 
012 

613 
613 

624 

020 
631 
622 
615 
600 
618 


1058 


PEACHES. 


PAGK 

FruiUand  Seedling 613 

Pulkerson 613 

Fulkerson's  Early 013 

Oalande 600 

Gaylord 614 

George  the  Fourth 014 

Gold-Fleshed    637 

QdcL  a  Mignorme 637 

Goode's  October 014 

Gorgas   614 

Great  Eastern 014 

Green  Catharine 014 

(ire,  n  Nutmeg   609 

Gregory's  Late 614 

Griffin's  Mignonne 631 

Griffith 634 

Griffith  Malacotune 634 

Mammoth 632 

Grimwood's  New  Royal  George 615 

Grimwood's  Royal  Charlotte 031 

Grimwood's  Royal  George 015 

Gros  Meloeoton 020 

Gros  Persique  Rouge 020 

Grosse  Jamie  Tardive . .    ....  597 

Grosse  Mignonne. ...    015 

Grosse  Mignonne  Hative 009 

Haines'  Early  Red 615 

Hale's  Early 615 

Hardy  Galand 637 

Harker's  Seedling 615 

Hastings'  Rareripe 610 

Hatch 010 

Hative  de  Ferrieres 610 

Heath 610 

lU  nil/  Clingstone .' 610 

Heath  Free 619 

Henry  Clay 610 

Hero  of  Ti, >-,» canoe 634 

Hoffman's  Pound 623 

Hoffner     617 

Hoffner's  Seedling 617 

Hogg's  Mclocoton 629 

Honest  John 619 

Honey 617 

Urn  ton's  Delicious 617 

Uovi  y's  I  'ambridge  Belle. 602 

Hull's  Athenian 617 

Hyslop 617 

Hyslop's  Clingstone. 617 

Incomparable 618 

Indian  Blood 601 

Indian  Peach.    604 

Irish  Jane 618 

Italian 622 

Italian  Dwarf 608 

Jackson  Cling 6l8 

JacqueB'  Rareripe 618 

Jacques'  Yellow  Rareripe 618 


m 

Jane 818 

Java  Peach 638 

Johnson's  Early  Purple 615 

Jones'  Early 618 

Jones'  Large  Early 618 

Jose  Sweet 618 

Judd's  Melting 620 

Julia 619 

Kennedy's  Carolina 621 

Kennedy's  Lemon  Clingstone 021 

Kenrick's  Heath 619 


I' Admirable 

La  Grange 

La  Royals 615, 

Lady  Ann  Steward 

Lady  Parham 

Lady  Palmerston 

Large  American  Nutmeg 

Large  Early  York 

Large  French  Mignonne 

\~,  wington 

Largt  Red  Rareripe 624, 

Large  "White  Clingstone 

Large  Yellow  Rareripe 

Largest  Lemon 

Late  Admirable 

Late  Admirable  Cling. 

Late  Chancellor 

Late  Purple 

Late  Red  Rareripe 

Late  Yellow  Alberge 

Lemon  Clingstone 

Lenoir 

Leopold  I 

Lincoln  

Lockyer's  Mignonne 

Long  Yellow  Pine-Apple 

Ij/rd  Fauconberg's  Mignonne ...... 

Lord  Montague's  Noblesse 

Lord  Nelson's 

Lord  Palmerston 

Luscious  White  Rareripe 

Lyon 


Madame  d'Andrimont    .......... 

Madeleine  Blanche 

Madeleine  Blanche  deLoisel 

Madeleine  de  Courson 

Modi  It  inc.  u  Pi  tite  Fleur 

Madeleim  Rougt 

Madeleine  Rouge  a  Moyenne  Fleur 
Madeleine  Rouge  d  Petite  Fleur  . . . 

Madeleine  Rouge  Tardive 

Malacatuue 

Malagatune 

Malta 

Malic,  de  Normandie 

Mammoth 

Marie  Antoinette 

Merriam 

MelHsh's  Favorite 


608 
619 
620 
624 
019 
619 
610 
619 
615 
020 
029 
020 
638 
021 
020 
018 
603 
020 
620 
621 
621 
621 
621 
621 
631 
621 
031 
625 
631 
621 
624 
622 

622 
636 
030 
622 
031 
022 
631 
631 
631 
029 
629 
622 
022 
609 
638 
622 
625 


PEACHES. 


1059 


PAGE 

Middleton'd  Imperial 629 

Mignonne  ....         , 615 

Mignonne  d  Bee 596 

Mignonne  Dubarle 622 

Mignon no  Hdtive 609 

Mill  t's  Mignonne 631 

Molden's  White 623 

Montagne 607 

Montague  Blanche 636 

iban 607 

Montgomery's  Late 623 

Moore's  Favorite 623 

Moore's  June 623 

Wonstrous  Pavie 620 

Monstrous  Pomponne  . . 626 

Monstrueuse  de  Doue 630 

Morris  Bed 624 

Morris's  Red  Rareripe 624 

Morris's  White 624 

Morris's  White  Freestone 624 

Morris's  White  Rareripe 624 

Morrisania  Pound 623 

Morrison's  Pound 623 

MottewSs 620 

Mrs.  Hunley 628 

Mrs.  Poinsette     623 

Mulatto  604 

Napoleon 624 

Nectarine  Peach 624 

N  iVs  Early  Purple 615 

New  Cut- Leaved 612 

New  Early  Purple 631 

New  Royal  Charlotte 631 

New  York  Rareripe 619 

New  York  White  Clingstone 020 

Newington 62(3 

Newington  Peach 610 

Nivette 625 

Nivette  VelouUe 625 

Noblesse 625 

Noir  de  Montreuil 600 

Noisette 603 

Nonesuch  of  N.  C 598 

October  Yellow 621 

Old  Newington 626 

Oldmixon  Clearstone 625 

Oldmixon  CUng 625 

Oldmixon  Clingstone 625 

Oldmixon  Freestone 625 

Orange  Clingstone 626 

Orange  Peach 597 

Orangeburg 598 

Orchard  Queen 030 

Osceola 626 

Owen 626 

Owen's  Lemon  Rareripe 020 

Pace 604 

Pome  Admirable. 618 

Pavie  Camu 626 

Pavie  Monstrueux 626 


turn 

Pavie  de  Pompone 626 

Pavie  de.  Pomponne  Orosse 026 

Pavie  Rouge  de  Pomponne. 626 

Peche  Javne 687 

Peeler  d  Fleurs  Doubles 038 

Pccher  d  Fleurs  Semi-Doubles 638 

PScht  Matte 622 

Peche  Royale 620 

Peen  To 638 

Pettit's  Imperial 02!) 

Pirquet's  Late 276 

Pi  i,  -a  pie  Clm  gstone 621 

Poole's  Large  Yellow 027 

I  titt   YeUow  Freestone 027 

Pourprie  d  Bee 596 

Pourprie  H'dive 611,  615 

Pourprie  Hdtive  Vineuse 599 

Pourprie  de  Normandie 615 

Pourprie  Tardive 020 

Pourprie  Vineuse 599 

President 627 

President  Church 627 

Prince  of  WTales 627 

Prince's  Climax 628 

Prince's  Excelsior 028 

Prince's  Paragon 628 

Prince's  Red  Rareripe 620 

Princess  of  Wales 628 

Pucelle  de  Malines 628 

Purple  Alberge 037 

Purple  Avant 615 

Ray 628 

Raymackers 028 

Rayper's  June 598 

Red  Alberge 637 

Red  Avant 629 

Red  Cheek  Malocoton 029 

Red-Cheek  Melocoton 020 

Red  Heath 016 

Red Magdalen. ... 600,  622,  631 

Red  Nutmeg 629 

Red  Rareripe 020 

Ri  d  Rareripe 024 

Red  and  YeUow  Rareripe 638 

Reeves'  Favorite 030 

ReicTs  Weeping  PeacJi 639 

Reine  Des  Vergers 630 

Rivers'  Early  York 630 

Rodman's  Cling 630 

Rodman's  Red 630 

Ronald's  Mignonne 600 

RoiiaUTs  Seedling  Oalande 615 

Rosanna 637 

Rose 033 

Rose  Aromatic 030 

Rose-Ffowering 638 

Rosebank 030 

Rough  Paysanne 022 

Royal  Charlotte 631 

Royal  George 631 

Royal  Kensington 61C 

Royal  Sovereign 611 


1060 


FKAR8. 


St.  Oeorge 

Sally's  Peach 

Sanguinole  d  Chair  Adherente 

Scott's  Early  Red 

Bci »( t's  Magnate 

Scott's  Nectar 

Scott's  Nonpareil 

October 



Cling 

Early  York 

ted 

bae 

Early  Newington 010 

Smi1  h's  Favorite 

Smit  h's  Newington 

Smith's  .v'  wington 

Smock  Freestone 

'/  Royal  George 

Snow 

snson  Cling 

ledling 

Stt  wart's  Late  Galande 

Strawberry 

■  'arolina 

■  the  World 

Sturtevant , 

Sumner's  Early 

Sumner's  "White  Free 



i  Royal 

Susquehanna , 

Sir.,  t  Water 

Swiss  Mignonne , 


PA  OF. 

632 

598 
601 
681 
631 
631 
629 
632 
597 
620 
611 
612 
632 
632 
632 
632 
610 
632 

(ion 
632 
633 
633 
603 
63!) 

633 
633 
633 
634 
6C1 
615 
634 
610 
615 


>h  Venus 620 

Tice 629 

Tinley's  October 68  t 

Tippecanoe 634 

Titus 634 

Troth's  Early  Red 634 

Ti'iu  /.'<  d  Magdalen 622 

Tuft's  Rareripe 635 

612 

Van  Buren's  Golden  Dwarf 635 

's  Superb 635 

625 

red 638 

t 615 



/',.' 599 

."ill!! 

Violet  Hative 637 

Walburton  Admirable 635 

Walter's  Early 635 

Ward's  Late  Free 635 

Washington 635 

Washington  Clinkstone 636 

Washington  Red  Freestone 635 

Weeping  Peach 0;>y 


PAea 

White  Ball .  636 

White  Blossom 636 

White-Blossomed  Incomparable.  . .  636 

White  English 01C 

WhiU  Heath ; 619 

White  Imperial 636 

White  Magdalene 636 

Melocoton 624 

Xutmeg 637 

White  Pace 637 

Ran  ripe 024 

mson's  New  York 620 

Peach 636 

Admirable 597 

Yellow  Alberge 637 

Y<  Mow  Blanton  Cling 601 

Malagatune 629 

}  'tllriir  Malocoton 629 

Yellow  Pine-apple 621 

Yellow  Rareripe 638 

Yellow  Rareripe 637 

Yellow  St.  John 613 


PEARS. 

A  oourte  queue 880 

J    Gobert  601 

.i  Tetine , 884 

Abbe  de  Beaumont 651 

Abbe  Edouard 65 1 

Abbe  Mongem.  . .    <v'!5 

Abbe"   Perez 654 

Abbott 654 

Abercromby    654 

why's  Seedling 654 

A 'lams.  ...  65  1 

Adelaide  de  Reves 654 

A',.'  I:    Lancelot 

St.  ('(eras 664 

:<  St.  Denis.. 664 

Admirable    655 

Admiral  Farragut 

Adolphe  Catchet 65a 

Adoiphine   Richard ...   655 

Aglae  Gregoire 655 

Ah  !   MonDieu 656 

"•  2 

Alexander 

ian 

Bivort 050 

i  '-He 668 

Alexandre  Lambre .  050 

drina 050 

Irina   Bivort 656 

Alexandrine  Douillard 050 

Alexandrine  Mas 057 

Abnain 772 

1  Peai 661 

Alpha 657 

Alphonse  Karr 657 

Althorpe  Crasaane 657 


PBAR8. 


1061 


PAGE 

Amadotte 657 

Anvinde  Double 661 

Amandine  de  Rouen 657 

Arnhre   Oris 658 

Ambret 658 

Ambrette 658 

Ambrt  tte  woec  ''pines 658 

Am  brette  epineuse 658 

tte  Chris 658 

tte  <r  1  liver 658 

Ambrosia 658 

Amelie  Leclerc 658 

America 658 

Ami  riean  Beauty 740 

' 602 

Amiral  Cecil 658 

Amire  Joannet 658 

Amir  Johannet 658 

roux 862 

Amire  roust  de  Tours 8(52 

Arrmry 660 

Amoselle 784 

Amour 659 

Ananas 660,  782 

Ananas  de  Courtray 659 

Ananas  d'Ete 660 

Ananas  Francois 660 

Ananm  cPHiver 828 

Anderson 835 

•son's  Favorite 751 

Andre  Desportes 660 

Andrews  . .    660 

Andrews'  King/testing 794 

Angeliiiue  de  Bordeaux. 660 

Angelique  Leclerc 661 

Angleterre 661 

Angleterre  d'Hiver. 661 

Angleterre  Nain. 661 

Angleterre  Parfume 661 

Angobert 66 1 

Angoisse  blanche 661 

Angora 835 

Anna  Audisson   661 

Apple  Pear 662 

Arbre  Courbe 661 

Arbre  Superbe 762 

Archeluke  Charles 733 

/.v  of  Summer 862 

ImtPSti. 862 

Arlequin  Musque 662 

Arteloire 850 

Arthur  Bivort 662 

Aston  Towa ••  662 

Audibert 362 

' :  rt 688 

Auger 667 

Augert 667 

Augiire ,i,;~ 

August  rerfume 828 

Auguste  June 662 

Auguste  Lelieur. 663 

Auguste  de  MaraiM 884 

Auguste  Royer 663 


MM 

Angu6te  Van  Krans 856 

Augustine  Lelieur .  663 

Augustus  Dana 663 

Aurate 663 

Awore 683 

Autumn  Bergamot 66S 

A  utumn  Bon  Chretien 858 

Autumn  Butter 

Autumn    Catherine 846 

Autumn  Colmar 663 

Autumn  Colmar :'.'' 

A  at  mini  Melting 762 

I  ■'/  //////  Mouthwater 

Autumn  Nelis 66  1 

Autumn  Superb 657 

Avril 664 

7?.  0.  delei  Oour 811 

/' 673 

BadhamCs 710 

"  of  Anjou 775 

Banerief 729 

Baud  de  la  Cour 81 1 

■a 701 

Barbancinet 664 

Barbs  Nelis 664 

Barnetfs  William. 666 

Baron  Deman  De  Lennick 664 

Baronne  de  Hello 664 

Barry 665 

BarOett 666 

Bartlett  Bonchretien 666 

Bartram 667 

Bassin 761 

Bayonnaise 861 

Beadnell 667 

BeadneWs  Seedling 667 

Bea  u  Present 758 

Beau  Present  d'Artois 667 

Bea  uchamps 673 

Beaticlerc 863 

Bea  ut:  de  Tervueren 835 

Beauty  of  Brussels 668 

Beauvalot 667 

Bed/minster  Cratioli 791 

R  in  A  rmudi 700 

BeU  Tmi  (pie 883 

BeUe  Aiirienne 875 

ll.Vr  Alliance 698 

iilreane 875 

Bt Ue  A ngevine ^'-'^ 

BeUecPAOut 668 

ludibert. 663 

/;,  //■  (TAusPrasie 790 

I).  Ue  de  />'■  rry 875 

Belle  de  Bruxelles 668 

BruxeUes 778 

BeUe  des  Bois    760 

Bonne 778 

bonne  (TEzie 705 

R  i'.  ( i  Bonne  erUiver . .  723 

Belle  Canaise 819 

BeUe  Comelie 767 


1062 


Belle  ftpine  Dnmas  . , 
BeUe  dEsquermes  . . . 

BeUe  eTEte 

Belle  Excellente , 

Belle  de  Figuier .... 
B<ik  de  FlandreSi. .. . 
lull,  de  Flushing. . . . 

Bi  Me  de  Forets 

BeUe  GabrieMe , 

J  I,  Ui  II,  loise 

J -ill   Ihnriette 

tir  Jersey 

Belle  Julie 

BeUe  Lucrative 

Belle  de  Luxembourg.. 

Belle  de  Moire 

Belle  Moulinoise ... . 

L'i Me  apr's  Noel , 

Belle  de  Noel 

Belle  Noisette 

Belle  de  l'Orient 

BeUe  sans  Pepitis .... 

Belle  de  Prague , 

Belle  Rouennaise 
Belle  de  Thomas.. . . 

BeUe  de  Thomas 

Belle  de  Troyes 

Bi  lie  Verge 

Belle  du  Vernie 

Belle  du  Vermis 

Belle  Williams 

Bellegarde 

BeUisime  oVAutomne . 
Bt  Uisime  du  Bur  .... 
lli  Uisime  de  Provence 
BeUissime 


.668, 


Bt  Missime  dEt'e 

BeUissime  d'Hiver , 

Bi  Missime  cPHivi  r  du  Bur 

BeUissime  Jargonelle. 

BeUissime  Supreme 

Belmont 

Benoist. 

Bergamot  Jlay'e 

Bergamot  Seckel , 

Bi  rgamot  Sylvanche 

BergamoUe  <V  Alcncon 

Bergamotte  dAngleterre 

Jl,  rgu matte,  d\\ tranches 

Jl  rgamotti  Beauchamp 

Bergamotte  Bouissiere 

Bergamotte  d\  BruxeUes 

Bergamotte  Bufo.. .     

Jii  rgamot  '<  de  Bugi. 

Berg  amotti   I  ladet 

Bergamotte  Capraud  

Bergamotti  de  Can' me 

Bergamotte  Cheminette 

Bergamotte  ( 'rassane 

Bergamotte  Crassane  ePAutomne.  . 
BergamotU  <  'rassane  de  Jiruneau. . 

Bergamotte  ( 'rassane  d'Hiver 

Berfiamotf-e  Doree 


PA  OF. 

668 
790 

,  883 
747 
668 
760 
770 
718 
658 
875 
782 
835 
CI  IS 
762 
778 
694 
669 
764 
764 
669 
668 
778 
668 
669 
668 
668 
668 
758 
736 
736 
669 
772 
668 
669 
847 
883 
767 
669 
835 
767 
767 
669 
674 
865 
671 
866 
784 
778 
805 
678 
669 
778 
670 
751 
670 
670 
751 
790 
729 

676 
676 
Ml 


Bergamotte  Dussart 

Bergamotte  d'Esperen. 

Bergamotte  dEte . 

Bi  rgamotte  dEte  Orosse , 

Bt  rgamotte  Fiivie 

Hi  rgamotte  de  Flandre 

Bergamotte  Fortunie 

Bi  rgamotte  de  Fougere 

Bi  rgamotte  Get  rard 

Bergamotte  de  la  Grillure  .... 

Bergamotte  Gaudry 

Bergamotte  Heimbourg 

Ih  rgamotte  d'Hiver 

Bergamotte  d'Hiver  oVHolland. 

Bergamotte  dHoUand 

Bergamotte  Leseble 

BergamoUe  Louise 

Bt  rg  imotte  Lucrative 

Bergamotte  Matthews  Eliza. . . 
Bergamotte  de  Millipieds .... 

Bt  rgamotte  Musqui 

Bergamotte  de  Pdques 

Bergamotte  Partheiiay 

Bt  rgamotte  de  Tart/a  nay 

Bergamotte  de  PaysoMS 

Bergamotte  de  la  Pentecote  .  . . 

Bergamotte  Piquot. 

Bergamotte  Poireati 

Bergamotte  Quessoy  d'EU 
Bergamottt  Sonde  d'Hiver  . . . 

Bergamotte  Rouge 

Bergamotte  Rouge  Tardif 
Bergamotte  Royal  d'Hiver. . . . 

Bergamotte  Sageret 

Bi rgamotte  Sanspareil 

Bergamotte  Sieulle 

Bergamotte  Soldat-Nabours . . . 

Bergamotte  de  Soulei's 

Bergamotte  Staff  els 

Bergamotte  Suisse 

Bergamotte  Sylvange 

Bergamotte  Tardive 

BergamoUe  Tliovin 

BergamoUe  de  Toulouse. 

Bergen 

Bergentin 

Bcrgoho 

Berriays 

i  Berthebim ... 

Bi  si  iFAiry 

Hi  si  de  Bretagne 

Bt  si  Ksji,  ren 

Best  Fondante 

Besi  Incomparable 

Best  Hamon - 

Besi  iic  Mai 

Bed  de  Maraise 

lu  si  de  la  Pierre 

Besi  dc  Quassoy 

Besi  (J  u  essay  dEte 

Besi  de  St.  Waast 

Besi  Va 

Besi  Vaat 


,8€2, 


Pies 
670 

670 

868 
778 
762 
760 
766 
784 
772 
751 
670 
671 
751 
784 
784 
671 
802 
702 
776 
670 
841 
751 
671 
671 
778 
751 
671 
671 
700 
751 
841 
782 
723 
671 
702 
74(5 
751 
706 
671 
865 
866 
723 
884 
751 
671 
829 
880 
672 
835 
700 
700 
701 
777 
702 
777 
702 
716 
701 
700 
700 
702 
702 
702 


PEAKS. 


1003 


Best  Vatk   

Besi  Whet 

Besiiiery 

Besidery  Sandry. 

Beurre 

Beurre'  d1  Albret 

Beurre  cPAlenron 

Beurre  cPAmalis 

Beurre  Amande ...   

Beurre'  d'Amanlis 

/'  w  re  cPAmanlis 

Benrie  d'Amanlis  Panachee . 

Beurri  cTAmblewe 

II  urre  cPAmboise 

Beurre  Aim  nan  

Bi  urre  cPAngleterre 

Beurre  d'Anjou 

Beurre  Anna  Audisson 

Beurre  Autoine 

Beurre  Antoinette 

!'i  urre  cPAraudore 

Beurre  cPArdenpont 

Beurre  d'Aremberg 

Beurre  d  Ar  ember g 

Beurre  cPArgenson. : 

Beurre  Assomption 

Beurre  de  VAsspmpUon 

Beurre  Audusson  rVIIiver 

Beurre  A  icguste  Benoit 

Beurre  Auneniere 

Beurre  An  rare 

Beurre  cPAustrasie 

Beurre  d'A  utien 

Beurre  d' Avoine 

Bi  urre  cTAvranches 

Beurre  Bachelier 

Beurre  Bailey 

Beurre  Beauchamps 

Beurre  Beaulieu 

Beurre  de  Beaumont 

Beurre  Beguines 

Beurre  des  Beiges 

Beurre  Bennert 

Beurre  Benoist 

Benurre  Benoist  Nouveau 

Beirrre  Berckrnans 

Bi  urre  Blanc 8G3, 

Beurre  Blanc  des  Capucins 

Beurre  blanc  de  Jersey 

B  urri  Blanc  de  Nantes 

Beurre  Boisbunel 

Beurre  Bolhviller 

Beurri  Bon  Ghr  Men 

Beurre  or  Bonne  Louise  dCArauder'c 

Beurre  Bosc 

Iji  urre  Boucquia 

Be  u  rr  de  Bou  rgogne. 

Beu  rre  Boussock 

Beurre  Brettonneau 

Beurre  de  Brignais 

Beurri  Bronsee 

Beurre  Bruneau 

Beurre  de  BruxeUes 


PAGE 

702 

702 
700 
753 
710 
678 
784 
678 
661 
678 
678 
679 
710 
710 
782 
661 
679 
661 
672 
672 
805 
773 
680 
773 
829 
672 
672 
682 
674 
673 
682 
790 
819 
681 
805 
07:! 
673 
i.73 
673 
702 
673 
859 
674 
674 
674 
07! 

SSI  I 

657 

71  hi 
685 
071 
074 
696 
805 
071 
707 
700 
742 
070 
681 
700 
070 
668 


•AM 

Beurre  Burchardt 68C 

Beurre  Burnicq 67C 

Beurre  de  Caen 71 C 

Beurre  de  Cambron. .'.  773 

Beurre  de  Capiaumont 682 

Beurre  du  Cercle 681 

Beurre  dt  <  '<  rch 681 

Beurre  de  la  Chapelle 705 

Biiirri'  Chapman. 829 

Beurre  Chaptal 717 

Beurre  Gharneuse 717 

Beurre  Charron 070 

Beurre  Chatenay 676 

Beurre  di    Ghaumontel 718 

Beurre  Citron 070 

Beurre  Clairgean 078 

Beurre  Coit 722 

Beurre  Colmar 678 

Beurre  Colmar  d'A  utomne 678 

B  urre  Colmar  Oris,  ditpricel 829 

Beurre  Coloma 678 

Bt  urre  <7>/  I  'ohma 678 

Bt  urre  de  Conick 684 

Beurre  donning 684 

Beu  rre  Cullem 701 

Beurri  Curtet 727 

Beurre  Cutter 727 

Beurre  Uarv 700 

Beurre  Defais 682 

Beurre  Defays 682 

Beurre  de  Def tinge 760 

Pun  it   Deftinghern 760 

Beurre  Delannoy 684 

Beurre  Delbecq , \   684 

/>>  n  rr.  Briber () 684 

Bi  a  rr  •  Ddbret 678 

Beurre'  Delfosse 684 

Beurre  Derouineau 685 

Bi  urre  Desc/iamps 680 

Beurre  Diel 686 

Bt  'irre  Bore  de  Bilboa 773 

Beurre  Bone 710 

Beurri  Brapiez 871 

Beurre  Duhaume 687 

Beurre  Bumon 687 

Beurre  Dumont 687 

Beurre  Dumortien 687 

Beurre  Durand OSS 

Beurre  Duval 68S 

Beurri.  Duvemay 736 

Beurre  Duvivier 688 

Beurre  cPEWerg 008 

11.  urre  jFEnghien,  of  France 678 

Beurre  Epine 696 

Beurre  <r£f 863 

Extra   784 

Beurre  le  /'<  ore. 799 

Beurr  •  de  Fevrier 683 

i/r  Flandre 696 

Beurre  Finn ■ 688 

Beurre  Foidard 760 

de  Fontenay 690 

Beurre  Fougiere 688 


1064 


PEARS. 


PACK 

Beurre  FromentaL  6s2 

Beurre  Oeerards 772 

])t  urr  de  Gelle 686 

Beurr  ■  Gendron 688 

g 689 

Beurre  de  Ghelin 682 

Beurre  Giffard 689 

i    Goubalt 690 

J  Si  urr     'iris 710 

Gris  tVAutomne 710 

Gris  de  Bilboa 77:! 

Gris  <l'Et 886 

Beurre  G-ris  d'Hiver 690 

Gris  d'Hiver  Nouveau 690 

Bt  urr*,  Gris  de  Lugon 690 

Gris  dt  Portugal 773 

Jii  urri  Gris  Supirieur 690 

Beurre  Haffner 691 

J;<  urr    Haggerston 802 

Beurr  i  Hamecher 69-1 

Beurr  de  HampUenne 791 

i ,,  hi  /■/  d'Hard  npont 773 

d'Hardenpont  d'Automne. . .  683 
d'Hardenpont  de  Ccmbron..  77:! 

Beurre  Hardy 691 

Beurre  Hdtif 863 

Beurr  des  Hautes 7:!:! 

d'Hiver 690,  696,  718 

d'Hiver  de  BruxeUes 751 

Beurre  Incomparable 686 

■■/'  Tsambt  rt  le  Bon.  '.. 710 

Jalais 692 

i  le  Jrdaise 705 

Beurre  Jean  Vau  Geert 092 

I  leurr    de  Johnge 683 

Judes    661 

Beurr    Kennes 692 

Beurre  Kenrick 092 

}',,  %rr   de  Kent 773 

Beurre  Knox 692 

III  urr'  Knox 057 

Beurre  Koninck 084 

Beurre  de  Koning 084 

Beurre  Kossuth 692 

Laugelier 693 

Be  rr   Lasalie 7:!:! 

Beurre  Le  F<  vre 693 

Beurr   Leon  Le  Clerc 093 

Beurr    I.  on  Rey. . . 801 

'art.. 802 

JUiiir    Lombard  ....   773 

090 

Lucrative 702 

Beurre  Luizet 09.'! 

Magnifique    080,  7  12 

■It  MaUr.si      .   884 

dt  Ma  us 

Beurre  Mauxion. 093 

Beurre  Aft  mind 093 

Beurre  Menaud 693 

Beurr   dt  Mt  rode 7-12 

Beurre  Millet  of  Angers .   69  1 

Beurre  Moire    094 


PAOl 

Beurre  Moiret. 694 

Beurre  Mondelle 695 

Beurre  de  Mons 684 

Beurre  de  Montgeron 684 

Beurre  de  Montigeron 684 

de  Mbrtefontaine. 093,  791 

Beurre  des  Mouchouses 685 

Beurre  Nantais 686 

Beurre  dc  Xantes 685 

I  teurre  Navez 695 

Mill 821 

Beurre  de  Nivelles 

Xnixittt 695 

l',i  urre  St.  Nicholas 

n  882 

<FOr 710 

des  Orphelines 680 

Oudinot 660 

de  Paeqy.es 7*5 i 

dt    Pmis 75S 

Beurre  Paimpol 695 

Beurre  Parthenay 071 

dt  la  Pentecdte 751 

fi  wr   Perrault 748 

Bt  urre  Phutppe  Delfosse 0S4 

Bt  urre  Picquery 873 

Beurre  Plat 729 

Beurre  Pointelle  de  Roux 695 

Beurre  Preble 095 

Beurre  Precocee 095 

Prince  de  Sehtoarzenberg. . . .  798 

de  Printemps 725 

Bt  urri  de  BMn 090 

]!<  urri  du  Rm 710 

Beurre  Rouge 710 

Beurre  de  Quenast 685 

Bt  urri-  Quitelet 727 

Bt  urri  de  RackenJievm 661 

Beurre  Ranee OHO 

Ranse 090 

Beurre  de  Bane 096 

Bt  urri-  ii  In  Urine 818 

Hi  urre  de  Remme 766 

1  teurre  Richelieu. 696 

Beurre  Robert 090 

Robin . .  746 

Bt  urri'  Rochechourt 668 

Bt  urri  de  Rochoir 008 

Beurre  Romain 090 

Bt  urri  de  Rome 090 

Bt  urri  Rouge 745 

Beurre"  Rouge  d'Anjou 097 

Rougt   Tardif 7s2 

Bt  urri  Roupe 751 

Beurri  Rousse 710 

Beurr    Roux 710 

Bt  urn  Raijule 686 

St.  A  mour 760 

Beurre  de  Saint  Arnaud 685 

Beurre  de  Saint  Arnaud 685 

Beurre  Saint  Helier 790 

Beurre  St.  Louis 868 


PZAJ18. 


1065 


Beurre  Scheidweiller 697 

Beurre  de  Semur 661 

Beurre  Seringe 777 

Beurre  Seutin 697 

Beurr,  Sieulle. 746 

Beurre  Six 697 

Beurre  Soulange 697 

.  Smile      747 

Bt  urr   <Ie  Soulers 700 

Beurre  Spae 697 

Beurre  Spence 697 

Bt  urr   Spence 760 

Beurre  de  Spoelberg 877 

B<  wrre  Sprin 656 

Beurr<:  Sterkmans 698 

Beurre  Super  fin 698 

Beurr?  TuerUnckx 868 

Beurre  Van  Driessche 6!)9 

Beurr    Van  Marum 873 

Beurr:  Van  Mons 664 

Beurre  Vert 686,  710 

Beurr:  de  Wuel 695 

Beurre  de  Waterloo 747 

Beurr '  de  Wexterloo 742 

Beurre  de  Wetteren 685 

'Senrr   $  Telle 686 

Bt  usard. 778 

Beymont 696 

Bezi  de  Caen 699 

Bezi  de  Caissoy. 700 

Bezi  de  Caissoy  d'Ete 700 

Bed  de  Chasseray 753 

Bezi  de  Cfuiumontelle 718 

Bed  GhaumonteUe  tres-gros. 751 

Bed  VEchasserie 753 

Bezi  (TEchassey 753 

Bezi  Esperen 701 

Bezi  Goubault 701 

Bezi  d'Heri 700 

Bezide  Ilery 700 

Bezi  Mai 702 

Bezi  de  Montigny 701 

Bezi  de  la  Motte 700 

Bezi  de  la  Pierre 701 

Bezi  Precocee 695 

Bed  Royal 700 

Bezi  Vae ^ 702 

Bezi  des  V'  terans 701 

Bezy  cC  Esperen 701 

Bezy  de  Louvain 734 

Bezy  de  Quessoy 700 

Bezy  Sanspareil 702 

Biemont 673 

Bigarride 863 

Bis  Curtet 727 

Bishop's  Thumb 702 

Black  Beurre 875 

Black  Pear  of  Worcester 702 

Black  Worcester 702 

Blanc-pei'-ne 800 

Blanche 858 

Bland 855 

Blanquet  Anastera 703 


PAOl 

Blanquet  Anasterque 703 

Blanquet  <T Austrasia 703 

Blanquet  de  Florence 775 

Blanquet  Petit 803 

Blanquette  a  longue  queue 804 

Blanquette  a  longue  queuen 804 

Bleecker's  Meadow 703 

Bloodgood 703 

Bloody 851 

.  bach    856 

Bois  Napoleon 819 

Bolivar 835 

Bolivar  cPHiver *■>') 

Ban  Chretien 884 

Bon  Chretien  W Amiens  Chartreuse .  716 

Bon  Ghr  tit n  o\  1  uch 884 

Bon  Chretien  cPAutomne 858 

Bonchr  tien  Barm  tt 666 

Bon  Chretien  de  BruxeUes 704 

Bon  Chretien  de  Chmmontd 718 

! '  ,    ( 'hretien  de  <  'onstantinople ....  884 

Bon  Chrt  tien  Dor- 819 

Bon  Ghretit  n  dori  cPEspagne 858 

hretien  cPEspagne 858 

Bon  i  It ri tit  a  <r  KV 863 

Btm  Ghr'ei ien  cPJSte  Jaune 863 

Bon  Chief  a  a  iPEtj  Musque 704 

Bon  Ghr  tien  Fondante 704 

Bon  Chretien  Fondante  Musque. ...   7<>4 

Bon  Chretien  Gratioly 863 

Bon  Ghretit  n  dPHiver 's-s4 

Bon  Chretien  ,1a am  cPAutomne. . . .  858 
Bon  Cl/r  tien  Joseph  Lamar  que. . . .  704 
Bon  Chretien  Musqw  Fondante.. ,  704 

Boil  Chr  tien  de  Han.? O'.JG 

Bon  Chr>  tien  Spina 858 

Ban  Chretien  de  'fours 884 

Bon.  Chr  tien  Tare 761 

Bonchr  tien  Vernois 761 

Ban  Chretien  de  Vernon 884 

Bon  Gustavo 704 

Bon  Papa 875 

Bon  Parent 798 

Bonaparte 819 

Bonne  Antoine 705 

Bonne  (P.  1  Branches 805 

Bonne  de  la  Chapelle 705 

Bonne  Charlotte 705 

Bonne-ente 88C 

Bonne  d'Ezce 705 

Ho,, ne  des  J/nien 705 

Bonne  de  Jalaia 

ii  Id  insheim 872 

Bonne  de  Longueval 705.   805 

Bonne  Louise  <V  Annulare 

Bon  he  de  Malines 

Bon  ne  Rouge 7'''1 

Bonne  Saplier 706 

Bonne  Sophia 706 

Bonne  de  Soulers. 706 

Bonne  Theresa : 707 

Bonne  de  Z<es 705 

Bon  tier's  Pojw's  Pear 75J 


<066 


PIABS. 


PAOE 

BonneBerre  de  Saint  Denis. 705 

Bonnmeme 760 

Bonnissima  de  la  Sartha 760 

Bosc  Sire 760 

Bote's  Flaschenbirne 674 

Bosch 760 

Bosch  Nouvelle 760 

Boschpeer 760 

Bossoeh 742 

Boston 833 

Boston  Epame 779 

Boucquia 707 

Bourgemester 707 

Bourgmestre  Delfosse 684 

BouteiUe 873 

Bouvier 798 


Bouvier  Bourgemestre 707 

Bow  Parent 798 

Braconot 707 

Braddicks  Field  Standard. 813 

Bran  de  St.  Germain 707 

Brandos 707 

Brande's  Saint  Germain 707 

Brandywine 707 

Bri  tagne  le  Cour 835 

Brettonneau 676 

Brewer 708 

Brialmont 708 

Briffaut 708 

Brill  fante 706 

Brilliant 760 

Brindamour 709 

Bringewood 709 

British  Queen 709 

Brocas  Bergamot 769 

Bronx 710 

Brougham 710 

Brown  Admired 862 

Brown  Beurre 710 

Brown  St.  Germain 837 

Brute  Bonne  oTAutomne 863 

Buchanan's  Spring  Beurre 875 

Bit -ff 'am 711 

Buffum 711 

Bugiarda 704,  758 

Bugiarda  des  Italiens 758 

Bujaleuf 877 

Burlingatne 711 

Burnett 712 

ButU  /•'*  Harvest 767 

Butter  of  Michigan 828 

Butter  Pear 784,  831 

Butter  Pear  of  Philadelphia 880 

Cabot 712 

Cadet  de  Vans 712 

Cadillac 716 

Caen  de  France 712 

CaUlaurozat 863 

CaiUorozar Mi:! 

Cailbt  Rosat 863 

Caillot  Rosat  (TEte 863 

Caillou  Rozat 863 


PASI 

Calebasse 718 

Calebasse 827 

Calebasse  cPAlbret 678 

Calebasse  Bosc 674,  827 

Calebasse  Carafon 873 

Calebasse  Delvigne 713 

Call  bam  Double  Ext  l 712 

Calebasse  d'£te 713 

( 'ah  Jinsst  ih-  Holland 873 

Colt  basse  tPHoUande 712 

( 'alebas8e  Tmperiale 873 

Calebasse  Monstre 873 

Oak  bassi  Monstrueuse 873 

Calebasse  Monstrueuse  du  Nord ....  873 

Calebasse  Musquee 712 

Calebasse  de  Nerckmari's 873 

<  'a!<  basse  du  Nord 873 

( 'alt  ii'i**!  Princesse  Marianne 827 

Calebasse  Rot/ale 873 

Calebasse  Sterkmans 698 

Calebasse  Tougard 7!3 

<  ',il,  basse  Vasse 682 

Calhoun 714 

Calua  Rosat 863 

Cambridge  Sugar  Pear 779 

Camerling 714 

( 'amerUng  cTAllemagne 714 

Camerlingue 714 

<  'am,  rlyn 714 

Camille  de  Rohan 714 

Canandaigua 714 

< ■anclle  (TEte 863 

Cannelle 674 

Canning 751 

( 'a lining  (THiver 751 

Cantelope 714 

( 'ape  Mag 751 

Capiumont 682 

Capsheaf 714 

Captif  de  Sainte  HCIkne 819 

( 'apuchin 715 

Capucin 715 

Capucin  Van  Mons 715 

Capucine  cPAutomne  Coloma 678 

Carlisle 880 

Cartofel 724 

Cassante  de  Mars 715 

Casserule 715 

Castelline 715 

Catharine  Gardette 715 

Catherine 714 

Catherine  Lambre 716 

Catillac 716 

Catinka 716 

Cedarmere 716 

Celestus 777 

CeUite 829 

Cent  Couronnes 822 

Certeau  d'Eto 717 

Certeau  Madam 758 

<  'rrn  a  u  Masque  (THiver 814 

Chair  a  Dame 837 

Chamber's  Large 835 


PXABS. 


1 067 


PAGE 

Chambrette 877 

Chambrette  (THiver 877 

Chamomile 802 

Chancellor 717 

ChandeUe 758 

Chapman 717 

Chapman's 829 

Chaptal 717 

Gharbonniere 722 

Charles 819 

Charles  (VAutriche 733 

Charles  Basiner 717 

Charles  Bivort 717 

Charles  Frederick 718 

Charles  Smet 718 

Charles  Smith 718 

Charles  Van  Hooghten. 718 

Charlotte  de  Brower 718 

Chasseurs. 735 

Chaviis 815 

Chaumontel 718 

ChaumonteUe  tris-gros 751 

Cheat  Servant 658 

Chelmsford 719 

Chenffle 828 

Cher  Adame 887 

Chevalier 673 

Ghevriers  de  Stiittgardt 847 

Chinese  Sand  Pear 851 

Chwt 802 

Choisnard 719 

Ghana  ifun  Amateur 821 

Chopine 758 

Church 719 

Circe  cPHiver 772 

Citrina 720 

Citron 720 

Citron  des  Cannes 809 

Citron  des  Cannes 809 

Citron  de  Septembre 880 

Citron-birne  Bomisclie  grosse  punc- 

tirte 775 

Claire. 720 

Clair geau 678 

Clairgeau  de  Nantes 678 

Clap 720 

Clapp's  Favorite 720 

Clara 720 

Clarke 719 

Clay 721 

Clemence •   722 

Clement  Bivort 722 

t  Doyenne 606 

Clementine 722 

Clinton 

Clion 875 

duster 72'.) 

Cluster  Pear 77s 

Coit's  Beurre 722 

Colin  Noir. 722 

Collins 722 

Colmar J/-'1 

Colruar  ci'Alost 72  I 


PAGl 

Colmar  d'Aremberg 734 

Colmar  Artoisenet 723 

Colmar  d'Automne  Nc  ttvean 724 

Colmar  Boise 779 

Colmar  Bmnet 829 

Colmar  Bose 821 

Colm  >r  Charnay 662 

Colmar  Deschamps 680 

Colmar  Bore 723 

Colmar  Epine 725 

Colmar  Epineaux 829 

Colmar  d'Ete 724 

Colmar  Oris 829 

( 'obnar  Hardenpont 829 

Colmar  (TITirer 723,  884 

Colmar  des  Invalide3 725 

Col/mar  Juminette 790 

Colmar  de  Jonghe 724 

Colmar  de  Lot 668 

Colmar  de  Meester 725 

Colmar  Musque 829 

Colmar  Naves 695 

Colmar  Nlis 884 

Colmar  Mel 821 

Colmar  Pricoce. 724 

Colmar  Preule 829 

Colmar  de  Silly 829 

Colmar  Souveraine 829 

Colmar  Van  Mons 725,  864 

Coloma  d'Automne 871 

Colore  (FAout 717 

Coloree  de  Juillet 725 

Columbia 725 

Columbia  Virgalouse 725 

Columbian  Virgalieu 725 

Cornice  de  Toulon 875 

Commissaire  Delmotte 726 

Commodore 723 

( torn  mom  Bergamot 663 

GommunauU 815 

Compagnie  (f  Ostende 858 

Comprette 726 

Comptesse  de  Lvnay 701 

Comstock 727 

Comstock  Wilding 727 

Comte  d'Egmont 726 

Comte  de  Flandre 727 

( 'omte  La  may 727 

Comte  de  Lamy 757 

Comte  Lelieur 727 

Comte  de  Limoges 008 

'•   Mir]n  nix 816 

Comte  de  Pan's 727 

Comtesse  d'Alost 728 

Comtesse  <le  Chambord 72? 

Condense  de  Frenol 7(iC 

< 'omti.ssi  de  humay 7i3 

Condense  de  Tervn  uren 

a  Pomologique 728 

Conklin 728 

Cons,  i\  VUT 811 

Conseiller  Ranwez 728 

Copia 72i 


'068 


PEARS. 


Gope  Heat. 

(Jorail 

Corehorus , 

Cordelier 

Cornell* 

Cornwell 

Coter 

( 'otiUard  de  Livre. . . . 

<'t>n/,  Soif 

Govle  Soif  tVAutomne. 

I  'oulis    

Coition  de  Saint  Mure 

Count  Coloma 

Courti  &  Ersol 

Convent 

Crapaud 


Crassane 

'rassane  d'.  I  ustrasie 

Crassane  cPA  utomne 

Crassane  Brunewu 

Crassane  cPIilte 841, 

Crassane  <T  1 1  iver 

Crassane  d'Hfoer  de  Bruneau 

Crawford 

Gresane 

CristaUine 

Croft  Castle 

Cross 

( 'rottee 

Crouch 

f  'rustemenie 

tte  iTIlirrr 

'  'uisse  Pome  cP£te 

/  'nis.yi  Madame 

Guhtte  de  Suisse 

Cumberland 

Cumberland  of  Belgium 

('untie 

Cushing 

Cyprus  Pear 


D'Ambre 

D Aremberg  Parfait. . . 

D'Austrasie 

D'Avril 

J  Nut  a  Rose 

J/J/ovticulture 

Daqobert 

Dalbvet 

Dallas , 

Dame  Houdotte 

Dana's  Admirable 

Dana's  Excelsior 

Dana's  Hovey 

Dana's  No.  1 

Darlington 

Dauphine 

Davis 

De  Bavay 

De  BeU  Argentine 

De  Bon  Crustemenien. 

De  Bordeaux 

Ve  Cadet 


PAOK 

714 
765 

818 
835 
785 

729 
72!) 
716 
863 
804 
sir, 
668 
871 
717 
sir, 
670 
729 
790 
729 
676 
863 
676 
676 
729 
729 
660 
729 
730 
859 
7:!0 
884 
875 
767 
767 
804 
7:50 
781 
875 
730 
846 

818 

6S0 

790 

664 

863 

835 

061 

678 

730 

657 

or,:, 

759 

730 

814 

731 

.   797 

731 

.   732 

.  716 

.   884 

.   700 

.  670 


PAH 

De  CaiUe/nu .   861 

De  Caillot 863 

De  Champagne  cTEU 717 

De  Chine 658 

De  Chretien 884 

De  CitrouiUe 716 

De  Clion 875 

De  Coq 668 

De  Deux  Foix  Lane 732 

Be  Dos 884 

De  J)iichesse 

I  >t    Fi  8868 884 

De  Fontenay  Vendue 790 

De  Graine  Damadote 657 

De  Gros  Rateau  Raisenette . .  716 

De  Henri 700 

De  llollande 886 

De  Jo  a  try 858 

De  Jersey 805 

De  Kriinheim 872 

De  Lamartine 797 

De  Lansac 797 

De  Launay 684 

De  Lepine 801 

l)i  Lest  a  mi' res 665 

De  Louise 805 

De  Louvain 7:!4 

De  Maune 723 

De  Melon 686 

De  Mimxieur 863 

De  Monsieur  Le  Cure 875 

De  Mt m  tgeron 684 

De  MonUgny 701 

DeMott 859 

De  Nonne 681 

De  Peiigord 830 

De  Puc'elle 790 

De  Quessoy 700 

De  Sainte  Catherine 661 

De  Sainte  Herblain 676 

De  Sain t  Martin 884 

De  Saint  Waast 702 

De  State 841 

De  Sicile  Musquie 841 

De  Sorlus 735 

De  Solders 706 

De  Spoelberg 877 

De  Tongres 735 

De  Tout  Temps 716 

De  VaUee 872 

De  Vigne  Pehne 760 

Di  In  Glad  re 682 

De-la-mi-Juillet 862 

Di  hi  Montitres 863 

Deacon  Dillen 741 

Dean's 880 

Dearborn's  Sanding 732 

Dearborn's  Seedling 732 

Dechantsbirne 880 

Decoster's  Russelet 845 

Defays 743 

Delavault 668 

Delbecque 684 


FEARS. 


1069 


PAGE 

Delepine 801 

Delfosse 684 

Ddfosse  Bourgmestre. 684 

Dikes  tfAlost 724 

Dilkes  d1  Angers 733 

Dilkes  (TArdenpont 733 

Delices  de  la  Cacaudiere 734 

Delices  de  Charles 732 

lX-lioes  d'Hardenpont  of  Angers. . .  733 
D, - li'  ies  d'Hardenpont  of  Belgium..   733 

Delices  de  Froyennes 733 

Delices  de  Jodoigne 733 

Delices  de  Louvenjal 734 

Dilkes  de  In  Meuse 734 

D  iUees  de  Mons 734 

Dikes  des  Orphelins 680 

Delices  Van  Mons. 734 

Demeester 725 

Democrat 734 

Des  Chasseurs 735 

Des  Dames 668 

Des  Deux  Saeurs 736 

Des  Nonnes 681 

Des  Trois  Tours 686 

Des  Veterans 701 

Deschamps 680 

Dt- sir.  e  Cornelis 735 

Desiree  Van  Mons 735 

Despoilberg 877 

DevUche  Nationcd  Bergamotte. 778 

Deux  Scaurs 736 

Devergnies 736 

Dial 791 

Diamant 769 

Dickerman 736 

Die  Sammex-  Christebirne 863 

DM 686 

DieVs  Bntterbirne 686 

Dieudonne  Anthoine 736 

Dillea 686 

Dillen  cTAutomne 811 

Dillen  tf niter 686 

DMer 736 

Dingier- 727 

Dix 737 

Doyen  u 880 

Doyenne  cCAffay 743 

Doyenne  d'Alencon 742 

Doyenn    Anna  Audisson 661 

Doyenn   cFA  utomne 745 

Doyenn>  Barry 665 

^oyen  »  e  bin  no 880 

Doyenne  Boussock 742 

J ')<>!/( !,.>    Boussouck 745 

Doyenne,  Boussouck  NouveUe 742 

Doyenn  '  de  BruxeUes 712 

Doyenne  de  Cercle 742 

Doyenne  de  Cercle  Pratique  de  Rouen  742 

Doyenne  du  Cornice 744 

Doyenni-  CrotU 859 

Doyenne  Defais 743 

Doyenne  Downing 744 

Doyenne  d'£te 742 


P18B 

Doyenne  Galeux .745,  859 

Doyenne  Goubault 745 

Doyenne  Gray 745 

Doyenn    Oris 745 

Doyenni  <irix  tTUiver  Nouveau 742 

Doyenne  tT 1 fiver 751 

Doyenn^  (Tffiver  d'Alencon 743 

Doyenne  tVHiver  Nouveau 742 

Doyenni  iron;/ 784 

/)-  tyi  n  n :  ih  JuiUet 742 

Doyen  ne  Marbre    742 

Doyenne  de  Merods 712 

Day i nni  Musque 701 

Doyenne  Panache 881 

/)"//i  mi:  da  J'rintcmps 751 

Doyenne  Robin 7 46 

Doyenni'  Rose 74ii 

Doyenne  Rouge 745 

Doyenn  e  Roux 745 

Doyenne  Santellet 74ti 

Doyenne  de  Saumur 743 

Doyenne  Sieulle 746 

Doyenne  Sterkmans 698 

Doyenne  White 880 

Docteur  Bouvier 738 

Docteur  Brettonneau 676 

Docteur  Capron 738 

Docteur  Lentier 738 

Docteur  Trousseau 738 

Doctor  DiUen 741 

Doctor  Lenthier 738 

Doctor  Xelis 738 

Doctor  Reeder 739 

Doctor  Turner 740 

Dr.  I'diili s  Warden 835 

Dorothee  Royale 686 

Dorothee  Royale  Nouvelle 740 

Dorsoris 740 

Double  Maoism  tie 601 

Double  Philippe 742 

Dm  i  Ward 656 

Dow 741 

Dowlin 872 

Downham  Seedling 777 

Doyen  Dillen 711 

Drive?- 773 

Dry  Martin 814 

Dry  Toren 686 

Du  Bouchet 660 

Du  Breuil  Pere 746 

D»  Bur 669 

Du  Cohmbier 841 

D"  ('"re 875 

Du  Mortier 687 

Ihi  Pdtre 751 

Du  Pradel 

new 762 

Dn  Tonnewu 835 

Due  Alfred  de  Cruy 747 

Due  <f\  1  remberg 680 

Due  d'Aumale 747 

x 668 

Due  de  Brabant 747 


1070 


PEABS. 


PAGE 

Dvc  dt  Nemours 695 

Zhic  <r  Orleans 749 

Duchesse  d'Angouleme 747 

Duchesse  d'Aremberg 747 

Duchesse  de  Berry 748 

Duchesse  de  Berry  d'Et6 748 

Ducliessi  de  H>  rry  d'Hiver 835 

Ducftesst  dt  Berry  de  Nantes 748 

Duchesse  de  Bourdeaux 74^ 

Duchesse  de  Brabant 748,   7  '•.'■* 

Duchesse  Helene  d'Orleans 749 

Duchesse  d'Hiver 749 

Duchesse  de  Mars 749 

Duchesse  d'Orleans 749 

Dumont  Dumortier 750 

Dumontu  r 687 

JDumousUer 687 

Dundas 750 

Dunmore 750 

Dupuy  Charles 750 

Duree 751 

Durh  'a  Sift  tiling 751 

Dwmas 851 

Dfi.val GS8 

Duvemay 736 

Duvt  nu's 736 

JDuvivier 688 

Ihrael 688 

Earl  Pear 78:; 

Earlv   Bergamot 75 1 

Early  Beurre 658.  703 

Early  Butter  of  Cincinnati 751 

Early  Catliarine 846 

Early  CJummonteUe 809 

Early   Dt  nzelona 8:13 

Early  Queen s's 

Early  Rousselet 846 

Early  Sugar- 779 

Early  Bummer  Butter 751 

Easter  Bergamot ^;1 

Easter  Beurre 751 

Easter  Saint  Germain 800 

Eastnor  Castle 752 

-'■rie 753 

Echn8sery 753 

Edmonds 753 

E<1  ward  Morren 704 

Edwards 754 

Edwards'  Elizabeth 754 

Edwards1  Seedling  St.  Germain.  .  . .    754 

Edimge 880 

Eisenbart 710 

Eleonie   Bouvier 75  I 

EUott  Dundas 750 

Eliza  d'Heyst 754 

}'Hzitl)ttli  Van  Moms 810 

I'Jhi, ,  rioch 77* 

Elliott's  Melting 755 

ullis 755 

Ellsworth 756 

Elton 756 

Emerald 756 


Emerance 756 

Emt  ranee  Bivort .   .  758 

Emile  d'Heyst 757 

Emilt  de  Bochais 66<3 

Emilie  Bivort 756 

Emily  Bivort 750 

Emmanuel 717 

Emmilacour 815 

Endicott 863 

Enfant   Prodigue 840 

Englebert  Lott 779 

English  Bergamot 003 

English  A  utumn  Bergamot 663 

English  Beurre 661 

English  Jargonelle 758 

English  Red  Cheek 707 

Epargne 758 

Epint  Dumas 668 

Epine  d'Ete 758 

Epine  dOEU  Goukur  Rose 863 

Epint  tPHvot r sv"' 

Spine  dt  Limoges 668 

Epine  de  Roclwvr 668 

Epint    Rose 863 

Epine  Rost  GrU 851 

Epine  Rose  d'Hiver 885 

Rpine  Royale 758 

Episcopal 766 

de 758 

Ernestine  Auzolle 70S 

!]sliU  imiii 784 

Espargne 758 

Esperin's  He/rrehbirne 703 

Esperine 759 

aspirin? 656 

Essex 750 

Esturion 759 

Etoumeau 884 

Kiiru),,  an  Honey 784 

Excelsior 750 

Eyewood 759 

False  Sprecit  ><■ 827 

Famenga 750 

Eanfare.au 77s 

Faux-BoUvar s:;~> 

Faux  Sprt fit ir B27 

Favori  Musqui 660 

Eavori  Musqui  du  ( 'onst  iUt  r 782 

Fig  Pear  of  Naples 760 

Pigue 70* 

Eigne  cFAh  neon 7(50 

Figve  d'Alencon  d'Hiver 760 

EigiU    ■!'  Hirer 700 

/■'i//in    «/'  Hirer  (C   \l<  lift/// 760 

Figue  de  Naples 700 

Fin  Or  <rEt. 76C 

Fin  Or  d'Hiver 766 

Fine  Goid  of  Summer 76C 

Fine  Gold  of  Winter. 766 

FingaVs 778 

Feast 759 

Feasts  Seedling 7^E 


PEARS. 


.071 


_  PAGR 

Feaster , 703 

Filicite  JDundas 750 

Felix  de  Leim 759 

Ferdinand  Demeester 864 

Ferdinand  de  Meester 814 

Flat  Butter .".*'..   729 

Flemish  Beauty 7«0 

Flemish  Bon  Chretien 7iil 

Fleur  de  Ghiignes 856 

Fleur  de  Mara 684 

Fleur  de  Neige 782 

Florent  Scouman 7(52 

Florimond  Parent 762 

Fondante 863 

Fondante  Agitable 762 

Fondante  d'Albret 762 

Fondante  d'Automne 762 

Fondante  du  Beds 760,  821 

Fondante  de  Charneuse 747 

Fondante  du  Cornice 764 

Fondante  de  Cuerne 763 

Fondante  Delbecq 684 

Fondante  d'lngendal 763 

Fondante  de  la  Maitre  d'Ecole 764 

Fondante  de  Malines 764 

Fondante  de  Maubege. 762 

Fondante  de  MiUot 854 

Fan  da  n  te  de  Mom 829 

Fondante  Musguee 75S 

Fondante  de  Nees 764 

Fondante  de  Noel 764 

Fonelante  Pariselle 733 

Fondante  de  Pome 696 

Fondante  des  Pros 764 

Fondante  Serruner  de  MiUot. 854 

Fondante  Van  Mons 764 

Fanteirabie  acure 772 

Foote's  Seckel 765 

Forelle 705 

Forellen-birne 705 

Forme  de  Bergamotte  Crassane . . .   766 

Forme  de  Delices 766 

Forme  de  Marie  Louise 813 

Forniquet 851 

Fortune 766 

Fortune,  de  Bemme 766 

40  Ounce 716 

Foster's  St.  Michael 766 

Foureroy 6S6.  760 

Franc  R  al 766 

Franc  Real  aVEte 863 

Franc  Real  d'Hiver 766 

Franchimont 766 

Franchipane 767 

Francois  Bergia 766 

Frangipane 767 

Fro  1, 1,  ford 703 

Franklin 791,  850 

Franz  isische  RumeMrne 700 

Fraser  Pear 831 

Frauenschenkel 758 

Frederick  Leclerc 767 

Frederick  LeUeur 727 


Frederick  de  Wurtemburg 767 

Frederick  of  Wurtemburg 76? 

Frederika  Bremer 767 

French  Jargonelle 767 

Friihe  Bousselet 856 

Fulton 763 

Fukit   Or  \goire 823 

7C7 

Gambier 829 

Gansel's  Bergamotte 769 

Gansel's  Late  Bergamotte 769 

Gansel's  Seckel 770 

Garde  Bcorce 772 

Garde  d?  Eeosse 772 

Garden  Pear 770 

Gardner 880 

Garner 880 

Gastelier 696 

Gaudry 670 

Gideon  Paridant 747 

Gendebien 770 

Gendesheim 770 

General  Banks 831 

General  Bosquet 770 

General  Canrobert 770 

General  Dutilleul 770 

General  Buvivier 688 

General  Lamoriciere 771 

General  de  Lourmel 770 

General  Taylor 771 

General  Todleben 771 

General  Totleben 771 

Gent  see 859 

Gerando 771 

Gerardin 772 

Gerardine 772 

German  Baker. 835 

German  Muscat 772 

Gibson ggfl 

Giffart 689 

Gile-o-gUe 772 

Gill*  tte  tongue 

Gilooil 772 

GUot  77'2 

Giranlin 772 

Ovrardon 77'J 

Girogille 7  ?: 

Gisambert 710 

Gloire  de  VEmpereur 819 

Glory  of  Combrone 772 

Glou-morceau 77:! 

Chiu  Morceau  de  Cambron 77" 

chm t  Morceau 77:; 

(ilou.r  Mejrceaux 773 

Gobert 772 

Golden  Beurri 710 

Golden  Benrre  of  Bilboa 773 

Gob!,  n  End  of  Wii't,  r 766 

Good  Christian  of  Spain ...  858 

Good  Christian  of  Winter 884 

Goodale 773 

GoodaUs  Seedling 77U 


1072 


PEARS. 


PAGE 

Gore's  Eeathcot 780 

Got  Luc  de  Cambron 773 

Goulu  Morceau 773 

Govlue  Morceau  de  Chambron 773 

Gracieuse 778 

Gracioli  d  Wiver 686 

Gracioli  of  Jersey 791 

Gracioli  rouge 863 

Gracioli  de  la  Toussaint 858 

Crul/mris  Autumn  Nelis. 664 

Graham's  Bergamot 604 

Grand  Bretagne 774 

i ;  i'ii ml  Mogol 716 

a  rand  Monarque 716 

Grand  Soleil 775 

<  I  rand  Tamerlan 716 

Graslin 775 

Gratiole  aVAutomne 858 

Gratioli 863 

Gratioli  d'Kt' 863 

Gratioli  di  Roma 863 

a ra  ne  Sornmer  Butterbirne 886 

Grave  de  Corail 705 

Graves 833 

Gray  Bevrre 710 

Cfray  Butter  Pear 745 

Gray  Deans 745 

Gray  Doyenne 745 

Gr<  nt  Bergamotte 778 

Great  Blanket 775 

Gyeat  Blanquette 775 

Great  Britain. 774 

Great  Citron  of  Bohemia 775 

Great  Mouthwater 803 

Great  Musk  Pear  of  Cone. 818 

(hunt  Onion  Pear 862 

Ci int  Orange 825 

( rreat  Rousselet 843 

Green  Chisel 775 

Green  Mountain  Boy 775 

Green  Pear  of  Yair 770 

1,'rn  it  Sugar 861 

Green  Sylvange 866 

(,m n  Windsor 883 

Green  Yair 776 

Grenade 851 

GresiMer 702 

( rris  de  Chine 801 

Groom's  Princess  Royal 776 

Groote  Mogul • 710 

Gros  .  Yngobert 00 1 

Gros  Blanquet  Bond 797 

Gros  Bon  flu- lien 80:; 

jhvs  I '"ii  Chretien  Bumclerc 863 

Gros  Bon  Chr  tit  n  <CEt/' 863 

Gros  Certeau  d'Ste 717 

Gros  CoVmar  Van  Mans 725 

Gros  Dillen 686 

Gros  fin  or  l<  ng  (F Iliver 835 

Gros' Franc  Ret  1 772 

Gros  Franc  Real  (THiver 600 

Gros  Gilot 772 

Gros  Gobet 772 


PAOB 

Gros  Guy  GrrRaud. 772 

Gros  Micet 766 

Gros  Mint  (F£ti 6C3 

G  ros  Mouille  Bouche K63 

Gros  Mi.  iCadiUe 668 

Gros  Ognonet 862 

Gros  Qnere 734 

Gros  Rousselet 843 

Gfrt >s  Rousselet d'Aout 776 

Gros  Rateau 716 

Gros  Rateau  gris 716 

Gros  Thomas 710 

Grosse  Allongie 875 

Grosse  Blanquet 775 

Grosse  Blanquette 775 

Grosse  Blanquette  Ronde 797 

Grosse  de  Bruxelles 835 

Grosse  Calebassc  du  Nord 873 

Grosse  Cuisse  Madame 758 

Grosse  Dame  Jeanne 835 

Grosse  Dorothic 686 

Grosse  Figue 760 

Grosse  Grande  Bretagne 858 

Grosse  Grande  Bretagne  doree 858 

Grosse  JargoneUe 883 

Grosse,  Marie 811 

Grosse  Roi  Louis 775 

Crosse  Sucre 097 

Grumkower 770 

Grumkoweir  Winterbirnie 770 

1 : rune  Magdalena 809 

Grune  Sommer  Magdalena 809 

Cm rnsey 859 

Guts  Crane 886 

Guenette 775 

Ciiilhrume  de  Nassau 686 

Curie's  Beurre 769 

Gustave  Bivort 770 

Gustave  Burgoyne 770 

Gustin's  Summer 770 

Ilacon's  Incomparable 777 

Haddington 777 

J  in, /I,,/ 795 

Hagar 777 

Hi  tgh<  ns  1, 'Hi  it  r 07:! 

Haight 777 

Hamilton 77  7 

Hamilton  Si  (  dling 777 

Hamon 777 

Hampden 778 

Hampden's  Bergamot 778 

Hampton 778,  780 

Hampton's  Bergamot 778 

Hampton's  ('luster 776 

Hampton's  Tixgalieu 778 

J  la  n  ii  lis 778 

Ilainiers' 778 

Hanover 779 

Hardempont 773 

Harden pont  (V Hirer 773 

Hardenpont  du  Printemps 696 

Harris 77$ 


PEARS. 


1073 


PAOE 

Harrison's  Large  Fall 779 

Harvard 779 

Harvest 779 

Hassdhim 783 

Hatireau 775 

Hatkeau  Blanc 863 

Hawes'  Winter 780 

■Hazel 783 

Heathcot 780 

Hebe 780 

Hebron 833 

Hegeman 780 

Hegerman 780 

Heggerman 780 

Hi  idt  Iberg 703 

Helene  Gres-oire 780 

Henkel 781 

Henkel  cFHiver 871 

Henri  Bivort 781 

Henri  (Bivort) 781 

Henri  Desportes 782 

Henry  the  Fourth 782 

Henri  Qvatre 782 

Henri  Van  Mons 782 

Henri  Von  Mons 727 

Henrietta 782 

Henriette 782 

lit  a  riette  Bouvier 782 

Henriette  oV  Orleans 7H2 

Hepworth 879 

Hericart .   783 

Hericart  de  Thury 783 

Herkimer .  783 

llerimi uxliirne .  .   850 

Hessel 783 

Hewes'  Winter 780 

Hingham  . .    783 

His  Poiteau 850 

HocrenaiUe 844 

Hoe-Langer  Hoe-Liever 864 

Holland  Bergamot 784 

Holland  Green 784 

Hollande  Bergamotte 784 

HoUandische  Bergamotte 784 

limn  i  /rood 771 

Honey 784 

Hooper's  Bilboa 774 

Hosenschenck 784 

Hosenschenck 784 

Hovey 784 

Howard ^s-> 

Howell 785 

Hubard 678 

Huguenot 786 

Hull 786 

Hungerford's  Oswego 786 

Hunt's  Connecticut 786 

Hunter 735 

Huntingdon 797 

Huntington 786 

Huron ^>c 

Huyshe's  Bergamot /87 

Huyshe's  Prince  Consort 786 

68 


PAOg 

Huyshe's  Prince  of  Wales 787 

Huyshe's  Princess  of  Wales 7«7 

Huyshe's  Victoria 787 

Ice  Pear 877 

Imp-  rat/rice 829 

lniji.  ratrice  de  France 760 

Imperial 822 

Imperial  Oak-leaved 822 

fm 1 1- ' riale  a  feuilles  de  chine 822 

)       mimunicable 787 

Incomparable 723 

I n ron n ve  la  Fare 850 

Inconnue  Van  Mons 787 

Inconstant 788 

Iris  Gn:goire 788 

Iron 702 

Isabella 788 

Isambert 710 

Isambert  le  Bon 710 

Island 788 

Ives'  August 788 

Ives's  Bergamot 769 

Ives'  Bergamotte 788 

Ives'  Pear 788 

Ives'  Seedling 789 

Ives'  Virgalieu 789 

Ives'  Winter 789 

Ives'  Yale 789 

Jackman's  Melting 794 

Jackson 789 

Jackson 789 

Jackson's  Elizabeth 789 

Jagdbirne 753 

Jalousie 790 

Jalousie  de  Fontenay 790 

Jalousie  de  Fontenay  Vendee 790 

Jamin 747 

Jaminette 790 

Jan  vry 858 

Japan 790 

Jaquin 782 

Jardin  de  Jougers 784 

Jargonelle  de  Knoop 758 

Jargonelle  des  Provencaux 864 

Jean  Baptiste  Bivort 790 

Jean  de  Witte 791 

Jefferson 791 

Jenart 696 

Jersey  Gratioli 7!)  1 

-A  loess 796 

Jtiogti 772 

Joannette 658 

John 815 

John  Griffith 791 

Johonnot 791 

JoU-mon  t    864 

Jolie  Fille  de  Gust 792 

JoUmont 742 

JoUtoet J42 

JaUMemont , 742 

Joly  de  Bonnoau , 799 


[074 


PEARP. 


TAGE 

Jones 792 

Jones's  Seedling 792 

Joseph  Staquet 793 

Josephine 696,  790 

Josephine  Bouvier 793 

Josephine  de  Malines 793 

Jouffroy 875 

Judge  Andrews 794 

Jvive 796 

Jvlt  s  Bivort 734 

Julienne 794 

July  Pear 8(52 

Just 767 

JuM-peer 886 

Jutjesbime 886 

Jutte $s(5 

Kaiser  (VAutomne 880 

Kaiserbi/rne 880 

Kaissoise 678 

Kartofd 724 

Katti  rn 846 

ikop 710 

Keele  Hall  Beurri 861 

Keiser 794 

Kelsev 794 

Kessoise. 678 

Jut/jmrts 771 

Kilmer 823 

King 794,  795 

King  Edward's 794 

King  of  Summer 843 

King  of  Wm-ti  mherg 767 

King's  S<  >  tiling 795 

Ki^gsessing 795 

Kirtland 795 

ill's  Beurre 795 

KirtlancPs  Seckel 7!>5 

KirtlancVs  Seedling .  795 

Knight's 7!)!i 

's  Monarch 796 

Kn  ighffs  St  <  dling 796,  840 

883 

Kopertseher 796 

Kom  rtscher 796 

Kronprinz  Ferdinand 773 

Kronprinz  von  Oestreich 77:! 

j:  Eehasserie 753 

Vlnconnue 787 

VIneonstani 788 

'te'.int 680 

J. a  Bmm    !.  ss  | 

J.ii  Fortun  '  d<  Paris 7<i(> 

La  i'lr'n/i  <  de  Parmentier 766 

ardin 772 

La   II  rani 796 

La  Juive 796 

L«i  Monlinoise 797 

La  Savourese 7U7 

La  Scaur  Grcgoire 798 

La  Quintinye 835 

LaRdne 696 


PA  OB 

La  Virguleuse 877 

Lady  Thigh 883 

Lafare 85C 

Lafayette 798 

Lamartine 79? 

Lammas 7H7 

l.ii in  mux 729 

Langeliefs  Beurri- 693 

'■  r's  Victoria 773 

Lansac 797 

Large  Round  Blanquet 797 

/."/;,»  Rous8elet 843 

Seckel 703 

Large  Sugar 863 

Large  Summer  Bergamot   862 

Large  Swan's  Egg .  779 

Las  Canas 798 

Latch 832 

/."/.-    Catherine 846 

/  a  a  nd try  Wilding 753 

Laure  de  Glymes 798 

Laurentienne 767 

Lawrence 798 

Le  Beurre 745 

Le  Breton 798 

Le  Bran 799 

Le  Cure 875 

/.-   1  Irgoule 877 

Lebanon, 833 

Lee 799 

Lee's  Seedling 799 

La  cKs  Kingsessing 795 

Lefevre 799 

Left  we 693 

Lenawee 800 

Lent  Saint  Germain 800 

Lent  St   Germain 835 

Leochine  de  Printemps 800 

Leon  le  Clerc  Laval 800 

Leon  le  Clerc  Louvain 801 

Leon  Gr  goire 800 

Li  on  Hey 801 

Leonie  Pinchart 800 

Leopoldl 801 

Leopold  Riche 801 

Lepine 801 

Lewis v   I 

Lewis 7:)7 

Long  Green 803 

Long  (Jreen  of  Autumn 804 

Long  Green  of  Esperin 804 

Long  Green  Panache 804 

hi' 758 

ket 804 

Long-Stalked  Blanquet 804 

Long-  Tail  d  Blangut  tte 804 

Longui  oiBe  d'JSoosse 778 

Lord  ( 'hetneifs 784 

Lord  Chung 784 

Lord  Martin  Pear 844 

LotPs  Pear 779 

Louis  Base 701 

Louis  Dupont WT I 


PEARS. 


1075 


I  ■       n      ■  PAOK 1 

liouis  Gregoire 80G 

Louise  Bonne 804 

Bonne  cPAwanchea 805 

Bonne  cPHiver '.'  835  | 

Bonne  de  Jersey ,  805 

Louise  Bonne  of  Jersey 805 


Mandieu hsq 

Manning's  Elizabeth 810 

Mansfield "    "  811 

Mansuette , ."   '  661 

Marasquine 811 

Marct  His (  815 


Louise  Bonne  de  Printemps 804    March  Bergamotte '   811 

Louise  bonne  1! 7,/ 804    Marshal  de  la  Cour.V. 811 

Louise  of  Boulogne 806 

LouMi    J  Orleans 871 

Louist  di  Prusse s.-><! 

Liart "  819 

Liberate 801 


Liebart .   si  |9 

umt  Poidevin 802 

ieutenant  Poitevin 802 


Mar  <■//,;!  Decours 811 

Mar^chal  Dillen 811 

Margaret 811 

Maria  flbuvt  lie !.*.'!".."]  827 

Maria  n  ne ,s^7 

Marianne  de  Nancy 812 

Marie  <  'hr  ti,  ma- 813 

Marie  Guisse 813 


V1.""'11 >s"2    Marie  Louise 813 

[^(jen£Automne 77:;    Marie  Louis   Delacourt. 813 

Little  Blank*  t 802    Man\  Louise  Donkebn-  "  813 

r  -^ ,    ?iamluet 802    Mori,  Louist  (FElcourt 813 

/      6  IlIruscat 802    Marie  Louise  de  Jersey. .'  813 

Little  Musi,- 802   Mark  Louise  NbuveUe  813 

Livingston  Virgalieu 803    M arie  Louise  Nova  " "        '  813 

Livre  de  Burgoyne 772  .  Marie  Louise  d'Uccle     813 

Locke 803   Marie  de  Nantes  .  '  812 

Locke s  iV eic   II  urr 803 J  Marie  Parent '.'..'.'.'.'.'.'.'.  814 

Marim/ §15 

Marmion 814 

Man'otti  Sucrie  Jaune 829 

Marquise  de  Bedman 814 


Lodge 803 

Loudon  Sugar 803 

Longue  de  Workouts 00! 

Love  Pear 659 


Lucien  Leclercq 806  '•  Martha  Ann .......'.'.'.'.'.'.   814 


Literate 750 

Lycurgus 806 

Lydia  Thierard 806 

Lyon '.  *  807 

Mabffle 686,  819 

Me  I  Alan 880 

McLaughlin 807 

McVean 807 

Madame 883 

Madame  Ad  laide  Rives 654 

Madame  Ducar 808 

Madame  Durieux 808 

Madame  Eliza 809 

M  id  vine  de  France 883 

Madame  Gregoire 809 

M  idame  Henri  Desportes 809 

Madame  Millet 809 

Madame  Treyve 

Madeleine 809  I 

809 

Madeli  ine   Vert 775    M<  ssire  cPHivt  r 875 

657    Messire  Jean "... 

Magdelen   ... son     Messire  Jean  Blame '.'  815 

n  of  Flanders 818    Messire  Jean  Dore 815 

Maiden  of  Xaintonge 818   Messire  Jean  (iris '.  815 

Mailanderin  drasse  Orune 819    Michaux ' 

Makonnaitre 722    Miel  <T  Waterloo '.WW.  747 

Malcounaitre  d'Haspin 810    Mignonne  d'Hiver 810 

Manchester 810    Milan  Blanc 

Manchester  Late 81 0    Milan  Blanc 863 

Manchester  .October 810!  Milan  de  la  Bewrrv  re 


Mart  in  Sec 814 

Martin  Sec  de.  Champagne. 814 

Martin  See  el' Hirer 814 

Martin  Sire 814 

Martin  Sire 844 

Marulia , 815 

MajT "....'.  815 

Mather 815 

Matthews  Eliza ' ' . .   776 

Maynard 815 

M>  ad&ic  Ft  asti  r 70:; 

Mt  ar's  Summer  Butter 751 

M connaitre 722 

M  daill 819 

M  daitte  <VOr 757 

I  Mellish >- 

Mt  Ion 819 

Melon  di  Kops 686 

;a 815 

■■at  her 

\f,  re,  Me  ,!,   la    .Xoturr 7,",  I 


1075 


PEARS. 


PAGE 

Milan  de  Bovirdeaux .    670 

Milan  de  Rouen 816 

Milan   Vert 778 

Milanaise  Cuvelier 884 

Miller's  Early 828 

Millot  de  Nancy ■  s I <> 

Misporde  B<  noist 710 

Mima  d'Hiver 875 

Mitchell's  Russet v    ^ 

Moccas 817 

Mogul  Summer Tin 

Main 694 

MoUt  Bouclte  cPHeoer 660 

Moll*  Bouchi  X  uvi  Ue 760 

Mollet's  Guernsey  Beurre 817 

Mollet's  Guernsey  Cha/umontdle. . ..  v!  r 

Moil  Dit  u 65(5 

Monarch 796 

Monkowthy 661 

Monseigneur  Affre 817 

Monseigneur  des  Hons 817 

Monseigneur  Sibour 817 

Monsieur 875 

Monsieu rU  Cur S'T~> 

Monsieur  ./<  an 815 

Monstrt  use  de  Landers 710 

Monstrut  ust  du  Nord 873 

Moor-fowl  Egg 805 

Moore's  Pear 784 

Moore's  Pound 784 

Morel 818 

Morgan 780 

Mouille  Bouche >^' 

}[<>ii ill e  bmtohe  d?  Automne s<!4 

Mount  Vernon 

Mouthxoater 803 

Moyamensing sl* 

Mr.   John 815 

Mrs.  J'li  kson /89 

My^cadet  iTEt 76*3 

Muscadillt 668 

Muscadine 818 

Muscat  I' Ah  man 

Muscat  (PAUemagne 

Muscat  I'AUeman. 772 

Muscat  All'  urn /a! 7  72 

Muscat  VAllemand 770 

Muscat  iTAmhri 8)8 

Muscat  of  Germany 772v 

Muscat   LaUi  urnm! 772 

Muscat  Petit 

Muscat  Robert 818 

Muscat  Bobine 818 

Muscat   //<.',< 668 

Must  tie  d'Anjmt 775 

Musk  Blawfuet,    <r  Blanquette 802 

i>  »/  Ora   y<  824 

Musk  Pear 84fi 

Musk  Bobine 818 

Musk  Summer  Bon  Chritien 863 

Muskingum 819 

Musguine  de  Bretagne 784 

My-God  Pear 656 


::. 


772 


Naaman's  Creek 878 

Women's  Creek 678 

Napoleon 

Napoleon  (P nicer 31f 

Napoleon  Savinien 8l8 

'ii,  1  Trni 819 

Naunikeag 819 

Navez  Peintre 819 

Ne  Plus  Meuria .v2ii 

Ne  Plus  Meuris 679 

Nectarine <s40 

>.    .    820 

(Ms  d'lliver 884 

Nan  Crassane 82!) 

New  Bridge 820 

X'  -"  Fredeiick  of  Wurtemberg. ...  684 

-Y<  w  St.  (!i  rmain 837 

N(  a-  Spring  Bat/rri 875 

New  York  Bed  Cheek 

Newhall s2*> 

Newtown 's2<  I 

Nt  wtown  Seedling 820 

Nickerson 820 

Niell 821 

Niles v2! 

No.  10  Vim  Mom 802 

No.  135   Vmi  Mom 877 

No.  1599  of   Van  Mons 692 

X"irr/i"i/i 696 

7:i2 

Nonpareil 821 

NonpareiVLi 702 

Norri*  Pear 791 

Notarie  Miuot 821 

Nouveau  Maison s"»4 

Nouveau  Mavxion 's~>4 

Nouveau  Poiteau 821 

N  i  m  velle  Fulvie 822 

'    u  ell   d'Ouef 880 

Nun's  Pear 681 

\  utiiii  g  Pear 700 

Oak-Leaved  Imperial 822 

Oak-leaved  Imperial     822 

Oakley  Park  Bergamotte 822 

GBuf.  .    " '  822 

Ogiion  ill  XuiiiU'ii'ji 803 

et 8  >2 

'  )ynom  I  Musqui 862 

.,t 862 

et 8<i2 

Oken 822 

dim  d'lliver 822 

Olivers  Russet 822 

Olivier  de  Serres .         822 

O/m  r  Puclw.  850 

Oneida  823 

Onondaga 823 

Ontario 824 

( h  ange •  •  •  •  824 

Orange  d" Automne 824 

Orange  Bergamot 832 

Orange  Bergamotte 824 


PEAKS. 


1077 


PAGE 

Orange  dfite 824 

Orange  d'Hiver 824 

Orange  Mandarine 824 

Orange  Musk 824 

Orange  Musquee 824 

Orange  Rouge 824 

Orange  Tulipee 825 

Orpheline  Colmar 825 

Orpheline  dEnghien 680 

Osba /ids  Favorite 825 

Osband's  Summer 825 

Osborne 825 

Oswego  Beurre 825 

Oswego  Incomparable 826 

Ott 826 

Ott's  Seedling 826 

Owen 826 

Oxford  Chaumontel 718 

Paddock 826 

Paddrington 751 

Pailleau 826 

Panehresta 884 

Paquency 830 

ParabeUe  Musque 734 

Paradise  d1  Automne 827 

Pardee's  No.  2 736 

Pardee's  Seedling 827 

Parfum  d'Aout -. 828 

Part' um  de  Rose 828 

PariseUe 733 

Parkinson's  Warden 702 

Parsonage 828 

Parthenay 671 

Passa-tutti 859 

Passans  du  Portugal 828 

Passe  Colmar 829 

Passe  Colmar  Epineaux 829 

Passe  Colmar  Francois 791 

Passe  Colmar  Oris. 829 

Passe- Colmar  Musque 829 

Passe- Colmar  Musque  d1  Automne. ..  829 

Passe  Colmar  Vineux 829 

Passe  Orassane 829 

Passe  Tardive 829 

Pastorale  dllieer 751 

Pater  Noster 831 1 

Paul  Ambre 830 

Paul  Thielens 830 

Paul  Thielens 830 

Payenche 830 

P.  tyi  ncfd 830 

Pay  ncJd  de  P  rigor d 830 

cy 830 

Peach 831 

Peach  Pear .  831 

Pearl  Par 802 

Peck's  Si  idling 841 

Pemberton 8 

Penderson 831 

Pendleton's  Early  York 831 

Pengethly 

Perm s:>' 


PAS* 

Pennsylvania 832 

Pequini 772 

Peral  del  Campo 863 

Perdreau. 846 

Perfumed 828,  851 

Perpetual 832 

Petaless 760 

Peters 832 

PetersUie  Peer 760 

Petit  Blanquet 802 

Petit  Certeau 668 

Petit  Corail 765 

P,  tit  Johannet 658 

Petit  Muscat 802 

Petit  Muscat  d Automne 841 

Petit  muscat  batard  muscade 775 

Petit  Musque 704 

Petit  Rousselet 846 

Pi  tit  St.  Jean 658 

Petite  Beurre  dHiver 700 

Petite  Blanquette 802 

Petite  Epine  dEte 758 

Petre 832 

PettaUm 760 

Pfirsichbirne 831 

Philadelphia 832 

PMlippe  Belfosse 684 

Philippe  Goes 833 

PMippe  de  Pacques 751 

Philippe  Strie 859 

Picciola 833 

Pickering  Pear 835 

Pickering's  Warden 835 

Picquery 871 

Pie  IX 833 

Pine  Pear 880 

Pinneo 833 

Pioiilice 704 

Piper 835 

Pistolette 760 

Pitmaston  Duchesse  d'Angouleme. .  833 

Pitt's  Prolific 834 

Pitt's  Surpasse  Marie 834 

Plantagenet 834 

Piatt 834 

PlatCs  Seedling 834 

Plombgastel 851 

Pocahontas 834 

I'uiri  (FA  'Katilance 656 

Pnre  dMhret <j>' 

Poire  dAmboise 71 0 

Poire  d. Amour 659 

Poire  <T .  1  ngoise 884 

Poire  (PApoth  caire ^s4 

Pain  dAvril 664 

v  Bavay 732 

■'•  Berriays 673 

:!-a,;-not  ,V Epinal 707 

Poire  de  Ban  ville 844 

P,nre  de  Cadet 670 

'.  s  ( liasseurs 735 

Poire  ( 'hen  Hie 828 

Pitin  ill-  I  'ii>/pre 840 


,078 


PKARS. 


PA  OK 

Poire  Davy 7(50 

Poire  du  Doyen 880 

Poire  Durandeau 735 

Poire  Gendron 688 

Poire  Gerando 771 

Poire  Gifard 689 

I  '<>ii-f  -;/lnce 877 

/  'ovn  dt  Chirp 877 

Poire  a  Oobert 772 

Poire  GoubaU 690 

Povn  G  uiRamme 666 

Poirt  His  . . 850 

Poire  ih's  Inralides 725 

Poire  du  Jardin 770 

i '  in  de  Lepine 801 

'  iard 819 

Poire  de  Union 880 

Poire  <lc.  Lowoain 734 

Poire  avx  Mouches 825 

Poire  Napoleon 819 

Poire  Nidi 821 

Poire  des  Nonnes 681 

Poire  de  Payenoy 830 

Poire  Peche 831 

Poked,  hi  PerU 802 

dt  Persil 760 

Poirt  -Pomme  662 

I  'oriwuU 671 

Poire  Pn  vost 836 

Poire  de  Prince 837 

Poire  de  Printemps 858 

Poire  d  hi  Heine    818 

Poire  RiteUe. 842 

Poire  de  Pose 863 

Poirt  sans  Peon 856 

Poirt  suns  Pepi?is 778 

Poire  Seutin 854 

Poire  Six 697 

Poire  de  16  Ounces 772 

Poire  de  Stuttgard ' 847 

Poirt  <!<>  tables  des  princes 758 

Poire  Truite 765 

Poire    Van  Muvum . .    873 

/  '"in   1  rauquelin 874 

Pnii  i"  a 671 

Pollan 834 

P&moire 662 

Pope's  Quaker 834 

Pope's  Scarlet  Major 834 

Potts 773 

Pound   .....    •  ■■■  835 

Poict  Ws  ^  'irijnlieu. 864 

I'nuh I//-,  de  '('atalogne 875 

Prairie  du  Pond 835 

Pratique  de  Rouen 687 

Pratt   835 

/'reel 829 

Precilly     835 

Prewce  de  Glady 856 

Precocee  Gouhault 695 

Pnmices  de  Wagelwater .  836 

Present  de  Malines 829 

Present,  Royal  de  Naples 667 


PAG! 

Present  Ror/al  de  Nantes .667 

President . .    836 

President  (TEspagne 858 

President  Felton 836 

President  Mas 336 

Prettv  Girl  of  Gust 79? 

Preid 828 

Prevost 836 

/'riuiitire 802 

Prince  Albert 836 

I'll  nee  (JamiUe  de  Rohan 714 

Prince  Imperial  de  France 837 

Prince  de  Joinville 837 

Prince  Napoleon 837 

Prince's  Harvest 837 

Prince's  Pear 837 

Prince's  St.  Germain 837 

Prince's  Sugar 862 

Prince's  Sugar  Top 8(12 

Princess 818 

Princess  Charlotte 838 

Princess  Helen  d1  Orleans 749 

Princess  Maria 838 

Princess  of  Orange 'v:  S9 

Princess  Royal 770 

Prineesse  ConquMe 839 

Prineesse  Marianne 827 

Prineesse  (f  Orange ....   839 

Prineesse  de  Panne 813 

Prineii  re  de  Kopertsh 796 

Prof esseur  Hennau 839 

Pucelle  Condi denne 829 

Pulsifer 839 

Puvis  St.  Germain 839 

Queen  of  August 784 

Queen  of  the  Low  Countries 839 

Queen's  Amber 818 

i,i in  ru's  Pear 818 

Quilletette 840 

Quinn 840 

Quin  a  ipiae 850 

Railroad  Fvss % 831 

Rallay 840 

Rapelje 840 

Ravenswood 840 

Raymond 840 

Read's  Seedling 825 

Reading 841 

Real  Jargonelle 758 

Red  Bergamot 841 

Red  I'turre 710.  745 

Red  Butter 710 

Red  Cheek 767 

Red-  Cheeked  S(ckel 852 

Red  Doyenne 745 

Red  Garden 841 

/,\  d  M"scadd 761 

Red  Orange 824 

Reedcr's  Seedling 739 

Regine 841 

Regintin , 82«J 


PEARS. 


J  079 


PAGK 

Reigner 880 

Reine  Caroline 841 

Reine  d'Hiver 841 

Heine  des  Pays  Bas 839 

Reine  dea  Poires 842 

*veine  Victoria 842 

Heine  de  Viearge 749 

B  serve  Pear 758 

Retour  de  Rome   842 

Revnaer  Beemaert 842 

Richards 842 

Richards  Beurre 8G3 

wnd 779,  850 

Ridelle's 842 

Loup 772 

Rivers'  Winter  Beurre 843 

Robert's  Keeping 753 

Robt  rfs  MuskateUer 818 

Robertson 878 

Robine 818 

Robinson 878 

Roe's  Bergamot 841] 

Roid'Ete 843 

Roi  JoUmont 742 

Roi  Louis 775 

Roi  Louis  Nouveau 688 

Roi  de  Louvain 71G 

Roi  de  Rome 843 

Roi  de  Rome 819 

Roi  de,  Wurtemberg 707 

Roitelet 843 

Rokeby 844 

Rondelet 844 

Ronville 844 

Ropes 844 

Rose  Epine  Rose 863 

Rose  Pear 863 

Rosenbvrne 863 

Roslyn 844 

Rostiezer 845 

Rouge  dWnjou 697 

Rouge  des  Vierges 717 

Round  Top 872 

Bousettet  de  Meester 814 

Rousse  Lench 845 

let 843,  846 

Rousselet  Aelens 845 

Rousselet  Bivort 845 

U  t  dt  i  'oster 845 

Rousselet  Decoster 845 

et  Double 846 

Rousselet  Enfante  Prodigue 846 

Rousselet  Esperen 846 

Rousselet  Hatif 846 

lei  cP Hirer 814 

let  Jamin 750 

Rom  sdi  t  de  Jamin 750 

Rousselet  de  Janvier  845 

Rousselet  de  Jonghe  846 

Rousselet  Musqui 846 

Rousselet  de  Rheims 846 

Rousselet  St.  Nicholas 847 

Rousselet  Stuttgart 847 


PAOI 

Rousselet  "Vanderwecken 847 

Rousseline 847 

Rousselon 847 

Rovsst  tie  cVAnjou 700 

Royal 847 

Royal  cPAngleterre 

Royal  Tairling 75 1 

Royal  Wilder 848 

Royale 863 

Royale  d'Hiver 

Royale  NbuveUe 849 

du  Dauphine 863 

Bozatte  d'lngrandes 863 

Rushmords  Bon  Chretien 77!) 

Russelet 843 

Russelin s4  7 

Rutter 848 

Sabine 790 

Sabine  d'1  EU 767 

Sabine  Van  Mons 790 

Sacandaga 849 

Sacandaga  Seckel 849 

Saco 773 

Safran  iTAutomne 858 

Safran  cCEte 863 

Safran  rosat  d'Automne 

t  671 

Saint  Andre 849 

St.  &  rran <!''>l 

Saint  Crispin 849 

Saint  Denis 849 

Saint  Dorothee 849 

Saint  Germain 850 

Saint  Germain  Mane 804.  850 

Saint  Germain  bran 850 

St.  Germain  Don' 850 

St.  Germain  DutMeul 668 

Saint  Germain  cPBU 864 

Saint  Germain  Fondant 672 

St.  Germain  de  Graines 6'W 

St.  Germain  Oris ■s"'1 ' 

■SY.  Germain  Jaune 850 

Saint  Germain  cP Hirer 850 

Saint  Gi  rmain  de  Martin. ...... 

St.  Germain  Nouveau 874 

St.  Gt  rmain  Panachie 'v'"i( ' 

Saint  Germain  de  Pepins 

Saint- Germain- Puvis s;';i 

St.  Germain  du  Tittay 668 

St.  Germaindu  Tilloy 668 

tin  VauqueUn 874 

Saint  i  rt >;'11 

Saint  Ghislain 

Sit  /A  rblain  d'Hiver 751 

St.  Jean 658 

St.  ./■  an  Baptiste 727 

St.  Jean  Baptiste  d'Hiver 7-J7 

St.  Jean  Musguee  Grcs 818 

St.  John'*  Pear 658 

Saint  Lambert 758 

Saint  I. anient : .    •  •     767 

Saint  Lezin 850 


1080 


PEARS. 


PACK 

Rain t  Menin 850 

Saint  Marc 668,  871 

St.  Martial 660 

St.  Michael  Archange 851 

Saint  Michael  Archangel 851 

St.  Michael  of  Boston 880 

St.  Michael  Bore 745 

St.  Michael  d'fit, 742 

St  Michael  d'lliver. 742 

St.  Michel 880 

Saint  Micliel  Crotte 859 

St.  Nicholas 749 

Saint  Sampson 758 

Saint  Vincent  de  Paul 851 

Sainte-  Ma  delaine 809 

Salisbury  Seedling 851 

Salviata 851 

Sand  Pear 851 

Sanguine  d'ltalie 851 

Sanguinole ....  851 

Sanguinole  de  Belgique 852 

Sam  Pair  702 

Sans  Pareille 702 

Sans  Pepins 778 

Sanspeau 856 

Sarah 852 

Sarah 784 

Satin 797 

Satin  Vert 758 

Sohelis 863 

Schdne  and  Chute 778 

Schuman 852 

Scotch  Bergamot 778 

Seal 852 

Sebastopol 852 

Sevastopol  (Ttite 852 

Seckel 852 

SecTde.    852 

Seigneur. 7(52 

Seigneur  iVExperin 762 

Seigneur  d'Hiver. . .  75 1 

Selleck 854 

Senateur  Mosselman 854 

Sept-en-guevie 802 

Seraphine  Ovin 854 

Serrurier 854 

Serrurier  (PA  utomne 854 

Seutin 854 

Shakespeare     852 

Shaumontel 718 

Sham-Montel 718 

Shawmut 855 

Sheldon 855 

ShenWs 784 

Sheppard .  855 

Short's  Saint  Germain 864 

Sidle 758 

Bickel 852 

Sieulle 746 

BUHnum's  Russet 83:5 

SUvanbirne 866 

SUvange  Pierard 866 

Simon  Bouvier 856 


rial 

Sire  Martin ...  814 

Skinless 856 

Small  Blanquet 802 

Small  Winter  Beurre. 700 

Smith's  Bordenavc 803 

Smith's  Early  Butter 818 

Smith'*  Pennsylvania 832 

Smokehouse 784 

Snow  Flower 782 

Soeur  Oregoire 798 

Soldat  Esperen 856 

Soldat  Laboureur 856 

Soleure 71 16 

Solitaire 661 

Sommer  Oute  Christenbirne. 863 

Sophia  Beekmans 814 

Souvenir  du  Congress 856 

Souvenir  d'Esperen 857 

Souvenir  Favre 858 

Souvenir  of  Madame  Treyve. 809 

Souvenir  de  la  Reine  des  Beiges. . .  857 

Souvenir  de  Siinon  Bouvier 856 

Souveraine 829 

Souveraine  d'  Ete 858 

Souveraine  d'Hiver 829 

Souveraine  de  Printemps 858 

Spanish  Bon  Chretien 858 

Spanish  Warden 858 

Sparbvrne 758 

Speckled  Harris 779 

sri<;  Butter 703 

Spice  Pear 846 

Spina 858 

Spina  di  Carpi 848 

Sponge 721 

Sportsman 735 

Spring  Beurre 875 

Staunton 769 

Steinmitz  Catherine 858 

Steimnitz  Spice 859 

Stt  p7u  it's  Genesee 859 

Sterling 859 

Stevens'  Genesee 859 

Stone 860 

Stript  tl  Bergamot 866 

Striped  Dean 881 

Striped  Germain 850 

Striped  Orange 825 

Stuttgarter  Geishirtel. 847 

Stuyversant 863 

Sty'er 860 

Styrian 861 

Sublime  Garnotte 880 

Sucr<  cPAutomne  de  Tertolen 861 

Sucre  Noir  d'f'.f 861 

Sucre  de  Tertolan 861 

Sucre  Vert 861 

Sucre  Vert  oVAutomnede  Tolsdvyn.  861 

Sucre-vert  (PHoyersworda 861 

Sucrce  blanche 804 

Sucree  du  Cornice 861 

Sucree  de  Hoyerswerda 861 

Sucr-  e  Boi'ie 81S 


1  EARS. 


108 ' 


PAOK 

fhithrin  blanc  cCfite 804 

Suffolk  Thorn 862 

Sugar  of  Hoyersworda 861 

Sugar  Pear 779 

Sugar  Top 862 

Sukerey  iVAutomne 861 

Sullivan 862 

Summer  Aputhekerbirne 86:? 

Summer  Archduke 862 

r  Beauty 767 

Summer  Bell.  .'. 883 

Summer  Bergamot 862 

Summer  Beurre  d'Aremberg 862 

Summer  Bon  Chretien. 863 

Summer  Crassane 863 

Milium,  r  Doyenne 742 

Summer  Franc  Real 863 

Summer  Good  Chiistian 863 

Summer  Jargonelle 7(57 

Summer  Pine-apple 660 

Summer  Portugal 828 

Summer  Rose , 863 

Summer  St  Germain 864 

Summer  Thorn 758 

Summer  Virgalieu 864 

Summer  Virgalieu 825,  833 

Superfondante 864 

Supreme 883 

Supreme  Cohma 796 

Supreme  de  Quimper 864 

Surpass  Maria  Louise 834 

Surpasse  Crassane 829 

Surpass,'  Fortunes 766 

Surpasse  Meuris 864 

Surpasse  Virgalieu 864 

Surpasse  Virgouleuse 864 

Suzette  de  Bavay 865 

Swan's  Egg 865 

S, run's  Orange 823 

Street  Summer 758 

Swiss  Bergamot 865 

SyeMe 852 

Sylvanche 866 

Sylvange 866 

Sylvange  cV Hirer 760 

Sylvanghe  vert  d'hiver 686 

Tardif  de  Mons 866 

<  de  Toulouse 749 

Tarquin 866 

Tarquin  des  Pyrenees 866 

Taylor  Pear 866 

Tea    866 

751 

■  u/oaise 700 

ZVfc  de  Chat 716 

T(  ton  de  Venus 772 

Theodore  Van  Mons 867 

Th  r  se  Kunips 868 

Thiessoise 678 

Thompson's 868 

Thooris sum 

Thorny  Ambrette 658 


Thorny  Rote 

Thouin 

Thuerlinckx 

Tillington 

TSOoy 

Tilton \\ 

Tombe  de  V Amateur 

Totten's  Seedling 

Treasure 

Trescott 

Tresor 

Tresor  &  Amour 

Trimble 

Triomphe  de  Hassett 

Triomphe  de  .Jodoigne 

Triomphe  de  Louvain 

Triomphe  du  Nord 

Triomphe  de  Pomohgique 

Troken  Martin 

Trompe-valet    , 

Trout  Pear , 

Trouve  de  Montigny , 

Truckhill  Bergamot 

Tuerlinekx 

Tulip' e 

TuWped  or  Fly  Pear 

Turkish  Bonchrltien 

Turkish  Pear 

Twenty-fifth  Anniversaire  de  Leo- 
pold I 

Two  Sisters 

Tyler 

Tynsbord 

TyroUe  

Tyson 


PASP 

,  862 
,  884 
868 
86? 
668 
658 
821 
868 
659 
868 
65!) 
659 
778 

ST.'! 
869 
869 
873 
728 
814 
658 
765 
701 
869 
868 
863 
825 
761 
761 

869 
736 
869 
719 
790 
870 


Vdal 767 

Union 835 

Upper  Crust 870 

Urbaniste 871 

Urbaniste  Seedling 871 

Ursula 872 

Ureduhi's  St.  Germain 835 

Uwchlan 872 

1  ra  Deux  Ans 725 

Valandrie 734 

via 880 

!  :<r 880 

Valentine 

Vail  e  Franche 872 

Van  Assche 872 

Van  Asst  ne .V7'J 

Van  Asshe 

Van  Buren sT:i 

Van  I>eventer 

Van  de  Weyei  Hates S73 

Bates ^?:> 

Van  Do  813 

1  'an  Donkt  lear 818 

Van   Dyek 858 

Van  Marum 873 

Van  .Mons  Leon  le  Clerc 873 


1082 


*EARS. 


PAGE 

Van  Mans  No.  154 810 

Van  Mom  No.  889 862 

Van  Mans  No.  12:38  722 

Van  Mom   St.  Genvmn 874 

Van    Vranken *.  849 

Vandyck 858 

Vauquelin .s74 

Verdette 861 

Verlaine 874 

Verlaine 770 

u  <n-:t 770,  874 

I 7 rm  ilion 608 

I 7 rm Hi' in  iT  ft' 767 

VermiUon  <V A  utomne 668 

I ',  rmiMon  des  Dames 66S 

VermiUon  cPEspagne  (Vlliver. 858 

I  '■  rmiMon  (FEU 767 

Vermilion  d'en  Haut 874 

I  rermiUon  (FHimer  des  Dames 669 

Vermont 874 

Vermont  Seedling 874 

Verte  Longue 803 

Verte  Longue  cF  Angers 760 

Verte  Longue  cFA  utomne 804 

Verte  Longue  of  Esperin 804 

Verte  Longue  cPLTiver 753 

Vertt  Longue  de  la  Mayenne 760 

Verte  Longue  panache 804 

Verulam. 875 

Vezouziere 875 

I  icaire  de  Winkfield 875 

Vicar  of  Winkfield 875 

Vicomte  de  Spoelberch 877 

Victoria 773 

Vignes  733 

[  Wane  oVAnjou 863 

Vineuse 877 

M  oTExperen 877 

Virgaheu  of  New  York 880 

Vi/rgaloo 880 

I  '/r;/i'n  of  Xaintonge 818 

se 877 

Virgouleuse 877 

Von  Zugler 877 

Wadleigh 877 

Walker 877 

dling 818 

H         ck  Bergamot ss" 

Washington 878 

Water 883 

Waterloo 747 

Watermelon 784.  ss:; 

Watertown 722 

m 878 

Wt '  line. 855 

Webster 878 

Weissi  Herbst  ButterbirM 880 

Welbeck  Bergamot 879 

Wellington 879 

Wendell 879 

Westcott 879 

Wetmore 879 


Tie* 

Wharton's  Early 878 

Wheeler 880 

Whieldon 880 

W/h'i  Idon's  McLiu/in 880 

White  A  utumn  Beurre 880 

White  Beurre 880 

White  Butter 880 

White  Doyenne 880 

White  Pear 802 

White's  Seedling 881 

Wicar  of  Wakefidd, 875 

Wiest 882 

Wilbur 882 

Wilding  of  Caissoy 700 

Wilding  of  llery 700 

Wilfred 683 

WiUidmine 790 

Wilkinson 882 

Willermoz 882 

WiOiam 805 

William  Edwards 882 

William  the  Fourth 805 

William  Powell 863 

William  Prince 883 

Williams'  Bonchretien 666 

Williams'  Bonchretien 666 

Williams'  Early 883 

Williamson 883 

Wilmington 883 

Windsor 883 

Winsblp 884 

Winship  Seedling 884 

Winter  Ambret 658 

Winter  Bell 835 

117/,  U  r  ll,  rgamotte 751 

Winter  Beurr 718,  843 

Winter  Bonchretien 884 

Winter  Duchess 749 

Winter  Good  Christian *s4 

Winter  Green  Long 753 

1 1  'in fir  Long  Green 753 

Winter  Nelia  884 

Winter  Oken 822 

117//  ter  Orange 824 

1177//,  /■  Puiussdette 814 

117///,r  Royal 848 

Winter  Seckel 885 

Winter  Thorn 885 

117// 1,  r  \  'irgidieu 723 

Wisner 855 

Woodbridge's  Seckel 885 

1 1 '- Heotes  Early 779 

ion 773 

Woodstock. 886 

Wredow 886 

Yat 886 

Yellow  Butter 880 

York  Bergamot 663 

Yutte 886 

Zepherin  Gregoire 888 

Zepherin  Louis 886 


PEARS PLUMS. 


1083 


Zepherin  Louis  Origoire 886 

Zoar  Beauty 887 

Zoar  Seedling. 887 


PLUMS. 


Abricot  Vert 

Abricote  B'anc 

Abricote  IMtif 

Abricotee 

Abricotee  Blanc 

Abricot  e  Blanche 

Abricotee  de  Braunau. ... 
Abricotee  de  Braunau  Nouvette. 

Abricotee  Motive 

Abricotee  Rouge 

Abricot  e  Sageret , 

Abricot  e  de  Tours 

Admiral  de  Rigny 

Agen  Datte 

Albany  Beauty . . 

Alderton , 

Aloise's  Green  Gage 

Altesse  Blanche 

Altesse  Double 

American  Magnum  Bonum 

American  Wheat 

Am'  rican  Yellow  Gage 

Am  her  Primordian 

Angelina  Burdett 

Anglaise  Noir 

Anna  Maria 

Apple  Plum 

Apricot 

Apricot  Plum  of  Tours 

Askew 's  Gulden  Egg , 

AskeuPs  Purple  Egg 

Auburn 

Aunt  Ann 

Austrian  Quetsche 

Automne  de  Schamali 

Autumn  Beauty 

Autumn  Compote 

Autumn  Gage. 

Avant  Prune  blanche 

Azure  Hdtive 


896 


Bavay's  Green  Gage. 

Beach  Plum 

Beekmam?s  Scarlet. . . 

Bejonnieres 

Belgian  Purple 

Belle  de  Louvain. . . . 
Belle  de  Septembre. 

Benedict 

Bilboa 

Bingham   

Black  Damson 

Black  Imperial 

Block  Morocco 

Black  Perdrigon. . . . 
Blackthorn 


917 

952 

911 

890 

896 

952 

.  89f> 

.  929 

.  911 

.  942 

.  917 

.  896 

.  928 

.  939 

.  895 

.  948 

.   917 

,   954 

.  924 

,  896 

896 

.  939 

925 

896 

935 

896 

896 

896 

896 

954 

943 

897 

918 

916 

897 

898 

897 

897 

925 

899 

897 
889 
929 
898 
898 
898 
898 
899 
925 
899 
907 
901 
932 
899 
955 


PA»1 

Bleecker's  Gage  89ft 

Bleeckefs  Scarlet 929 

Bleecker's  Yelloto 899 

Bleecker's  Fellow  Gage 899 

Bleu  de  Belgigue 898 

Bleu  de  Perque 898 

Blue  Gage 899 

BlUi   J I  ■Hand 921 

Blue  Iniperatrice 900 

Blue  Iniperatrice 947 

Blue  Imperial 901 

Blue  Perdrigon 900 

Blue  Perdrigon 9:17 

Blue  Plum 900 

Blum 900 

Bdbma/r   ..   , !).r)i 

Bolmer 05 1 

Burner's  Washington 951 

Bonnet  d'Eveque 900 

Boulouf 901 

Boulouf 926 

Bradford  Gage 917 

Bradshaw 901 

Brahy's  Green  Gage 901 

Brandy   Gage 931 

Si  i  m  i  Prune 916 

Brevoorfs  Purple 901 

Brevoorfs  Purple  Bolmar 901 

Brevoorfs  Purple  Washington 901 

Bricet 901 

Bricetta 901 

Brignole 953 

Brignole  Yiolette 900 

Brugnon  Gage 917 

Bruyn  Gage 917 

Bryanston's  Gage. 902 

Buel's  Favorite 902 

Burettes 902 

Burgundy  Prune 902 

Burlington  Gage 902 

Bury  Seedling 904 

Byfield 902 

Caldwell's  Golden  Drop 902 

Caldwell's  White  Gage 903 

Oakdonicm 917.  933 

Cambell 903 

?s  SeedUng 903 

Canffs  late  Green  Gage 917 

i  in 925 

i  'erisette  Blanche 925 

Chapin 903 

'a  Early 921 

( 'hapmajn'a  Princ.  of  Wales 

Charlotte 950 

Cherry 903 

Chester  County  Prune 903 

Cheston 904 

Chickasaw  Plum 889 

Cleavinger 904 

Cloth  of  Gold  Esperen 916 

Cbth  of  Gold  Plum 910 

Cce's  Golden  Drop    904 


1084 


PLC  MB. 


PAGK 

Coe's  Golden  Drop  Violette 905 

Coe's  Imperial 904 

Coe's  Late  Red 904 

I  'oi  '8  Plum 904 

Coe's  Violet 900 

Columbia 905 

Columbian  Gage 905 

Common  Damson 907 

Common  English  Sloe 955 

( '<>)n  mon  Orleans 985 

<  'ommon  Quetsche 915 

( '',111/n"//  St.  Julien 94G 

Comte  Gustave  d'Egger . .    . .  905 

<  '"</><  r's  Blue  Gage 899 

Cooper's  Large 905 

Cooper's  Large  American 905 

( 'ooper's  Large  Bed 905 

Cope 906 

Copper 906 

Corse's  Admiral  906 

Corse's  Field  Marshal 906 

Corse's  Nota  Bene 906 

Couetsche 915 

Covetche 915 

Cox's  Seedling 906 

Croft's  Early 907 

( 'ruger'8 907 

Cruger's  Scarlet 907 

( 'ruger'8  Scarlet  Gage '. .   . .  907 

Cruger's  Seedling 907 

VAgen  939 

IT  A  merique  Rouge 903 

D'Automne  de  Schamal. 897 

IPAotriche 908 

D1 .1  mine 925 

Damas  Blanc 952 

Damas  Blanc  Gros 952 

Dumas  Blanc  Ildtif  Gros 952 

Damas  Dronet  910 

Damas  ffEspagne 949 

Damas  Gros 915 

Damas  (Tlialie 924 

Damas  Jaune . .  953 

Damas  Lawson  928 

Damas  de  Mangeron 931 

Damas  Musqiti 933 

Damas  de  Provence 939 

Damas  de  Provence  n&tif. 939 

J)amas  de  SepU  utbre 94  7 

Damas  dt   Tours 937 

Damas  de  Tours  gros 917 

Damas  Vert 917 

Damas  Violet 941 

Damas  I  riolt  I  Gros  915 

P'lmascena  ScliamaU 897 

Damasci  ne  Maugeron 931 

Damask 915 

Dame  A  ttbert 954 

Dame  Aubert  blanche 954 

Pau/e  Aubert  Jaune. 954 

Dame  Aubert  Violette 943 

Damson 907 


PA«a 

Dana's  Yellow  Gage 908 

Date  Plum 908 

Datlelzwetsche 908 

Dauphin 948 

Dauphine 917 

De  Bordeaux 926 

De  Chypre 933 

De  Driice 908 

De  Montf ort. .    908 

De  Virginie 903 

Dt  nniston's  Albany  Beauty 896 

Denniston's  Red 908 

Denniston's  Superb 908 

Denyer's  Victoria 948 

Diamond 909 

Dictator 909 

Diaphane 950 

Diaphane  Laffay 950 

Diapre  Blanc 952 

Diapree  Blanche 952 

Diapree  Rouge 942 

Diapree  Violette 904 

Die  Rothe  Eiqierflaume 943 

Die  Violette  Kimigin  Claudie 940 

Dolphin 948 

Domine  Dull 909 

Dorelle's  Neue  Grosse  Zwetsche 934 

DorelWs  New  Purple  Prune. 934 

Dorr's  Favorite 909 

Double-blossomed  Plum 955 

Double-flowering  Sloe 955 

Downing's  Early  91C 

Downton  Imprratrice 910 

Drap  d'Or 910 

Drap  d1  Or  Esperen 916 

Dronet  Damask 910 

Duane's  Purple 910 

Dumore 91 0 

Dunmore 910 

Dutch  Prune 909 

Dutch  Qtietzen 909 

Dwarf  Texas  Plum 889 

Early  Amber 911 

Earlv  Apricot 911 

Early  Bo  my 926 

Early  Black  Morocco 932 

Early  Cross 911 

Early  Damask 932 

Early  Damask  of  Provence 939 

Early  Damson .". 907 

Early  Favorite 911 

Early  Genesee 920 

Early  Green  Gage 91' 

John 925 

Early  Monsieur 911 

Early  Morocco 932 

Earty  Orleans 911 

Early  Prolific 912 

Early  Purple 921 

Early  Rivers 912 

Early  Roy  d 945 

Early  Royal  ct  Nikita 912 


PLUMS. 


1065 


Early  Russian 915 

Early  St.  John 912 

Warty  Scarlet 903 

Early  Tours 937 

Early  Violet 937 

Early   Yellow 925 

Early  Yellow  Prune 912 

Edouard  Seneclauze 912 

Egg  PI  954 

Elfrev 912 

Elfry's  Prune 912 

Emerald  Drop 913 

Empress 900 

English  Orleans 935 

English  Wheat. 913 

English  Yellow  Gage 913 

Eugene  Furst. 913 


Fair's  Golden  Drop 

FeUenberg 

Fine  Bonte 

Florence 

Flushing   Gage 

FonthiU 

Footers  Early  Orleans 

Foote's  Golden  Gage 

Fotheringay 

Fotheringham 

Franklin 

French  Copper. 

French  Royal 

French  St.  Julien 

Frost  Gage 

Frost  Plum 914, 

Fulton. 


Gi  ?s  Damas  de  Tours 917 

Gj  os  Rrmge  de  Septembre. 898 

Grosse  Luisante 954 

Grosse  Peine 917 

Grosse  Peine  Claude 917 

Qroundaere 918 

Grove  House  Purple 914 

Gundakcr  Plum 918 

Gundaker  Prune 918 

Guthrie's  Apricot 918 

Guthrie's  Aunt  Ann 918 

Guthrie's  Golden. . 918 

Guthrie's  Late  Green 919 

Guthrie's  Russet 919 

Guthrie's  TaYbank 919 

Guthrie's  Topaz 919 

Gwalsh 919 


904  Hallenbeck 920 

924  Hampton  Court 911 

913  Hartwiss'  Yellow  Prune 920 

943  Henrietta  Gage . .  920 

923  Henry  Clay 920 

937  Highlander 920 

913  Hinckley 931 

914  Holland 921 

914  Holland  Prune 92: 

914  !  Horse  Plum 92' 

951  How's  Amber 021 

906  '  Howard's  Favorite 02! 

945  Howell's  Early 921 

946  HoweWs  Large 933 

914  Hudson  Gage 922 

952  Hiding's  Peine  Claudia 917 

914  Huling's  Superb 933 


Galbraith 914 

Gelbe  MirabeUe 932 

Gem 915 

Genl.  Hand 915 

German  Gage 899 

German  Prune 915 

German  Quetsche 915 

Ghiston's  Early 916 

Gifford's  Lafayette 916 

Gillett 931 

Gisborne's. 916 

Gisborntfs  Early 916 

Qloire  de  Xeio  York 932 

Golden  Cherry  Plum 916 

Golden  Esperen 916 

Golden  Gage 904 

Golden  Gage  Lawson 928 

Goliath 917 

Gonne 917 

Gonne's  Green  Gage 913 

Goring' s  Golden  Gage 917 

Goutte  (POr 904 

Great  Damask  Violet  of  Tours 917 

Great  Green  Damask 917 

Green  Gage 917 

Grimicoo(Ts  Early  Orleans 911 

Gros  Damas  Vert 917 


Ickworth  Imperatrice 922 

Ida  Gage 917 

73a  Green  Gage 917 

Imperatrice 900 

Imperatrice  Blanche 952 

i  //)  ratrice  Violet 900 

at/rice  Violette 915 

Imperatrice  Violette  Grosse 915 

Imperial 04;! 

Imperial  Diadem 042 

Imperial  Gage 923 

Imperial  Ottoman 923 

Imperial  Purple 923 

Imperial  de  Sharp 948 

Imp' rial  Violet    943 

Imp<  riale 943 

Imperials  blanche 954 

Imp  riale  de  Milan 022 

Imp  riaie  Rouge 04;? 

Imp  riale    I  'i'di  tte 943 

Incomparable 924 

Incomparable  Prune 924 

Trriiafs  P  dinar 951 

Isabel 931 

Isabella 924 

Isleworth  Green  Gage 917 

Italian  Damask 924 


1086 


PLUMS. 


Italian  Prone 924 

Italian  Quetsche 924 

Ives 924 

Ives1  Seedling 924 

Ives1  Washington, 924 

Jaccson 951 

Jacob 925 

Jaunt  de  Catalogne 925 

Jaune  Hative 925 

,/<  mi  JIdlive 925 

Jefferson 925 

Jt  n  kins'  Imperial 983 

Jerusalem 926 

Jodoigne  Green  Gage ,    .  926 

Judson 926 

July  Green  Gage 926 

Kester's  Green  Gage 926 

Kester's  Yellow  Gage 926 

Keyser's  Plum 922 

Kirke's 926 

Kirke's  Stoneless 949 

Knevett's  Late  Orleans 938 

Knight's  Large  Drying 927 

Knight's  No.  6 922 

Koetsche 915 

Kolenkamp 927 

La  Diiicieuse 905 

La  Iioyale 945 

Lady  Plum 927 

Langdon 927 

Langdon's  Seedling ....  927 

Largt  Early  Damson 921 

Large  German  Prune. ... ...  915 

Large  Green  Drying 927 

Large  Long  Blue 930 

Large  Peach 936 

Large  White  Damson. . 907 

Largi  st  Damask  of  Tours 917 

Late  Black  Damson 907 

Late  Black  Orleans 927 

Late  Bolmer 928 

'hister 9521 

Late  Green  Gage 930 

Latt   Monsieur 935 

Late  I'urple  Damson 907  i 

Late  Rivers   928 

I  ati    Vellow  Damson 952 

Favorite 928 

•••  -  Oage 928 

Mce's  Early 928 

Lawson's  Golden 928 

Leipzic 915 

Lewiston  Egg 929 

Liegel's  Apricot 929 

Little  Blue  Gage 899 

Little  Mirabelle 932 

Little  Queen   ( 'laude 913 

Livingston  Manor  917 

Lombard 929 

Long  Scarlet 929 


turn 

Loudon  Plum 92* 

Louis  Brun. .... .     91 7 

Louis  Philippe 938 

Louisa 930 

Lucombe's  Nonesuch 930 

McCauley's  Seedling 903 

McLaughlin 930 

Madison 908 

Magn  um  Bon  urn 954 

MaUre  Claude 953 

Ma/melon  Sageret 980 

Maruelonnee 930 

Mangeron 931 

Mann's  Brandy  Gage 981 

Mann's  Imperial 931 

Manning's  Long  Blue 980 

Manning's  Long  Blue  Prune 930 

Mn lining's  Prune 930 

Marian 945 

Marten 931 

Marten's  Seedling 931 

Matchless 904 

Maugeron 931 

Ma  uqeron  Damask 931 

Mediterranean 981 

Meigs 931 

Mimms 942 

Miner 931 

Minette 7. 919 

Mirabelle 982 

Mirabelle  Blanclie 932 

Mirabelle  Double 910 

Mirabt  He  Grosse 910 

Mirabelle  Jaune 932 

Mirabelle  de  Nancy 932 

Mirabelle  d'Octobre 901 

Miriihvlle  Perle 932 

Mirabelle  Petite 982 

Miruhdle  Pricoce 982 

Mirabelle  Tardive 901 

Miruhdle  Vert  Double. 917 

Mirabelle  de  Vienne 982 

Miser  Plum 903 

Mitchelson 932 

Mitchelson's 9  2 

Monroe 932 

Monroe  Egg 932 

Monsieur 985 

Monmii  %r     fruits  Jaime 954 

Monsit  "r  J  Lit  if 911 

Monsit  ur  HdUfde  Montmorency  . . .  91 1 

Monsit  ur  HdUve 911 

Monsit  ur  Ordinaire 935 

ir  Tardif 948 

Monsit  ur  Tardive 949 

Monstrut  use  de  Bavay 897 

Monstrueuse  d'OuUins 935 

Montgomery  Prune 929 

Morocco 939 

Moyret's  Gage 933 

Mulberry....""" 933 

Murray's  Peine  Clau  Ua 917 


PMJMS. 


1087 


PAGK 

Muscle  .  .      933 

Musk  Damask .  .   933 

Musque  de  Malta 933 

Myrobolan 903 

Nectarine 933 

Nelson's  Victory 933 

New  Early  Orleans. 911 

New  Golden  Drop 904 

New  Orleans 911 

New  Washington 95 1 

New  York  Purple 901 

Newman 934 

Noire  Dative 937 

Nolen  Plum 953 

Nonpareil 924 

Xorbert 934 

Norman  Perdrigon 934 

North 934 

North1  s  Seedling 934 

Nouvelle  de  Dorelle 934 

Nutmeg  913 

Oberley 934 

Oberley's  Greenwood 934 

October  Green  Gage 935 

OSil  de  Bieuf 926 

Old  Apricot 896 

Old   Orleans 935 

Orange ....   935 

Orange  Gage 935 

Orleans 935 

Oullin's  Gage 935 

Oullin's  Golden  935 

Oulliii's  Golden  Gage 935 

Parker's  Mammoth 951 

Parsonage 930 

Paterson's 916 

Peach  Plum 936 

Peach  Plum 933 

Penobscot 936 

Peoly's  Early  Blue 936 

Perdrigon  Diane 953 

Perdrigon  Normand 934 

Perdrigon  Douge 943 

Perdrigon  Violet 937 

Perdrigon  Violet  Hatif 936 

Perdrigon  Vioktte 900 

Pershore 936 

Peter's  Yellow  Gage 937 

Petit  Bricette 901 

Petit  Drap  d'Or 932 

Pt  tit  St.  JuUen 946 

Petite  Reine  Claude 913 

Philippe  I ■  951 

Pickett's  July 925 

Pigeon's  Heart 911 

Pittess 949 

Plum  de  Vlnde 937 

Pond's  Purple 937 

Pond's  Seedling 937 

Pourprie  Duane 910 


PAS» 

Precox  de  Bergthcld 938 

Precoce  de  Tours 937 

Prince  Albert 938 

Prince  Englebert 938 

Prince  of  Wales 938 

Prince's  Dive  Piimordian 939 

Prince's  Early  Damson 907 

Prince's  Gage 923 

Prince's  Imperial 92b 

Prince's  Imperial  Gage 923 

Prince's  Orange  E?g 93S 

Prince's  Orange  Gage 938 

Prince's  Primordian 939 

Prince's  White  Gage 923 

Prince's  Yellow  Gage 939 

Provence  Damask 939 

Prune  d'Ajren 939 

Prune  d'AUemagne 915 

Prune  cPAltesse 949 

Prune  (TAltesse  blanche 925 

Prune  d'Ast 939 

Prune  (TAutomne  de  Scliamili. 897 

Prune  d'Autriche 908 

Prune  des  Dejonnieres 898 

Prune  de  Bourgogne 9<  12 

Prime  de  Brignole 939 

Prune  de  Catalogue 925 

Prune  de  Chypre 933 

Prune  Damson 907 

Prune.  Datte 908 

Prim,   Diaphane  Lajfay 950 

Prune  de  Gaillon 937 

Prune  Gonne 917 

Prune  Goutte  d'Or 904 

Prune  Grosse  Quetsche  Nouvelle 934 

Prune  d'lude  blanc 954 

Prune  d'ltalie 924 

Prone  de  Lepine 934 

Prune  de  Louvain 898 

Prune  de  la  Madelaine 937 

."run,  de  Malthe 933 

de  J f Hun 922 

Prune  de  MirabeUe !'32 

Prune  de  Monsieur 935 

Prune  Monsieur  Jennie 925 

Nouvelle  de  Dotrel 934 

Prune  d'CEuf 943 

Prune  d'  Orleans 935 

Prune  Pche 933,  936 

Prune  de  Prince 934 

Prune  ihi  Hoi 

Prune  Royale 945 

Prune  di  St.  Barnabe 925 

Prune  dt  St.  Jem, 912 

Prune,!,  St.  Martin 91)1 

Prune  Suisse 949 

I'luin  ,'r  Vaeance 947 

Prune    Violet  de  Jerusalem 926 

/'/  unit  r  ile  J,  TUSoIa  iu 926 

Prut,.',  r  di.s   I'lirunces 917 

Prun  us  ( i  rasift  ra 903 

Prunus  Myrobolana 903 

Purple  Damson 907 


i088 


VLUMS. 


PAGE 

Purple  Egg 943 

Purple  Favorite 940 

Purple  Gage 940 

Put-pie  Magnum  Bonum 910,  943 

Quackenboss 941 

Qiu  i  n  Claudia 917 

Queen  Mother 941 

(hi, tsclie  (PAUemagne  Orosse. 915 

Qut  tsche  de  Breme 916 

Qn,  tsc/te  Datte 908 

Quetsche  de  Bardie  NouveUe  Grand.  934 

Qui  tsche  Crosse 91.") 

Qut  tsclie  de.  Hongrie 908 

(jm  tsche  cVItcdie 924 

Quetsche  Precoce  de  Furst 913 

Quetsen 915 


Reagle's  Ancient  City 

Reagle's  Gage 

Reagle's  Union  Purple. . .      

Red  Apricot 

Rt  d  Da/mobk 

Red  Diaper 

Bed  Kan 

Red  Gage    

Red  Gage 

Red  Gage  of  Dutchess  County . . . 

Red  Imperial. 

Red  Magnum  Bonum 

Hi  (I  Magn  a  hi  Bonum 

Red  Orleans 

Red  Perdrigon 

Red  Primordian 

Red  Queen  Mather 

Red  Saint  Martin. 

Bi  inn   Nova 

Hi  i in   I 'In  >nli 

Hi  a,   ( 'l,i nor  iT Automne 

Claude  de  Bavay 

Reine  Claude  de  Bavay  Hative. . . . 

Brin  r  <  'laude  Berger 

11,  i,,,  i  'laude  Blanche 

Jt,  ,',,,■  i  'In nd,-  de  Brahy 

/,,,,,,  Claude  Biaphane 

Claude  Boree 

Hi  in,  (  lauds  native 

/A  in,  <  laude  cPHudson 

Reine  <  laude  Imp  rials 

Rt  I',,   Claude  de  Jodoigne 

11,  in  r  ( '<■•  1 1,  de  de  Lawrence 

Reine  Claude  Mm/ ret 

Brine  Claude  (TOctobre 

Brine  Chi  ude  dPOuliins 

Reine  Claude  Brlcoce 

Reine  Claude  Rouge  de  Septembre. 

lli i ur  Claude  Rouge  VanMons... 

Reine  ( 'laude  Tardive 

Reine  Claude  Transparent 

Reine  Cluu  le  Violette 

Reine  Claudia  blanche  la  grosse. . . 

Reine  petite  esplce 

Reine  Victoria 


941 

941 
942 
942 


942 
943 
942 
929 
942 
94:; 
943 
948 
9::.-) 
943 
943 
941 
904 
898 
917 
897 
897 
920 
936 
913 
901 
950 
917 
911 
922 
933 
936 
938 
933 
93.-) 
935 
935 
898 
898 
935 
950 
940 
917 
.  913 
.  943 


Reizensteir's  Yellow  Prune 943 

Rensselaer  Gage 917 

Rhinebeck  Yellow  Gage 944 

Rhue 944 

Rime's  Seedling 944 

Richland   944 

Rivers'  No.  1 911 

Rivers'  Early  No.  2 912 

Rivers'1  Early  Favorite 911 

Rivers'  Early  Prolific 919 

Bo  be  de  Sergent 939 

Bobinson 931 

Roby's  Yellow 944 

Boche  Carbon 942 

Boe's  Autumn  Gage 897 

Rollande  Galloppi 944 

Ronald's  Fancy 945 

Rostrave  Bell 945 

Botherham 953 

Rnyal 945 

Royal  Da  wphine 948 

Royal  Bed 945 

Boyal  Tours 945 

Boy al  de  Vilvorde 926 

Royale •    .   945 

Royale  Hative  945 

Royale  de  Tours 945 

St.  Burnable 925 

Saint  Catherine 946 

Saint  Clair 897 

Saint  Cbud 917 

Saint  Etienne   946 

St.  James'  Quetsche 916 

St.  Jean 912 

Saint  Julien 946 

St.  Julien  petit 946 

Saint  Martin 904 

Saint  Marl  in  linage 904 

Saint  Martin's  Quetsche 947 

St.   Manrin 939 

Sand  Plum 889 

Sans  Noyau 949 

Scarlet  Gage 929 

Schenectady  Catherine 947 

Schuyler  Gage 947 

Schuyler  Gage 917 

Sea 92!_ 

Semiaua  of  Boston 94  7 

September  Damask ...   947 

Sliaili  fs  White  Damson 952 

Sharp's  Emperor. 948 

Sli,,n    914 

Sheldon 948 

Shepler 943 

Shropshire  Damson 907 

Siamese 948 

Si  mill  ua 949 

Sir  Cha-les  Worsley's 945 

Small  Green  Gage 913 

Small  Mirabelle 932 

Small  Red  Damson 907 

Small  White  Damson 907 


PLUMS — POMEGRANATES. 


1089 


PAGE 

Smith's  Orleans 948 

Spanish  Damask 949 

Spotted  Gage 949 

Standard  of  England. 949 

Steertfa  Emperor 917 

Stoneless 949 

8uorin  Vert 917 

Suisse 949 

Superior  Oreen  Gage 923 

Sweet  Damson 913,  921 

Sweet  Prune 915 

Swiss  Plum 949 

Switeefs  Plum 949 

Thomas 949 

Thorndyke  Gage 950 

Tomlinson's  Charlotte 950 

Townsend 931 

Transparent  Gage 950 

Trompe  Oarcon 917 

Trompe  Valet 917 

Trouvee  de  Voueche 950 

True  Large  German  Prune 915 

Turkish  QuetscJie 915 

Ulysses 950 

Van  Monsy  Red 898 

Van  Mons1  Bed  Gage 898 

Verdochio 917 

Verducia 917 

Veritable  Imperatrice 900 

Vert  Bonne 917 

Verte  Tiquetie 917 

Victoria 948 

Violet  Diaper 904 

Violet  Empress 900 

Violet  Gage 940 

Violet  Perdrigon 900,  948 

Violet  de  Tours 937 

Vidktte 900 

Violt  tie  native 937 

Yinh  tte  Jerusalem . .  926 

Viol,  tie  Queen  Claude 940 

Virgin 950 

Virginal  Blanc 950 

Virginal  a  Fruit  blanc 950 

Virginal  ■',  gros  Fruit  blanc 950 

Virginale  Blanc  950 

Virginia  Cherry 903 

W/ger 935 

Waugenheim 951 

\Ya>hington 951 

Washington  Jaunt 951 

Washington  Purple 901 

Waterloo 904 

Wax 951 

Wentworth 954 

Wheat  Plum 913 

Wheaton 913 

White  Apricot 952 

White  Bulla-ee 952 

69 


White  Damascene 

White  Damask. .    . .   

White  Damson      

White  Diaper 

White  Egg 

White  Empress 

White  Gage 913,  923, 

White  Holland 

White  Imperatrice 

White  Imperial 

White  Magnum  Bonum  

White  Mirabelle 

White  Mogul 

White  Perdrigon 

White  Primordian 

White  Prune  Damson 

White  Virginale 

White  Winter  Damson 

Whitlow 

Wild  Goose 

Wild  Red  Plum 

Wilde's 

Wilkinson    

WilmoVs  Early  Orleans 

Wilmots  Green  Gage 

Wilniofs  Late  Green  Gage 

Wilnwfs  Late  Orleans  

Wilmofs  New  Green  Gage 

WilmoCs  Orleans 

Winesour 

Winter  Bobnar  

Winter  Damson 

Woolston's  Black  Gage 


PAea 
952 

952 
952 
952 
954 
952 
D39 
954 
952 
954 
954 
!):!2 
954 
953 
925 
952 
950 
952 
913 
953 
889 
953 
953 
911 
917 
917 
917 
917 
911 
9.-):; 
928 
907 
053 


Yellow  Apricot 896 

Yellow  Damask 953 

Yellow  Egg  954 

Yellow  Imperatrice 954 

Yellow  Mi i (j it  urn  Bonum 954 

Yellow  Perdrigon   910 

Yellow  Plum 889 

Yohe's  Eagle 954 

Young 955 

Young's  Seedling 955 

Zwetsche 915 


POMEGRANATES. 

Acid-Fruited 957 

Double  Red 957 

Double  White 957 

Grenadier  a  Fruit  Doux 957 

Subacid-Fruited 957 

Sweet-Fruited 957 

Variegated  Flowered. 957 

Wild  Pomegranate 957 


1090 


POMEGRANATES QUINCES R  ASPBERR IE8. 


Yellow  Flowered 957 

QUINCES. 

Angers 958 

Apple-shaped  Quince 959 

Blush  Japan  Quince 960 

Chinese  Quince 960 

Cydonia  Japonica 960 

Japan  Quince 960 

New  Upright 959 

Oblong  Quince 959 

Orange  Quince , 959 

Paris  de  Fontenay 959 

Pear-shaped  Quince 959 

Portugal  Quince 959 

Pyrus  Japonica 960 

Rea's  Seedling 959 

Van  Slyke 959 

White  Quince 960 

RASPBERRIES. 

Abel 967 

Allen 962 

Allen 971 

Allen's  Antwerp 962 

Allen's  Red  Prolific 962 

American  Black 96:! 

Ami  rican  Imjyroved 966 

American  Red 963 

American  White 963 

Arnold's  Orange 963 

Arnold's  Red 963 

August  Black 963 

Autumn  Black 963 

Autumn  Black  Raspberry 969 

Bagley'8  Perpetual 964 

Bamet 964 

Bun* ft  Cane. 964 

Belle  de  Fontenay 964 

Belli  $  Orleans 064 

Belle  de  Paluau 964 

Black 964 

Black  Raspberry 963 

Brentford  Cane 964 

Bri/tc/de's  Orange 971 

Barley 972 

Burlington 964 

Canada  Black  Cap 964 

Darter's  Prolific 965 


Catawissa 965 

Cincinnati  Red ...  969 

Clarke 965 

Col.  Wilder 965 

CollinsviUe  Miami. 969 

Common  Black-  Cap 963 

Common  Red 963 

Cope 965 

Coi-nwalPs  Prolific 964 

Cornwall's  Seedling 964 

Cretan  Red 965 

Cushing 965 

Cutbush's  Prince  of  Wales 971 

Davison's  Thornless 966 

Doolittle 966 

Doolittle's  Black  Cap 966 

Doolittle's  Red  Flavored  Black  Cap.  967 

Double-Bearing 96(> 

Double- Beanng  Yellow 974 

Duhring 966 

Ellisdale 966 

Elm  City 966 

Elsie 966 

Emily 966 

English  Black 964 

English  Globe 966 

English  Purple 971 

English  Red 971 

English  Red  Cane 9(52 

False  Red  Antwerp 962 

Fastollf 9(57 

Filby 967 

Framboisier  a  Oros  Fruit 972 

Franconia 967 

French 967 

Fulton 967 

Garden 967 

Gen.  Patterson 967 

Golden  Cap 963 

Golden  Thornless    967 

Hildreth MS 

Hornet 968 

Rowland's  Red  Antwerp 972 

Hudson  River  Antwerp 968 

Huntsman's  Giant 968 

HuntsviUe 971 

Imperial 968 

Imperial  Rel 968 

Improved  Miami 969 

Joslyn's  Black  Cap 966 

Joslyn's  Improved 966 

Jostyn's  Improved  Black  Cap 966 

Jouet 968 

Kirtland 969 

Knevet's  Giant 96fl 


KA8PBERRIES — STRAWBERRIES. 


1091 


KnevetCs  Antwerp 972 

Large-Fruited  Monthly 969 

Large  Miami  Black  Cap 969 

Lurge  Orange 972 

Large  Red 964 

Late  Siberian 966 

Lindley 969 

Little  Miami  Black  Gap 970 

Lord  ExmoutlCs 964 

Lum's  Ever-Bearing 969 

MeCormick 969 

Magnum  Bonum 970 

Mammoth  Cluster 969 

Mi  rveffle  de  Quatre  Saisons 970 

Miami  Black 970 

Miami  Black  Cap 969 

Mote's  Ever-Bearing. 970 

Mrs.  Wood 970 

New  Red  Antwerp 968 

Northumberland  Fill-Basket 970 

Nottingham  Scarlet 970 

October  Red 970 

October  Yellow 970 

Ohio  Ever-Bearing 971 

Ohio  Raspberry 971 

Old  Red  Antwerp 972 

Orange 971 

Perpetual  Bearing 966 

Philadelphia 971 

Pilate 971 

Prince  of  Wales 971 

Prince's  Globose 971 

Prolific  ( Carter's) 965 

Prosser 964 

Purple  Cane 971 

Purple  Prolific "  971 

Red  Antwerp 972 

Red  Imperial 968 

Red  Pearl 972 

Red  Prolific 971 

Riley's  Early 972 

Rivers'  New  Large  Monthly 969 

Rivers'  Orange 972 

Rogers  Victoria 973 

Rubus  Occidentals 963 

Russell's  Red 972 

Semper  Fidelis 972 

Seneca  Black  Cap 972 

Souchetti 973 

Stoever 963 

Summit 973 

Superior  Miami 969 

Surprise 9  <  3 

Sweet  Yellow  Antwerp 973 

Thxmbleberry 963 


FAMB 

Thornless  Black  Cap 966 

Thunderer 973 

True  Red  Antwerp 972 

Vice-President  French 967 

Victoria 973 

Walker 973 

White  Antwerp. . , 974 

White  Canada 973 

White  Transparent 973 

Woodside 974 

Woodward    974 

Yellow  Antwerp 974 

Yellow  Cap 963 

Yellow  Pearl     974 


STRAWBERRIES. 

Aberdeen 1001 

Aberdeen  Beehive 988 

Aberdeen  Seedling 1001 

Abraham  Lincoln 978 

Adair 978 

Admiral  Dundas 978 

Agriculturist 978 

Ajax 978 

Albino 994 

Albion  White 994 

Alice  Maud 978 

Ambrosia 978 

America 978 

American  Scarlet 990 

Ariadne 978 

1 1  tk iuson's  Scarlet 988 

Austin 979 

^•1  ustin  Seedling 979 

Austin  Shake)' 9T9 

Austrian  Scarlet 985 

Barnes'  Mammoth 979 

Barnes1  White 979 

Baron  Deman  de  Lennick 979 

BarUeU 980 

Belle  de  Bordelaise 1007 

Bicolor 9T9 

Bicton  Pine 979 

Bijou   979 

Bishop's  New 979 

Bishop's  Orange 979 

Black 997 

Black  Beacon   997 

Black  Cantt  rbwry 997 

Black  Imperial. 979 

Black  Pine 997 

Black  Prince 979 

Black  Roseberry 980 

Blood  Pine 998 

Bowebt 980 

Bont  -  de  St.  Julian 980 

Boston  Pine   980 


1092 


STRAWBERRIES. 


PAOK 

Boudinot  980 

Boule  vlOr 980 

Boyden's  Mammoth 980 

Boyden's  No.  30 980 

Brewer's  Emperor 980 

Brick  ley  Scarlet  1001 

Brighton  Pine 980 

Brilliant 981 

British  Green  Seedling 998 

British  Queen 981 

British  Queen. 990 

Brook's  Prolific 991 

Brooklyn  Scarlet 981 

Brune  de  Gilbert 1005 

Bryan's  Satisfaction 981 

Buffalo 995 

Buisson  des  Alpes  Blanc,  etc 1006 

Bunce 984 

Burr's  New  Pine 981 

Burr's  Old  Seedling 981 

Burr's  Seedling 981 

J! 'i it's  Stamiaate 981 

Caleb  Cope 981 

Gaperon  Hermaphrodite .1007 

i  'up,  ron  Royal 1007 

Oapt.  Cook 981 

Carolina  998 

Carolina 998 

Carolina  Superba 981 

Champion 982 

Charles  Downing 982 

Charles  Favorite 982 

Charlotte 982 

Charlton  Prolific 982 

Chorlton 982 

Chillian 982 

Clinton 982 

Cockscomb 982 

Colfax 982 

Colonel  Ellsworth 983 

Columbus 983 

Common  Rouge 100(3 

Coiumn n  suns  Filets 1006 

Comte  de  Flandre 983 

Comte  de  Paris 983 

Conical 1007 

Cornucopia 983 

Crimson  Cluster 983 

Crimson  'Cone  983 

Crimson  Favorite 983 

Crimson  Queen 983 

( Irystal  Palace 985 

Culverwell's  Seedling 984 

Cushing 984 

CuthilVs  Black  Prince 979 

CuthUVs  Princess  Royal 1000 

Cutter's  Seedling 984 

De  Bath 984 

Delices  d'Automne 984 

Deptford  Pine 884 

Dm  Alpes  d  Fruit  Blanc 1006 


PAi.f 

Des  Alpes  d  Fr  lit  Rouge 1005 

Des  Alpes  de  Tous  les  Mais  d  Fruit 

Blanc,  etc 10M 

Des  Alpes  de  Tous  les  Mois  a  Fruit 

Rouge. 1005 

Des  Alpes  sans  Filets. 100C 

Des  Bois  d  Fruit  Rouge 1006 

Des  Quatre  Saisons 1006 

Diadem 984 

Doctor  Hogg   984 

Doctor  Nicaise 984 

Double-Bearing 1007 

Doubleday's  No.  2 983 

Downer's  Prolific 984 

Downton 985 

Due  de  Brabant 985 

Due  de  Malakoff 985 

Duchesse  de  Trivisse 1004 

Duke  of  Kent 985 

Duke  of  York  Scarlet 985 

Dundee 985 

Durand 985 

Dura ikVs  Seedling 985 

Dutchberry 983 

Early  Prolific  Scarlet 985 

Early  Virginia 993 

Early  Washington 991 

Eclipse 985 

Elton 986 

Elton  Improved 986 

Elton  Pine 986 

Elton  Seedling 986 

Emily 986 

Emma ^ 986 

Empress  Eugenie 986 

English  Lady  Finger 986 

English  Red  Wood 1006 

Fairy  Queen 986 

Faulkner's  King 1000 

Faulkner's  Seedling 1000 

Ferdinande 986 

Filbert  Pine 986 

Fill-Basket 987 

Fillmore 987 

Fleming 9S7 

Florence 987 

Fraisier  Vert 1008 

French 987 

Fr,  /,,-//  Musk  Ilautbois 1007 

French's  Seedling 987 

Frogmore  Late  Pine 9  ■ ; 

Galland 1005 

Garibaldi 987 

Gt  a, nil  JfeLellan 995 

General  Scott 988 

Genesee 987 

Germantovm 990 

Globe 988 

Globe  Scarlet 985 

Globose  Scarlet 988 


STBAWBEKRIES. 


109* 


Golden  Soeded 988 

Golden  Queen 1004 

Goliath 988 

Grandiflora 998 

Great  Eastern 988 

Green  Alpine 1008 

Green  Pine 1008 

Green  Prolific 988 

Green  Strawberry 1008 

Green  Wood 1008 

GreenweWs  French 1007 

GreenweWs  New  Giant. 1007 

Grove  End  Scarlet 988 

Haquin 980 

Harlem  Orange 989 

Hathaway 989 

Hathaway1  s  Seedling 989 

Hendry 989 

Hero 989 

Rigging  Seedling 996 

Highland  Chief 989 

Highland  Mary 989 

Hooker 989 

Hooper's  Seedling 990 

Hovey's  Seedling 990 

Hudson 


PAOl 

La  Reine 993 

La  Sultane 993 

La  Versaillaise 994 

Ladies'1  Finger 993 

Ladies'  Pine 992 

Lady 993 

Lady  Finger 993 

Lady  of  the  Lake 993 

Large  Early  Scarlet 993 

Late  Scarlet 990 

Laurella  993 

Le  Baron 9'.)4 

Lennig's  White 994 

L  once  de  Lambertye 994 

Leopold  I   994 

Little  Monitor 994 

Lizzie  Randolph   994 

Longworth's  Prolific 994 

Lorenz  Booth 994 

Lorio 995 

Lucas 995 

Lucida  Perfecta 995 

McAvoy's  Extra  Red 995 

McAvoy's  No.  1 995 

MeA  vo'y's  No.  12 995 


990  |  McAvoy's  Superior 995 


Hudson's  Bay 990 

Huntsman 990 

Ida 990 

Imperatrice  Eugenie 990 

Imperial  Crimson 990 

Imperial  Scarlet 991 

Ingram's  Prince  Arthur 991 

Ingram's  Princess  Royal 1000 

Iowa 991 

Jenny  Lind 991 

Jenny's  Seedling 99 1 

Jessie  Read 991 

Jeyes'  Wonderful 1005 

John  Powell 991 

Jucunda 991 

Julien 991 

Keen's  Black  Pine 992 

Keen's  Seedling 992  Hyatt's  Deptford  Pine 984 

Keen's  Seedling 996  Myatt's  E'en  nor .  985 

Kentucky , 992  Myatt's  Eliza 996 

Kimberly  Pine 992  Myatt's  Globe 988 

Kitley's  Goliath 988  Myatt's  Mammoth .  995 

Knight's  Seedling 985  Myatffs  Prolific 1005 

Knox'slOO 99l\Myatt'a  Seedling 986 


Malcolm's  Aberdeen  Seedling 979 

Mammoth 995 

Marguerite 995 

Marquise  de  la  Tour  Maubourg. . .  .1004 

Marshall's  Seedling 1003 

Mead's  Seedling 995 

Melon 995 

Metcalf  s  Early 996 

M>  th  ven  Castle 996 

Methven  Scarlet 996 

Miss  Lda 990 

Monitor 996 

Monroe  Scarlet 996 

Montevideo  Pine 996 

Monthly,  without  runners 1006 

Moyamensing 996 

Mulberry  997 

Murphy's  Child 993 

Musk  Hautbois L007 

Myatt's  British  Queen 981 


Kramer . 


992 


La  Challonaise 992 

La  Constants 992 

La  Delicieuae 992 

La  Fertile 993 

La  Grosse  Sncree 993 

La  Liegeoise 993 

LaPerle 993 


Naomi  996 

Napoleon 997 

Napoleon  III 997 

Necked  Fine 997 

New  Uautbois 998 

New  Jersey  Scarlet 997 

Newark  Prolific 988 

Neicland 98? 


1094 


STRAWBERRIES. 


PAOK 

NewlancPs  Mammoth 1006 

Nicanor 997 

Nimorod 978 

Nova  Scotia  Scarlet 985 

Oatland's  Scarlet 985 

Old  Black 997 

Old  John  Brown 997 

Old  Pine 998 

OldScarlet 998 

Old  Scarlet  Pine 998 

Onicr  Pacha 996 

Orange  Hudson  Bay 979 

Orange  Prolific 998 

Oscar 998 

Patagonian 1007 

Peabody 998 

Penbody's  Seedling 998 

Peak's  Emperor. 998 

Pennsylvania 998 

Pine  Apple 997,  998 

Powdered  Pine 1008 

Prairie  Farmer 1003 

Premier 998 

President 978 

President  Wilder 998 

Primordian 999 

Prince  Albert 999 

Prince  Frederick  William 999 

Prince  of  Orleans 999 

Prince  of  Wales 999 

Prince's  Climax 999 

Prince's  Excelsior 999 

Prince's  Magnate 999 

Princess  Alice  Maud 978 

Princess  Royal 1000 

Princess  Royal  of  England 1000 

Profuse  Scarlet  1000 

Prolific 1000,  1007 

Prolific  Pine 1001 

Pyramidal  CMUian 982 

Randolph  Pine 1000 

Red  Alpine 1005 

Red-Bush  Alpine 1006 

Red  Monthly  Strawberry 1005 

Red  Wood 1006 

Rt  evt  'a  Eclipse 985 

Rt hi nt's  Dwarf 1007 

Reine  des  Beiges 999 

Richardson's  Early 1000 

Richardson's  Late 1000 

Rifleman 1000 

Ripawaxn 1000 

Rival  Hudson 1001 

Rival  Queen 996 

Rivers'  Eliza 1001 

Robinson's  Defiance 1001 

Romcyn  Seedling 1004 

Rose 1001 

Roseberry 1001 

Rosebud 1001 


PAOB 

Ross's  Phoenix 1001 

Royal  Hautbois 1007 

Ruby ..1001 

Ruisson .  .100(1 

Russell's  Prolific 1001 

Sabreur 1003 

Sacemibe 1007 

Salter's  Versaillaise 1002 

Scarlet  Cone 1002 

Scarlet  Magnate 999 

Scarlet  Melting 1002 

Scarlet  Nonpareil 1002 

Scotch  Pineapple 983 

Scotch  Runner 983 

Scotch  Scarlet 1001 

Scott's  Seedling 1002 

Seedling  Eliza 1001 

Shaker's  Seedling 979 

Sir  Charles  Napier 1002 

Sir  Harrv 1002 

Sir  Joseph  Banks 1007 

Sir  Joseph  Paxton 1002 

Southampton  Scarlet 996 

Southborough 1003 

Soutldwrough  Seedling 1003 

Souvenir 1 003 

Souvenir  de  Kieff. 1003 

Stinger 1003 

Stingt r's  Set tiling 1003 

Stirling  Castle  Pine 1003 

Stoddard's  Alpine 1006 

Swainstone's  Seedling 1003 

Topsy 1003 

Trembly' s   Union 1 004 

Triomphe  de  Gand 1003 

Triomphe  d'Hollande 1006 

Triomphe  de  Liege 1 004 

Triumph  of  Holland  Alpine 1 006 

Trolhj)e's  Victoria 100-1 

True  Chili 1007 

Turkey  Pine 997 

Union 1003,  1004 

I liique  Prairie 997 

Vicomtesse  Hericart  de  Thury. . .  .1004 

Victoria 1004 

Victory  of  Bath 1004 

Vineuse  de  Nantes 1 004 

Virgin  Queen 979 

Walker's  Seedling 1004 

Ward's  Favorite 1004 

Warren's  Seedling 996 

Washington 991 

1 1  <  ish  in  gton  Alpine 1 00(5 

White  Albany 994 

White  Alpine 1006 

White  Bush  Alpine 1006 

White  Monthly 1006 

White  Monthly,  without  runners  . .  .1006 


STRAWBERRIES. 


109; 


PAGE 

White  Pineapple 994 

White  Wood  1007 

Western  Queen 1004 

Wild  Strawberry  of  Europe 1006 

Willey 1005 

Wilmot's  Superb 1007 

Wilmot's  Prince  Arthur 1005 


Wilson's  Albany     .....1005 

Wizard  of  the  Noilh 1005 

Wonderful 1005 

Yellow  Chili 1008 

York  River  Scarlet 99C 

Young's  Seedling 99f 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Al>MONT>,  its  nativity,  430 ;  uses  of,  ib. ; 
its  cultivation,  ib. ;  varieties,  431 ;  or- 
namental. 432. 

American  Blight,  66. 

Annual  pruning  of  peach  trees,  585 
(note). 

Aphis,  the  Woolly,  66. 

Apple,  its  history,  58  ;  where  best  nat- 
uralized, 59 ;  its  uses,  ib.  ;  its  quality, 
60;  propagation,  ib. ;  grafting,  21; 
soil  and  situation  for,  61  ;  planting 
and  cultivation  of  apple  orchards.  62 ; 
the  bearing  year.  63 ;  pruning,  ib. ; 
insects  destructive  to,  ib.  ;  how  to  de- 
stroy, 64 ;  gathering  and  keeping, 
67;  varieties  of,  72;  Siberian  crabs 
and  improved  Siberian  apples,  421  ; 
selections  for  different  latitudes,  and 
for  table  use,  marketing,  cooking,  and 
keeping,  427. 

Apple  bark  beetle,  67. 

Apple  Borer,  63. 

Apple  Worm,  66. 

Apricot,  uses  and  cultivation  of,  433 ; 
liable  to  disease,  ib.  ;  curculio  fatal 
to  fruit,  ib.  ;  varieties  of  tree,  ib. ; 
ornamental  varieties,  442 ;  varieties 
adapted  for  small  gardens,  and  for 
cold  climates,  ib. 

Ashes,  a  cure  for  peach  borer,  586. 

Aspect  of  fruit  trees,  58. 

Bark  Louse,  the.  66. 

Bats,  useful  as  destroyers  of  insects, 
58. 

Bending  down  limbs,  to  produce  fruit- 
fulness,  37. 

Berberry,  description  of,  442;  its  use 
and  culture,  443 ;  varieties  of,  ib. 

Birds,  as  destroyers  of  insects,  57. 

Black  Gum,  fatal  to  plum  trees,  894. 

Black  Walnut.  f»74. 

Blackberry,  culture  and  varieties  of, 
443  ;  ornamental  varieties,  446. 

Blight  on  Apple  Trees,  67. 

Budding,  23;  proper  season  for,  24; 
shield  and  American  shield  budding, 
25  ;  reversed  shield  budding,  26  ;  an- 
nular budding,  27. 


Butternut,  574. 

Canker  Worm,  the,  65. 

Caterpillar,  64;  to  desticy,  ib. 

Chamomile  to  destroy  insects,  16. 

Cherry,  its  history,  447;  uses  of,  ib 
gum  of  the,  448  ;  as  shade  trees,  ib 
soil  and  situation  for,  ib.  ;  propaga 
tion  and  cultivation,  440  ;  classes  of, 
450;  ornamental  varieties,  486;  se- 
lections of,  for  family  use,  to  ripen 
in  succession,  487 . 

Chestnut,  572. 

Cider,  how  to  make,  69. 

Citron,  the,  579. 

Coal  Tar,  a  remedy  for  grubs,  56. 

Codling  Moth,  66. 

Composition  for  wounds  in  pruning,  35. 

Crab,  wild  species  of,  58. 

Cranberry,  description  of  and  value, 
493  ;  its  culture  profitable,  494. 

Cross-breeding,  7. 

Cucumber  Bug,  the,  559. 

Curculio,  892 ;  habits  of.  ib. ;  how  to 
destroy.  893, 

Curl,  the,  in  peach  trees,  592. 

Currant,  its  history  and  use,  487 ;  pro- 
pagation and  culture,  488  ;  insects  de- 
structive to.  4SS,  489 ;  varieties  of, 
489;  ornamental,  493. 

Cuttings,  to  propagate  by,  29. 

De   Cakdolle,  remarks  on  decay  of 

varieties,  11. 
Deep  planting  to  be  avoided,  48. 
Disbarking  and  ringing,  37. 
Duration  of  varieties,  10. 

Eyes,  or  Buds,  to  propagate  by,  23. 

Fig,  its  history,  404  ;  its  secret  blossom, 
404.  495 ;  propagation,  40") ;  soil  and 
culture,  ib. ;  oiling  the  fruit,  496  ;  va- 
rieties, ib. 

Filbert,  varieties  of,  574. 

Fire  Blight,  644. 

French  Standard  Names,  key  to,  1009 

Frozen-Sap  Blight,  646. 

Fruit,  production  of  new  varieties,  1. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


1097 


Frit  it  fulness  increased  by  root-pruning, 
36 ;  by  bending  the  limbs,  37. 

Glands  of  the  Peach,  593. 
Gooseberry,    description   and  uses   of, 
490.500;    propagation  and  culture,' 
500;  varieties.  501  ;  selection  of,  503; 
American  varieties,  ib. 
Graft,  its  influence  on  the  stock,  27. 

Grafting,  uses  of,  16;  proper  time  for, 
ib.  ;  scions  selected,  17;  stock  for, 
ib.  ;  theory  of,  ib.  ;  confined  to  cer- 
tain limits,  ib.  ;  its  manual  opera- 
tion, 18  ;  splice  and  tongue  grafting, 
18,  19  ;  American  Whip-tongue  graf- 
ting, 19;  cleft  grafting,  21  ;  grafting 
the  vine,  22 ;  saddle  grafting,  ib. ; 
side  grafting,  23. 

Grafting  Clay,  23. 

Grafting  Wax,  23. 

Grape,  history  of,  504 ;  uses  and  soil, 
505;  propagation,  506;  culture  of 
foreign,  ib. ;  renewal  system,  507 ; 
culture  under  glass,  without  heat, 
508 ;  soil  for  vinery,  509 ;  pruning, 
ib.  ;  routine  of  culture,  510;  thinning 
the  fruit,  ib.  ;  culture  under  glass, 
with  fire-heat,  ib.  ;  construction  of 
vinery,  511;  the  border,  512;  the 
spur  system  of  pruning,  512  ;  insects 
and  diseases  peculiar  to,  513  ;  varie- 
ties, ib.  ;  pruning,  training,  and  cul- 
ture of  American  grapes,  525 ;  dis- 
eases and  insects.  527 ;  grafting,  ib.  ; 
keeping,  ib.  ;  varieties,  528  ;  selection 
of  varieties,  558. 

Grape  Beetle,  027. 

Eickort  Nut,  574. 
Eybridising,  7 ;  limits  of,  8. 

Inoculating  Fruit  Trees,  23. 

Insect  Blight,  645. 

Insects,  remarks  on,  54 ;  to  destroy  by 
hand-picking,  55;  larvae,  or  grubs, 
ib.  ;  salt,  a  remedy  for,  ib.  ;  to  de- 
stroy in  the  winged  state,  56. 

Knight,  his  mode  of  raising  new  varie- 
ties, 10 ;  his  theory  on  the  decay  of 
varieties,  ib. 

Knots  Disease,  fatal  to  plum,  894. 

Layers,  propagating  by,  31. 

Laying  in  by  the  heels,  50. 

Lemons  and  Limes,  579. 

Lime,  a  cure  for  peach-borer,  586. 

Loams,   best  adapted  for  plantations, 

51. 
Longevity  of  Peach   Trees,  585  (note). 

Madeira  Nut,  573. 

Manure  for  fro  it  trees,  48,  49. 


Melon,  its  history  and  culture,  559  ;  in- 
sects attacking,  ib. ;  varieties,  560. 

Mice,  to  prevent  girdling  trees,  35. 

Mildew  in  grapes.  527. 

Moths,  how  to  destroy,  56. 

Mulberry,  habits  and  varieties,  564  ;  the 
ever-bearing  ib. ;  the  red  mulberry 
565.  " 

Mulching,  48. 

Nectarine,  its  history  and  culture, 
565 ;  curculio  an  enemy  to,  ib.  •  va- 
rieties, 566. 

Noyes.  Darling,  remarks  on  the  yellows 
in  Peach  588  (note). 

Nuts:  Chestnut,  572 ;  the  Chinquapin 
and  European  Walnut,  573  ;  Filbert 
Hickory  nut,  574. 

Olive,  history  and  uses,  575;  propaga- 
tion and  culture,  ib.  ;  varieties,  576. 

Orange,  history,  576,  577 ;  soil  and  cul- 
ture, 577;  insects  on,  ib.  ;  specific 
against,  578;  varieties,  ib. 

Peach,  its  history,  580 ;  uses,  581 ; 
Propagation,  582;  soil  and  situation. 
ib.  ;  pruning,  583  ;  training.  583 ;  in 
sects  and  diseases,  586 ;  yellows  in 
587;  symptoms,  ib  ;  cause,  586 
remedy  for,  591 ;  the  curl.  592 ;  class* 
fication  of  freestones  and  clingsto:i< ■.>- 
ib.  ,  raising  peaches  in  pots,  594 ;  va 
rieties,  596;  curious  or  ornamental 
varieties,  638 ;  selection  of  choice 
sorts,  639;  selection  for  the  South, 
ib. 

Peach  Borer,  586 ;  remedy  for.  ib. 

Pear,  history  of,  639  ;  its  nativity.  640; 
extraordinary  specimen  of  tree.  641  ; 
uses  of  ib.  ;  gathering  and  keeping, 
ib.  ;  propagating,  642;  soil,  situatim  . 
and  culture,  643;  diseases  of.  (iil; 
insect  blight,  etc.,  645;  varieties, 
650 ;  select  list  for  table  use,  marke'-, 
ing.  and  cooking,  887. 

Planting  deep,  bad  effects  of,  48. 

Plum,  history  and  use,  889;  propaga- 
tion and  culture.  890;  soil,  891  ;  in- 
sects  and  diseases,  ib.  ;  curculio  <>r 
plum-weevil,  892;  how  to  destroy, 
893;  the  knots  or  black  gum. 
varieties,  895  ;  ornamental  varieties 
955;  selection  of  varieties  for  ; 
market,  and  cooking,  ib. 

Plum  Weevil.  892. 

Pomegranate,  history  and  uses,  956 ; 
propagation  and  culture,  957 ;  varie- 
ties, ib. 

Position  of  fruit  trees,  51. 

Potash  Wash  for  fruit  trees,  35. 

Preparing  soil  for  fruit  trees,  47 

Propagatii'ii  of  Varieties,  16;  by  cut 
tings.  29  :  by  layers  and  suckers.  31 


1098 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Prunes,  to  make,  890. 

Pruning,  to  promote  growth,  33 ;  to  in- 
duce fruitfulness,  36;  annual,  pro- 
duces longevity  in  peach  treeB,  585 
(note). 

Quenouille  training,  39. 

Quince,  its  history  and  use,  957,  958; 
propagation,  culture,  and  varieties, 
958;  ornamental  varieties,  9(30. 

Quince  Stocks  to  dwarf  pears,  643. 

Rabbits,  to  prevent  girdling  trees,  35. 

Raspberry,  its  habits,  uses,  propaga- 
tion, and  culture,  960,  961 ;  varieties, 
962. 

Remedies  for  Blight,  646 

Renewal  Training  of  vines,  507. 

Ringing  and  Disbarking,  37. 

Rivers,  Mr. ,  on  Root-pruning,  86. 

Root-pruning,  36. 

Saddle-grafting,  22. 

Salt,  used  to  destroy  insects,  55. 

Scale  Insect  on  Orange,  578. 

Scions,  to  select,  17. 

Seedlings,  to  raise,  4,  5. 

Shaddock,  the,  579. 

Shellac,  for  wounds  in  trees,  35. 

Shortening -in,  mode  of  pruning  the 
peach,  37. 

Siberian  Crabs,  421. 

Slug- worm,  650. 

Smells  will  drive  away  winged  insects, 
56. 

Soft- Soap,  for  stems  of  trees,  36. 

Soil,  best  for  fruit  trees,  51. 

Species  of  Fruit  Trees,  2. 

Spurring-in,  training  the  vine,  507. 

Stocks,  for  grafting.  17  ;  their  influence 
on  graft,  27. 

Stopping  the  bearing  shoots  of  the  vine, 
50b. 

Strawberry,  history  and  uses,  974 ;  pro- 
pagation and  soil,  975  ;  modes  of  cul- 
ture, 976  ;  fertile  and  barren  plants, 
976,  977  ;  varieties,  977  ;  Alpine  and 
wood  strawberries,  1005  ;  hautbois 
strawberries,  1007;  Chili  strawberries, 


ib.  ;   green  strawberries,  1008 ;  seleo 
tion  of  varieties.  1008. 
Suckers,  propagating  by,  32. 

Taking  up  Trees,  46. 

Thorn,  the,  good  stocks  for  pear  trees, 
643. 

Toads  destroy  insects,  58. 

Tobacco- Water,  remedy  for  insects,  56. 

Training,  remarks  on,  38 ;  its  objects, 
39  ;  conical  standards  and  quenouille 
training,  39,  40  ;  pyramids  and  bush- 
es, 40 ;  cordon-training,  41 ;  fan-train- 
ing, 42  ;  horizontal  training,  44. 

Transplanting,  remarks  on,  45 ;  best 
season  for,  45,  46 ;  preparing  the 
places,  47  ;  proper  size  for,  49  ;  lay- 
ing in  by  the  heels,  50. 

Trellis,  use  of,  for  the  vine,  508. 

Trenching,  to  improve  soil,  53. 

Valleys,  objectionable  for  fruit  trees, 
53. 

Van  Mons'  Theory,  5. 

Varieties,  to  produce  new.  1 ;  tendency 
to  change,  3 ;  influence  of  grafting 
on,  4  ;  Van  Mons'  method  of  raising 
new,  5  ;  cross-breeding,  7  ;  propaga- 
tion of,  16  ;  remarks  on  the  duration 
of,  10  ;  Knight's  theory  on  the  decay 
of,  ib. ;  effects  of  climate  on,  12 ;  tc 
restore  decayed,  15. 

Vine,  grafting  the,  22 ;  culture  of,  506. 

Vinery,  cheap  mode  of  building,  508 ; 
for  fire-heat,  510. 

Vineyard  Culture,  526. 

Wash  for  stems  of  fruit  trees,  35. 
Water   Melon,    its   uses,   culture,   and 

varieties,  561. 
Weevil,  attacks  plums,  892. 
Whale-oil  Soap,  to  destroy  insects,  56 
Wild  Plum,  varieties  indigenous,  889. 
Woolly  Aphis,  the,  66. 
Wounds  made  in  pruning,  composition 

for,  35. 

Yellows,  disease  of,  in  Peach,  587 
symptoms,  ib. ;  cause,  588 ;  remedy 
591. 


'TIE 


FRUITS    AND    FRUIT-TREES 


AMERICA: 


THE    CULTURE,    PROPAGATION,    AND    MANAGEMENT,    IN    THE 
GARDEN  AND  ORCHARD.  OF  FRUIT-TREES  GENERALLY ; 


DESCRIPTIONS   OF   ALL  THE    FINEST  VARIETIES   OF   FRUIT,  NATIVE 
AND  FOREIGN,   CULTIVATED  IN  THIS  COUNTRY. 


By   A.    J.    DOWNING, 

COBBESPONDING   MEMBER   OF    THE    ROYAL   BOTANIC   SOCIETY    OF  LONDON  I    AND   OF  THE   HORTICUL 

TUUAX.    SOCIETIES    OK    BKKLIN,    THE    LOW    COUNTRIES    MASSACHUSETTS, 

PENNSYLVANIA,    INDIANA,    CINCINNATI,    hIC. 


APPENDIXES  -I..   II..  and   III. 


NEW    YORK  : 

JOHN    WILEY    AND   SONS, 
vst  Tenth  Stkeet, 

11)00. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1872,  by 

JOHN   WILEY   &   SON, 

In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  WashioTta», 


GENERAL  INDEX 

TO 

APPENDIXES  I,  II,  and  IIL 


APPLES. 


[Standard  names  are  in  Roman  letter.* 

PAGE 

Adam's  WJiite 6? 

Allerson's  Early 75 

American  Golden   Russet  of  New 

England 53 

American  Beauty 105 

Amsterdam  Sweet 43 

Andrew's  Favorite 75 

Andrew's  Sweet 75 

Annate 43 

Annette 43 

Arnold's  Beauty 43 

Austin  Apple 76 

Autumn  PommeGris. 1 

Bailey's  Crimson  Crab 33 

Baldwin's  Summer 107 

Baltzley 2 

Baltzley's  Sweet 2 

Bank 76 

Baptist 44 

Barnard 76 

Beauty  of  the  World 76  | 

Belle  de  Boskoop 77 

Belle  du  Havre 2 

Belle  Donee  du  Havre 2 

Bell's  Seedling 3 

/>  mder 104 

Bergen   44 

Berkshire  Spy 44 

Bettie  Brot-ks 43 

Big  (t  ■;  /  / 45 

Big  Ramlo 37 

Big  II                57 

Big  Sweet 45 

Big  Tree !K 

Black  Hawk 45 

Black  Jack 51 

Black  Pen  nock 57 

Black  Twig 78 

Black  Vandi  were 57 

Black's  An'.ette 45 

Blenheim  P'ppin 3 

Blenheim.  Orange 3 

Bloomiufi  Orange 3 

Blenheim 3 

Blue  Bloom 78 

iii 


The  synonymous  names  in  Italic.'] 

PAGB 

Blue  Spitsenberg. 45 

Bower's  Nonpareil 45 

Boyd 3 

Breck,  »  ridge 78 

Brewmgt on  Pippin 78 

Bn  wington 78 

Briers  Sweet  Crab 39 

Brilliant 46 

Broadwater 46 

Brown  Fall 85 

Bucks  County 46 

Buck*  County  Seedling 72 

Bullock's  Pippin 53 

Bunker  Hill 4 

Burlington  Pippin 47 

Bushnell 78 

Busby's  Early 4 

Cabane  du  Ohien 102 

Cadwallader's  Golden 5 

Calkin's  Pippin 5 

Canada  Baldwin 79 

Carpenter's  Sweet 79 

Carpentin 79 

tin    Rcinette 79 

Centennial 80 

^heese  Apple 48 

35 

Chester  County 5 

Child's 47 

Clark's  Prolific 48 

Clark 80 

Clayton  6 

Clermont 

Cline's  Codlin 6 

Columbia 81 

Golumb 81 

Connecticut  Bod  Cheek I 

/ 6 

( 'onnecticut  lit  d  Sidi 6 

<  '"ii- 6 

Cooper's  11',/ 51 

','s  Early -15 

Cornell's  Favorite 45 

Cornwall's  Golden  Sweet 81 

Crain's  Spice 7 


iv 


APPLES. 


PAGE 

Cross 48 

<  Urtis'  Greening 109 

Dale's  Seedling 49 

Davage 7 

I  'awes 81 

Ddwi  *'  Porter 81 

Dawes'  Nonsuch 81 

Dearie 49 

Decaxie 82 

DeHogg 83 

De  Long 82 

Dr.  Fulcher 7 

Dr.  Walker 83 

Dollin's  Pippin 64 

Donahue 7 

Doylestown 84 

Duffield 8 

Duling 8 

Duling' s  Sweet 8 

Dulin's  Red 9 

Dutch  Alignonne 3 

Dwight  Apple 108 

Early  Russet 107 

Edelkonig  Reinette 84 

Edelkonig 84 

Edgar  Red  Streak 50 

Egyptian  Queen 84 

Ella 50 

English  Codlin 67 

English  Pearmain 55 

Esperens  Reinette 9 

Etowah 51 

Eureka 84 

Fairy 9 

Fall 68 

Fall  Brown 85 

Fall  Queen,  or  Haas 10 

Fall  Stripe 11 

Fameuse  Baldwin 102 

Fameuse  Sucree 85 

Farley 69 

Fay's  Russet 53 

Teuton 51 

l-'ir,  -Quartered  Gilliflower  70 

Fletchej  Russet 51 

Fli  mhig  80 

Foote's  Nonsuch 51 

Forney  86 

Fountain  Hill 52 

Fox  Apple 52 

Fox  Sheepnose 52 

Franclin  11 

Fn  a  !i  Spitsenberg 36 

:  rench  Wine 86 

l  eneral  Lyon 11 

<  'eneral  Marion 11 

Ci  in  rn 39 

German  Spitsenberg 57 


PAGB 

Gillette's  Winesap 12 

Gloucester  White 67 

Goff 51 

Golden  Dixie 52-86 

Golden  Pippin 87 

Gold<  n  Russet.  .■ 53 

Golden  Russet  of  Massachusetts. . .  53 

Golden  Russet  of  New  England. . .  53 

Golden  Spy 87 

Goyeau 12 

Granny  Hyde 81 

Grattan. 12 

Gray's  Keeper 21 

Gray's  Apple 21 

Gray  Romanite 57 

Greyhouse 57 

Gros  Pigeonnet 12 

Gros  Vert 13 

Gros  Pommier 10 

Gros  Pomier 10 

Guilford  Red 87 

Baas 10 

Hames 88 

Hannah 13 

Hard  Red 57 

Harper 52 

Hatehpr 13 

Hatcher's  Seeding 13 

Haven 53 

Hawkin's  Chief 14 

Hdyasche  Gold  Reinette 14 

Hex's  White 67 

Hick's  Whiti 67 

Highland  Beauty 88 

High  Top  Sweet 43,  54,  91 

Hiram 14 

Hog  Pen 68 

Hoope's 57 

Hoope's  Remain 57 

Hopsey 57 

Hopson 57 

Horse 10 

Hoss 10 

Hottenstein 53 

Hoya  Golden  Reinette 14 

BJubbardston's  Nonsuch 21 

II  ml  sun  1!<  (I  StTl  nk 55 

Hunt  Russet  Apple 53 

Hunt  Russet    53 

Hunter  Pippin 54 

Huntsman  Favorite 14 

Humiston 15 

Hyde 81 

Illinois  Greening  15 

UHii i 'is  Pippin 71 

Imperial  Ramlio 89 

Imperial  White 25 

Improved  K<  d  Spitsenberg 45 

Indian 21 

Iowa 82 


A.PPLES. 


PAGE 

Iowa  Russet 16 

Irish  Pippin 16 

Izzard 23 

•Jackson's  Roman  Stem 48 

Jelly  Flower 70 

Johnson 16 

Johnson   80 

Jones 68 

July  Queen 90 

Kaign's  Spitsenberg 55 

Kaign's  Spitsenberg1.  . . , 5~> 

Kansas  Queen 17 

Kansas  Sweet 17 

Keasbey's  Favorite 19 

A"  ntucky  Bellflower 55 

Kentucky  GiMflom  r 55 

A'  milter's  Pippin 3 

Kestner 90 

Key's  Red 91 

Ei  //stone 57 

Kidd 68 

King 35 

Kinkead 91 

Kinnaird's  Choice 18 

King  of  the  Rambos 95 

King  Solomon 18 

King  Sweet  54,  91 

King  of  Sweets 54 

Kirkland 92 

Kuapp's  Harvey 92 

Ladies'  Favorite 21 

Lady  Elgin 39 

Lady  Finger 55 

Lady  Heuniker 54 

Lall'ier's  Prolific  Red 19 

Lambert 19 

Landsberger  Reinette 20 

Lank  ford 92 

Large  Green 13 

Large  Striped  Winter  Pear  main..  21 

Large  Striped  Pear  main 21 

Large  Summer  Queen 93 

Lelieur 20 

Lewis 80 

Libert 53 

Lincoln  Pippin 93 

Lipkin's  Sweet 54 

Lippart 53 

Litsey 83 

Long 6s 

Long  John 55 

Long  Pearmain 55 

Long  Red  Pearmain 55 

Long's  Russet. 30 

Longworth  s  Red  Winter.  .......  94 

Lopside 57 

Lucy  Sweet 53 

Mackie's  Beauty  Siberian 39 


McAfee's  Nonsuch 21 

McAfee's  Red  21 

McAfee ...  21 

Maggie's  Favorite 95 

Magog  Red  Streak 56 

Major  Sweet 75 

Man  1 21 

1 'jo  Siberian,  No.  4 39 

Marquis  of  Lome 22 

Mary  Wornack    95 

Maryland  Queen 10 

Mason's  Stranger 23 

Mason's  Pippin 23 

;  Massachusetts  Golden  Russet 53 

Mathews 57 

May  Seek-no-Farther 57 

j  Mcintosh  Red 55 

McKinuey ."it; 

Mellinger 57 

Mercer 98 

Milden 5  S 

Milding 58 

Missouri  Keeper 23 

Missouri  Pippin 23 

Missouri  Superior 21 

Monte  Bello 24 

Morgan 24 

Morton's  Red. 59 

Moser's  Sweet 96 

Mosher  Sweet 97 

Mother's  Favorite 97 

Mountain  Beauty 97 

Mudhole 55 

Mumper  Vandervere .  59 

Musg rove's  Cooper 37 

Mystic 59 

Nansemond  Beauty 60 

Nelson  Rock 60 

New  England  Golden  Russet 53 

New  England  Russet 53 

New  Missouri '31 

New  Rhode  Island  Greening 109 

New  River  Boat  Apple 61 

Nine  Ounce 49 

Nonsuch 21 

Norton's  Pippin 07 

Northampton (il 

Northfield  Beauty  Crab 61 

North  irick  Pippin 3 

Ohio  Beauty 37 

OldBettk.  .' 4:: 

Old  Meld 23 

Oustine  Greening 98 

Ontario 61 

Orange  Pippin 62 

Otoe  Red  Streak 

Oxford 99 

Palmer  Apple 99 

Park  (Not  of  Kansas) 55 


PAGE 

Park's  Keeper 21 

Parry's  White 25 

Peach  Blow 9!) 

Pi ar  Apple 99 

Pear  Pippin 99 

pprle  d'Angleterre 25 

j'i  arl  of  England 25 

Pi  armain 55 

Mini's  Nonsuch 100 

]'<  rkins 80 

v  Red  Streak 03 

Hi  inette  Orise 79 

Pewankee 20 

■   ckett 63 

]  iedmont  Pippin 04 

Pilot 26 

Pine  Apple 64 

PI  uuib's  Cider 65 

Pomme  Grise  d'Or.  .  *. 27 

Porter 08 

Pound  Royal 55 

Presh's  Winter 27 

Prewit (55 

Princeton 28 

Prolific  Blush 05 

Puckett 35 

Pueki  it's  Summer 35 

Pyle's  Red  Winter 05 

Races  Red 66 

Randolph  Sweet 100 

Ran:  om 101 

Red  Streak 101 

Reed's  Golden  Pippin 60 

Med  Bi  Uftower 55 

R.ed  Bietigheimer 101 

>  rlasdna 57-105 

Red  GUliflower 09,70 

Red  Pearmain 55 

Red  Phmnix 55 

Red  Pippin 55 

Red  Spitsenberg 55 

Red  Wintt  r  I'<  armain 55 

Red  Winter  Sweet 101 

en '.» 

•'/"//" 14 

Landsfa  rg 20 

Rt  ii>> t                  ig '  81 

rteinette  Outs.  ,.'. 00 

Reliance '.'  ■' 

r 70 

28 

s  '  'laret 28 

101 

ier  Pippin 28 

60 

od 67 

Roi.  Tr.es.  Noble 84 

RomariiU 57 

Rose  Bee..    . 29 

Rose  Bud 29 

Rose  Red 30 


PAGR 

Ru&sam 55 

Rti88t  t  Pearmain 53 

Salome 103 

Sanderson  . .    103 

Sauta 104 

67 

Saxton 11 

Scarl)  t  Pearmain 55 

Schmffer 104 

Schuyler's  Sweet 31 

Scollop  Gilliflower 70 

Scollop  GUliflower 69 

Scri  oner's  Spitsenberg ....  31 

Seager 30 

Settle  Pippin 07 

y,  Hi  's  Superb 07 

Shatter 104 

Shaffi  r's  Gardk  n 104 

Shannon  Pippin 104 

Sheriff 105 

Sheepnose 52,  53-55 

Sherman's  Favorite 31 

Shi ;  man's  Sum it 31 

Sid  in  i/  Sweet 54 

Sillix*. 31 

Simmons'  Red 105 

Sisk (-7 

Smith's  Favorite 68 

SmUfi's  Favorite 97 

S:  epp's 106 

Snepp'8  Nonsuch] 100 

Snorter 21 

Somerset 32 

Soulard 32 

Southern  Porter 08 

St.  Hilaire 10' 

Starker 09 

Starr 82 

lan's  Summer 34 

h's  Winesap 100 

i  .'  Greening 107 

g  Wint,  r  Gfrt  i  ning i(  7 

Steve  Baldwin 107 

Stevenson  Pippin 108 

Stonewall  Jackson 108 

Starr's  Wine '31 

Stribling 

town  Pippin 9 

r 69 

:  '!'"•'  r 69 

'-2 1 .  55 

21 

35 

ppiu 35 

Stuart's  Golden 108 

Stump HO 

Stump 1(|S 

Summt  r  ( lieese 81 

Summer  King 35 

Summt  r  Sweet 54.91 

Summer  Spitsenberg 30 


APPLES— CHERRIES— GP.APE3— PEACHES. 


vli 


Wabash  Bellflotcer 

Walbridgt     .' ' 

Watwood 

Wealthy 

Western  Beauty 

Westmoreland  Ram  bo.  .  . 

W?i<  '//a./' 

Wbitescarver 

Wlrite  Apple 

White  Crow " 

W7dti   King 

Williams'  Red  Winter 

Wilson 's  Summer 

Winter  Pearmain 2 

Wolf  River 

Wyandotte 

Wythe \\\\\ 


Superb  WJritr '67 

Superior  White 25 

Sutton's  Early 70 

Swasie  Pomme  Orise  27 

Sweet  Rhode  Island  Greening  ...  100 

Sweet  Winter  Spitsenberg 109 

Sylvan  Sweet  Crab 39 

Tanner's  Winter HO 

Thomas  Sweet 54-91 

Tom  Apple 77; 

Town  House 47 

Transparent  Zoar 70 

S^V; ::::::   so; 

/  trin  Apple 55 

Uncle  Zeeke 21 

valley , \  jj 

Volandingham  Wine 21    Yardlev 

Van  Horn  .         .    m    Yei]mv-  pv  •  •   •  •■••••• 

&l!  yCk  S  Slbenan 39    **low  Transparent 

Urns.  92    York  stri         P 

Victoria  Pippin 111  * 

Additional  Synonyms  to  Apples,  x,  xi,  xii. 

CHERRIES. 

Barrhart igj 

Burgbley  Park 101 

Dyebouse 161 

Early  Lyons \Q) 

Earl  v  Rivers  1  (50 

Flagg 

Galusha,  or  No.  11 


I'AOB 

55 
50 

71 

87 

37 

112 

4G 

38 

25 

21 

104 

113 

111 

1-55 

113 

21 

71 

72 
114 
114 

38 

7-3- 
114 


Large  Montmorency 163 

Lee» .'  Ki3 

Love  Apple igg 

Marie  Theresa 1,  | 

Montmorency,  Large  Fruited 163 

164  Montmorency  a  Langue  Queue 103 

165  '  Northwest,  or  No.  29 165 


Gloire  de  France 162  Olivet 

Guigne  Hative  de  Lyon 162    Rose  Hative  de  Lyon. '.'.'. 162 

*da 162    Tomato ...  16S 

Lancaster 163    Weir's  Early  Kentish.  .'. '. 164 


GRAPES. 

Allen's  Hybrid 110  ,  Lady  Washington 167 

Beauty 165    Niagara 167 

Brighton 165 


Duchess 166 

Early  Dawn 166 

Early  Victor 161, 


Peter  Wylie. 1 19 

Pocklington 1  (;s 

Prentiss 168 

Quassaick 168 


Janie  Wylie IP     B    ' ''" '  ter 1C9 

Senasqua 120 

Triumph 169 


Jefferson 167 

Kalamazoo l  jy 


PEACHES. 


zVlexander's  Early 141 

Amsden's  June Ill 

Annie  Wylie 169 

Atlanta 120 

Black's  Extra  Early  Peach 120    Early  A.scot 


142 

('lunar 143 

Connecticut I  1 3 

Cook's  Late  White 141 

142 


PEACTTES— PEARS. 


PAGE  , 

Early  Rivers 120 

Early  Silver 170 

Early  Victoria 170 

Family  Favorite 170 

Fetters 142 

Foster 121 

Freemason . .    121 

Henrietta 171 

High's  Earlv  Canada 142 

Hill's  Chili 'Peach 142 

Honeywell 143 

Hopkinsville 170 

hnpi  rial  Yellow 144 

Jenny  Lind 142 

Laporte 121 

Leopold 142 

Levy's  Late 17l 

Madison 142 

Mountain  Rose 121 

Mrs.  Brett 143 

.  Muscogee 143 

Nectarine  Peach 171 

Nix's  Late  White 143 


Park's  Cling  121 

Petit,  Imperial 144 

Queen  of  Sheba . .  142 

Quisenberg 1 70 

Raisin 171 

Richmond 122 

Sallie  Worrell 171 

Salway 122 

Si  agrove 142 

Scagrove's  Smock 142 

Sener  172 

Smolk 142 

Southwick,  Late 122 

Stanlt  i/'s  Late 142 

Stedlv 172 

Styles 170 

thtgar 142 

Thurber  144 

Tuskena 172 

Wager 173 

Waterloo 173 

Wheatland 173 

Wilcox 142 

Wirt 173 


PEARS. 


Buerre  Delpierre 124 

Buerre  Lade 122 

Bonne  du  Puita  Ansault 123 

Brockworth 123 

Bronze  d'Enghien 124 

Caiebass  d'Octobre 145 

Chambers   174 

Clapp's.  Ho.  22 14S 

Colmar  Delahaunt 124 

Colonel  Wilder 140 

Courte  Queue  d'Automme 146 

Curran 152 

Dean 132 

Delpierre 12' 

Doctor  Howe 1  !G 

Doctor  Koch 124 

Doctor  Lindley   146 

Due  de  Moray 1 24 

Duche  se  de  Conchy 12"i 

Duchesse  Precoce 125 

Duhamel  du  Monceau 146 

Eastern  Belle 126 

Egerie 127 

Eliot'sEarly 127 

Elizabeth  Maury 147 

Eugene  Appert 175 

Fall  Beurre  D'Aremberg 175 

FoxB.  S 154 

Frederick  Clapp 148 

General  De  Bouchamp 176 

Grand  Isle 176 


Harris 149 

Homestead 1 50 

Hoosic 177 

Horace  Greeley 150 

Housatonic 151 


Indian  Queen 

Jacques  Chamaret 

Josephine  de  Hinche 

Jules  D'Airoles  (De  Leon  Leclerc). 
Jules  D'Airoles  (De  X.  Gregoire).  . 

Keiffer 

's  Hybrid 

Longue  du  Bosquet 

Loriol  de  Barny 

Louis  Vilmorin 

Lucie  Andusson 

Lucv  Grieve   


127 

127 
127 
178 
178 

179 
179 

151 
L28 
128 
151 
L51 

Madame  Andre  Leroy 129 

Madame  Appert 151 

Madame  Baptiste  Desportes 152 

Madame  (  uissard 129 

Madame  Favre 129 

Madame  Loriol  de  Barney 129 

Mannington I   9 

Marechal   Vaillant 1:0 

Maria 152 

Marshall 179 

Maurice  Desportes 130 

North  field  Seckel 154 

P.  Barry 152 


PEARS-PLUMS-QUINCE-RASPBERRIES-STRAWBERRIES. 


Petite  Marguerite v?f    «st    ti^_  page 

wmioes/Ecuny...:;:;::;::::;^  tL^'Z !g 

?SrrHor,0,es g  g«->tos-i:::::::::::  ffi 

lo*    souvenir  Favre 134 

Rogers J32 

Saint  Germain  Van  Mons. ...'.!..  133    TWese^ert. ! I'. ". ! . . . ! . . \ ]  .  \  [  }g 

PLUMS. 

^^ • 181  1  Gweii 181 

Blue  Magnum  Bonum 181  I  01 

Sr™"*:::;::;:::  g  *»•«—»». i» 

Canada  Orleans 180    ^oore's  Arctic 182 

Canada  Egg IgU 

Datte  de  Hongrie 156    £re™c^  £?  L«cas i56 

y      10°    Pride  of  Waterloo igg 

Early  Yellow  Gage 156    Prune  Tardine \\\\  157 

^-S^::::::::::::::^^«^^;:::;;;:;;;j« 

Glass Igl 


Green  Station 181    Sultau §   157 

(rwa'i Igl 

Guii 181    Violette  de  Galopin 157 

QUIXCE. 
Sweet  Quince 136  I 

RASPBERRIES. 
Baldwin's  Choice 185    Narragansett iqfi 

K»iimfnrt.h'«  SoorlHr./v  100     -vr +?      ■•     ,,  • ioO 


Baumforth's  Seedling 183 

Brandywine  137 


New  Rochelle 184 

Ontario.  .  .  .  137 

a3&:::::::::::::::::::::;.  IS  w^°'*°  Hudson"::.'.'.'::."::  M 

!  Queen  of  the  Market 183 

Gregg 184  j 

Great  Western 184  \  Reliance Ig5 

Herstine  136    s:"'t],r'-"  Thornless ig5 

I  Susqueeo 137 

Montclair 184  ;  Turner lg5 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Bidwell 186  '  Miner's  Prolific  lg« 

Black  Defiance 180    Mine  fs  Great  Prolific. .  '. '. '. '. .' ". '.'..'.  188 

Champion Igii    Monarch  of  the  West  Ififl 

Crescent  Seedling 187  

Cumberland  Triumph 187    Pioneer ISO 

~     ,  Primo Igg 

Duchess is; 

_  _  Sharpless 189 

Forest  Rose 187 

Triple  Crown i«0 

Glendale 188  |  

Golden  Defiance 188  |  Windsor  Chief. 186 


ADDITIONAL    SYNONYMS 


APPL'E. 


Alpian 

Anderson 

American  Nonpareil. . 

August  Pippin 

B<  il's  Favorite 

Bully  Pippin 

Chiliicothe  Sweet.  . . . 
Orutchfield  Greening. 

Champ  Sweet 

( llaybank 

Conford 

Dixie 


Puverson's  June 

Early  White 

Early  July  Pippin 

Early  Red  Sweet 

Father  Abram 

Garvia  Seedling 

i;'miT  of  the  West. 

Hollman 

Hazeldeen 

Herr's  June 

Holland's  Red  Winter  . 
Hutchinson's  Pippin.  . 

.Toe  Allen 

Jones's  Early  Harvest. 

July  Branch 

Kentucky  Red  Streak. 

Kirhy's  Red 

Lady's  Blush 

Long  Island  Graft 

Norman  ton  Wonder.  . . 
New  York  Bellflower.  . 

Regular 

Red  Abram 

Uierley 


Saille  Sweet 

Seneca  Favorite 

speckled  

Striped  Quaxendon 

SI  riped  Sweet  Harvest 

St  ri]  >ed  Red  Harvest 

Susy  Clark 

Summer  Traveller 

Sweet  ]  Jumpling 

Tenan  Red 

Texan  Red 

Uxbridge  Spice 

Van  Klerk's  Sweet 

Virginia  June 

Virginia  Sweet    

Virginia  Pippin.  ..  .  

Westlirook 

White  Codlin 

White  Newell 

White,  or  Yellow  June  of  some . 

Wine  Sweet 

Wrigley 

York  and  Lancaster 


.Syn.  of  Cannon  Pearmain 

(i  u  it 

"  Domine. 

"  Summer  Sweet  Paradise 

"  Sops  of  Wine. 

"  Ewalt. 

"  Bailev's  Sweet. 

"  Bullet. 

"  Hartford  Sweet. 

"  Griffith. 

"  Pryor's  Red. 

"  Shockley. 

"  Early  Red  Margaret. 

"  Cooper's  Early  White. 

"  Early  Harvest. 

"  Red  June  Sweet. 

"  Abram. 

"  Buckingham. 

"  Dutch  Codlin. 

"  Nickajack. 

"  Princely. 

"  Early  Red  Margaret. 

' '  Winesap. 

Ben  Davis. 

u  . . 

"  Carolina  Red  June. 

"  Jersey  Sweet. 

"  Ben  Davis. 

"  Red  Winter  Pearmain. 

"  Ewalt. 

"  Fall  Orange. 

''  Dumelow's  Seedling. 

"  Fall  Orange. 

"  Cooper's  Market. 

"  Abram. 

"  Cooper's  Market. 

"  Red  and  Green  Sweet. 

"  Quince. 

"  Ball -Orange 

"  Early  Red  Mnrgaret. 

"  Red  June  Sweet. 

u  .  . 

"  Carolina  Red  June. 

"  Early  Red  Margaret. 

'•  Bummer  Sweet  Paradise 

'•  Ben  Davis. 

"  Winesap. 

"  Gapron'e  Pleasant. 

"  Hog  Island  Sweet. 

"  Early  Red  Margaret. 

"  Red  and  Green  Sweet. 

"  Ben  Davis. 

"  Fall  Orang-e. 

"  Dutch  Codlin. 

"  Fall  Orange. 

"  Kkkbridge  White. 

"  Winter  Sweet  Paradise. 

"  Cooper's  Market. 

"  St.  Lawrence. 


ADDITIONAL    SYNONYMS 

TO   THE 

APPLE. 


American  Beauty  (incorectly) Syn. 

Aromatic  Calville 

Belle  Rose 

Beujamite 

Bersf  ord 

Black  Ann. 

Black  Spitzenberg , 

Boston  Pippin 

Broad  Apple < 

Bytield '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'..'.'.'.' ' 

Carolina  Winter , 

Conic  June < 

Copp's  Mammoth 

Cranberry  Pippin  (incorrectly) 

Donah  oe « 

Early  Baldwin > 

Congress 

'     Sweet ...............  ' 

"     Washington < 

English  King < 

Farmer's  Profit « 

Flat  Vaudevere ' 

Fee  Apple,  of  some ' 

Franklin _  _  ' 

French  Pearmain ' 

Green  Sweet  of  Indiana ' 

' '     Winter  Pearmain ' 

Hare  Pippin < 

Harris  White  HalL ' 

Haven  Pippin ' 

Heicke's  Summer  Queen ' 

Highland  Pippin ' 

Hoover ' 

June " 

Hower " 

Jefferson  Pippin ' 

Jenkins'  Summer  Pippin ' 

Jennings 4 

Jersey  Pearmain " 

Je wett's  Striped " 

J  nicy  Bite " 

J  uniata " 

Keimebec  Seedling " 

Kingsbury  Russet t( 

Large  Summer  Pearmain 4< 

Limber  Twig  Russet " 

Lodge's  Early •« 

Logan's  Northern  Pippin '« 

Maralandica. " 

Montgomery  Sweet " 

Mountain  Flora •• 

Mountain  Green " 

North  Carolina  Vaudevere " 

Oats  (incorrectly) " 

Paper  Skin «« 

Potter's  Early " 

Pound's  July    " 


to  Baltimore. 

'     Aromatic  Carolina. 

'     Primate. 

'     Fall  a  water. 

'     Pryor's  Red. 

'     Black  Coal. 

Flushing  Spitzenberg 
'     Golden  Pippin. 
1     Pennock. 

Rock  Sweet. 

Nix  Green. 
1     Kirkbridge  White. 
1     Gloria  Mundi. 
1     Black  Coal. 

Red  Canada. 
'     Primate. 
'     Gravenstien. 

High  Top  Sweet. 
;     Sops  of  Wine. 
'     Alexander. 

Hubbardston  Nonsuch. 
'     American  Pippm. 

American  Golden  Rumo* 

Fronclin. 

Autumn  Pearmain. 

Victuals  and  Drink, 

Autumn  Pearmain. 

Summer  Sweet  Paradise. 

Dyer. 

Ledge  Sweet. 

Early  Pennock. 

Primate. 

Black  Coal. 

Yellow  June. 

French  Pippin. 

Rawles'  Genet. 

Primate. 

Porter. 

Autumn  Pearmain. 

Jewett's  Best. 

Better  than  Good. 
Washing! (in  Strawberry. 

Winthrop  Greening. 

Pumpkin  Russet. 

Buckingham. 

Golden  Russet  of  N.  Y. 

Summer  Rose. 

Minkler. 
Early  Harvest. 

Autumn  Sweet  Bough. 
Gloria  .Mundi. 

F  alia  water. 

Horn. 

Early   Harvest. 

Summer  Pippin. 

Know  les'  Early. 

Largo  Yellow  Bough 


THE    APPLE. 


Pound  Royal  (incorrectly) Syn.  to 

Pound  Sour " 

Queen  of  the  Dessert " 

Rock  Apple " 

lied  Cheek  Bellflower ......  " 

Red  Gilliflower,  of  some " 

Red  Harvest,  of  some " 

Red  Winter  Sweet,  of  some " 

Rittner " 

Robinson's  Streak " 

Rolfe .'.'.'.'.'.' 

Royal  Rod  of  Kentucky " 

Russian  Hagloe " 

Ryerson " 

Shelborae's  Sweet " 

Shropshirevine " 

St.  John  Strawberry " 

Striped  Shropshire «> 

Tennessee  Early  Red " 

Vestal -t 

Virginia  May " 

Waddell  Hall ..........   7.  7.7.  " 

Wakeman " 

Washington  of  Maine " 

Weidner i< 

Welch's  Spitzenberg " 

White  Water  Sweet *  " 

W  illiamson *» 

Yellow  Flat 7.7. 7.7.7.". ....  .7.  " 

Yellow  May  Pippin 

?  allow  Summer  Pearmain 


Lowell. 

Golden  Pippin. 

Newtown  Spitzenbeqj. 

Lansingburgh. 

Ewalt. 

Red  Winter  Pearmain. 

Carolina  Red  June. 

Moore's  Sweet. 

Jackson. 

Ben  Davis. 

Macomber. 

Winesap. 

Summer  Hagloe. 

Primate. 

Spice  Sweet. 

Sops  of  Wine. 

Early  Strawberry. 

Early  Strawberry. 
Maiden's  Blush. 
White  Juneating. 
Shockley. 
Baltimore. 

Washington  Strawberry 
Early  Ripe. 
Red  Canada. 
Wells'  Sweet. 
Domine. 

Kirkbridge  White. 
White  Juneating. 
Porter. 


APPENDIX. 


For  specimens  of  Fruit,  and  information  relating  to 
many  of  the  varieties  in  this  Appendix.  1  am  indebted 
to  many  of  the  leading  Pomologists  in  many  parts 
of  the  country,  who  will  please  accept  my  cordial 
thanks. 

Charles  Downino. 


THE    APPLE. 


Autumn  Pomme  Gris. 


Originated  in  the  orchard  of  William  Reynolds,  Markham,  Ontario. 
Tree  a  strong  upright  grower,  very  productive.  Fruit  small,  oblate, 
inclining  to  conic ;  skin  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  thin  nettings  of 
russet,  sometimes  a  shade  of  rich  red  in  the  sun;  stalk  long,  slender 
inserted  in  a  medium  cavity ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  broad,  shallow,  dis 


Baltaley. 


tinctly  and  peculiarly  corrugated;  flesh   fine,  yellowish,  tender,  n  .rt« 
ately  juicy,  rich,    sprightly    subacid    and    aromatic;    very  goad;    core 
small.      October  and  November. 


3  the  apple. 

Baltzley. 
Baltzley's  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  John  Baltzley,  Manellan  Townslup,  Pa. 
Tiee  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  an  early  bearer,  very  productive 
>  very  other  year,  and  a  small  crop  alternate  ones;  an  old  apple,  but  a 
favorite  where  known;  yoi  ng  shoots  light  reddish  brown,  many 
russet  dots. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  nearly  regular ;  skin 
pale  yellow,  often  with  a  shade  of  light  pale  red  in  the  sun,  and  a  few 
grayish  dots;  stalk  rather  short,  small;  cavity  large,  deep;  calyx 
closed ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  half  flue, 
tender,  moderately  juicy,  rather  rich,  sweet ;  good  to  very  good.  Sep- 
tember, October. 


Belle  du  Havre. 
Belle  Douce  du  Havre. 

A  promising  French  variety.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  an 
early  and  abundant  bearer  annually ;  a  good  table  fruit,  and  excellent 
for  culinary  uses ;  young  shoots  reddish  brown,  slightly  downy  at  the 
end. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  conical ;  angular  or  slight!? 


Belle  du  Havre. 


ribbed  ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  shaded  and  rather  obscurely  striped 
and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  rich  red  over  most  of  the  surface,  and 
man}    light    brown   dots;    stalk    medium,   slender;   cavity    large,   deep; 


THE    APPLE. 


calyx  closed;  basin  rather  large,  corrugated;  flesh  quite  white,  flue, 
tender,  moderately  juicy,  with  a  brisk,  peculiar,  quince-like  flavor;  good 
to  very  good ;  core  small.     Ripe  last  of  August  to  last  of  September. 


Bell's  Seedling. 

Originated  with  the  late  Z.  Bell,  near  Adairville,  Kentucky.  Tree 
a  vigorous  grower,  making  a  large,  handsome  round  head ;  comes  into 
beariug  tolerably  early,  and  rarely  fails  to  produce  a  crop  of  fair  fruit, 
and  is  popular  where  known. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  inclining  to  roundish  oblong, 
slightly  angular;  skin  entirely  covered  with  light  red,  striped  and 
splashed  with  dark  red  and  a  few  light  dots ;  stalk  short,  slender ; 
cavity  deep,  acute,  russeted ;  calyx  closed  or  partially  open ;.  basin 
rather  deep,  medium  size ;  flesh  whitish,  half  tine,  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  medium.  Septeinbei 
October. 

Blenheim  Pippin. 

Blenheim  Orange.  Blooming-  Orange.  Blenheim. 

Woodstock  Pippin.  Northwick  Pippin.  Kempter's  Pippin. 

Dutch  Mignonne,  erroneously. 

An  error  having  been  made  in  the  second  revised  edition  of  this 
work  with  this  variety,  Dutch  Mignonne  and  Blooming  Orange, — the 
last  being  a  syn., — we  give  a  corrected  description. 

An  old  variety  which  originated  in  Oxfordshire,  England.  Tree  very 
strong,  vigorous,  spreading,  somewhat  drooping  when  in  full  bearing, 
-  makes  a  large  handsome  tree  in  the  orchard.  It  is  late  coining 
into  bearing,  but  when  fully  established  is  a  good  regular  bearer.  This 
apple  is  a  favorite  in  England,  and  succeeds  in  most  localities  here  in 
the  Middle  and  Northern  States,  especially  the  latter.  Young  wood 
ptout,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  often  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  regular,  skin  dull 
orange,  half  covered  or  more  with  rich  dull  red,  often  mixed  with  russet, 
dotted  and  mottled  with  large  yellow  russet. specks,  some  of  which  are 
areole ;  stalk  rather  short,  slender,  curved;  cavity  large,  deep,  rus- 
seted, the  russet  sometimes  extending  in  rays  out  on  the  fruit  ;  calyx 
large,  open ;  basin  broad,  large.  rath<  r  deep,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh 
white,  a  little  coarse — at  first  firm — but  becoming  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
rich,  brisk  subacid,  slightly  aromatic  ;  core  small,  very  good.  Novem- 
ber, February. 


Boyd. 

Origin  supposed  to  be  on  the  McPherson  farm,  Monroe  County, 
Kentucky,  and  introduced  by  Alfred  and  Thomas  Boyd.  Tree  a  strong, 
spreading,  rather  straggling  grower,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic;  skin  yellow,  shaded  with  light 
and  dark  red,  deep  rich  red  in  the  sun,  sometimes  obscure  Bplash.es  and 
stripes  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots  ;  stalk  very 
short  ;  cavity  huge,  broad,  deep,  often  slightly  russeted  ;  calyx  closed 


THE    APPLE. 


or  half  open  ;  basin  rather  large  and  smooth  ;  flesh  yellowish,  a  littl« 
coarse,  rather  Arm,  moderately  juicy,  rather  rich  subacid,  slightly  aro- 
matic ;  good  to  very  good  ;  core  small.     January  to  April. 


Bunker  Hill. 


Originated  in  the  orchard  of  the  late  Dr.  Paige,  of  Dryden,  New 
York.  Tree  a  healthy,  rapid  grower,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer, 
and  valued  where  known. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  regular  ;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow, 
shaded,  mottled,  striped  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  red,  rather  thinly 
over  two-thirds  the  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  bight  dots,  a 


few  being  areole ;  stalk  short,  slender;  cavity  medium  or  large,  a  lit  tie 
greenish  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated  :  tlesh  quite 
white,  sometimes  a  little  stained  next  the  skin,  tine,  tender,  juicy, 
subacid,  vinous,  slight  quince-like  flavor ;  very  good  ;  core  rather  small. 
October. 

Buzby's  Early. 

Origin  uncertain,  supposed  to  be  Moorestown,  New  Jersey.  Tree  a 
moderate  grower,  rather  spreading,  very  productive  alternate  years. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  pale  yellow,  thinly 
shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  red  over  half  the  surface;  stalk 
short,  small  ;  cavity  large,  deep  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  quite  deep,  slightly 
corrugated;  tlesh  whitish,  line,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid; 
good  to  very  good  ;  core  small.      Last  of  August  and  September. 


l'HE    APPLE.  0 

Cadwallader's  Golden. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  James  Simmons,  near  Greenbush,  Warren 
County,  Illinois,  and  introduced  by  E.  F.  Cadwallader,  Paola,  Kansas, 
who  states  that  the  tree  is  hardy,  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  spreading, 
an  early  and  prolific  bearer,  and  valuable  for  market  and  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  bright  yellow,  some- 
times with  a  slight  blush,  moderately  sprinkled  with  dark  grayish  dots ; 


Cadwallader's  Oolden. 


stalk  rather  short,  slender ;  cavity  quite  large,  deep,  sometimes  slight 
russet ;  calyx  closed  or  half  open  ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated  ; 
flesh  yellowish  white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid ; 
good  to  very  good ;  core  small.     October,  February. 

Calkins'  Pippin. 

Originated  with  the  late  Elias  Calkins,  of  West  Corn  wall  is,  Nova 
Scotia.  Tree  vigorous;  forms  a  large  round  head,  with  drooping 
branches;  an  early  and  heavy  bearer  alternate  years;  is  valuable  fc- 
market  and  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  sometimes  oblong,  slightly  angular; 
skin  whitish,  thinly  shaded  and  mottled  on  the  sunny  side,  sometimes  a 
few  nettings  of  russet  and  a  few  grayish  dots  ;  stalk  of  medium  length, 
slender;  cavity  large,  deep;  calyx  closed:  basin  rather  narrow,  deep, 
much  corrugated;  flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  sub- 
acid ;  good ;  core  large.     November,  February. 

Chester  County. 

Origin  uncertain ;  fcmnd  on  the  farm  of  Dr.  J.  C.  Brosins,  Cochran- 
rille,  Pennsylvania.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  inclining  to  droop  ;  ver; 


n  THE   APPLE. 

productive  nearly  every  year;  a  late  keeper,  and  considered  valuaUt:   if 
its  locality. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  very  slightly  conic ;  skin 
yellow,  shaded,  splashed  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red  in  the  sue 
ami  faintly  on  the  shaded  side,  moderately  sprinkled  with  large,  and 
email  light  dots,  a  few  being  areole;  stalk  short;  cavity  medium,  some- 
tiroes  slightly  russeted ;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  deep,  large,  slighth 
corrugated;  flesh  yellowish,  half  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid 
good  to  very  good;  core  small.     January,  March. 

Clayton. 

Originated  with  Richard  Worrell,  near  Clayton,  Indiana,  and  is 
valued  as  a  late  keeper.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  a  regular  and  abun- 
dant hearer,  but  only  moderate  crop  alternate  years. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  regular;  skin  smooth,  yellow, 
nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark  rich  red,  and  moderately  sprinkled 
with  light  dots  ;  stalk  short ;  cavity  rather  large,  thinly  russeted  ;  calyx 
small,  nearly  closed ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  ttesh  yellow- 
ish, rather  coarse,  compact,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid;  good;  core 
small.     January,  May. 

Cline's  Codlin. 

Origin  unknown ;  introduced  by  Daniel  Cline,  of  Fairview  Town- 
ship, York  County,  Pennsylvania.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  an  early 
bearer,  and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  nearly  regular;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow, 
almost  waxen,  sometimes  a  light  shade  of  red  in  the  sun;  stalk  short, 
small ;  cavity  large ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ; 
flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine,  crisp,  juicy,  lively  subacid  ;  good  to  very 
good;  core  medium.     Middle  of  August  to  middle  of  September. 

Connecticut  Red  Cheek. 
Connecticut  Red  Streak.  Connecticut  Red  Side. 

An  old  variety,  which  originated  in  Hartford  County,  Conn.  Tree 
rigorous,  uprighl  spreading;  v<  ry  productive  alternate  years. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate;  skin  pale,  with  a  bright  red 
cheek,  mes  a  few  obscure  splashes  and  stripes,  and  a  few  scatter- 

ing brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  large,  deep;  calyx  closed; 
basin  large,  <\cv]k  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  hue,  crisp,  ten- 
der, juicy,  mild  subacid;  good  to  very  good:  core  medium.  October, 
November. 

Cons. 

An  old  variety  of  uncertain  origin,  grown  in  Lancastti  and  York 
counties,  Pa.,  where  it  is  esteemed  as  a  dessert  apple.  Tree  moderatelv 
vigorous,  rather  upright,  very  productive. 

Fruit  quite  small,  roundish,  slightly  conic;  skin  whitish,  mottled 
and  striped  with  rather  dtill  red,  and  sprinkled  with  a  i'rw  light  dots; 
stalk  long,  slender ;   cavity  medium;   calyx  half  closed  ;   basin   medium, 


THE    ArPLE.  7 

corrugate    ,  flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid;  good  to 
very  good  ;  core  medium,     liipe  last  of  July  and  August. 

Crain's  Spice. 

Originated  with  Dr.  James  H.  Crain,  Undulation,  Illinois.  Tre6 
vigorous,  forming  a  round  head ;  an  early,  annual,  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly  angular  ;  skin  en- 
tirely covered  with  deep  rich  red,  and  a  few  light  dots  ;  stalk  very  short, 
small;  cavity  small  or  medium;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  some- 
what narrow,  deep,  slightly  plaited ;  flesh  quite  white,  a  little  stained 
next  the  skin,  line,  tender,  quite  acid  at  flrst,  but  when  fully  ripe  a  pe- 
culiar  subacid,  quince-Like  flavor;  good;  core  rather  small.  October, 
January. 

Davage. 

Origin  unknown ;  introduced  by  Judge  James  Davage,  of  Cale- 
donia, Illinois.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  forming  a  round  head,  an 
early  and  annual  bearer,  said  to  be  a  fine  apple,  retaining  its  juice  and 
flavor  remarkably  well. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  oblate ;  skin  whitish,  nearly  covered 
with  light  and  dark  red,  many  large  yellowish  and  some  brown,  ir- 
regular, and  star-shaped  dots,  a  few  being  areole ;  stalk  short,  small ; 
cavity  medium,  often  slightly  russeted ;  calyx  open ;  basin  quite  broad, 
uot  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  whitish,  tine,  rather  firm,  juicy,  mild 
subacid,  inclining  to  sweet ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  small.  February, 
May. 

Du.  Fulcheb. 

Received  from  J.  S.  Downer,  of  Fairview,  Kentucky,  who  informs 
me  that  it  was  a  chance  seedling  found  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Dr.  Ful- 
cher,  of  that  town,  and  is  very  popular  there.  Tree  thrifty,  upright,  in- 
clining to  spread  in  the  orchard  ;  an  early,  annual,  and  abundant  beaver; 
young  shoots  Light  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  flattened  at  the  ends, 
sometimes  slightly  oblique;  skin  whitish  yellow,  shaded,  mottled, 
striped,  and  splashed  over  two-thirds  its  surface  with  lighl  and  dark  red. 
a  thin  grayish  bloom,  and  a  few  Light  dots;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity 
rathei  large,  sometimes  slightly  russeted;  calyx  open  or  half  closed; 
basin  medium,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  sometimes  a  lit- 
tle stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  juicy,  refreshing,  subacid;  very  gooU ; 
core  small.      November,  January. 

Donahue. 

Originated  with  P.  Donahue,  near  Cumberland,  Md.  Tree  moder- 
ately vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  very  slightly  conic,  regular;  skin 
deep  rich  red  or  purplish  in  the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light 
dots:    stalk    short,    small;    cavity   broad,   sometimes   a    little   gnomish; 


THE    APPLE. 


calyx  small,  closed;  basin  large,  slightly  uneven;  flesh  white,  fine,  teD 
der,  moderately  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid ;  very  good ;  core  small 
October,  January. 


Duffield. 


Originated  with  James  Duffield,  Jr.,  Van  Buren,  Iowa.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  spreading ;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  "medium,  oblate,  sides  unequal,  skin  yellow,  shaded,  splashed 
and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red  over  the  whole  surface,  and  moder- 
ately sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity 


Doctor  Fulcher. 

large,  deep,  slightly  russeted ;  calyx  closed,  basin  medium,  corrugated ; 
flesh  yellowish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  mild  subacid,  rather 
rich  ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  small.     November,  February. 

Dxtling. 

Duling's  Sweet. 

Originated  with  Edmund  Duling,  Linton  Township,  Coshocton  Co., 
Ohio.  Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  rather  spreading;  begins  to  bear  quite 
early ;  a  regular  bearer,  some  seasons  very  heavy  crops ;  young  sLoots, 
grayish  brown,  smooth. 

Fruit  roundish.,  inclining  to  conic,  regular;  skin  yellow,  shaded, 
striped  and  splashed  with  deep  rich  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface- 
the  splashes  sometimes  in  broad  bands, — pale  red  in  the  shade;  stalk 
>f  medium  length,  slender,  curved;  cavity  rather  narrow,  deep;  calyx 
closed ;  basin  medium,  regular;  flesh  whitish,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant, 
mild  subacid,  almost  sweet;  very  good  ;  core  small.  Middle  of  August 
*o  middle  of  September. 


THE    APPLE. 


Dulin's  Red. 


Raised  by  Lodd  Dulin,  of  Hopkinsville,  Christian  County,  Ky., 
where  it  is  considered  a  valuable  aud  popular  winter  fruit.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  rather  upright,  and  makes  a  handsome  orchard 
tree,  very  productive  alternate  years;  young  shoots  brownish  red, 
grayish. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  very  little  conic,  sides  sometimes  unequal; 
skin  entirely  covered  with  light  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  dark 
red,  and  many  light  and  brown  dots;  sialk  short;  cavity  large,  deep; 
calyx  half  closed;  basin  medium,  regular;  flesh  yellowish,  a  little 
coarse,  breaking,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic; 
good  to  very  good ;  core  medium.     December,  February. 


Esperen's  Reinette. 
Reinette  d'  Espereru 

A  foreign  variety;  tree  strong  and  vigorous,  spreading,  very  pro- 
ductive. 

Fruit  large  oblate,  or  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic ;  skin  light 
golden  yellow,  a  shade  of  pale  light  red  in  the  sun,  and  a  few  browr 
dots;  stalk  rather  short,  small;  cavity  large,  broad,  regular,  thinh 
russeted;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  corrugated;  flesh  whitish  yellow. 
rather  eoarse,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid  ;  good  to  very  good;  core 
small.     December,  February. 


Fairy. 

A  new  English  dessert  apple,  which  is  spoken  of  as  very  handsome, 
and  of  fine  quality,  and  it  is  thought  will  rival  in  size  and  color  the 
celebrated  Lady  apple.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  hardy,  and 
prolific. 


10 


THE    APPLE. 


Fruit  small,  oblate,  slightly  conical ;  skin  lemon  yellow,  covered  witih 
bright  lively  crimson,  shaded  with  streaks  of  a  deeper  tinge ;  stalk  of 
medium  length,  slender;  cavity  small,  russety;  calyx  closed;  basin 
small,  plaited;  flesh  deep  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  very  juicy,  with  a  ricL 
brisk  flavor,  and  a  fine  delicate  aroma.  December,  February.  (Florist 
and  Pomologist.) 


Gros  Pommier. 
Gros  Pomier. 


Fall  Queen,  or  Haas. 

Haas. 

Maryland  Queen. 


Horse  of  some. 
Hoss. 


Originated  on  the  grounds  of  Gabriel  Cerre  many  years  since,  adjoin- 
ing the  then  village  of  St.  Louis  (now  city),  Mo.  It  was  at  first  called 
Gros  Pommier,  but  now  generally  Fall  Queen  or  Haas,  and  we  retain 
this,  as  it  is  most  commonly  used.  It  is  very  popular  through  most  of 
bhe  West  and  Southwest  as  a  profitable  market  fruit,  and  for  family 
use.  'free  hardy,  very  vigorous,  upright,  forming  a  beautiful  symmetric 
bead ;  an  early,  annual,  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  angular  or  slightly 
ribbed  ;  skin  smooth,  pale  greenish  yellow,  shaded  nearly  over  the  whole 
surface  with  light  and  dark  red,  some  rather  obscure  splashes  and 
stripes,  and  a  few  light  dots  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  a  little 
greenish;  calyx   closed;    basin  small  or  medium,  slightly  corrugated  ; 


Fall  Queen,  or  Haaa. 


flesh  quite  white,  fine,  often  stained  next  the  skin,  and  sometime* 
through  the  flesh,  tender,  very  juicy,  vinous,  brisk  subacid;  good  tc 
very  good;  (ore  medium  or  large.     September,  October. 


the  apple.  11 

Fall  Stripe. 
Saxton. 

An  old  variety  which  originated  in  Massachusetts  or  Connecticut, 
lVee  vigorous,  forming  a  handsome  round  head ;  very  productive  alter- 
nate years  ;  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  regular ;  skin  yellow,  shaded,  striped 
and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red  over  the  whole  surface,  having  a 
few  light  and  brown  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  slightly 
russeted;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated;  skin  yellow- 
ish, a  little  coarse,  juicy,  tender,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  good  to 
very  good ;  core  small.     September. 

Franclin. 

Origin,  Lancaster  County,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  a 
round  head,  very  productive  alternate  years,  and  a  few  the  intervening 
ones. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  oblate  ;  skin  pale  greenish  white,  covered 
with  pale  red,  often  deep  red  in  the  sun,  sometimes  obscure  splashes 
and  stripes,  ami  a  few  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
rather  large,  sometimes  a  little  russeted ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  medium, 
very  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant  subacid  ;  very  good  ;  core  small.     September,  October. 

General  Lyon. 

A  new  variety,  received  from  George  S.  Park,  who  writes  that  it  was 
raised  from  seed  of  Ben  Davis  by  the  late  Elias  Peck,  of  Parksville, 
Missouri,  and  that  the  tree  is  hardy,  and  resembles  its  parent  in  growth  ; 
very  productive  annually,  a  long  keeper,  and  a  good  market  fruit ;  young 
shoots  smooth,  brownish  red. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  conical,  flattened  at  the  ends, 
sometimes  a  little  oblique ;  skin  bright  yellow,  shaded  with  light  and 
dark  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface;  sometimes  a  few  faint  stripes 
and  a  few  light  and  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  medium, 
often  slight  green  russet;  calyx  open:  basin  broad,  not  very  deep,  cor- 
rugated; flesh  yellowish,  fine,  compact,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
rather  rich  ;  good  to  very  good  ;  core  small.     January,  April. 

General  Marion. 

Originated  with  Henry  Lyons,  Columbia,  S.  C.  Tree  a  strong, 
vigorous  grower,  quite  spreading,  not  early  coming  into  bearing,  bul 
uniformly  productive  when  it  attains  sufficient  age,  valuable  for  i<s  late 
keeping  and  productiveness;  young  shoots  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  or  below;  roundish  oblate  conic,  slightly  angular; 
skin  pale  yellow,  shaded,  and  rather  obscurely  striped  with  light  and 
dark  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with 
light  and  gray  dots;  stalk  short;  cavity  medium  or  small;  calyx  half 
closed;  basin  rather  narrow,  deep,  slightly  plaited ;  flesh  whitish,  half 
fine,  compact,  moderately  juicy,  mild  sub^'d  ;  good  to  very  good  ;  core 
medium.     January  to  April. 


ii!  the  apple 

Gillette's  Winesap. 

Origin  unknown,  but  supposed  to  have  originated  with  the  late  11 
N.  Gillette,  of  Quaker  Bottom,  Ohio.  Tree  vigorous,  rather  spreading, 
a  good  and  valuable  apple,  quite  productive  alternate  years. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  oblique,  sides  sometime* 
mequal ;  skin  whitish,  shaded  and  mottled  with  light  red,  rather  thinly 
striped  and  splashed  with  darker  red,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with 
light  and  brown  dots ;  some  specimens  have  a  mixed  red  and  russet  on 
the  exposed  side;  stalk  short;  cavity  medium,  much  russeted ;  calyx 
open,  or  half  closed;  basin  rather  largo,  regular ;  llesh  white,  a  little 
coarse,  crisp,  juicy,  tender,  mild  subacid;  very  good;  core  small.  De- 
cember, January. 

Goyeau. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of Goyeau,  Windsor,  On- 
tario. Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  rather  straggling  and  crooked  ;  comes 
rather  early  into  bearing,  and  produces  good  crops  annually. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  angular  or  slightly  ribbed,  and  some- 
what irregular  ;  skin  light  pale  yellow,  many  rather  obscure  light  dots  ; 
stalk  of  medium  length,  slender;  cavity  rather  large,  uneven;  calyx 
<  losed  ;  basin  quite  large,  furrowed  ;  flesh  yellowish,  fine,  very  tender, 
juicy,  brisk  subacid,  excellent  for  culinary  uses,  and  a  fair  table  fruit. 
August,  September. 

Grattan. 

This  new  large  apple  was  grown  from  seed  by  Nehemiah  Smith,  of 
( r rattan,  but  while  quite  young,  before  fruiting,  was  removed  to  the  farm 
of  .Solomon  Deal,  of  Oakfield,  Mich.  It  is  highly  prized  in  that  section 
for  culinary  purposes  as  well  as  for  the  table.  Tree  vigorous,  upright, 
forming  a  round  open  head,  producing  good  crops  annually,  and  larger 
ones  alternate  years. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  regular ; 
skin  smooth,  bright  yellow,  moderately  sprinkled  with  grayish  dots; 
stalk  very  short,  small  ;  cavity  large,  deep,  sometimes  slightly  russeted; 
open,  or  partially  closed  ;  basin  large,  deep,  nearly  smooth  ;  llesh 
yellowish,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  brisk,  subacid;  good  to  very 
good  ;   core  small.      September,  December. 

Gros  Pigeonnet. 

Of  foreign  origin.     Tree  strong,  but  a  slow  grower;  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded,  mottled, 
and  rather  obscurely  striped  and  splashed,  with  light  and  dark  rick  red 
over  most  of  the  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  small  light  dots; 
Stalls  short,  small  ;  cavity  medium,  russet;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium. 
fnrrowed;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  subacid;  good 
December,  February. 


THE  Arn.K. 


is 


Gros  Vert. 
Large  Green. 
( )f  foreign  origin.     Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  productive. 
Fruit  medium,  oblate;   skin  greenish   yellow,   covered  with  a  few 
rather  obscure  green  and  grayish  dots  ;  stalk  rather  short,  moderatelv 
stout;  cavity  quite  large,  russet ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium,  slightfv 
corrugated;  flesh  pale  yellow,  half  tine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid  . 
good  to  very  good  ;  core  small.     January,  March. 

Hannah. 

Originated  with  Joseph  Curtis,  of  Manchester,  O.  Tree  hardy, 
vigorous,  upright  at  first,  but  spreading  when  in  bearing ;  an  annual, 
moderate  beai*er. 

Fruit  roundish  oblate  conic,  slightly  angular ;  skin  pale  dull  green- 
ish yellow,  striped,  splashed  and  mottled  over  half  the  surface  with  light 
red,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  large  and  small  white  dots,  a  few 
being  areole ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  large,  deep ;  calyx  small, 
closed ;  basin  small,  corrugated ;  flesh  greenish  white,  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  small. 
November,  December. 

Hatcher. 
Hatcher's  Seedling. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  the  late  O.  C.  Hatcher,  near  Franklin, 
Tenn,     Tree  an  upright  thrifty  grower,  not  an  early  bearer,  but  pro- 


duces good  crops  annually;  a  late  keeper,  and  one  of  the  most  popular 
apples  iu  Middle  Tennessee. 


14  THE    APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  inclining  to  conic,  slightly  angular ;  skit 
very  dark  rich  red,  sometimes  almost  purplish,  a  few  light  dots ;  stalk 
short,  small ;  cavity  medmm,  often  slight  russet ;  calyx  open ;  basin 
medium,  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  yellow,  line,  rather  compact,  juicy,  mild 
pleasant  rich  subacid,  almost  sweet ;  very  good  ;  core  small.  January, 
March 


Hawkins''  Chief. 

Originated  with  S.  Hawkins,  Maple  Grove,  Minn.  Tree  hardy, 
healthy  and  vigorous,  and  adapted  for  a  northern  latitude. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic ;  skin  pale  yellow,  clear  of  thi 
slightest  blush  or  tinge ;  stalk  short,  stout ;  cavity  shallow ;  calyx 
closed  ;  basin  broad,  deep  ;  flesh  rather  coarse,  brittle,  acid  ;  good  ;  core 
small.     October.      (Western  Pomologist.) 


Hiram. 

Origin,  orchard  of  General  Isaac  Sandford,  of  Vermillion,  111. 
Tree  a  moderate  grower,  forming  a  round  head ;  a  moderate  bearer  at 
first,  but  when  the  tree  has  attained  some  age  is  very  pi'oductive ;  val- 
uable in  its  locality  for  late  keeping  and  market. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  a  little  oblique ;  skin  en- 
tirely covered  with  dark  red,  sometimes  obscure  splashes  and  moderately 
sprinkled  with  light  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  much  rus- 
set ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  broad,  rather  shallow,  corrugated ;  flesh  whi- 
tish, half  fine,  rather  compact,  mild  subacid ;  good  to  very  good ;  core 
small.     January  to  May. 

Hoya  Golden  Reinette. 
Hayasche  Gold  Reinette.  Reinette  de  Hoya. 

Of  German  origin.  Tree  strong,  vigorous,  spreading ;  an  early  and 
abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  regular:  skin  golden  yellow,  shaded  with  dark 
red,  faintly  striped  and  splashed  with  light  red,  and  sprinkled  with  a 
few  light  and  gray  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  large,  slight  russet; 
calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium ;  flesh  yellowish,  half  fine,  juicy,  tender, 
subacid  ;  good  ;  core  small.     November,  March. 

Huntsman's  Favorite. 

A  seedling  on  the  farm  of  John  Huntsman,  of  Fayette,  Mo.  Tre»' 
vigorous,  not  a  very  early  bearer,  but  is  very  productive  annually  when 
(he  tree  has  attained  sufficient  age;  it  is  said  to  be  a  valuable  and  profi- 
table fruit  in  the  locality  where  it  originated;  young  shoots  smooth,  red- 
dish brown. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  often  a  little  oblique ;  skin 
smooth,  pale  yellow,  sometimes  a  shade  of  pale  red  or  deep  yehow  in 
the  sun,  and  a  few  scattering  grayish  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
broad,  deep,  sometimes  .slight  russet;  calyx  closed,  or  nearly  go;  basi:i 


TIIE    APPLE.  1ft 


arge,  deep,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  mild  rich  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  verv  good ;  core 
rather  small.     December,  March. 


Huntsman's  Favorite. 


HUMISTON. 


Origin  Plymouth,  Conn.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  with  long  brandies, 
forming  a  spreading  head  when  in  fruit,  very  productive  every  other 
year,  hangs  late  on  the  tree,  cooks  well,  but  only  second  quality  for 
eating. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  sides  some- 
times unequal  ;  skin  yellow,  a  little  greenish,  shaded  and  rather  ob- 
scurely striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red  over  half  or  two- 
thirds  its  surface,  a  few  light  and  gray  dots  ;  stalk  rather  short,  small  ; 
.-avity  quite  large,  slightly  russeted  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
subacid;  good;  core  small.     February,  March. 

Illinois  Greening. 

Originated  with  Joseph  Curtis,  of  Paris,  111.     Tree  hardy,  vigorous, 
upright,  somewhat  spreading,  produces  large  crops  annually,  valuabl 
a  late  keeping  market  apple  in  its  locality. 

Fruit  large  oblate,  to  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  a  little  oblique; 
skin  greenish  yellow,  often  a  shade  of  dull  red  in  the  sun,  and  a  fe\» 
tight  and  brown  dots;  stalk  short;  cavity  medium,  slight  russet; 
calyx  half  open;  basin  large,  deep,  nearly  smooth;  flesh  )«llowish, 
half  fine,  rather  compact,  moderately  juicy,  subacid  ;  good  :  core  small 
Junuary,  April. 


1g  THE    APPLE. 

Iowa  Russet. 

This  new  apple  originated  with  Joseph  L.  Budd,  Shellsburg,  Iowa, 
who  informs  us  that  the  tree  is  very  hardy,  vigorous,  making  a  compact 
tound   head,  an  early,  annual,  and  abundant  bearer;  fruit  even  in  size 
of  wood   quality,  and   a   valuable   acquisition  for  the  prairie  country 
yroung  shoots  light  reddish  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  slightly  oblique  ; 
skin  deep  yellow,  a  shade  of  pale  red  when  exposed  to  the  sun,  mod- 
erately sprinkled  with  grayish  dots,  and  partially  covered  with  patches 
and  nettings  of  russet;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  quite  large;  calyx 
closed  ;  basin  round,  quite  deep,  nearly  smooth  ;  flesh  yellowish,  half 
tine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  rather  rich  ;  good  to  very 
good;  core  small.     January,  March. 


Iowa  Russet. 


Irish  Pippin. 


Originated  with  Stephen  A.  Porter,  Norristown,  Pa.  Tree  a  free 
upright  grower,  forming  a  handsome  head,  very  productive  alternate 
years  ;   young  shoots  smooth,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  roundish,  slightly 
conical  ;  skin  whitish,  shaded  with  light  bright  red,  striped  and  broken 
splashes  of  dark  red,  and  a  few  light  and  brown  dots;  stalk  very  short, 
small  ;  cavity  medium,  sometimes  a  little  russeted  ;  basin  small,  corru- 
gated; flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  vinous;  vers 
good  ;  core  rather  small.     October,  November. 

Johnson. 

( Iriginated  with  Thomas  Johnson,  Ash  Ridge,  111.     True  vigorous, 
it,  ai:  annual  and  good  bearer;  it  is  highly  prized  where  it  origi- 
nated. 


THE    APPLE.  17 


Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  sometimes  slightly  oblique  skin  pale 
greenish  yellow,  almost  entirely  covered  with  dark  rich  red,  inclining 
to  maroon,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots  ;  stalk 
very  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  russet ;  calyx  open ;  basin  medium, 
slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  yellowish,  fine,  juicy,  mild  rich  subacid,  inclining 
to  sweet ;  very  good ;  core  small.     December,  March. 


Irish  Pippin. 

Kansas  Queen. 

Kaised  by  Burrell  Atkinson,  Leavenworth,  Kan.  Tree  hardy,  vigor- 
ous, forming  a  handsome  open  head  ;  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical,  slightly  angular ;  skin 
entirely  covered  with  light  and  dark  red,  sometimes  almost  purplish  in 
the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  small  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk 
short,  slender ;  cavity  deep,  rather  narrow ;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so  ; 
basin  medium,  corrugated  ;  flesh  quite  white,  rather  firm,  juicy,  bri^k 
subacid  ;  good  ;  core  rather  large.     August,  September. 

Kansas  Sweet. 

A  seedling  raised  by  B.  Atkinson,  of  Leavenworth,  Kansas.  Tree 
erect,  compact,  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate,  slightly  conical;  skin  greenish  yellow, 
covered  with  broken  stripes  of  light  red  and  crimson  ;  dots  small,  blaeh  , 
scattered;  stalk  short,  rather  thick;  cavity  regular,  wide,  deep;  calv.x 
small,  closed;  basin  shallow;  flesh  yellowish  white,  fine,  juicy,  crisp, 
breaking,  very  tender  and  pleasant,  sugar  sweet ;  quality  excellent ;  core 
medium.     November  tj  January. 


18  the  apple. 

King  Solomon. 

Origin  unknown  ,  received  from  J.  S.  Downer  &,  Son,  of  Fairriew 
Ky.,  who  write  me  that  it  came  from  Georgia.     Tree  a  strong,  vigorous 
grower,  spreading,  not  an  early  bearer,  but  very  productive  alternate 
years ;  a  handsome  and  good  apple  of  its  season ;  young  shoots  dark 
reddish  brown  ;  buds  large. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular ; 
skin  orange  yellow,  a  few  scattered  stripes  and  splashes  of  light  red  over 
the  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  brown  dots ;  stalk  short ; 
cavity  medium  ;  calyx  large,  open  ;  basin  rather  large  or  medium  ;  flesh 
yellow,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic  ; 
good  to  very  good ;  core  small.     September. 

Kinnaird's   Choice. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Michael  Kinnaird,  of  Franklin, 
Tenn.  Tree  a  thrifty,  vigorous  grower,  not  very  upright  or  regular, 
similar  to  Winesap  ;  an  early  and  annual  bearer,  producing  heavier 
crops  alternate  years. 


Kinnaird's  Choice. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  slightly  angular,  or  ob- 
scurely ribbed,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  skin  yellow,  almost  covered 
with  dark  rich  red,  many  small  light  dots  near  the  crown,  and  larger 
ones  and  less  number  near  the  base ;  stalk  short,  small,  sometimes  by  a 
Up;  cavity  wide,  deep,  russeted;  calyx  closed;  basin  large,  deep,  fur- 
rowed; flesh  yellowish,  half  line,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  rich  sub- 
acid, slightly  aromatic ;  very  good  ;  core  small.     January. 


the  apple.  19 

Lallier's  Prolific  Red. 

A  new  variety  raised  by  Eugene  Lallier,  of  Leavenworth,  Kansas 
Specimens  received  from  Dr.  J.  Stayman,  who  writes  that  the  tree  is 
moderately  vigorous,  forming  a  round  head,  unusually  productive  on 
rich  bottom  land,  where  nearly  all  others  fail,  and  has  shown  no  symp- 
tom of  blight  or  disease  of  any  kind  ;  use,  table  and  market. 


Lallier's  Prolific  Red. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conical ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow, 
shaded  with  rather  bright  red,  more  or  less  faint  stripes  and  splashes  of 
rather  dull  red  over  most  of  the  surface,  and  covered  with  numerous 
light  dots  in  the  sun  and  grayish  ones  in  the  shade  ;  stalk  short;  cavity 
medium  to  large,  sometimes  thinly  russeted  ;  calyx  closed,  or  nearly  so ; 
basin  small  or  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  yellowish,  half  tine, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid ;  veiy  good ;  core  small. 
October,  February. 

Lambert. 
Keasbey's  Favorite. 

Origin  near  Salem,  N.  J.,  on  the  premises  of  John  H.  Lambert 
Tree  very  vigorous,  rather  upright,  inclining  to  spread  ;  a  good  bearer, 
and  keeps  well. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  slightly  conical  ;  skin 
whitish  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  pale  light  red  and  obscurely  striped 
and  splashed  with  darker  red  and  numerous  light  dots;  stalk  very  short, 
small;  cavity  large,  deep,  russeted;  calyx  large,  closed;  basin  I 
dec]),  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  half  line,  rather  firm,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid,  slightly  aromatic  ;  very  good  ;  core  small.  December  to  Kel> 
ruary. 


2C 


THE    APPLE. 


L.\M-,.,  ,  [NETTE. 

Reinette  de  Landsberg. 

Originated  with  Justrigrath  Burchardt,  Hanover,  Germany  Tre» 
Strang,  vigorous,  .spreading,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  regular;  skin  smooth,  golden  yellow, 
sometimes  a  shade  of  light  red  in  the  sun,  and  many  light  and  brown 
dots;  stalk  long,  slender;  cavity  medium,  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin 
medium,  corrugated;  flesh  yellowish,  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  lively 
subacid,  rather  rich ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  small.  November,  Jan- 
uary. 

Lelieur. 

Of  foreign  origin  and  a  promising  variety.  Tree  vigorous,  upright, 
very  prbductive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular ;  skin  yel 
low,  shaded,  splashed,  and  striped  with  light  and  dark  red  over   the  en- 


tire surface,  and  a  few  scattering  light  dots;  stalk  short,  slender ;  cavity 
large,  deep,  a  little  greenish  :  calj  \  closed  :  basin  quite  large,  moderate- 
ly deep,  slightly  corrugated-;  lest  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid; good  to  very  good  ;  core  small.     November,  February. 


Long's  Russet. 

Originated  with  fche  late  J.  S.  Long,  of  Fairview,  Tvy.,  and  is  con 
uidered  one  of  the  besl  late  keeping  apples  for  that  locality.  Tree  vigo- 
rous, upright,  luit  spreading  when  in  fruit,  and  makes  a  large  handsome 
tree;   v  i  y  productive  annually;  young  shoots  reddish  brown,  grayish. 


THE    APPLE.  2\ 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly  oblique;  skin  greenish,  near- 
ly covered  with  rough  dull  russet;  stalk  very  short;  cavity  rathei 
broad,  deep;  calyx  open;  basin  medium,  regular;  flesh  white,  green 
tinge,  half  fine,  moderately  juicy,  half  teuder,  pleasant  subacid ;  good ; 
core  small.     March,  April. 

McAfee's  Nonsuch. 

McAfee.  Wyandotte.  Large  Striped  Pearmain. 

McAfee's  Red.  Gray  Apple.  Storr's  Wine. 

Striped  Pearmain.  Indian.  Missouri  Superior. 

Snorter.  Uncle  Zceke.  New  Missouri. 

Nonsuch.  Winter  Pearmain.  Yalandingham's  Wine. 

Zeeke.  Large  Striped  Winter  Pear-  White  Crow. 

Gray's  Keeper.  main.  Ladies'  Favorite  of  some. 

Park's  Keeper.  Striped  Winter  Pearmain.  Hubbardston  Nonsuch,   er- 
roneously. 

As  this  and  Striped  Winter  Pearmain  in  the  second  revised  edition 
ha\e  proved  to  be  identical,  we  give  a  new  description  with  the  addition- 
al syns.  An  old  variety,  which  originated  in  the  orchard  of  George 
McAfee,  near  Harodsburg,  Mercer  County,  Ky.  We  ore  indebted  to 
Dr.  William  Howsley,  of  Leavenworth,  Kansas,  for  its  history,  origin, 
etc.  Tree  very  vigorous,  forming  a  round  spreading  head.  Tt  does  not 
come  early  into  bearing,  but  is  very  productive  when  it  attains  some 
age.  It  is  considerably  grown  through  the  West  and  South-west  under 
(he  name  of  Striped  Winter  Pearmain,  also  more  or  less  by  the  syns.  as 
given  above.  It  is  valued  in  many  localities  as  one  of  the  best  of  its 
reason ;  in  others  of  but  little  value. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic ;  skin  yel- 
low, striped,  splashed  and  marbled  with  light  and  dark  bright  red  nearly 
over  the  surface,  yet  showing  the  yellow  ground  nearly  all  through,  thickly 
sprinkled  with  large  and  small  light  dots,  some  areole;  stalk  shoi 
long,  slender;  cavity  large,  deep,  often  thinly  russeted ;  calyx  small, 
closed;  basin  rather  small,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  yellowish,  half  line, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rich  mild  subacid,  inclining  to  sweet,  slightly  aroma- 
tic; very  good  ;  core  medium.     October,  February. 

Manx. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  orchard  of  Judge  Mooney,  of  Granby,  N.  V. 
Tree  hardy,  an  upright  grow*  r,  with  rather  slender  branches,  forming  a 
round  head  ;  an  earl"  and  annual  bearer,  a  late  keeper,  valuable  foj 
market  and  cooking,  and  a  fair  table  fruit. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  nearly  regulai  ,  skin  deep 
yellow  when  fully  ripe,  often  with  a  shade  of  brownish  red  where  ex- 
posed, and  thicl  kb-.I  with  light  and  ■.  ,  a  few  b 
areole;  stalk  short,  rather  small;  cavity  medium  or  quite  latge,  some- 
times slightly  russeted;  calyx  generally  closed;  basin  rather  large, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  yellowish,  half  fine,  half  tender,  juicy,  mild 
pleasant  subacid ;  good  to  very  good;  core  medium.     January,  April. 


22 


THE    APPLE. 


Marquis  ok  Lokne. 
Raised  from  seed  of  the   Graveustien   by  "William  Sutton,  of  Port 


Marquis  of  Lome. 

Williams,  Nova  Scotia.     Tree  verv  vigoious,  making  a  large  spreading 


THE    APPLE.  23 

tree ;  it  is  rather  late   coming  into   bearing,  but  produces  good  crops 
annually  when  established ;  valuable  for  market  and  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  smooth,  whitish  yel- 
low, shaded,  mottled,  and  a  few  broken  splashes  and  stripes  of  light  and 
dark  bright  red  over  most  of  the  surface,  with  a  few  light  and  brown 
dots ;  stalk  short ;  cavity  large,  deep,  russeted ;  calyx  large,  open ; 
basin  large,  irregular  or  ribbed  ;  flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  breaking, 
tender,  juicy,  lively  subacid;  good  to  very  good;  core  medium.  No- 
vember. 

Mason's  Stranger. 

Mason's  Pippin.  Old  Field.  Izzard. 

A  chance  seedling  found  on  the  farm  of  Dr.  George  Mason,  Virginia. 
Tree  of  vigorous  growth,  forming  a  large  symmetric  head,  very  pro- 
ductive annually ;  a  popular  and  favorite  apple  where  it  originated ; 
young  shoots  brownish  red. 


Mason's  Stranger. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  somewhat  depressed;  skin  bight  bright  yellow, 
sometimes  a  shade  of  light  red  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  a  few 
brownish  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  large,  slight  russet ;  calyx 
open ;  basin  large,  deep,  smooth ;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  rather  compact, 
crisp,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  inclining  to  sweet,  somewhat  spicy  and  rich; 
very  good  ;  core  small.     Decemher,  February. 

Missouri  Pippin. 
Missouri  Keeper. 

It  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the  orchard  of  Brink  Hornsby, 
Johnson  County,  Mo.  Tree  hardy,  a  strong  upright,  rather  spreading 
grower,  an  early  and  abundant  annual  bearer.  , 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  oblique,  somewhat 
Hattened  at  the  ends ;    skin  pale   whitish  yellow,  shaded,  striped  and 


L'l  THE    API'LE. 

splashed  with  light  and  dark  red,  often  qnite  dark  in  the  sun,  1  i^vin^ 
many  largj  and  small  light  and  gray  dots;  stalk  short,  small }  cavity 
large,  deep;  calyx  closed,  or  half  open ;  basin  rather  abrupt,  deep, 
slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  crisp  or  breaking, 
moderately  juicy,  subacid  ;  good;  core  small.     January,  April. 

Monte  Bello. 

Originated  with  Matthew  Gray,  Riverside,  Monte  Bello  Township, 
[11.  Tree  rather  upright,  hardy,  healthy,  moderately  vigorous,  an  early 
bearer,  very  productive  annually,  a  new  variety,  and  A.  C.  Hammond, 
from  whom  specimens  were  received,  writes  that  he  considers  it  an 
*pple  of  great  promise. 


Monte  Bello. 

Fruit  above  medium,  oblate,  regular;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  and 
mottled  with  light  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  dark  rich  red  over  tin 
whole  surface,  and  a  few  large  light  dots;  stalk  very  short,  small: 
cavity  large,  broad,  russeted;  calyx  .small,  nearly  closed;  basin  large, 
deep,  smooth ;  flesh  quite  white,  fine,  sometimes  a  little  stained  next 
the  skin,  very  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  vinous;  very  good;  core 
small  or  medium.     September,  November. 

Morgan. 

Originated  with  Benjamin  Morgan,  Gloucester  County,  N.  J.,  many 
years  since.  Tree  a  healthy  moderate  grower,  not  an  early  bearer,  but 
produces  good  crops  alternate  years  when  the  tree  attains  some  age. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  a 
shade  of  pale  red  in  the  sun,  and  many  brown  dots ;  stalk  short,  small  ; 
cavity  small  often  a  little  russeted ;  basin  rather  small,  slightly  corru- 
gated;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  sub- 
acid ;  good ;  core  small.     October,  January. 


the  apple.  25 

Otoe  Red  Streak. 

Originated  with  James  H.  Masters,  Nebraska  City,  Otoe  County, 
Nebraska.  Tree  an  upright  spreading  grower,  forming  a  round  head; 
an  early  and  abundant  bearer  annually. 


Otoe  Red  Streak. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  skin 
whitish  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  light  red,  many  stripes  and  broken 
splashes  of  dark  rich  red,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  grayish 
dots  ;  stalk  rather  short,  slender  ;  cavity  large,  deep,  russeted ;  calyx 
closed  ;  basin  large,  deep,  very  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  quite  white, 
sometimes  a  little  stained  next  the  skin,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild, 
sprightly  subacid  ;  good  to  very  good  ;  core  small.     November,  May. 

Parry's  White. 
Imperial  White.     Superior  White.     White  Apple. 

Of  unknown  origin,  supposed  to  be  Pennsylvania.  Tree  vigorous, 
upright,  compact  head,  a  regular  bearer,  and  very  productive  ;  use,  table, 
cooking,  and  market. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic  ;  skin  smooth, 
whitish,  sometimes  a  slight  tiuge  of  red  in  the  sun  ;  stalk  short,  small ; 
cavity  large,  deep;  calyx  closed;  basin  rather  shallow,  a  Little  uneven; 
flesh  fine,  white,  crisp,  very  tender,  juicy,  subacid;  good.     August. 

Perle  d'Angleterre. 
Pearl  of  England. 

Of  foreign  origin.     Tree  a  strong  grower,  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  skin  yellow,  thiruy 


26  TIIE    APPLE. 

« 

shaded  with  light  red,  some  rather  obscure  stripes  and  splashes,  and 
many  brown  dots ;  stalk  of  medium  length,  slender;  cavity  quite  large, 
russeted ;  calyx  large,  open;  basin  large,  broad,  slightly  corrugated; 
flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  half  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid,  rather  rich; 
good  to  very  good ;  core  small.     November,  December. 


Pewaukee. 

Raised  from  seed  of  Duchess  of  Oldenburg  by  George  P.  Pepper,  of 
Pewaukee,  Wis.,  who  sends  us  specimens,  and  writes  that  the  tree  ia 
strong  and  vigorous,  centre  upright,  very  spreading,  an  annual  bearer, 
and  one  of  the  hardiest  and  best  for  the  Northwest ;  young  shoots  dark 
brownish  red. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  bright  yellow,  striped, 
splashed  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red  over  mo.^t  of  the  surface, 
covered  with  a  thin  grayish  bloom,  and  many  large  and  small  light 
dots,  a  few  being  areole  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  small  ;  calyx  closed ; 
basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  breaking, 
half  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  good;  core  small.  Janu- 
ary to  May. 

Pilot. 

An  accidental  seedling,  found  on  the  premises  of  John  Bobbins,  at 
the  f^ot  of  Pilot  Mountain,  Nelson  County,  Va.     Tree  hardy,  of  mod- 


erate growth,  forming  a  round  head,  rather  slow  coming  into  bearing, 
but  when  established  produces  large  crops  alternate  years,  and  a  few  the 


THE    APPLE.  'Si 

intervening  ones,  and  is  considered  a  valuable  variety  in  its  locality; 
young  shoots  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular ;  skin  pale  yellowish 
vreen,  shaded,  splashed  and  striped  with  pale  dull  red  nearly  over  the 
surface,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  areole  dots;  .stalk  short,  small ; 
cavity  rather  large;  calyx  half  closed  ;  basin  large,  deep,  smooth;  flesh 
yellowish  white,  fine,  rather  linn,  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic;   very  good;  con-  small.      December,  January. 

fOMME    GRISE    ]>'<■  Hi. 
Swazie  Pomme  Grise. 

An  old  variety  of  unknown  origin.  I  am  informed  it  is  consider- 
ably grown  in  Canada  and  s<  u  tions  of  Western  New  York,  and 
there  were  trees  of  it  near  Niagara  on  the  Colonel  Swazie  farm — where 
it  probably  originated-  -two  feet  in  diameter.  Tree  hardy,  upright, 
moderately  vigorous.  »ood  hearer  every  other  year.  The  fruit  is 
more  oblong,  more  golden  in  color,  and  more  aromatic  than  the  Pomme 
Crise,  and  is  considered  superior  Lo  it. 


Pomme  Grise  d'Or. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  or  roundish   oblate,  conical ;  skin  deep  yellow, 

covered    with    a    thin    light    cinnamon    grayish    russet,  and    many   rather 

re  light     !  '.   short  to   long,  slender;  cavity   rather  broad, 

deep  ;  cal,  sin  quite  large,  dei  ;  'd  ;  flesh 

i;e,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  rich  and   aromatic;   very  good 

or  best ;  core  rather  small.     January  to  March  or  April. 


Peesh's  Winter. 

Originated  at  the  Forest    Nursery  of  J.  S.  Downer  &   Son   of  Fair- 
view.  Todd  County,  Ky.,  who  write  that  the  tree  is  a  good  grower,  up 


28  THE    APPLE. 

right,  lather  irregular,  very  productive  alternate  seasons,  a  ±u  an  excellent 
winter  apple;  young  shoots  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large  roundish,  slightly  conic ;  skin  pale  yellow, 
shaded  with  dark  red  in  the  sun,  thinly  shaded  and  rather  obscurely  and 
faintly  splashed  and  striped  in  the  shade,  moderately  sprinkled  with 
light  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  considerably  russeted  : 
calyx  open;  basin  quite  large,  deep,  smooth;  flesh  yellowish,  fine,  a  li:- 
tle  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid,  vinous;  very  good;  core  small. 
December,  March. 

Princeton. 

Origin,  Massachusetts.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  spreading ;  a  good 
bearer  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  angular ;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded, 
striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red  over  most  of  the  surface, 
a  few  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  smooth, 
sometimes  thinly  russeted ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  large,  deep,  a  little  un- 
even ;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid ;  good  to  very 
good  ;  core  medium.     October,  January. 

Reliance. 

Origin,  Berlin,  Wis. ;  received  from  G.  N.  Smith,  who  writes  that  it 
is  valuable  for  that  locality  for  its  hardiness,  vigor,  and  productiveness. 

Fruit  conical,  or  oblong  conical,  slightly  ribbed,  or  with  broad  shal- 
low furrows ;  skin  pale  light  yellow  with  broken  stripes  and  shades  of 
deep  red  where  fully  exposed;  stalk  short;  cavity  deep,  open,  slight 
greenish  russet ;  calyx  nearly  closed ;  basin  deep,  broad,  open,  with 
many  small  sharp  furrows;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately 
j  uicy,  mild  subacid ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  rather  open  at  centre. 
January  to  March. — (Mural  JYew-  Yorker.) 

Ripley. 

Ripley's  Claret. 

This  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  N.  L.  Ripley,  of  Collinsville, 
Madison  County,  111.  Tree  said  to  be  thrifty,  well  shaped  and  tolerably 
productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  somewhat  conical,  sides  unequal  ; 
skin  smooth  and  shining,  greenisli  ground,  nearly  covered  with  a  bril- 
liant crimson  and  marked  with  numerous  white  dots  ;  stem  medium 
length,  slender;  calyx  large,  closed;  flesh  white,  firm,  moderately 
juicy,  subacid;  very  good;  core  rather  small  and  closed.  Septem 
ber.      (W.  C.  Flagg,  in  Jour  rial  of  Horticulture.) 

Rochester  Pippin. 

A  hybrid  raised  by  Jacob  Moore,  of  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  and  judging 
from  the  specimens  received,  being  of  large  size  and  excellent  quality, 
is  a  very  promising  winter  variety. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  nearly  regular";  skin  smooth,  pale 
greenish  yellow,  shaded  with  light  brownish  red   in  the  sun,  and  a  few 


THE    APPLE. 


greenish  dots ;  stalk  short,  smai ;  cavity  large,  smooth,  a  little  green- 
ish ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium  or  rather  large,  smooth  ;  flesh  whitish, 
fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  vinous  refreshing  flavor,  slightly  aromatic  and 
rich  ;  very  good  or  best ;  core  small.     January,  March. 


Rochester  Pippin. 

Rose-Bud. 

Origin  unknown,  supposed  to  be  New  Castle  County,  Del.  Tree  a 
strong,  vigorous  grower,  forming  a  round,  rather  spreading  top,  very 
productive  ;  fruit  hangs  firmly  to  the  tree,  keeps  well,  and  is  useful  for 
the  table  and  kitchen. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular ;  skin  yellowish, 
shaded  and  rather  obscurely  splashed  and  striped  with  light  and  dark 
red  nearly  over  the  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  quite  large 
light  dots  ;  stalk  of  medium  length,  slender ;  cavity  rather  large,  often 
slightly  russeted ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  broad,  moderately  deep  ;  flesh 
whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  breaking,  juicy,  mild  subacid  ;  good  ;  core 
small.      December,  March. 

Rose  Bee. 

Originated  with  John  Rose,  Loudon,  Mercer  County,  Pa.  Tree 
vigorous,  upright,  a  good  bearer  alternate  years,  and  some  the  inter- 
vening ones. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  slightly  angular  ; 
skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  light  ml,  striped  and  splashed 
with  dark  red,  sometimes  almost  purplish,  and  a  few  light  dots;  stalk 
short,  rather  stout;   cavity  rather  small,  often   russeted;   caly*    closed 


30 


THE    APPLE. 


basin  small,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  quite  white,  sometimes  a  little 
stained  next  the  skin,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  brisk  subacid  ; 
good  ;  core  medium.     October,  January. 

Rose  Red. 

Of  unknown  origin,  supposed  to  be  on  the  farm  formerly  owned  by 
Gideon  Eamsdell,  Egypt,  Monroe  County,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  thrifty, 
strong  giower,  upright,  inclining  to  spread ;  very  productive  and  regu- 
lar bearer. 


Rose  Red. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  or  roundish  oblate ;  skin  whitish,  shaded, 
striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red,  sometimes  quite  dark, 
nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  many  light  dots,  a  portion  being  areole  ; 
stalk'  short,  small ;  cavity  large,  deep,  smooth,  a  Little  greenish  ;  calyx 
half  closed;  basin  large,  deep ;  flesh  yellowish,  fine,  very  tender,  juicy, 
vinous,  lively  subacid  ;  very  good  ;  core  small.  Middle  of  September 
and  November. 


Seager. 

The  original  tree  grows  on  land  owned  by  the  Indians  near  Luinber- 
ville,  Bucks  County,  Pa.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive;  young 
shoots  dark  brown,  buds  large,  long,  prominent. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  inclining  to  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin  pale 

yellow,  sit.  iped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  rich   red,  some 

of  the   splashes  quite  broad   and  broken,  and  a    few    light   dots;  stalk 

■■  long,  slender,  curved;  cavity   large,   deep:  calyx  closed;  basin 

medium,  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  tender,  juicy,  rather  rich,  mild   sub- 


THE    APPLE.  31 

acid;  good   to  very  good;    core  rather  small.       Last    of   August  and 
September. 

Schuyler's  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Rensselaer  Schuyler,  Seneca  Falls,  N.  Y. 
Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  open  head,  a  regular  bearer,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  or  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly 
angular ;  skin  pale  yellow,  a  few  scattering  brown  dots ;  stalk  rathei 
short,  slender ;  cavity  large,  deep ;  calyx  closed ;  basir.  large,  deep, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
mild,  pleasant  sweet,  slightly  aromatic  ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  small. 
September,  October. 

Scribner  Spitzenburgh. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Elijah  Scribner,  Plattsburgh,  N.  Y.  Tree 
vigorous,  spreading,  very  productive  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  angular ;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded 
with  bright  deep  red  in  the  sun,  sometimes  obscure  stripes  and  splashes 
and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  dots ;  stalk  short,  moderately 
stout ;  cavity  rather  narrow,  deep ;  calyx  half  closed ;  basin  medium, 
furrowed;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  subacid, 
slightly  aromatic ;  good  to  very  good ;  core  small.     December,  February 

Sherman's  Favorite. 
Sherman's  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  farm  now  owned  by  E.  C.  Sherman,  of  Wyoming, 
N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  rather  spreading,  very  productive  alternate 
years. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblate,  angular  or  slightly  ribbed ;  skin 
greenish  yellow,  sometimes  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  moderately 
sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots;  stalk  rather  long,  slender;  cavity 
broad,  not  very  deep,  a  little  greenish ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  broad,  rather 
deep;  flesh  a  little  coarse,  half  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  mild,  rather  rich 
sweet ;  good  to  very  good  ;  core  medium.     November,  January. 

Sillix. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Thomas  Sillix,  Manellan  Township,  Pa, 
Tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  somewhat  spreading,  not  an  early 
bearer,  but  very  productive  alteraate  years  when  the  tree  has  attained 
some  age. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  regular ;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded 
with  light  and  dark  rich  red  over  half  or  more  of  the  surface,  obscureh 
splashed  and  striped,  and  covered  with  numerous  small  light  and  graj 
dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  small,  smooth;  calyx  half  closed  ; 
medium,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  yellow,  fine,  compact,  moderate!) 
iuicy,  mild  subacid,  almost  sweet,  quite  rich;  very  good;  core  small. 
December,  March. 


THE    APPLE. 


Somerset. 


Of  uncertain  origin;  supposed  to  have  originated  in  the  town  ot 
Somerset,  N.   Y.     Tree    vigorous,   spreading;    an  annual    bearer,   but 


Somerset. 

heavier  crops  every  other  year ;  a  rich,  high-flavored  apple,  desirable  foi 
family  use. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  much  narrowed  towards  the 
calyx ;  skin  whitish  yellow,  some  nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  and  a 
few  brown  dots ;  stalk  of  medium  length,  slender ;  cavity  medium ; 
calyx  closed ;  basin  small,  corrugated ;  flesh  quite  white,  fine,  very  ten- 
der, juicy,  rich,  highly  aromatic;  very  good  or  best;  core  medium. 
October. 

SOULARD. 

Raised  by  Antoine  Lessieur,  of  Portage  des  Sioux,  a  few  miles  above 
St.  Louis,  Mo.  Tree  very  vigorous,  upright,  slightly  spreading  when  in 
fruit;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer.  This  is  highly  prized  in  the 
neighborhood  of  its  origin. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly  angular,  or  ob- 
scurely ribbed ;  skin  whitish,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light 
and  dark  bright  red  over  most  of  the  surface,  with  a  few  light  and 
brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  quite  large,  slight  russet;  basin 
medium,  corrugated;  flesh  quite  white,  very  tender,  very  juicy,  spright- 
ly subacid,  vinous;  very  good;  core  rather  large.     October,  Novemb<  r. 

Starr. 

This  large  early  apple  was  an  accidental  seedling  on  the  premises  of 
the    late  John  Starr,  of  Woodbury,  N.  J.     The  tree  is  said   to   be   a 


THE    APPLE. 


35 


vigorous  grower,  forming  a  round,  somewhat  spreading  heal;  branches 
rather  slender;  a  regular  and  abundant  bearer;  valuable  as  an  earl 7 


Soulara. 


market  sort,  and  for  culinary  uses ;  young  wood  light  reddish  yetJo  1 
brown,  buds  prominent. 


Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  obscurely  ribbed  ;  skin  greenish  white,  01 
i>ale  yellow  at  full  maturity,  sometimes  a  shade  of  li'-riir  reil  in  tin-  mi 


34  THE    APPLE. 

moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk  short ;  oavit  • 
,  deep;  calyx  closed;  basin  of  medium  size,  slightly  corrugated, 
flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid ;  pood  tc 
very  good;  core  medium;  ripens  from  the  middle  of  July  to  the  middle 
of  September. 

stayman's  Summer. 

Originated  on  the  grounds  of  Dr.  J.  Stayman,  Leavenworth,  Kan- 
sas. Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  spreading,  irregular,  tough,  wiry,  droops 
like  a  weeping  willow  with  ropes  of  fruit,  never  breaking  a  limb;  an 
early  bearer  and  very  productive,  very  nearly  equal  to  Benoni  and  Sum- 
mer Pearmain,  and  handsomer. 

Fruit  medium,  round,  regular,  approaching  conic ;  skin  smooth, 
greenish  yellow,  splashed  and  striped  with  red  and  purple,  covered  with 
a  white  bloom;  dots  small,  gray,  scattered;  stem  medium,  rather  slen 
der;  cavity  narrow,  deep,  irregular,  russeted;  eye  very  small,  closed  ; 
basin  narrow,  shallow,  furrowed;  core  small,  slightly  open  ;  flesh  ejreeu- 
ish  white,  very  juicy,  brittle,  sprightly,  high  flavored,  mild  acid  very 
good  ;  use,  kitchen,  table,  and  market.  August,  September. — (  V  '.stern 
Pomologist.) 

Stribling. 

Originated  with  the  late  William  Stribling,  Medon,  Tenn.  Tree  a 
good  grower,  rather  upright,  forming  a  regular  round  head ;  an  earl\ 
annual  and  abundant  bearer ;  young  shoots  reddish  brown. 


Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin  whitish,  neaaly  cove: 
witb    stripes    and    splashes   of   lighl    and    dark    rich    red — some   of  ; 


THE    APPLE.  3f. 

splashes  almost  purplish  with  rather  conspicuous  yellow  dots;  stalk 
short,  sraaD ;  cavity  medium ;  calyx  half  open ;  basin  rather  small, 
slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  white,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  pleasanl 
subacid ;  good  to  very  good.     July  at  the  South. 

Striped  Sweet  Pippin. 

Striped  Pippin. 

An  old  variety  of  unknown  origin,  and  was  given  as  a  syn.  in  formei 
editions  of  this  work  to  Striped  Winter  Pearmain,  but  has  proved 
distinct.  Tree  vigorous,  forming  a  round,  rather  low  head  ;  an  earlj 
and  abundant  bearer,  but  nore  heavily  alternate  years;  valuable  for 
table  or  market;  young  shoots  olive  brown,  slightly  downy  at  the  end. 


Striped  Sweet  Pippin. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin  bright 
yellow,  shaded  with  dark  l'ich  red  in  the  sun,  striped,  splashed  and 
mottled  with  Lighter  red  on  the  shaded  side,  and  many  light  and  gray 
dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large,  deep;  calyx  closed  ;  basin 
quite  deep,  rather  abrupt,  a  little  imeven ;  flesh  white,  tine,  tender, 
juicy,  mild,  pleasant  rich  sweet,  or  very  mild  subacid;  very  good;  core 
rather  large.     November,  February. 

Summer  Kino. 

King.  Puckett.  Cheese. 

Puckett's  Summer.  Summer  Cheese. 

An  old  variety  supposed  to  have  originated  in  North  Carolina,  and 
has  been  cultivated  in  Warren  and  Todd  Counties,  Ky.,  for  many  years. 


36  THE    APPLE. 

where  it  is  highly  prized  as  one  of  their  best  and  handsomest  applet  oi 
its  season.  Tree  upright,  moderate  grower,  and  productive  alternate 
years;   young  shoots  reddish  brown,  grayish. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate ;  skin  yellowish  green,  striped 
with  crimson,  red  and  orange;  stalk  short;  cavity  large,  deep,  russeted; 
calyx  closed ;  basin  medium,  regular ;  flesh  whitish,  yellow,  fine,  brittle, 
juic}',  mild  agreeable  subacid  flavor;  core  small.  August,  September. — 
(  Western  Gardener.) 

Summer  Spitzenburgh. 
French  Spitzenburgh. 

Originated  with  Woolsey  Ostrander,  Plattekill,  N.  Y.  Tree  moder- 
itely  vigorous,  forming  a  round  head ;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer 
annually. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  slightly  angular;  skin  whitish, 
almost  entirely  covered  with  two  shades  of  red  in  stripes  and  splashes, 


Summer  Spitzenburgh. 

some  of  which  are  quite  dark,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bloom;  stalk 
short;  cavity  medium,  sometimes  slightly  russeted ;  calyx  closed ;  basin 
medium,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  yellowish  white,  half  tender,  moder 
ateiy  juicy,  subacid,  and  a  little  aromatic;  good  to  very  good.  August 
Vpti-mber. 

TUTTLE. 

Originated  on   the  farm  of   Lyman  Tuttle,  Hamden,    Conn.     Tree 
upright,  vigorous,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer  every  other  year  of  fail 


TITF.    APPLE. 


57 


fruit,  and  valued   in   its   locality  for    market    and    family    use ;  young 
shoots  dark  brown,  many  light  grayish  dots. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  skin 
pale  yellow,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red,  nearly 
covering  the  fruit,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  russet  and  gray 
dots;  stalk  medium,  slender;  cavity  large,  russeted,  sometimes  extend- 
ing in  rays  on  the  base;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  small,  slightly  corrugated; 
flesh  whitish,  tine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  pleasant  subacid;  very  good: 
core  medium.     December,  March. 

Wealthy. 

A  new  variety,  raised  by  Peter  M.  Gideon,  of  Excelsior,  near  St. 
Paul,  Minn.  So  far  the  tree  has  proved  hardy,  healthy,  vigorous, 
spreading,  very  productive ;  a  beautiful  and  excellent  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  or  roundish  oblate ;  skin  smooth,  whitish 
vellow,  shaded  with  deep  rich   red  in  the  sun,  obscure  broken  stripes, 


splashes  and  lnottlings  in  the  shade,  sometimes  entirely  covered  with 
crimson,  and  many  light  dots:  stalk  short  to  medium,  slender;  cavity 
large,  green  russet;  calyx  partially  closed  ;  basin  deep,  abrupt,  uneven  ; 
flesh  white,  fine,  sometimes  stained  with  red,  tender,  juicy,  vinous, 
lively  subacid  ;   very  good  ;  core  small.      December,  February. 


Westek.v  Beauty. 

Musgrove's  Cooper.  Big  Rambo.  Ohio  Beauty. 

Origin   unknown.     William  T.  English,  of  Rhinehart,  O.,  seems  tc 
have   brought   it  into  notice,  anil   furnished   us   specimens.      Tree   very 


38  TUG    APPLE. 

vigorous,   making  a    large,   spreading,    open    head;  an   early  a  ad  goixJ 
bearer. 

Fruit  lai'ge  to  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  regular;  skin  pale  yeilow. 
shaded  with  bright  red  in  the  sun,  some  rather  obscure  splashes  ana 
stripes  of  light  red  in  the  shade,  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  light  and 
gjay  dots,  the  light  ones  being  areole;  stalk  of  medium  length,  slendei  ; 
cavity  large,  sometimes  light  russet;  calyx  large,  closed;  basin  large. 
broad,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  coarse,  crisp,  tender, 
juicy,  mild  subacid;  good  to  very  good;  core  rather  small.  October, 
February. 

Whitescarver. 

Originated  with  B.  A.  Whitescarver,  of  Laurel  Mills,  Va.,  who 
informs  me  that  the  tree  is  vigorous,  rather  spreading  or  round  head, 
an  early  and  good  bearer  annually,  but  more  so  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  pale  yellowish  green,  a  few 
light  dots,  a  portion  being  areole;  stalk  short;  cavity  narrow;  calyx 
small;  basin  broad,  moderately  deep;  flesh  yellowish  white,  half  tine, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid  ;  ver\  good  ;  core  large,  open. 
November,  December. 

York  Stripe. 

Origin  York  County,  Pa.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  an 
early  bearer,  and  very  productive  alternate  years. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin 
pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded  and  rather  thinly  striped  and  splashed  with 
light  bright  red  over  the  whole  surface,  but  quite  faintly  on  the  side 
least  exposed  to  the  sun  ;  stalk  short,  small  ;  cavity  huge,  dee]),  a  little 
greenish  ;  calyx  open  or  half  closed  ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corru- 
gated; flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  breaking,  moderately  juicy,  mild 
subacid;  good;  core  small.     January,  February. 


SIBERIAN  CRABS  AND  IMPROVED  SIBERIAN 

APPLES. 

Bailey's  Crimson  Crab. 

Eaised  by  William  H.   Bailey,  of  Plattsburgh,   N.  Y.     Tree   vigor- 
is,  upright  ;   very  productive. 
Fruit    large   for  a    Siberian,  roundish,    very    slightly    conic;    skin 
yellow,  shaded   over  the  whole  sui-face  with   deep   rich   crimson,  almost 
purplish  in   the  sun,  and  covered  with  a   light   bloom;    stalls   short  to 
long,  sl<  uder,  in   a   medium  or  small  cavity  ;   basin  rather  shallow,  cot 
bed  j  flesh  yellow,  juicy,  subacid  and  astringent.      September. 


the  apple.  39 

Brier's  Sweet  Crab. 

Originated  with  B.  B.  Brier,  of  Baraboo,  Wis.  Is  the  result  of  a 
fertilization  of  the  Siberian  Crab  with  the  Bailey  apple.  Tree  perfectly 
hardy,  vigorous  and  productive. 

Fruit  as  large  as  the  Transcendent;  shaped  like  the  Bailey  Sweet; 
color  pale  yellow,  beautifully  pencilled  and  splashed  with  carmine;  flesh 
yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  very  sweet  and  rich  ;  quality  best  for  dessert 
or  preserves.     (A.  G.  Tuttle,  Manuscript.) 

Lady  Elgin. 
Geneva.  Marengo  Siberian,  No.  4. 

This  beautiful  new  Siberian  apple  originated  on  the  farm  of  James 
Forbes,  of  Ridott  Township,  111.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  slender 
branches,  very  productive,  a  pleasant  dessert  fruit,  and  said  to  be  excel- 
lent for  canning ;  the  slight  acid  or  vinous  flavor  being  preferred  by 
some  to  the  rich  sweet  of  the  peach. 

Fruit  large  for  a  Siberian,  roundish  oblate,  regular ;  skin  smooth, 
whitish  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  bright  rich  red,  a  few  light  and 
gray  dots ;  stalk  medium,  slender  ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  closed ;  basin 
shallow,  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  tine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
slightly  vinous  ;  very  good.     September,  December. 

Mackie's  Beauty  Siberian. 

Originated  with  Matthew  Mackie,  Clyde,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous; 
very  productive. 

Fruit  large  of  its  class,  roundish  oblate ;  skin  whitish,  nearly  cov- 
ered with  deep  rich  red,  a  light  grayish  bloom,  and  a  few  light  dots ; 
stalk  rather  long,  slender ;  cavity  quite  large ;  calyx  closed ;  basin 
broad,  rather  shallow,  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  crisp,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  subacid,  a  little  astringent.     September. 

Sylvan  Sweet  Crab. 

Raised  by  Mrs.  C.  P.  Ailing,  Sylvan,  Richland  County,  Wis.,  from 
seed  of  Siberian  Crab,  and  A.  L.  Hatch,  of  that  town,  describes  the  tree 
as  vigorous,  handsome,  and  suited  to  a  northern  latitude ;  he  says  the 
flesh  is  tender,  juicy,  and  sweet,  and  thinks  it  would  make  good  cider. 

Fruit  large,  two  inches  or  more  in  diameter,  roundish  oblate ;  skin 
smooth,  light  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  bright  red;  stalk  long,  slen- 
der; cavity  medium  ;  basin  rather  small ;  flesh  yellowish,  tender,  juicy, 
mild,  pleasant  sweet;  core  rather  large;  ripens  last  of  August  and  first 
of  September.     {Nomologist  and  Gardener.) 

Van  Wyck's  Siberian. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of  Miss  Caroline  Van  Wyck,  Fish 
kill,  Dutchess  County,  N.  Y.     Tree  vigorous,  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  large  for  a  Siberian,  roundish,  slightly  conic;  skin  smooth, 
whitish,  shaded  and  mottled  with  light  brighl  red,  and  covered  with  a 
thin  bloom;  stalk  rather  long,  slender;  cavity  rather  narrow,  deep; 
calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  smooth;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  rather  firm, 
moderately  juicy,  rather  rich,  honeyed  sweet ;  good  ;  core  small  and  close 
September. 


SECOND  APPENDIX 

TO 

SECOND  KEVISED  EDITION. 


The  publishers  of  Downing's  Fruit  and  Fruit-Trees 
have  requested  me  to  give  them  a  short  Appendix  con- 
taining some  of  the  new  fruits,  with  the  additional 
synonyms,  corrections,  etc.  Further  corrections,  with  a 
more  complete  list  of  new  fruits,  must  await  a  complete 
revision  of  the  whole  work;  and  this  I  hope  to  be  able 
to  accomplish  if  my  life  and  health  are  spared,  at  a 
future  day. 

I  again  thank  the  many  Pomologists  and  Fruit 
Growers  in  various  parts  of  the  country  for  information 
and  specimens  of  fruit  relating  to  many  of  the  varieties 
in  this  Appendix;  their  names  will  be  duly  acknowledged 
when  the  third  revision  of  the  work  is  issued. 

Charles  Downing. 

Newbubgh,  March,  1876. 


THE    APPLE. 


Amsterdam  Sweet. 
High  Top  Sweet,  incorrectly. 

Origin,  Amsterdam,  N.  Y.,  on  the  farm  of  Joseph  Britten.  Tree 
hardy;  a  vigorous,  stout,  upright  grower;  an  early  and  moderate  bearer 
annually. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  flattened  at  the  ends;  skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  bright 
red ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly 
plaited ;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  rather  rich  sweet,  slightly 
aromatic;  core  medium.     October,  November. 

Annette. 
Annate.  Old  Bettie.  Bettie  Brooks. 

Of  unknown  origin,  received  from  John  Dollins,  Greenwood,  Vir- 
ginia, who  informs  us  that  it  was  found  in  that  locality  in  the  late 
Nicholas  Merritt's  orchard  a  half  a  century  ago ;  tree  vigorous,  with  an 
upright,  round,  compact  head,  requiring  but  little  pruning — one  of  the 
most  valuable  of  its  season  for  its  locality. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sides  sometimes  unequal,  slightly  angular ;  skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  rarely  with  a  blush  ;  stalk  very  short,  small ;  cav- 
ity large,  deep,  slight  russet;  basin,  broad,  deep,  a  little  uneven;  flesh 
white,  half  fine,  brittle,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild,  pleasant,  subacid. 
September,  October. 

Arnold's  Beauty. 

This  fine  new  apple  was  raised  from  seed  of  the  Northern  Sp>, 
crossed  with  the  Wagener  and  Spitzenberg,  by  Charles  Arnold,  of  Paris, 


44  THE   APPLE. 

Ontario  Mr.  Arnold  states  that  the  tree  is  hardy,  an  excellent  uj> 
right  grower,  forming  naturally  a  symmetric  head,  and  bearing  abun- 
dantly. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  angular  ;  skin  bright  yellow,  occasion 
ally  a  shade  of  bright  red,  and  a  few  brown  clots  ;  stalk  medium,  slender; 
cavity  large,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet ;  calyx  closed ;  basin,  deep, 
round,  slightly  plaited ;  flesh  pale  yellow,  fine,  rather  firm,  juicy,  rich 
subacid,  and  slightly  aromatic ;  core  small.     January,  May. 


Baptist. 

Origin,  Clinton,  Kentucky,  but  by  whom  is  not  known ;  tree  vigor 
ous,  spreading,  and  an  abundant  bearer  alternate  years;  not  a  gooa 
market  variety,  but  valuable  as  a  table  and  family  apple. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  somewhat  depressed ;  sides  sometimes  unequal ; 
skin  yellow,  entirely  covered  with  dark  red,  a  few  faiut  splashes  on  the 
shaded  side,  and  many  yellowish  and  brown  dots  ;  stalk  very  short, 
rather  stout ;  cavity  broad,  deep,  russeted  ;  calyx  half  open  ;  basin  large, 
broad,  deep,  slightly  wrinkled  ;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  moder- 
ately juicy,  very  mild  subacid,  inclining  to  sweet ;  core  small.  Decern 
ber,  February. 

Bergen. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Jessie  Griswold,  Bergen,  N.  Y. ;  tree  hardy, 
vigorous,  with  an  open  spreading  head,  requiring  but  little  pruning ;  a 
full  bearer  alternate  years,  and  a  light  crop  the  intervening  ones ;  a  good 
table  apple,  but  more  valued  for  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish ;  a  little  angular ;  skin  greenish  white, 
shaded,  splashed  and  marbled  with  light  and  dark  red  over  half  the  sur- 
face ;  stalk  short,  slender  ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  small,  closed ;  basin 
rather  small,  corrugated;  flesh  white,  tine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
slightly  aromatic  ;  core  medium.     January,  February. 


Berkshire  Spy. 

A  new  variety,  raised  by  Asahel  Foote,  of  Williamstown,  Mass.,  from 
seed  of  Northern  Spy  ;  tree  of  moderate  vigor,  spreading,  wood  of  great 
solidity;  a  moderate  annual  bearer.  Mr.  Foote  has  raised  several 
promising  apples,  pears  and  plums  which  ai-e  worthy  of  trial. 

Fruit  medium,  roumlish  conical,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  skin  pale 
yellow,  shaded  on  one  side  with  light  bright  red,  sometimes  a  few  rather 
obscure  stripes  and  splashes  of  a  darker  hue,  and  a  few  light  dots;  stalk 
short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  greenish  russet;  calyx  open  with  short 
and  divided  seguments ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whit- 
ish yellow,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  slightly  aromatic  and 
rich  ;  core  small.     December,  February. 


the  applk  45 

Black's  Annette. 
Cornell's  Early.  Cornell's  Favorite. 

Of  unknown  origin,  supposed  to  be  Virginia ;  tree  vigorous,  spread- 
ing, very  productive  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate  conical ;  skin  whitish  yellow* 
stalk  short  to  long,  slender;  cavity  large,  deep ;  calyx  small,  closed , 
basin  rather  small,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  mod- 
erately juicy,  sprightly  subacid  ;  core  small.     August. 

Black  Hawk. 

Originated  in  the  orchard  of  William  Brooks,  Rock  Island,  Illinois ; 
tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  3  round  rather  spreading  head ;  blooms 
late ;  an  annual  bearer  of  good  crops,  some  seasons  very  large  ones ; 
valuable  as  a  late  keeper. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate  ;  skin  greenish  yellow,  nearly  covered  with 
dull  red  or  purplish  red  in  the  sun,  a  few  rather  obscure  stripes  and 
splashes,  and  a  few  lighr  dots;  flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  firm,  moaer 
ately  juicy,  mild  subacid ,  core  small,     January,  April. 

Blue  Spitzes  burg. 
Improved  Bed  Spitzenberg. 

Origin,  Oley  Township,  Pa. ;  tree  moderately  vigorous,  making  a 
round  head;  not  an  early  bearer,  but  produces  good  crops  alternate 
years  when  a  little  advanced. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  sometimes  a 
little  oblique ;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  light  and 
dark  red,  sometimes  a  few  rather  obscure  stripes  and  splashes,  and 
many  lai-ge  and  small  light  dots ;  stalk  short,  sinali ;  cavity  medium, 
slight  russet ;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so ;  basin  medium,  corrugated  ;  flesh 
whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic ;  core  medium.     January,  March. 

Bower's  Nonpareil. 
Big  Sweet.  Big  Green. 

Origin  supposed  to  be  Harrisonburg,  Virginia  ;  tree  agorous,  upright, 
Bomewhat  spreading;  an  early  and  good  bearer  annually,  but  larger  crops 
alternate  years;   a  large  fruit,  and  highly  valued  where  known. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  regular  ;  skin  pale  yellow,  often  a  shaue  of  red  and 
numerous  russet  and  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather 
large,  sometimes  slight  russe'  ,  calyx  closed ;  basin  large,  deep,  ccrru- 


46  THE    APPLE. 


gated;    flesh    white,   half   fine,  tender,  juicy,   very  mild  subacid,  01 
almost  sweet,  slightly  aromatic ;  core  small.     October,  March. 


Bower's  Nonpareil. 

Brilliant. 

Originated  with  Lindsay  F.  Thomas,  near  Portsmouth,  Ohio,  tree 
vigorous,  rather  spreading ;  an  early  and  good  bearer  annually ;  much 
esteemed  in  the  neighborhood  of  its  origin. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly  angular,  sometimes  a  little 
oblique ;  skin  pale  yellow,  somewhat  waxen,  a  shade  of  pale  red  where 
exposed,  and  a  few  grayish  dots ;  stalk  short,  rather  small ;  cavity  large, 
deep,  often  slightly  russeted ;  calyx  large,  open;  basin  large,  broad, 
deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  juicy, 
nleasant  subacid  ;  core  small.     October,  January. 

Broadwater. 

Wheatyard. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Col.  Charles  Broadwater,  near  Vienna,  Vir- 
ginia ;  tree  healthy,  vigorous ;  an  early  and  good  bearer ;  a  favorite  for  the 
table  and  market  in  its  season  where  it  originated. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate ;  skin  smooth,  pale  yellowish  white,  pale 
red  in  the  sun  ;  stalk  short,  small  ;  cavity  medium,  slightly  corrugated  ; 
flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  rich  subacid ;  core  small.  Sep- 
tember. 

Bucks  County. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Thomas  Head,  Yardleyville,  Pa.  ;  tre« 
vigorous ;  long  slender  branches,  spreading  head  ;  an  annual  bearer  of 
good  crops,  some  seasons  large  crops. 


THE   APPLE.  4T 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  or  nearly  so ;  skin  greenish  yellow, 
shaded,  and  rather  obscurely  striped  and  splashed  with  dull  red ;  stalk 
short ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium,  corrugated ;  flesh 
whitish,  half  fine,  half  firm,  moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid  ;  core  small 
January,  May. 

BUBLINGTON   PlPPIN. 
Town  House. 

Origin  unknown,  supposed  to  be  Burlington,  Vermont ;  tree  hardy, 
vigorous,  forming  a  round  rather  spreading  head ;  a  good  bearer  annually 
of  fair  fruit  of  uniform  size  and  excellent  quality. 


Burlington  Pippin. 


Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin 
pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  light  red,  with  stripes  and 
broken  splashes  of  dark  red,  and  a  few  light  and  grayish  dots ;  stalk 
medium,  slender ;  cavity  broad,  deep,  slight  russet ;  calyx  closed ; 
basin  medium,  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  quite  white,  sometimes  a  little 
stained  next  the  skin,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  mild  subacid, 
and  a  little  vinous;  core  medium.     October,  January. 


Childs. 

Raised  by  the  late  Ezekiel  Fage.  Belgrade,  Maine;  tree  vigorous, 
spreading,  and  very  symetric  in  form  ;  a  good  bearer  annually. 


48  THE   APPLE. 

Fi  iiit  medium  oblate  to  roundish  oblate ;  skin  whitish,  shaded, 
striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  i'ed  over  inosc  of  the  surface ; 
stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large;  calyx  open;  basin  broad,  not 
very  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  fine;  half  tender,  joicy, 
sprightly  subacid  ;  core  medium.     December,  January. 

Clark's  Prolific. 

Raised  by  W.  G.  Clark,  Albia,  Iowa ;  tree  hardy,  vigorous ;  an  early 
and  abundant  bearer,  and  is  highly  esteemed  in  the  neighborhood  of  ita 
origin. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin  pale 
whitish  yellow,  a  shade  of  light  red,  a  few  gray  and  many  indistinct  light 
dots  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  broad,  deep,  uneven,  sometimes  slight 
russet ;  calynx  small,  closed ;  basin  rather  small,  slightly  furrowed ; 
flesh  white,  fine,  very  tender,  juicy,  lively  subacid,  slightly  aromatic ; 
core  small.     November,  February. 


Clermont. 
Jackson's  Roman  Stem.  Cheese  Apple. 

The  Clermont  is  said  to  be  a  seedling  raised  by  Samuel  Medary,  near 
Batavia,  Ohio.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  an  early  and  good  bearer,  and 
a  late  keeper. 

Fruit  medium  oblate,  depressed,  sides  sometimes  unequal ;  skin  yel- 
low, deep  orange  yellow  in  the  sun,  sometimes  a  shade  of  bright  red,  and 
sometimes  nettings  of  russet,  and  a  few  gray  dots ;  stalk  very  short ; 
cavity  rather  large,  russeted,  which  sometimes  extends  out  on  the  fruit ; 
calyx  closed;  basin  rather  large,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  yellow,  half 
fine,  quite  firm,  moderately  juicy,  rich  subacid ;  core  close  and  small. 
January,  May. 

Cross. 

Originated  with  Robert  Cross  of  Fair  Play,  Maryland ;  tree  vig- 
orous, making  a  large  spreading  head  ;  an  early  bearer,  producing  large 
crops  alternate  years,  and  a  light  one  the  intervening  ones ;  its  large 
size  and  jine  appearance  renders  it  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  its  season 
for  market  and  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  nearly  regular;  skin  whit- 
ish, or  greenish  white,  rather  thinly  striped,  splashed  and  mult  led  with 
light  and  dark  red,  and  a  few  light  and  grayish  dots  ;  stalk  very  short; 
cavity  large,  deep  ;  basin  large,  deep,  broad,  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  white, 
half  fine,  tender,  j  uicy,  mild  subacid ;  core  small.  Middle  of  August  to 
middle  of  September. 


THE    APPLE. 


ia 


Cross. 


Dale's  Seedling. 

Origin,  farm  of  Christian  Dale,  near  Boalsburg,  Pa. ;  tree  of  upright 
moderate  growth  ;  great  bearer  alternate  years,  and  valuable  for  making 
apple  butter. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  sides  often  unequal ;  skin  white, 
shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  rich  red,  and  many 
whitish  dots  ;  stalk  short,  small  ;  cavity  medium  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin 
rather  small,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  mild  subacid, 
or  almost  sweet ;  core  small.     September,  October. 

Deane. 

Nine  Ounce. 


Origin  unknown,  supposed  to  be  East  "Wilton,  Maine,  where  it  is 
considered  the  best  apple  of  its  season  ;  tree  vigorous,  spreading,  bear- 
ing abundantly  alternate  years,  and  a  light  crop  the  intervening  ones. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate  conic,  angular,  slightly  ob- 
lique, and  flattened  at  the  base  ;  skin  whitish,  shaded  and  rather  obscure- 
ly splashed  and  mottled  with  light  red,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with 
yellowish  dots,  a  few  being  areole ;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather 
large,  a  little  greenish  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated  ; 
flesh  quite  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid  or  vinous  ;  core 
medium.     September,  October. 


50  the  apple. 

Edgar  Red  Streak. 

Walbridge. 

Origin,  in  the  orchard  of  Joseph  Curtis,  Paris,  Edgar  County  Illinois , 
this  apple  has  been  grown  in  the  West  and  Northwest  for  many  yean 
under  the  name  of  Walbridge,  its  true  name  being  unknown  until  lately  j 


Edgar  Red  Streak. 


tree  very  hardy,  vigorous,  upright  |it  first,  but  spreading  with  age  and 
weight  of  fruit;  very  productive  alternate  years,  and  a  light  crop  the 
intervening  ones ;  not  of  the  best  quality,  but  valuable  for  its  hardiness, 
productiveness,  and  late  keeping  in  a  cold  climate. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  very  slightly  conic,  regular  ;  skin  pale  whitish 
yellow  when  fully  mature,  shaded  with  pale  red  in  the  sun,  narrow 
stripes  and  a  few  splashes  of  bright  red  over  most  of  the  surface  where 
fully  exposed ;  stalk  rather  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  sometimes 
slight  russet ;  calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  small ;  slightly  plaited ;  flesh 
white,  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid  ;  core  small  or  medium.  Janu- 
ary, May. 

Eixa. 

Another  of  Charles  Arnold's  seedlings,  raised  from  seed  of  Northern 
Spy,  crossed  with  Wagener  and  Spitzenburg;  tree  moderately  vigorous, 
spreading,  young  wood  dark  brown  ;  bears   heavy  crops  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conic,  sides  sometimes  a  little  unequal ; 
skin  pale  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark  dull  red,  some 
rather  obscure  stripes  and  splashes,  and  a  few  light  dots;  stalk  short, 
Bmall ;  cavity  rather  large,  deep,  slight  russet ;  calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin 
medium,  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  whitish,  with  a  greenish  tinge,  half  fine, 
tender,  juicy,  with  an  agreeable  aromatic  flavor,  inclining  to  sweet;  core 
rather  small.     December,  February. 


the  apple.  ;,1 

Etowah. 
Cooper's  Red- 
Origin,  in  the  garden  of  Major  M.  A.  Cooper,  Glen  Holly,  Georgia; 
tree  healthy,  moderately  vigorous  ;  upright,  compact,  rather  round  head  ; 
bearing  abundantly  nearly  every  year ;  it  is  esteemed  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  its  origin  as  one  of  their  best  late-keeping  apples. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  oblate  conic,  slightly  oblique ;  skin  pale 
yellow,  almost  entirely  covered  with  bright  red,  some  obsure  stripes  and 
splashed,  a  few  large  light  dots,  areole  ;  stalk  very  short,  small ;  cavity 
large,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet ;  calyx  half  open  ;  basin  large,  very 
deep ;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  pleasant 
subacid,  inclining  to  sweet;  core  small.     January,  March. 

Fenton. 

Origin,  Cheltenham  Township,  Pa.,  on  the  grounds  of  Samuel  Fenton ; 
tree  thrifty,  spreading ;  an  abundant  bearer  alternate  years,  and  valued 
in  its  locality  for  the  table  and  cooking. 

Fruit  rather  largej  oblate,  angular ;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  shaded, 
striped  and  splashed  on  the  sunny  side  with  light  and  dark  red ;  flesh 
white,  a  little  firm,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant  subacid;  core  small.  Octo- 
ber, November. 

Fletcher  Eusset. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  James  Fletcher,  Acton,  Mass. ;  tree  thrifty, 
upright,  with  a  round  rather  spreading  head  ;  a  good  bearer  alternate 
years,  and  much  prized  as  a  table  apple  where  known. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic ;  skin  greenish  yellow,  or  pale  yellow  when 
fully  ripe,  nearly  covered  with  dull  russet,  often  mixed  with  brownish 
red  in  the  sun;  stalk  short,  slender;  cavity  medium;  calyx  closed; 
basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant  subacid  and  quite  rich ;  core  rather  small.  December,  Feb- 
ruary. 

Foote's  Nonsuch. 

This  fine  new  apple  was  raised  by  Asahel  Foote,  of  Williamstown, 
Mass.,  from  seed  of  Red  Canada  or  Nonsuch.  Mr.  Foote  writes  that 
the  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  with  bright  reddish  wood,  remark- 
ably productive  alternate  years,  and  keeps  well. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  regular;  skin  very  nearly  covered  with  dark 
rich  red,  and  many  conspicuous  light  dots,  a  few  bi  iiiLr  areola  ;  stalk 
rather  short,  slender ;  cavity  rather  large,  often  thinly  msseted ;  calyx 
small,  closed ;  basin  medium,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  sometimes  a 
Little  stained  next  the  skin,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  rich  subacid,  slightly 
rroinatic;  core  small  and  close.     January,  April 


52  the  apple. 

Fountain  Hill. 

Raised  by  Suel  Foster,  Muscatine,  Iowa,  which  he  values  as  a  good 
table  apple,  and  for  continuing  long  in  use ;  tree  vigorous,  rathei 
spreading  ;  an  early  and  good  bearer,  evenly  through  the  tree. 

Fruit  medium  or  below  oblate,  regular ;  skin  pale  green,  shaded, 
striped  and  splashed,  with  dull  red  nearly  over  the  surface,  and  many 
light  dots;  stalk  very  short;  cavity  medium;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so, 
basin  large;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid;  core 
small.    September,  November. 

Fox  Apple. 
Sheepnose.  Fox  Sheepnose. 

Originated  with  Eli  Fox,  near  Coshoeton,  Ohio ;  tree  strong,  vigoi 
ous,  upright,  rather  spreading ;  an  abundant  bearer,  and  is  esteemed  aa 
an  amateur  fruit. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical, 
angular,  or  slightly  ribbed ;  skin  whitish,  nearly  covered  with  light  and 
dark  red,  striped  aud  splashed  rather  obscurely  with  a  darker  hue,  and 
many  light  dots ;  flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
subacid,  slightly  aromatic  and  rich;  core  rather  large.  October,  No 
vember. 

Goff. 

Originated  with  J.  S.  Goff,  near  Bellefontaine,  Ohio;  tree  hardy, 
■vigorous,  spreading ;  an  abundant  bearer  alternate  years  of  fair  fruit  of 
uniform  size,  and  valuable  as  a  market  and  cooking  apple. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate;  skin  whitish,  a  few  light  and  gray 
dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  rather  large ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly 
corrugated  ;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  brisk  subacid  ;  core  medium. 
Ripe  the  last  of  August  and  first  of  September. 

Golden  Dixie. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  James  Fitz,  township  of  Rivanna,  Virginia ; 
tree  thrifty,  vigorous,  upright,  forming  a  handsome  pyramidal  head, 
requiring  but  little  pruning ;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer  alternate 
years,  and  much  esteemed  in  its  locality. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic  ;  skin  light 
yellow,  deep  yellow  where  exposed  ;  stalk  short,  small  ;  cavity  medium, 
often  slight  russet ;  calyx  small,  closed ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corru- 
gated ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  tine,  rather  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  lively 
rich  subacid,  slightly  aromatic  ;  core  small.   August. 

Harper. 

Of  unknown  origin,  supposed  to  be  Tennessee  ;  tree  vigorous,  round 
aead  ;  bears  moderate  crops  annually,  and  popular  where  known. 

Fruit   medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly   conic ;  skin  whitish   yellow. 


THE    APPLE.  00 

*liaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  bright  red  nearly  ovei 
the  whole  surface,  with  many  large  and  small  light  dots,  a  portion  being 
areola  ;  stalk  rather  short,  slender  ;  cavity  large,  deep,  yellowish  ;  basis 
rather  large,  slightly  wrinkled  ;  flesh  whitish,  half  tine,  tender,  juicy, 
mild,  pleasant  subacid  ;  core  small.     October,  January. 

Haven. 

An  old  variety  of  unknown  origin,  but  supposed  to  have  been  im- 
ported by  the  Haven  family  of  Portsmouth,  New  Hampshire,  many 
years  since ;  tree  vigorous,  rather  spreading ;  not  an  early  bearer,  but 
bearing  abundantly  alternate  years  when  established ;  fruit  fair  of  uni- 
form size,  which  is  highly  esteemed  where  known  for  its  excellent 
quality  ;  the  tree  requires  good  cultivation. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin  smooth,  whitish 
yellow,  often  a  shade  of  pale  red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  a  few  grayish 
dots  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  large,  deep  ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  rather 
large,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine,  very  tender,  juicy, 
rich,  sprightly  pleasant  subacid  ;  core  small.     January,  March. 

HoTTENSTIEN. 
Libert.  Lippart. 

Origin,  Kutztown,  Pa.,  on  the  lands  of  Frederick  Libert ;  tree  vig- 
orous, spreading;  an  abundant  bearer  annually ;  valuable  for  culinary 
uses  and  for  market. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular  ;  skin  greenish  yellow, 
covered  with  stripes  and  splashes  of  light  and  dark  red,  moderately 
sprinkled  with  large  light  dots,  a  portion  being  areole ;  stalk  short, 
small ;  cavity  medium ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  rather  shallow,  corrugated ; 
flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid.      October,  December. 

Hunt  Russet  Apple. 

This  favorite  old  apple  is  claimed,  by  those  knowing  it  best,to  have  origi- 
nated with  die  Hunt  family,  at  Concord,  Mass.,  nearly  20U  years  since; 
•and.  being  o*'  excellent  quality,  has  been  cultivated  and  disseminated 
widely  under  different  names;  and  I  am  satisfied,  from  experience  and 
examination,  that  Golden  Russet  of  Mass.,  Fay's  Russet,  and  Russet 
Pearmain  are  identical  with  the  Hunt  Russet,  and  that  the  latter  is  the 
original  name,  with  the  synonyms  as  stated  below. 

Hunt  Russet. 

Golden  Russet  (not  of  New  England  Russet.          Fay's  Russet. 

N.  Y. )  New  England  Golden           Russet  Pearmain. 

Golden  Russet  of  Mass.  Russet.                                American  Golden  Russet 

Mass.  Golden  Russet.  Bullock's  Pippin,    or                 of  New  England. 

Golden  Russet  of  New  Sheepnose.        Incorrectly. 

England 

Then,    i-   sam  to  be  a  distinct  h'usset  Pearmain;   but  those  iliat  I  rn 


0-?  THE   APPLE. 

^eivea  as  such  frcm  Connecticut,  many  years  since,  proved  to  be   the 

I]  ant  Russet. 

The  Golden  Russet  of  New  York,  or  Western  New  York,  is  quit*  dis- 
tinct, and  is  incorrectly  called  by  some,  at  the  West,  English  G  olden 
R  usset. 

Hunter  Pippin. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  land  of  William  Gray  Hunter,  Westport, 
N.  Y. ;  tree  moderately  vigorous,  hardy,  spreading ;  a  good  bearer 
annually. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  angular  or  slightly  ribbed ;  skin  pale 
whitish  yellow,  a  few  scattered  gray  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity 
medium,  often  russeted  ;  calyx  small,  closed ;  basin  rather  narrow, 
deep  furrowed;  flesh  whitish,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid,  slightly 
ai  omatic  ;  core  rather  large.     August. 


King  Sweet. 

Summer  Sweet.  Thomas  Sweet. 
Sidney  Sweet.  King  of  Sweets. 
High  Top  Sweet,  incorrectly. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Ichabod  Thomas,  Sidney,  Maine;  tree  hardy, 
thrifty,  upright,  compact,  and  requires  much  inside  pruning  ;  not  a  very 
early  bearer,  but  produces  large  crops  of  fair  fruit  alternate  years,  and  is 
highly  esteemed  where  known. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  inclining  to  oblong;  skin 
greenish  yellow,  or  pale  yellow  at  full  maturity,  a  shade  of  pale  red 
where  exposed  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin 
rather  deep;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  rich  honey  sweet* 
core  rather  small.      September,  November. 

Lady  Henniker. 

This  new  English  apple  was  raised  by  John  Perkins,  Thornham  Hall, 
Suffolk,  England  ;  tree  healthy,  and  a  great  bearer ;  chiefly  valuable  as  a 
cooking  variety,  but  useful  also  in  the  dessert. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  slightly  conic,  angular,  with  prominent  ridges 
around  the  eye ;  skin  yellow,  shaded  with  pale  red,  and  broken  streaks 
of  crimson  on  the  sunny  side  ;  stalk  very  short ;  cavity  wide,  deep,  rus- 
Bety  ;  calyx  large,  open  ;  basin  very  deep,  angular ;  flesh  very  tender  in 
the  grain,  well  flavored,  and  with  a  pleasant  perfume.  October,  February. 
{Jou/rnal  of  Horticulture.} 

Lipkins  Sweet. 

Origin  unknown,  supposed  to  be  near  Philadelphia ;  tree  moderately 
vigorous,  upright  at  first,  but  spreading  with  age  and  bearing ;  a  good 
annual  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  or  nearly  so,  oblate  or  slightly  conic ;  skin  pale  whit- 
ish yellow,  shaded  with  light  red,  many  large  and  small  light  and  brownisi 


THE   APPLE.  55 

iots,  some  star-shaped  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  rather  small ;  calyx 
6mall,  closed ;  basin  medium ;  flesh  white,  fine,  rather  compact,  moder- 
ately juicy,  mild  sweet,  rather  rich  ;  core  small.     December,  March. 

Kaign's  Spitzenburg  and  Long  Red  Peakmain. 

For  many  years  these  have  been  considered  identical,  and  Downing  so 
makes  it  in  the  second  revised  edition,  but  experience  and  examination 
have  proven  them  distinct,  both  in  the  growth  and  form  of  the  tree,  and 
of  the  fruit.  The  Long  Red  Pearmain  is  said  to  have  originated  on  the 
property  of  the  Economites  at  New  Harmony,  Indiana,  many  years  since ; 
The  name  and  synonyms  by  which  it  is  known  in  different  localities  aie 
given  below. 

Long  Red  Pearmain. 

Red  Pearmain.  Red  Winter  Pearmain,  in-    Red  Phoenix. 

Kaign's  Spitzenburg,  in-  correctly.  Pearmain. 

corectly.  Scarlet  Pearmain,  incor-    Kentucky  Gilliflower. 

Long  John.  rectly  Kentucky  Bellflower. 

Red  Spitzenberg.  English  Pearmain,  incor-     Hudson  Red,  Streak. 

Striped  Pearmain.  rectly.  Sheepnose,  of  some. 

Lady  Finger,  incorrectly.     Red  Bellflower,  incorrect-   Wabash  Bellflower. 
Winter  Pearmain.  ly.  Russam. 

Long  Pearmain.  Red  Pippin.  Park  (not  of  Kansas). 

Mudhole. 
Pound  Royal,  incorrectly 

The  true  Kaign's  Spitzenberg,  so  far  as  I  know,  has  no  synonyms,  and 
was  first  described  by  William  Coxe.  in  his  work  on  Fruits,  in  1817,  aa 
having  oiiginated  in  Gloucester  county,  New  Jersey. 

Neither  of  these  apples  are  much  cultivated  now,  as  we  have  better 
kinds,  the  object  being  to  correct  the  mistake. 

Lucy  Sweet. 
Twin  Apple. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Samuel  Jewett,  Weybridge,  Vermont ;  tree 
vigorous,  of  a  pyramid  form,  producing  moderate  crops  annually. 

Fruit  medium  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  a  shade  of 
pale  red  where  exposed  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  deep,  sometimes  light 
russet;  basin  large,  deep;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  moderately  juicy, 
mild,  rather  rich  sweet ;  core  small.     October,  November. 

McTntosh  Red. 

Originated  with  John  Mcintosh,  Dundela,  Ontario,  some  seventy 
years  since,  but  is  not  widely  known;  the  free  is  said  to  be  very  hardy, 
long-lived,  vigorous,  with  a  spreading  head  ;  a  good  annual  bearer  of  fair, 
handsome  fruit  of  excellent  quality,  and  valuable  for  home  use  and 
market. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  regular  ;  skin  wbitish  yel 
low,  very  nearly  covered  with  dark  ri^  *-ed  or  crimson,  almost  purplisl 


56  THE   APPLE. 

in  the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots ;  stalk  short,  rather 
Bmall ;    cavity  medium ;    calyx    closed ;    basin   rather   small,  slightlj 


Mcintosh  Red. 

plaited ;    flesh  white,  fine,  very  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  refreshing, 
peculiar  slight  quince-like  flavor ;  core  medium.     November,  February. 

McKinney. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Luther  McKinney,  Crawford,  N.  Y.  ;  tree  vig- 
orous, forming  a  round  head ;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer  alternate 
years,  and  a  light  crop  the  intervening  ones ;  fruit  fair  of  uniform  size, 
and  valuable  as  a  late  keeper. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate ;  skin  deep  yellow,  shaded  with  pale 
brownish  red  where  exposed,  a  few  grayish  dots ;  stalk  very  short ; 
cavity  broad,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet ;  calyx  open,  or  half  closed  ; 
basin  broad,  deep ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  rather  firm,  moder- 
ately juicy,  mild  subacid;  core  close  and  small.     January,  April. 

Magog  Red  Streak. 

Raised  from  seed  by  William  Warren,  Newport,  Vermont ;  tree  very 
hardy,  thrifty  and  vigorous,  an  upright  spreading  head;  bears  every 
year,  but  large  crops  in  even  years  ;  valued  for  its  extreme  hardiness, 
vigor,  productiveness,  and  long  keeping. 

Fruit  medium  or  nearly  so,  roundish  inclining  to  oblong ;  skin  light 
yellow,  shaded  and  faintly  striped  and  splashed  with  light  red  over  half 
the  fruit;  stalk  shorty  small;  calyx  closed     basin  medium,  corrugated 


THE   APPLE. 


flesh  yellowish,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  mild   subacid ;  core 
medium.     December,  March. 


Mathews. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Hugh  Foster,  near  Alton  Depot,  Nelson  Co., 
Virginia ;  tree  vigorous,  with  an  open  spreading  head  ;  an  early  and 
abundant  bearer  alternate  years,  and  a  partial  crop  the  intervening 
years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  regular ;  skin  smooth, 
whitish  almost  waxen,  shaded  with  pale  dull  red  where  exposed,  many 
large  light  dots,  a  portion  almost  obscure,  a  few  areole ;  stalk  short, 
small;  cavity  medium,  regular;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  leather 
abrupt,  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild, 
pleasant,  sprightly  subacid ;  core  medium.     October,  January. 


May  Seek-no-farther. 

An  old  variety  of  unknown  origin,  and  the  original  name  also  un- 
known, and  was  described  in  Downing's  second  revised  edition,  page  270 ; 
it  was  once  valuable  as  a  long  keeper  and  a  profitable  market  variety,  but 
now  nearly  out  of  use  ;  tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright  and  very  produc- 
tive alternate  years  ;  it  has  been  grown  in  different  sections  of  the  coun- 
try, under  the  following  names,  in  addition  to  those  named  in  the  second 
revision. 


Lopside.  Romanite,  incorrectly.  Greyhouae,  incorrectly. 

Hoopes.  Big  Romanite.  of  some.  Black  Jack. 

Hopson.  Black  Pennock.  Red  Everlasting. 

Hopsey.  Black  Vandervere.  Hard  Red. 

Hoopes  Pearmain.  German  Spitzanberg.  Keystone. 


Gray  Romanite,  of  soma 


Mellinger. 


An  old  variety  of  late  introduction,  found  on  the  Mellinger  property, 
now  owned  by  Dr.  Mellinger,  Manor  Township,  Pa.,  and  considered  in 
that  neighborhood  one  of  the  most  valuable  and  showy  apples  of  its 
season;  tree  healthy,  vigorous,  spreading,  bearing  large  crops  alternate 
years,  and  a  light  one  the  intervening  ones. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  or  roundish  conical;  skin  smooth, 
white,  mostly  covered  with  stripes  and  broken  splashes  of  light  and 
dark  bright  red,  some  of  the  splashes  of  a  purplish  red,  and  moderately 
sprinkled  with  Light  dots ;  stalk  short ;  cavity  medium,  slight  russet ; 
calyx  small,  closed ;  basin  medium,  rather  abrupt,  deep,  slightly  corru- 
gated; flesh  quite  white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid  ot 
vinous;  core  medium.      September,  November, 


58 


THE   APPLE. 


Mcllinger. 


Milden  or  Milding. 

Milden  or  Milding. 


Origin,  Alton,    New    Hampshire ;    tree    hardy,   a    strong,    vigorous, 
tpright  grower,  forming  a  large  round  head ;  very  productive  alternate 


THE    APPLE.  59 

years,  of  largo  fair  fruit,  which    is   highly  esteemed    where   known   foi 
market  and  family  use. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin  smooth, 
whitish  yellow,  shaded,  striped,  splashed  and  mottled  with  light  and 
dark  bright  rich  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  and  a  few  light  dots; 
stalk  rather  short,  slender  ;  cavity  broad,  deep,  sometimes  thinly  rus- 
seted;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so;  basin  broad,  moderately  deep,  fur 
rowed  ;  tlesh  whitish  yellow,  rather  coarse,  brittle,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly 
subacid,  slightly  aromatic  ;  core  medium.      December,  January. 


Mokton's  Ked. 

Origin,  supposed  to  be  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Elkannah  Morton,  Bill 
Town,  Nova  Scotia;  tree  moderately  vigorous,  forming  a  round  rather 
spreading  head  ;  an  early  and  good  bearer  annually,  and  a  favorite  apple 
for  market  and  home  use. 

Fruit  medium,  regular,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic;  skin  whitish, 
nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark  rich  red,  quite  dark  in  the  sun, 
sometimes  a  few  obscure  stupes  and  splashes,  and  sometimes  nettings  of 
russet;  stalk  medium,  slender ;  cavity  medium,  slight  russet;  calyx 
closed  or  nearly  so;  basin  small,  slightly  corrugated  ;  tlesh  quite  white, 
half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid;  core  large.     December,  January. 


M  UMPER    VaJ^DEVERE. 

Origin,  on    the    farm  of   John    Mumper,   near   Dillsbury,    Pa.;    tree 

strong  and  vigorous,  making  a  round,  rather  spreading  open  head;  an 
abundant  bearer  alternate  years  of  fair  fruit  of  uniform  size;  valued 
chiefly  for  its  late  keeping,  market,  and  kitchen  use. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  regular,  flattened  at  the 
ends;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  rather  faintly  shaded,  striped  and 
splashed  with  light  red,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  large  light  and 
gray  dots;  stalk  rather  short,  small;  cavity  medium,  often  a  little 
greenish;  calyx  large,  open;  basin  broad,  rather  deep,  corrugated  J 
flesh  whitish,  coarse,  compact,  moderately*  juicy,  brisk  subacid;  core 
cdose  and  small.      December,  April. 


Mystic. 

(  h-igiu,  .Mystic  Valley,  Conn.,  on  the  farm  of  Aldeii  Fish  ;  tree  vigor- 
ous, rather  late  coming  into  bearing,  but  produces  large  crops  alternate 
years  when  of  sufficient  age. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  ends;  skin  pale  yellow, 
shaded  and  mottled  with  light  red.  and  some  rather  obscure  stripes  aud 
broken  splashes  of  a  darker  hue,  with  a  few  russet  dots;  stalk  long, 
slender;  cavity  medium,  moderately  deep;  i-.{\\x  small,  closed ;  liasin 
large,  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  tine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant 
mid  subacid  ;   core  rather  small.      October,  November. 


60 


THE    APPLE. 


Nansemond  Beauty. 

Origin,  somewhat  uncertain,  supposed  to  be  Suffolk,  Virginia  ;  tre« 
vigorous,  rather  spreading,  bearing  good  crops  annually  of  fair  fruit  of 
uniform  si/.",  and  a  good  keeper. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic;  skin  pale  yellow, 
nearlv  covered  with  light  and  dark  rich  red,  sometimes  rather  obscure 
stripes  and  splashes  of  a  darker  hue;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  quite 
large,  slijrht  russet;  calyx  half  open;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corru- 
gated; flesh  quite  white,  half  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  vinous  subacid  ; 
core  small.     January,  April. 

Nelson   Rock. 

Rock  Apple. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Hemy  G.  Roberts,  near 
Greenfield,  Virginia ;  tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright  at  first,  but 
spreading  with  weight  of  fruit;  an  abundant  bearer  alternate  years,  and 
a  light  crop  the  odd  years;  valuable  in  its  locality  for  its  good  qiialitiea 
and  late  keeping. 


Nelson  Rock, 


Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic  ;  skin  pale  greenish 
white,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  ami  dark  red  over  most 
of  the  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots;  stalk 
6hoit,  small;  cavity  large,  deep,  souk  limes  slight  russet;  calyx  closed  ; 
basin  rather  broad,  shallow,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish  yellow, 
half  tine,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid  ;  core  small.  December, 
March. 


the  apple.  01 

New  River  Boat  Apple. 

Origin,  on  the  premises  of  Robert  Porter,  Sr.,  Porter's  Ferry,  Virginia; 
tree  a  strong  vigorous  grower,  spreading;  an  early  and  great  bearer 
alternate  years,  and  highly  prized  where  known. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  flattened  at  the  base,  sometimes  a  little  oblique; 
skin  bright  yellow,  rarely  with  a  blush ;  stalk  very  short ;  cavity 
rather  large ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh 
whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild,  pleasant,  peculiar  sub- 
acid, almost  sweet;  core  small.     October,  December. 

Northampton. 

A  Pennsylvania  apple  from  Northampton  County,  but  exact  origin 
unknown  ;  tree  vigorous,  upright,  spreading,  an  early  bearer,  and  very 
productive ;  it  is  said  the  lower  half  of  the  tree  bears  one  year  and  the 
upper  part  the  next  year,  and  this  is  more  characteristic  with  trees  of 
some  age  ;  valued  especially  as  a  table  fruit  where  known. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  often  depressed  ;  skin  smooth,  pale  whitest 
yellow,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  rather  thinly  over  most  of  the  sur- 
face with  light  and  dark  red,  and  many  large  and  small  light  dots,  a  few 
areole  ;  stalk  short,  slender ;  cavity  rather  large,  deep,  regular  ;  calyx 
closed  or  nearly  so ;  basin  medium,  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  white,  fine, 
tender,  juicy,  pleasant  mild  subacid  and  very  good  ;  core  small.  Oc- 
tober, Febuary. 

Northfield  Beauty  Crab. 

Raised  by  Leonard  D.  Cady,  Northfield,  Vermont,  from  seed  of  yel- 
low Siberian  Crab  ;  tree  vigorous,  hardy,  forming  a  compact  symmet- 
rical head;  a  handsome  apple  of  good  size,  good  quality,  and  promises  to 
be  valuable  in  cold  localities. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  smooth,  whitish,  shaded  with 
light  red,  rather  obscurely  striped  and  splashed  with  two  shades  of  rich 
red  and  a  few  light  dots;  stalk  short;  cavity  medium;  calyx  closed; 
basin  rather  small,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  white,  half  hue,  tender, 
juicy,  S]j rightly  subacid  ;  core  small.     September,  December. 

Ontario. 

This  handsome  and  excellent  apple  was  raised  by  Charles  Arnold, 
Paris,  Ontario,  from  seed  of  Northern  Spy  crossed  with  the  Wagener; 
tree  vigorous,  somewhat  spreading,  bears  quite  young  and  abundantly. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin  whitish  yel- 
low, nearly  covered  with  bright  rich  red,  some  rather  obscui'e  stripes 
and  splashes,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots;  stalk  short, 
rather  stout ;  cavity  broad,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet;  calyx  closed 
01  nearly  so ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish  yel- 
low, fine,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  refreshing,  slightly  aromatic  ;  core  srualL 
January,  April 


1? 


THE   APPLE. 


Ontario. 

Orange  Pippin. 


Origin  unknown,  considerably  grown  in  some  parts  of  New  Jersey, 
where  it  is  valued  as  a  profitable  summer  market  apple ;  tree  vigorous, 
upright  at  first,  but  spreading  with  age  and  bearing;  good  and  sur« 
bearers  alternate  years. 


Orange  Pippin. 


Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate  ;  skin  smooth,  pale 
yellow,  orange  red  or  fawn  in  the  sun,  a  few  gray  dots ;  stalk  short, 
small ;  cavity  large,  sometimes  slight  russet ;  calyx  large,  open ;  basic 


THE   APPLE.  03 

large,  deep,  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  jidcy,  plea* 
ant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic  ;  core  small.    September. 

Perky  Red  Streak. 

Origin,  Lowville,  N.  Y\,  on  the  premises  of  Dr.  David  Perry ;  tree 
hardy,  vigorous,  spreading,  forming  an  open  head ;  an  abundant  bearer 
alternate  years,  and  a  light  crop  the  intervening  ones ;  it  does  not  con- 
tinue long  in  use. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  angular ;  skin  light  yellow,  shaded, 
striped-  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  rich  red,  and  modr.iately 
sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  large; 
sometimes  slight  russet ;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so ;  basin  large,  deep, 
slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
slightly  aromatic ;  core  medium.     October. 

Picket. 

Origin,  near  Arlington,  Kentucky,  on  the  farm  of  William  Picket , 
tree  a  strong,  vigorous,  upright  grower ;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer 
annually,  and  is  considered  an  acquisition  in  its  locality. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  often  slightly  oblique, 
somewhat  flattened  at  the  ends  ;  skin  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  light 
and  dark  red,  some  rather  obscure  stripes  and  splashes  of  a  darker  hue, 


Bometimes  with  a  grayish  bloom,  a  shade  of  light  purple,  and  moderately 
Bprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots;  stalk  very  short;  cavity  large, 
deep,  slight  russet;  caT.yx  open  ;  basin  deep,  round,  slightly  wrinkled; 


04  THE  APPLE. 


flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid,  and  verj 
good  ;  core  small.     December,  February. 


Piedmont  Pippin. 
Dollins  Pippin. 


Origin,  on  the  farm  of  the  late  James  Woods,  Rockford  Township, 
Virginia,  and  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  of  the  Albemarle  Pippin ; 
tree  quite  vigorous,  upright  at  first,  but  spreading  with  age ;  not  a  very 
early  bearer,  but  giving  large  crops  alternate  years  when  of  sufficient  age, 
and  promises  to  be  valuable. 


Piedmont  Pippin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  conic,  angular,  sometimes  oblique  ;  skin 
greenish  yellow,  a  few  nettings  of  russet  and  some  brown  dots ;  stalk 
short,  rather  small ;  cavity  large,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet ;  calyx 
nearly  closed ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  pale  yellow, 
half  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  core 
medium.    November,  March. 

Pine  Apple. 

Origin  uncertain,  supposed  to  be  Mt.  Laurel,  New  Jersey ;  tree 
cf  moderate  growth,  upright,  rather  spreading,  producing  good  crops 
alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate  ;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  some- 
what obscurely  striped  and  splashed    with  bright  red,  a  few  light,  dots  ; 


THE   APPLE.  65 

stalk  short,  small;  cavity  medium;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium; 
slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  mild 
subacid,  slightly  aromatic ;  core  small.    October,  November. 

Plumb's  Cider. 

Origin  uncertain,  introduced  by  J.  C.  Plumb,  Milton,  "Wisconsin ; 
tree  hardy,  vigorous,  round  headed ;  an  early  bearer,  and  very  produc- 
tive alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conic ;  skin  greenish  yellow,  shaded 
and  rather  obscurely  striped  and  splashed  with  dull  red,  some  light 
dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  small, 
corrugated ;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid ;  core 
small.     September,  January. 

Prewit. 

Origin,  farm  of  William  Prewit,  Pock  Spring  Church,  Kentucky , 
tree  vigorous,  upright,  an  annual  bearer;  chiefly  valuable  for  its  long 
keeping. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  conic,  sides  unequal ;  skin  yellow,  shaded,  and 
rather  faintly  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red ;  stalk  very 
short ;  cavity  large,  deep,  slight  russet ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  deep  ;  flesh 
yellowish,  half  tender,  moderately  jnicy,  mild  subacid ;  core  small. 
January,  May. 

Prolific  Blush. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  E.  H.  Cocklin,  Shepherdstown,  Pa.  ;  tree  a 
slow  stout  grower,  forming  a  low  head ;  an  early  and  great  bearer  alter- 
nate years  ;  blooms  late  ;  valuable  for  home  use,  and  a  profitable  early 
market  variety. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic  ;  skin  smooth,  white,  a  blush  of 
bright  red  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  large,  deep,  slight  russet ;  calyx 
closed;  basin  rather  shallow,  corrugated ;  flesh  quite  white,  crisp,  juicy, 
brisk  subacid;  core  medium.     August. 

Pyle's  Bed  Winter. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of  Baynard  Pyle,  Thornbury  Town- 
ship, Pa.;  tree  vigorous,  spreading;  an  early  and  good  bearer  annually 
of  large  fair  fruit  of  uniform  size,  of  excellent  quality,  and  keeping 
well. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  sometimes  slightly  ob- 
lique; skin  greenish  yellow,  or  pale  yellow  at  full  maturity,  shaded  with 
pale  red  over  two-thirds  its  surface,  with  some  rather  obscure  stiij.es 
and  splashes  of  a  darker  color,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and 
brown  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  rather  large  ;  calyx  Bmall,  closed  ; 
basin  large,  deep,  slightly  wrinkled  ;  tlesh  whitish  yellow,  half  line,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  pleasant  lively  subacid  ;  core  rather  small.  January 
March. 


66 


THE    APPLE. 


Pyle's  Red  Winter. 

Race's  Red. 

A  chance  seeding  on  the  farm  of  Stephen  Race,  Claverack,  N.  Y. ; 
tree  strong,  vigorous,  forming  a  round  rather  spreading  head,  bearing 
large  crops  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular,  regular ;  skin  smooth,  light  yellow, 
nearly  covered  with  light  scarlet  crimson,  many  light  dots,  some  rather 
obscure ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  somewhat  narrow,  deep  ;  clayx 
closed ;  basin  medium ;  flesh  white,  fine,  sometimes  stained  next  the 
skin,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid  ;  core  small.     August,  September. 

Reed's  Golden  Pippin. 

Origin  unknown,  from  Central  New  Jersey ;  tree  vigorous,  making  a 
lai-ge  round  head,  bearing  good  crops  annually,  and  evenly  through  the 
tree. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin  golden  yellow, 
shaded  with  light  bright  red  where  exposed,  a  few  nettings  of  russet  and 
a  few  grayish  dots  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  often  russeted; 
calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  yellow,  tine,  a 
little  firm,  juicy,  rich  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  core  small.  Jan 
nary,  March. 

Reinette  Ontz. 

Origin,  supposed  to  be  Luxemberg,  Belgium ;  trf  <}  vigorous,  spread- 
ing ;   a  good  bearer  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic ;  skin  palft  greenish  yellow,  or 
pale   yellow    at  full  maturity,  many  grayish  dots  •,    ktalk  short,  simll  ; 


THE   APPLE.  67 

cavity  medium ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  rather  shallow,  slightly  corru- 
gated ;  flesh  yellowish,  a  litttle  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  subacid ;  core 
small.     December,  March. 

Rockwood. 

Origin,  Belgrade,  Maine,  on  the  farm  of  John  Rockwood ;  tree  hardy, 
healthy,  vigorous,  upright ;  an  early  and  full  bearer  alternate  years,  and 
a  light  crop  the  intervening  ones ;  it  is  popular  and  profitable  where 
known. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  flattened  at  the  ends, 
angular;  skin  greenish  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark 
dull  red,  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  and  numerous  yellowish  dots,  a  few 
areole;  stalk  rather  short;  cavity  medium ;  calyx  closed;  basin  me- 
dium, corrugated  ;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
mild  subacid,  inclining  to  sweet ;  core  small.     December,  February. 

Sarah. 

Origin,  farm  of  John  Tufts,  East  Wilton,  Maine  ;  tree  very  vigorous, 
forming  a  broad  spreading  top  ;  an  early  and  good  bearer,  annually,  with 
very  large  crops  alternate  years ;  a  valuable  and  profitable  apple  for 
market  and  home  use. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate  conic  ;  skin  yellow  shaded  and  mottled 
with  light  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  dark  red,  some  splashes  almost 
purplish,  a  few  light  dots  ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  broad,  deep ;  calyx 
closed,  or  half  open  ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish, 
coarse,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid;  core  medium.      October. 

Settle  Pippin. 

Superb  White.  Hex's  White.  Hick's  White. 

Adams  White.  Settle's  Superb.  Gloucester  White,  incorrectly. 

English  Codlin,  incorrectly. 

An  old  apple  of  unknown  origin,  supposed  to  be  Maryland  or  Vir- 
ginia ;  it  is  a  popular  apple  in  Winchester  and  the  lower  part  of  the 
Shenandoah  Valley  of  its  season  ;  tree  thrifty  and  vigorous,  making  a 
fine  head  ;  an  early  and  annual  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  or  nearly  so,  roundish  oblate  conic  ;  skin  white,  shaded 
with  h>ht  red,  and  sprinkled  with  a  few  brown  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ; 
cavity  rather  large,  deep  ;  calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  rather  shallow, 
broad,  corrugated  ;  flesh  quite  white,  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid, refreshing;  core  small.     September,  November. 

Sisk. 

Origin,  on  the  the  farm  of  Joseph  Sisk,  near  Preston,  Maryland  ;  tree 
vigorous,  upright ;  not  an  early  bearer,  but  with  age  bears  good  crops, 
annually ;  some  seasons  less  alternate  years. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate,  somewhat  depressed;  skin  pale  yellow, 
•hadrd,  and  rather  obscurely  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark 


68  THE    APPLE. 

red,  a  few  brown  dots ;  stalk  short,  small  ;  cavity  broad,  deep ;  calya 
large,  open ;  basin  broad,  deep,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish  yel- 
low, half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic.  Octo- 
ber January. 

Smith's  Favorite. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Isaac  Smith,  Winthrop,  Maine ;  tree  vigorous, 
upright  at  first,  forming  a  large  round  ftead ;  an  annual  bearer,  but  more 
abundantly  alternate  years ;  valuable  in  its  locality  for  family  use  and 
market. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  sometimes  inclining  to  oblong,  slightly 
anoular ;  skin  pale  yellow,  thinly  shaded,  striped,  splashed,  and  mottled 
with  li^ht  red  over  half  or  more  of  the  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled 
with  light  dots ;  stalk  rather  long,  slender ;  cavity  medium ;  calyx 
closed  ;  basin  small,  corrugated  ;  flesh  pale  yellow,  half  fine,  half  tender, 
juicy   subacid,  slightly  aromatic ;  core  medium.     October,  November. 

Southern  Porter. 

Porter.  Kidd.  Jones. 

Fall.  Hog  Peru  Long. 

An  old  and  valuable  apple,  which  originated  about  ten  miles  east  of 
Chesterville,  South  Carolina ;  tree  hardy,  a  strong  grower,  young  wood 


Southern  Porter. 


nard  and  tough,  rather  spreading ;  very  productive  alternate  years,  ana 
a  moderate  crop  the  intervening  one;  one  of  the  most  popular  apples 
of  its  locality  and  season,  ripening  near  two  months  later  than  the 
Porter. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  regular ;    skin  bright  golden  yellow 


THE   APPLE.  f.O 

and  a  few  gray  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  medium,  deep ;  calyx 
open ;  basin  large,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  half  tender, 
juicy,  rich  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic  ;  core  small.  September  at 
the  South. 

Starkey. 

Origin,  town  of  North  Vassalboro,  Maine,  on  the  farm  of  Moses 
Starkey ;  tree  hardy,  vigorous,  spreading ;  a  regular  good  bearer,  and 
highly  esteemed  in  its  locality  as  a  profitable  market  variety  as  well  as 
for  home  use. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  regular;  skin  pale  yellcw, 
shaded,  striped  and  splashed  witlt  light  and  dark  bright  red,  and  moder- 
ately sprinkled  with  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity 
medium,  sometimes  slight  russet;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so;  basin 
medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild 
pleasant  subacid  ;  core  small.     October,  January. 

Strinestown  Pippin. 

Origin,  near  Strinestown,  Pa.,  on  the  farm  formerly  owned  by  Christo- 
pher Miller ;  tree  hardy,  upright  at  fiisfc,  but  forms  a  round  open  head ; 
an  early  and  good  bearer  alternate  years ;  valued  mostly  as  a  late  keep- 
ing market  variety  and  for  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  conical ;  skin  yellow,  a  shade  of  bright  red 
in  the  sun ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  rather  narrow  ;  calyx  closed ; 
basin  large,  broad,  deep,  furrowed ;  flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  com- 
pact, moderately  juicy,  brisk  subacid ;  core  close  and  small.  Jan- 
uary, April. 

Striped  Gillifloweb — Farley — Scollop  Gilliflower. 

These  apples  were  formerly  considered  identical,  but  time  ar>  1  experi- 
ence have  proven  them  distinct.  The  striped  variety  is  a  vigorous 
grower,  with  long  shoots,  and  generally  bears  good  crops  annually.  It  is 
a  showy  fruit,  and  in  some  localities,  thought  much  of  for  market  and 
culinary  uses ;  the  fruit  is  variable  in  form  and  size,  usually  roundish  con- 
ical, angular,  or  more  or  less  ribbed ;  skin  white,  striped  and  mottled 
with  bright  lively  red ;  flesh  whitish,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a  brisk,  subacid 
flavor.  The  scollop  variety  is  a  moderate,  or  poor  grower,  the  young 
shoots  much  darker  colored,  the  tree  more  spreading,  a  poor  bearer,  and 
has  nearly  gone  out  of  use  ;  the  fruit  is  roundish  oblate  conic,  more  rib- 
bed, the  color  much  darker,  rather  dull  red,  with  broader  stripes  and 
splashes,  the  flesh  more  yellow,  of  a  mild,  subacid  aromatic,  richer  in 
quality,  and  a  month  or  more  later  in  ripening,  than  the  striped  variety  ; 
they  are  known  by  the  following  names  and  synonyms. 

Striped  Gilliflower. 
Striped  Bellflower.  Scollop  Gilliflower.  incorrectly.  Red  Gilliflower. 


70  the  apple. 

Scollop  Gilliflower. 

Ribbed  Gilliflower.  Five-Quartered  Gilli-  Jellyflowei . 

Red  Gilliflower,  of  some         flower. 

Sutton's  Early. 

Raised  by  William  Sutton,  Port  Williams,  Nova  Scotia ;  tree  vigor 
ous,  spreading,  productive  ;  young  shoots  stout,  dark,  downy ;  promi* 
ing  as  an  early  apple  for  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic, 
slightly  angular ;  skin  whitish  yellow ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  me- 
dium, slightly  russeted  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  medium,  corrugated  ;  flesh 
white,  tender,  juicy,  brisk  subacid  ;  core  rather  large.     September. 

Transparent  Zoar. 

A  beautiful  and  very  good  apple,  which  originated  with  the  Zoar 
Society,  at  Zoar,  Ohio ;  tree  vigorous,  making  a  round  rather  spreading 
head ;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer  nearly  every  year. 


Transparent  Zoar. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  regular ;  skin  smooth,  a  beautiful  waxen  white^ 
shaded  with  light  pink  or  carmine  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  a  few 
rather  obscure  light  dots  ;  stalk  very  short,  .small;  cavity  large,  deep; 
calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  large,  round,  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  white, 
fine,  very  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  refreshing;  core  medium.  Octo- 
ber, November. 


THE    APPLE. 
VoLNEY. 


71 


Origin,  orchard  of  "William  Munson,  near  Astoria,  Illinois ;  tree  vig- 
orous, with  an  upright  rather  spreading  head ;  a  good  bearer  annually, 
and  highly  esteemed  where  known. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  regular ;  skin  smooth,  bright  yellow,  shaded 
with  light  bright  red  in  the  sun,  many  light  brown  dots,  some  irregular 
or  star-shaped ;  stalk  short,  slender ;  cavity  medium,  slight  russet ; 
calyx  closed  or  nearly  so ;  basin  large,  deep,  a  little  wrinkled ;  flesh 
whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid;  core  small 
January,  April. 

Watwood. 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Nathan  Rose,  near  Blandville,  Kentucky ;  tree 
vigorous,  upright,  forming  a  round  head  ;  a  good  bearer  annually,  and 
esteemed  in  its  locality  for  its  quality  and  long  keeping. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  depressed  and  flattened  at  the  ends ;  skin 
whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  pale  red  over  two-thirds  its  surface,  and  a 
few  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk  very  short ;  cavity  broad,  deep,  slight 
russet ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  rather  shallow,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh 
pale  yellow,  half  fine,  rather  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid ;  core  sraalL 
January,  March. 

Wythe. 


Illinois  Pippin. 


Wythe. 


Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Rodolphus  Chandler,  Wythe,  Illinois ;  tree  u 
said  to  be  hardy,  vigorous,  round  head,  blooms  rather  late,  bears  good 
crops  annua. ly  of  fair  fruit  of  uniform  size,  and  keeps  well. 


72  THE   APPL*. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  nearly  regular ;  skin  white, 
Bhaded,  striped  and  splashed  over  more  than  half  the  surface  with 
bright  red  and  a  few  light  and  gray  dots ;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity 
rather  large,  deep  ;  calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  medium,  slightly  plaited  ; 
flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  slightly  aromatic ; 
core  medium.     January,  March. 


Yardley. 
Bucks  County  Seedling  of  Soma 

Origin,  on  the  farm  of  Thomas  Yardley,  Lower  Makefield  Township, 
Pa. ;  tree  vigorous,  spreading ;  an  abundant  bearer  alternate  years,  and  a 
light  crop  the  odd  years ;  a  large  apple,  valuable  as  an  early  market 
variety,  and  for  home  use. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular ;  skin  greenish  white, 
thinly  striped  and  splashed  with  pale  dull  red,  and  moderately  sprinkled 
with  quite  large  irregular  brown  dots  ;  stalk  short,  rather  stout ;  cavity 
large,  deep,  slight  russet ;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so ;  basin  broad,  mod- 
erately deep,  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  rather  coarse,  tender,  juicv, 
brisk  subacid  ;  core  small.     August  and  half  of  September. 

Zachary  Pippin. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  land  of  John  Burbank,  Belgrade,  Maine, 
and  was  introduced  the  year  Zachary  Taylor  was  inaugurated ;  tree 
vigorous,  spreading ;  not  an  early  bearer,  but  when  established  produces 
good  crops  annually  of  large  fair  fruit,  and  esteemed  in  its  locality. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate,  angular ;  skin  greenish  yellow,  or 
yellow  at  maturity,  shaded,  striped,  splashed  and  mottled  with  light  and 
dark  red,  some  of  the  splashes  quite  dark  ;  stalk  short,  rather  small ; 
cavity  large,  quite  broad,  deep,  slight  russet ;  calyx  closed ;  basin 
medium,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  mod- 
erately juicy,  subacid,  rather  rich ;  core  medium.    November,  December 


THIED  APPENDIX 


SECOND    REVISED    EDITION. 


PREFACE. 

"When  the  second  Appendix  to  "  Downing's  Fruits  and  Fruit 
Trees  of  America  "  was  published  it  was  my  intention  to  revise 
the  whole  work,  correct  the  errors  in  the  descriptions  of  fruits, 
describe  fully  the  new  fruits,  and  make  the  whole  complete  to  the 
present  time  ;  but  the  publishers  do  not  feel  warranted  in  doing 
sO' at  present,  and  I  am  obliged,  therefore,  to  defer  the  revision  ; 
I  have,  however,  at  their  urgent  request,  prepared  this  third  Ap- 
pendix. 

To  the  numerous  friends  of  Pomology  to  whom  I  am  indebted 
for  specimens  of  fruit,  and  for  information  relating  to  them,  1 
offer  many  thanks,  and  their  names  would  have  been  acknowl- 
edged if  the  third  revised  edition  had  been  required  by  the  pub- 
lishers. 

Chakles  Downing. 
Newburgh,  1881. 


THE  APPLE. 


Alerson's  Early. 


Origin  uncertain,  supposed  by  some  to  be  Ohio,  and  it  may  prove 
to  be  the  Earlv  George  or  August  Tart.  Tree  said  to  be  hardy,  up- 
right, moderately  vigorous;   an  early  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  angular,  ribbed  or  uneven;  skin  pale  yel- 
low; stalk  short,  rather  stout ;  cavity  rather  broad,  slightly  russeted; 
calyx  closed ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid;  core  rather  small.  Ripens  about  the  time 
of  the  Earlv  Harvest,  to  which  it  is  inferior  as  an  eating-apple,  but 
superior  for  cooking. 

Andrews'  Favorite. 

Origin  on  the  Andrews  farm,  Berlin,  Vt. ;  the  original  tree  is 
said  to  be  seventy  years  old,  healthy,  vigorous,  spreading  and  ir- 
regular; a  good  bearer  annually  of  handsome  fruit,  and  of  good 
quality. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  slightly  angular; 
skin  whitish,  shaded,  and  mottled  with  light  red,  with  stripes  and 
broken  splashes  of  dark  red  or  crimson,  and  many  lighl  dels. 
being  areole;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  small,  sometimes  slighl  rus- 
set; calyx  small,  closed;  basin  medium,  corrugated;  flesh  white, 
half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid;  very  good;  core  large  and 
open.      December,  January. 

Andrew's  Sweet. 
Major  Sweet. 

Of  Nova  Scotia  origin,  on  the  grounds  of  Major  Andrew,  of  Yar- 
mouth, and  it  is  said  to  be  a  very  hardy  tree  for  that  locality.  Tree 
a  free  upright  grower;  an  early  and  annual  bearer,  but  larger  crops 
on  alternate  vears. 

Fruit  below  medium  size,  round  oblate  conic,  slightly  angular; 
skin    whitish    or   pale    yellow;    stalk    short,    small;    cavity    medium; 


70  Tin:  APPLE. 

calyx  closed  or  nearly  so;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated^ 
flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild,  pleasant,  sweet, 
rather  rich,  and  very  good;  core  medium.      November,  December. 

Austin  Apple. 
Tom  Apple. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Thomas  Austin,  of  Suffield,  Conn., 
many  years  since.  Tree  a  good  grower,  spreading,  and  produces  good 
crops  annually.  Its  size  and  color  make  it  valuable  as  a  market 
apple,  and  also  for  home  use;  the  tree  requires  good  cultivation. 

Fruit  large,  roundish .  oblate  conic,  regular;  skin  pale  whitish 
yellow,  shaded  with  light  red,  splashed  with  crimson  over  most  of 
the  surface,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  large  and  small  yellowish 
dots;  stalk  short;  cavity  medium;  flesh  white,  half  line,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid;  good;  core  medium.  Season  middle  of 
August  to  the  middle  of  September. 

Bank. 

Cave. 

This  is  an  old  variety,  but  little  known  out  of  its  locality,  and 
originated  in  the  orchard  of  James  Hadsell,  on  the  west  bank  of  the 
Susquehanna  River,  opposite  Ransom,  Pa.,  and  is  a  favorite  apple  in 
thai  neighborhood.  The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower,  with  a  roundish 
spreading  head;  an  abundant  bearer  on  alternate  years,  and  a.  light 
crop  intervening. 

Fruit  medium,  or  rather  large,  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly  an- 
gular-, sides  sometimes  a  little  unequal;  skin  whitish  yellow,  shaded 
with  light  red  stripes  and  broken  splashes  of  dark  red  or  crimson, 
and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots;  stalk  short, 
small;  cavity  rather  large,  deep;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  nearly 
smooth;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  refreshing,  pleasant 
Subacid;   core  small.      Season  September,  January. 

Barnard. 

Its  origin  is  said  to  be  on  the  farm  of  John  Barnard,  near  Mus- 
catine, Iowa.  Tree  very  hardy,  vigorous,  healthy,  upright,  somewhat 
spreading,  roundish  top,  rather  long,  slender  branches,  valuable  for 
iis  hardiness,  productiveness,  long-keeping,  and  quality;  an  abun- 
danl    bearer  on  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  oblique;  skin 
whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  pale  red  (dark  red  where  fully  exposed 
to  ih-  sun),  a  few  gray  dots;  stalk  short,  moderately  stout;  cavity 
medium,  deep,  sometimes  light  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  rather 
large,  broad,  saucer-like  shape,  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  rather 
coarse;,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a  peculiarly  mild  subacid  flavor;  core  me- 
dium.     December  to  .Ma". 

Beauty  of  the  World. 

A    new   variety,   raised    by    John    Mace,    of    Morganton,    X.   C, 

or   found  in   an   old    held  of   his   at   the   foot  of  South    Mountain — a 


THE    APPLE. 


77 


opur  of  the  Blue  Ridge — «a  few  miles  from  Morganton.  Tree  a 
vigorous  grower,  rather  tall  and  spreading;  bears  moderate  crops 
annually;  keeps  well,  and  is  said  to  be  a  valuable  variety  for  that 
locality. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  regular;  skin  yellowish,  entirely  covered 
with  pale  red  and  yellow,  thickly  striped  and  splashed  with  crimson, 
purplish  crimson  in  the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light,  yel- 
lowish dots;  stalk  short,  rather  small;  cavity  small  or  medium,  thin 
russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  rather  large  and  broad;  flesh  white, 
half  fine,  rather  firm,  mild  subacid;  very  good;  core  small.  Ripens 
in  November,  and  keeps  till  March. 

Belle  l>e  Boskoop. 

A  new  variety,  trees  of  which  I  received  from  France;  it  is  said 
to  be  of  Russian  origin.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  comes  into  bear- 
ing moderately  early,  and  produces  abundantly  alternate  years  of 
fair  fruit,  good  size,  very  good  quality;  keeps  well,  and  is  a  promis- 
ing variety. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  sometimes  a 


Belle  de  Iioskoop. 


little  oblique;  skin  yellow,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red  over 
nearly  the  whole  surface,  with  some  rather  obscure  stripes  and 
splashes  on  the  shaded  side,  some  specimens  more  or  less  mixed  with 
russet,  and  manv  small  and  large  yellowish-brown  dots,  with  some 
irreou'lar  ones;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large,  often  rus- 
seted  sometimes  extending  in  ravs  out  on  the  fruit:  calyx  closed, 
or    partially  open;    basin    large,   round,   deep,    slightly    corrugated; 


78  THE    APPLE. 

flesh   a  little  coarse,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  brisk   subacid,  rich,  and  of 
VeI7  good  quality;  cure  small  and  close      Season  February  to  April. 

Black  Tun;. 

The  exact  origin  of  this  apple  is  unknown,  but  supposed  to  be 
in  the  northern  portion  of  Lincoln  County,  Tenn.  It  is  said  to  be 
one  of  the  most  valuable  and  profitable  apples  grown  in  that  section. 
Tree  very  vigorous,  spreading,  rather  an  open  head,  not  an  earlv 
bearer,  but  giving  good  regular  crops  annually. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  very  little  conical,  slightly  angular;  skin 
bright  yellow,  shaded  with  light  red  (dark  crimson  in  the  sun),  some 
obscure  stripes  and  splashes  on  the  shaded  side,  and  rather  thickly 
sprinkled  with  yellowish  and  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  rather  stout; 
cavity  medium,  slight  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  roundish, 
regular;  flesh  pale  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
rich;  very  good;  core  rather  small.      October  to  February. 

Blue  Bloom. 

This  apple  originated  in  an  orchard  of  seedlings  planted  by  the 
Rev.  Daniel,  (r.  Cartwright,  in  Union,  Iowa,  about  1840.  Tree  vig- 
orous, making  a  round  head;  a  good  bearer  in  alternate  years,  and 
a  moderate  intervening  crop. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular; 
skin  white,  striped,  splashed  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red 
over  most  of  the  surface,  with  a  light  grayish  bloom,  often  mixed 
with  russet,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots;  stalk  short, 
small;  cavity  large,  deep,  slight  russet;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin 
rather  small,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  half  line,  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid,  good  flavor  and  rich;  core  large.  September,  Oc- 
tober. 

Brewisgtox  Pippin. 
Breckenridge.  Brewington. 

This  new  apple  originated  with  James  Brewington,  Garfield, 
K.V.,  about  L870.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  upright',  becomes  spread- 
ing with  age  and  bearing;  an  early  ami  abundant  bearer  on  alter- 
nate years,  and  blooms  quite  late. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conic,  slightly  angular;  skin  yel- 
low, shaded  with  pale  red,  striped  and  splashed  with  rich  crimson 
over  most  of  the  surface,  and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled  with  rather 
large  yellowish  dots,  a  portion  being  areole;  stalk  short,  small; 
cavity  medium,  russeted,  sometimes  extending  out  on  the  fruit; 
calyx  closed;  basin  rather  abrupt,  quite  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh 
white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  inclining  to  sweet; 
quality  very  good;   core;  small.      Ripe  February,  March. 

Bushnell. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  General  Andrew  Bushnell,  Hartford, 
Ohio,  many  years  since.  Tree  hardy,  a  moderate  grower,  spreading; 
an  early  and  prolific  bearer  on  alternate  years. 


THE    APPLE.  1!) 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin  whitish 
yellow,  having  a  few  small  gray  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  me- 
dium; calyx  open;  basin  rather  small,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white, 
fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid;  very  good;  core  rather 
small.      Season  August  and  September. 

Canada  Baldwin. 

This  beautiful  apple  is  said  to  have  originated,  some  years  since, 
in  the  orchard  of  Alexis  Dery,  St:  Ililaire,  in  Rowville  County,  Prov- 
ince of  Quebec,  and  is  probably  of  the  Fameuse  type.  Tree  hardy, 
vigorous,  thrifty  grower,  upright  at  first,  gradually  spreading  with 
age  and  bearing;  it  begins  to  bear  rather  early,  giving  heavy  and 
light  crops  on  alternate  years;  it  is  a  handsome  fruit,  of  very  good 
quality;  it  is  considered  one  of  the  most  valuable,  long-keeping  ap- 
ples of  its  locality,  both  for  market  and  family  use;  it  is  said  to  suc- 
ceed best  on  heavy  soils,  while  on  light,  warm  soils,  and  sudden 
changes  of  temperature,  the  trunk  is  apt  to  sun-scald,  which  often 
causes  premature  decay. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin  quite 
white,  thickly  striped  and  splashed  with  rich  red  and  crimson,  pur- 
plish crimson  where  fully  exposed,  having  a  slight  bloom,  and  many 
white  dots;  stalk  short  to  medium,  slender;  cavity  rather  large, 
deep,  regular;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corru- 
gated; flesh  very  white,  fine,  sometimes  a  little  stained  next  the  skin, 
and  sometimes  veined  in  the  flesh,  tender,  juicy,  refreshing,  with  a 
mild  subacid,  peculiar  slight  quince-like  flavor;  very  good;  core 
small.      Season  January,  April. 

CARPENTER'S    SwrEET. 

An  old  variety  which  originated  on  the  lands  of  Ephraim  Car- 
penter, of  Woodstock,  Conn.  Tree  a  thrifty  grower,  upright;  comes 
rather  early  into  bearing,  and  produces  large  crops  alternate  years; 
its  size,  color,  and  flavor  make  it  valuable  for  home  use  or  market. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate  conic;  skin  pale  yellow, 
striped  with  light  and  dark  red  nearly  over  the  whole  surface,  but 
quite  thinly,  with  a  few  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  me- 
dium or  rather  large,  sometimes  slight  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin 
medium,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  with  a 
mild,  pleasant,  rich,  sweet  flavor;  very  good;  core  medium.  Uipe  in 
September,  and  continues  in  use  till   November. 

(  'akit.ntix. 
Carpentin  Iteinette.  Petite  Rcinette  Grise. 

Of  German  origin.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  forming  a  round, 
open  head,  producing  moderate  crops  annually,  often  growing  in 
clusters  ;  fruit  of  small  size,  but  regular,  handsome,  and  of  I'm-  qual- 
ity; valuable  as  an  amateur  fruit,  and  when  well  known  will.,  no 
doubt,  lie  in  demand  for  the  market. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  slightly  angular,  nearly  regular,  entirely  cov- 


80  THE    APPLE. 

ered  with  a  peculiar  light  red  russet,  more  or  less  mixed  with  crimson 
and  russet  where  exposed,  and  a  few  brown  Wots;  stalk  short  to 
medium,   slender;    cavity   medium,   or   rather  large,   regular;    calyx 


Carpentin. 

closed;  basin  round,  rather  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  fine, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  with  a  rich,  sprightly  subacid  flavor;  very  good; 
core  small.      November,  February. 

Centennial. 

An  old  variety  which  originated  on  the  farm  of  Stephen  Child, 
East  Woodstock,  Conn.,  but  was  not  brought  into  notice  till  quite 
recently.  Tree  a  thrifty  upright  grower,  somewhat  spreading,  an 
abundant  bearer  on  alternate  years;  fruit  always  fair,  handsome,  and 
desirable  for  home  use  or  market. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conic,  slightly  angular; 
skin  yellow,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red,  striped  and  splashed 
with  crimson  over  the  entire  surface,  and  purplish  crimson  in  the 
sun,  with  a  lew  light  dots;  stalk  rather  short,  small;  cavity  medium, 
much  russeted,  sometimes  extending  its  rays  out  on  the  fruit;  calyx 
closed;  basin  rather  large,  deep,  corrugated;  flesh  white,  sometimes 
a  little  stained  next  the  skin,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  subacid,  with  a 
pleasant,  refreshing  flavor;  very  good;  core  large.  Season  Novem- 
ber, December. 

There  is  another  Centennial  which  originated  with  J.  Z.  Schu- 
man,  of  Upper  Berne,  Pa.,  which  he  states  is  a  new  apple,  and  pro- 
duced its  rirst  fruit  in  1875.  Tree  is  vigorous,  healthy,  and  a  good 
bearer;  the  fruit  is  large,  handsome,  striped  with  red,  of  an  aromatic. 
flavor,  and  keeps  through  the  winter. 

Clark. 

Lewis. 

An  old  variety,  but  little  known  out  of  the  neighborhood  of  its 
origin:  it  was  raised  from  srt-d  by  Deacon  Willi  mi  (lark,  of  Clark's 
Green,    Pa.     Tree  a  vigorous    grower,  spreading,   and  inclining  to 


THK    APPLE.  3J 

droop  with  over-bearing;  an  early  and  profuse  bearer  on  alternate 
years;  it  is  said  to  be  uniformly  fair,  very  productive,  adapted  to 
all  purposes,  and  for  a  long-  time,  which  makes  it  a  favorite  and 
popular  fruit  where  known. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  angular,  slightly  conic;  skin  whit* 
ish,  often  with  a  blush,  and  moderately  sprinkled' with  grayish  dots; 
stalk  short;  cavity  small  or  medium,  rather  deep,  light  russet;  calyx 
closed;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  fine, 
crisp,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  with  a  pleasant,  slightly 
aromatic  flavor;  core  rather  large.  Ripening  in  succession  from 
September  to  January,  and  can  be  kept  much  longer. 

Columbia. 
Hyde.  Columbia  Hyde.  Granny  Hyde. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Nathaniel  Hyde,  Columbia,  Conn., 
about  fifty  years  since.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  upright,  with 
a  round  top,  and  long,  pendent,  rather  slender  branches:  a  good 
bearer  on  alternate  years,  with  a  moderate  crop  the  intervening 
ones,  and  is  considered,  in  its  locality,  valuable  for  home  use  and 
for  market. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  regular;  skin  light  yellow,  shaded,  striped 
and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red  over  the  whole  surface,  some 
of  the  splashes  are  of  a  purplish  crimson,  and  a  few  light  dots;  stalk 
quite  short,  small;  cavity  medium;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  rather  firm,  moderately 
juicy,  mild  subacid;  good  or  very  good  in  quality;  core  medium. 
January  to  March. 

Cornwall  Golden  Sweet. 

This  is  supposed  to  have  originated  in  Cornwall,  Vt.,  with  a 
Mr.  Bartholomew,  one  of  the  old  settlers,  many  years  since.  Tree 
very  hardy,  a  vigorous  grower,  round  head,  somewhat  spreading,  an 
abundant  bearer  on  alternate  years;  a  late  fall  and  early  winter  ap- 
ple, fair,  uniform  in  size,  and  very  valuable  for  culinary  purpo: 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  ovate,  or  roundish  conical;  skin 
deep  yellow,  a  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  and  a  few  scattering  brown 
dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  small,  slight  russet;  calyx  small, 
closed;  basin  medium,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  half  line,  half 
tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild  rich  sweet;  very  good;  core  medium. 
October,  December. 

I  >AWES. 
Dawes  Porter.  Dawes  Nonsuch. 

The  Dawes  apple  is  an  old  variety,  originated  on  the  farm  of 
Francis  H.  Dawes,  of  Cummington,  Mass.,  where  it  is  much  culti- 
vated, and  is  considered  by  some  superior  to  the  Porter.  Tree 
hardy,  a  vigorous  grower,  making  a  large  round  head:  not  an  early 
bearer,  but,  when  fruiting,  bears  profusely  on  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical;  skin  light  yellow,  a  shade 
of  light  purplish  red,  and  sometimes  a  few  rather  obscure  splashed 


£2  THE   APPLE. 

and  a  few  scattering  gray  dots;  stalk  rather  short,  slender;  cavity 
medium,  slight  russet;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  small,  slightly  cor- 
rugated; flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  half  tender,  juicy,  sprightly 
subacid,  and  of  very  good  quality;  core  medium.  October,  Novem- 
ber. 

Decarie. 

A  very  handsome  and  very  good  apple,  said  to  have  originated 
in  the  orchard  of  Jeremie  Decarie,  in  Coteau,  St.  Pierre,  Province  of 
Quebec,  and  is  more  than  one  hundred  years  old.  Tree  hardy, 
vigorous,  healthy,  forming  an  erect  head,  which  spreads  out  grad- 
ually, and  bears  heavy  and  light  crops  alternately;  it  is  thought  by 
some  to  be  the  same  as  the  Red  Autumn  Calville,  but  I  believe  it  to 
be  distinct. 

Fruit  medium,  or  nearly  so,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  flattened  at 
the  base;  skin  white,  nearly  covered   with   light    and    dark  rich   red, 


dark  crimson  in  the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and 
brown  dots,  and  covered  with  a  thin  grayish  bloom;  stalk  short, 
rather  stout;  cavity  large,  deep,  slightly  russeted;  calyx  closed; 
basin  round,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  quite  white,  often 
stained  next  the  skin,  and  sometimes  in  the  flesh,  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  having  a  slight  peculiar,  quincedike,  agree- 
able flavor;  core  small.      September,  October. 

De  Long. 

Iowa. 

The  original  tree  of  this  variety  was  grown  by  William  De  Long, 
near  Lexington,  Iowa.  It  is  sai  I  to  be  hardy,  thrifty  and  vigorous, 
forming  a  roundish  regular  head:  an  early  and  productive  bearer,  a 
good  dessert  apple,  and  fine  for  culinary  uses. 


Till:    AI'I'I.E. 


83 


Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical;  skin  whitish, 
thickly  covered  with  broken  splashes  and  stripes  of  bright  red,  some- 
what mottled;  stalk  medium;  cavity  rather  large,  deep;  calyx  closed; 
basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  line,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid;  core  medium.  Ripens  the  last  of  Septem- 
ber and  first  of  October. 

Dr.  Hogg. 

A  new  apple  raised  from  seed  by  Sidney  Ford,  of  Leonardslee, 
near  Horsham,  England,  and  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  of  White 
Winter  Calville,  as  the  resemblance  is  close.  It  is  said  to  be  hardv, 
healthy,  and  should  be  in  any  kitchen  garden,  as  a  constant  and 
heavy  cropper,  being  a  large  and  handsome  fruit  of  the  finest  quality 
for  culinary  purposes. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  conical,  angular  or  ribbed;  skin  whitish 
or  pale  yellow,  sometimes  a  shade  of  red  where  exposed;  stalk  me- 
dium, slender,  in  a  rather  large,  deep  cavity;  flesh  white,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  rich,  a  first-rate  baking  apple.  September 
to  March.      (Flo.  &  Pom.) 

Dr.  Walker, 

Litsey. 

This  is  a  seedling  of  Rawles'  Genet,  and  originated  on  the  farm 
of  John  Litsey,  near  Springfield.  Ky.  It  is  said  to  be  superior 
in  quality  to   its   parent,   and   an  acquisition   for  its   locality.      Tree 


Dr.  Walker. 


hardy,  vigorous,  an  early  and  good  bearer  annually.      It  blooms  late, 
and  keeps  well. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  incl'minor  i  ■  <'  'ideal,  sometimes  a  litile 
oblique;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded,  stri  >•  I  ;;nd  splashed  with  light 
and  dark  red  nearly  over  the  wh<  .and  moderately  sprinkled 


84  THE   APPLE. 

with  light  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  medium;  calyx  closed; 
basin  rather  large,  moderately  deep,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh 
whitish,  half  hue,  tender,  juicy,  quite  rich,  with  a  pleasant,  mild 
subacid  flavor;  core  rather  small.      February  to  May. 

DoYLESTOWN. 

Origin  somewhat  uncertain,  but  supposed  to  be  on  the  farm  of 
Elisha  Lynn,  Otsego,  near  Doylestown,  Wis.  The  tree  is  said 
to  be  very  hardy,  moderately  vigorous,  with  long,  rather  slender, 
tough  branches,  upright  at  first,  but  spreads  out  with  age  and  bear- 
ing, requiring  but  little  pruning;   an  early  and  good  bearer  annually. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  nearly  regular  ;  skin 
whitish,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red  over 
most  of  the  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  large  and  small 
yellowish  dots,  some  irregular;  stalk  short  to  medium,  slender;  cavity 
medium,  much  russeted,  and  sometimes  extending  out  on  the  fruit; 
calyx  small,  closed;  basin  medium,  slightlv  plaited;  flesh  fine,  quite 
white,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  with  a  peculiar  slight  cran- 
berry flavor;  core  large.      October,  February. 

Edelkonig  Reinette. 
Reinetfce  Edelkonig.  Edelkonig.  Roi  Tres  Noble. 

A  German  apple  much  valued  for  culinary  uses.  Tree  very  vig- 
orous, upright,  productive 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate  conic,  broadly  ribbed;  skin  yellow, 
nearly  covered  with  dark  rich  red,  sometimes  almost  purplish  in  the 
sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots;  stalk  rather  short;  cavity 
large,  deep,  slight  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  furrowed; 
flesh  quite  white,  a  little  stained  next  the  skin,  tender,  juicy,  brisk 
subacid;  good  to  very  good;  core  large.      October,  November. 

Egyptian  Queen. 

Origin  unknown,  supposed  to  be  Kentucky.  Tree  vigorous,  up- 
right, a  good  annual  bearer,  and  esteemed  valuable  where  known. 

"~  Fruit  large,  oblate,  slightlv  conical,  sometimes  a  little  oblique, 
angular,  or  slightly  ribbed ;  skin  smooth,  bright  lemon  yellow,  some- 
what waxen,  sometimes  with  a  shade  of  bright  red,  and  a  few  gray 
dots;  stalk  very  short,  small;  cavity  large,  deep,  often  russeted; 
calyx  closed  or  nearly  so;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh 
white,  a  little  coarse,  crisp,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid;  good  to  very 
good;   core  small.      January  to  May. 

Eureka. 

Origin  somewhat  uncertain,  but  supposed  to  be  Cheshire,  Conn. 
Tree  thrifty,  upright,  rather  slender  branches,  forming  a  handsome 
round  head;  an  early  and  prolific  bearer  on  alternate  years,  and 
esteemed  in  its  locality  for  market    or  home  use. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical;  skin  whitish, 
shaded,  striped,  and  splashed  with    pale  and  dark   red;  stalk  short, 


II  IK    APPLE.  85 

small;  cavity  small;  calyx  closed;  basin  small,  corrugated;  flesh 
white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  and  of  very  good  flavor; 
core  medium.     September,  October. 

Fall  Brown. 
Brown  Fall. 

Of  unknown  origin,  considerably  grown  in  southern  New  Jersey, 
and  is  prized  as  a  family  fruit.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  a 
round  spreading  head,  very  productive  biennially,  and  giving  a 
moderate  crop  the  intervening  years. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oblate;  skin  whitish,  nearly  covered  with 
dull  red,  sometimes  nettings  of  grayish  russet,  some  obscure  stripes 
and  splashes,  and  a  few  yellow  russet  dots;  stalk  medium,  slender; 
cavity  medium,  often  slight  russet;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  rather 
small,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  moderately 
juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid;  good  to  very  good.  September,  No- 
vember. 

Fameuse  Sucree. 

This  beautiful  and  excellent  dessert  apple  is  said  to  have  origi- 
nated on  the  premises  of  Maurice  Gougen,  near  Montreal,  Canada, 
and  its  appearance  indicates  Fameuse  parentage.      Tree  quite  hardy, 


Fameuse  Sucr£e. 


healthv,  growth  of  moderate  vigor,  upright,  spreads  a  little  with  age 
and  bearing;  a  good  but  no1  a  profuse  bearer,  and  is  highly  esteemed 
as  a  table  fruit  where  known. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  oblate,  somewhat  depressed,  slightly 
angular;  skin  almost  entirely  covered  with   light   and  dark   red  aud 


86  THE    APPLE. 

crimson,  often  striped  and  splashed  with  leep  purplish  red  on  tho 
exposed  side,  and  sometimes  almost  obscure;  stalk  medium  to  long, 
slender;  cavitv  medium;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  medium,  slightly 
corrugated;  (lesh  very  white,  stained  nex I  the  skin,  sometimes  a  little 
in  the  flesh,  which  is  line,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  with  a  delicate, 
lively,  slighl  quince-like  flavor;  of  very  good  quality;  core  rather 
small.      Ripens  from  the  middle  of  September  to  the  last  of  Octol  "i\. 

FORN  KY. 
Perkins.  Fleming. 

An  old  variety,  which  has  not  been  much  disseminated,  and  is 
said  to  have  originated  in  Burke  County,  X.  ('.,  Imi  the  particular 
locality  is  unknown.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  and  hears  abundantly 
nearlv  everv  year.  It  is  much  esteemed  where  known  for  its  ap- 
pearance, excellent  flavor,  and  market  value. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  slightly  conical, 
a  little  oblique;  skin  whitish,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light 
and  dark  red,  covered  with  many  small  and  large  light  dots,  a  few 
being  areole;  stalk  short,  rather  small;  cavity  medium,  rather  narrow, 
deep;  calyx  closed;  basin  quite  large,  round,  slightly  plaited;  flesh 
white,  half  tine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid; 
quality  very  good;  core  medium.      October,  November. 

French  Wine. 

This  large  apple  was  brought  to  notice  by  David  IT.  Merritt,  of 
Highland,  N.  V.,  who  informs  me  that  the  grafts  were  brought  from 
Germany,  where  it  was  called  "  French  Wine,*'  by  a  man  named 
Elickhoof,  living  in  the  northern  part  of  New  Jersey.  Treea  strong, 
vigorous  grower,  making  a  round  head-  an  early  and  abundant 
bearer  on  alternate  years;  the  fruit  is  large,  fair,  uniform  in  size,  and 
a  proficabl  •  apple  for  culinary  purposes  and  market. 

Fruit  lire,-'  io  very  large,  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin  smooth, 
whitish,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red,  striped  and  splashed  with 
crimson  over  a  large  portion  of  the  surface,  with  many  light  dots; 
stalk:  short,  rather  small;  cavitv  broad,  deep,  slight  russet;  calyx 
closed;  basin  broad,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  llesh  white,  a  little 
coarse,  crisp,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid;  of  good  quality,  but  not  rich; 
core  medium.      September,  October. 

Golden  Dixie. 

Originated  on  tin-  farm  of  James  Fit/.,  Township  of  Rivanna, 
Va.  Tree  thrifty,  vigorous,  nnright,  forming  a  handsome  pyramidal 
head,  requiring  but  littlo  pruning;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer 
on  alternat  e  vears. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slio-htlv  conical;  skin 
light  golden  yellow,  deep  yellow  on  the  sunny  side;  stalk  short, 
small;  cavitv  medium,  often  with  slight  russet;  calyx  small,  closed; 
basin  rather  abrupt,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  llesh  whitish  yellow. 
half  line,  a  little  firm,  juicy,  brisk,  rich  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  good 
to  very  good;  core  small.      Ripe  about  the  time  of  Summer  Queen. 


the  apple.  87 

Golden  Putin. 

A  variety  of  the  Golden  Pippin  which  originated  with  Moses 
Cason,  of  Kempsville,  Va.,  many  years  since.  It  is  said  to  be  one 
of  the  kinds  that  succeed  well  in  that  locality,  and  is  esteemed  there 
for  its  good  quality  and  productiveness.  Tree  a  vigorous,  healthy 
grower,  making  a  large  round  head;  an  early  and'  prolific  hearer 
on  alternate  years. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  a  little  oblique;  skin  golden 
yellow,  moderately  sprinkled  with  gray  dots;  stalk  short,  small; 
cavity  rather  large,  deep,  often  a  little  russet;  calyx  small,  closed; 
basin  large,  deep,  corrugated;  flesh  pale  yellow,  half  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  quite  rich,  slightly  aromatic  and  of  very 
good  quality;   core  small.      October,  JariuarV. 

Goldex  Spy. 

A  new  variety  raised  from  seed  of  the  Northern  Spy,  by  0.  T. 
Hobbs,  of  Randolph,  Pa.  Mr.  IJobbs  says  that  the  tree  is  a  very  stout 
and  very  upright  grower;  it  is  late  coming  into  bearing,  but  bears 
moderate  crops  annually  when  the  tree  has  attained  some  age;  the 
fruit  is  of  very  good  quality,  and  a  late  keeper. 

Fruit' medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  slightly  angular; 
skin  pale  yellow,  orange  yellow  in  the  sun,  and  a  few  small  grayish 
dots;  stalk  very  short;  cavity  rather  large,  deep;  calyx  open;  basin 
medium,  rather  deep,  a  little  uneven;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  crisp, 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  rich,  and  of  very  good  quality;  core 
medium.      February,  April. 

Guilford  Red. 
Origin  near  Greensborough,   Guilford   County,    X.    C,    on    the 


Guilford  Kert. 

Edwards  plantation.     Tree  a  thrifty,  strong,  upright  grower,  some* 


88  THE    APPLE. 

what  spreading,  not  a  very  early  bearer,  but  produces  good  crops 
annually  after  it  comes  into  bearing;  it  is  valued  for  its  good  qual- 
ity and  late  keeping. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  slightly  angular;  skin 
pale  yellow,  entirely  covered  with  light  and  dark  rich  red  and  crim- 
son (purplish  crimson  where  fully  exposed),  and  moderately  sprin- 
kled with  yellowish  dots;  stalk  short,  rather  small;  cavity  rather 
large,  deep,  sometimes  slightly  russeted;  calyx  closed;  basin  me- 
dium, corrugated;  flesh  pale  yellow,  half  line,  rather  firm,  juicy,  sub- 
acid, rich,  a  little  aromatic;  core  medium.     January,  March. 

Hames. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Henry  S.  Hames,  West  Point,  Ga.,  and 
is  said  to  be  a  valuable  variety  of  its  season  for  its  locality,  espe- 
cially for  the  market  and  all  kinds  of  culinary  uses.  Tree  a  vigor- 
ous grower,  upright,  making  a  round  head  with  age;  an  early  and 
good  bearer  annually,  ripening  about  the  season  of  Red  Astrachan. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  or  roundish  oblate;  skin  whitish,  striped, 
splashed  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red  over  most  of  the  sur- 
face in  well-colored  specimens  (purplish  red  where  fully  exposed), 
and  moderately  sprinkled  with  yellowish  and  brown  dots;  stalk 
short,  small;  cavity  rather  large;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  rather  firm,  juicy,  brisk 
subacid;  quality  good;  core  medium.  Ripens  in  Georgia  from  15th 
of  June  to  15th  of  July. 

Highland  Beauty. 

A  new  variety  which  originated  in  the  garden  of  the  late  William 
Roe,  Newburgh,  N.  Y. ;  it  is  a  beautiful  apple,  of  very  good  quality, 


Highland  Beauty. 


keeps  well,  and  is  a  promising  addition  for  the  dessert.  Tree  thrifty, 
moderately  vigorous,  forming  a  round  head;  an  abundant  bearer  on 
alternate  years,  with  a  light  crop  the  non-bearing  season. 

Fruit  small   to  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  somewhat  angu- 


THE    APPLE. 


89 


lar;  skin  smooth,  almost  waxen  white,  often  a  shade  of  bright  red 
or  tannine  in  the  sun,  and  a  few  scattering-  grayish  dots;  stalk  short 
in  medium;  cavity  broad,  deep,  sometimes  a  little  russet;  calyx 
closed;  basin  large,  deep,  corrugated;  flesh  white,  fine,  crisp,  ten- 
der, juicy,  mild,  refreshing  subacid  flavor,  of  very  good  quality; 
core  rather  small.      Season  January,  March. 

Imperial  Rambo. 

A  new  variety  raised  by  0.  T.  Hobbs,  of  Randolph,  Pa.  Tree 
a  strong  grower,  spreading;  a  regular  and  moderate  bearer;  a 
late  fall  and  early  winter  apple  of  fine  quality. 

Fruit  medium,   oblate,   oblique,   slightly   angular;    skin   smooth, 


Imperial  Rambo. 

whitish  yellow,  rather  thinly  striped  and  splashed  with  light  red 
over  most  of  the  surface,  with  a  few  scattering  light  and  grayish 
dots;  stalk  very  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large,  deep;  calyx  small, 
closed;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  very 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  refreshing  and  excellent  flavor;  core 
small.     October,  February. 

Johnson. 

This  fine  winter  apple  was  raised  from  seed  by  Thomas  Johnson, 
Ash  Ridge,  111.,  and  is  said  to  be  equal  to  any  apple  of  its  season 
for  quality,  and  for  the  locality  of  its  origin.  Tree  a  vigorous,  up- 
right grower,  an  early  and  good  bearer  annually,  and  valuable  for 
table  and  market. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  sometimes  slightly  oblique,  regular;  skin 
pale  yellow  at  maturity,  nearly  covered  with  dee],  rich  red  or  dark 
crimson,  somewhat  purplish  in  the  sun,  and  moderately  sprinkled 
with  light  and  gray  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  medium  or 
rather  large,   russeted;    calyx  closed;    basin  broad,  not    very  deep, 


90  THE    APrLE. 

slightly  plaited;  flesh  yellowish,  half  fine,  a  little  firm,  moderately 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  rich,  and  of  excellent  quality;  core  small. 
December  to  March. 


July  Queen. 

A  new  variety  which  originated  in  the  nurserv  of  Newman 
Taunton,  near  Ophelia,  Ga.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  somewhat 
spreading,  not  a  very  early,  but  a  good  bearer  every  year;  it  ripens 
soon  after  the  Gravenstein,  and  is  considered  an  acquisition  in  the 
locality  of  its  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  conical;  skin  pale  yellow,  a  little 
greenish,  striped  and  splashed  rather  thinly  and  faintly  over  half  the 
surface  in  exposed  specimens,  and  but  little,  color  where  grown  in 
the  shade,  with  a  few  light  and  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small,  some- 
times by  a  lip;  cavity  rather  small,  russeted;  calyx  closed,  or  nearlv 
so;  basin  rather  small,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  whitish,  half  tine,  ten- 
der, juicy,  mild,  pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  arid  of  very  good 
quality;  core  small.  Ripens  in  Georgia  from  the  middle  of  July  till 
the  20th  of  August. 

Kestner. 

A  new  apple  originated  with  Marcus  Kestner,  Hickman,  Ky. 
Tree  thrifty,  vigorous,  upright,  tall,  but  spreading  and  irregular; 
an  early  and  good  bearer  annually,  and  is  considered  a  valuable 
acquisition  for  the  locality  of  its  origin. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  somewhat  flattened  at  the  ends,  slightly 
oblique;  skin  whitish  yellow,  nearlv  covered  with  pale  carmine  red, 
many  rather  obscure  stripes  and  splashes  of  a  darker  hue,  and  a  few 
light  and  gray  dots;  stalk  very  short,  small;  cavity  medium,  slight 
russet;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so;  basin  rather  large,  slightly  corru- 
gated; flesh  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  rich  subacid;  quality 
very  good;  core  small.     Season  December  to  March. 


THE    APPLE.  91 


Key's  Red. 


A  new  variety  which  originated  with  the  late  Martin  Key,  of 
Clay  Brook,  Term.,  and  is  said  to  be  an  acquisition  for  the  locality 
of  its  origin.  Tree  hardy,  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  spreading,  and 
hears  good  crops  annually. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  sometimes  a  little 
oblique;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  dark  red, 
and  many  rather  large  yellowish  arcole  dots;  stalk  short,  small; 
cavity  medium,  rather  deep,  russeted;  calyx  open;  basin  rather 
large,  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  sub- 
acid, slightly  aromatic;  core  small.  Ripens  from  October  to  Febru- 
ary. 

King  Sweet. 

Summer  Sweet,  of  some.  High  Top  Sweet,  of  some. 

Thomas  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Ichabod  Thomas,  Sidney,  Me.  Tree 
a  hardv,  thrifty  grower,  upright,  compact,  and  requires  much  inside 
pruning,  bears  abundantly  on  alternate  years;  esteemed  in  its  locality 
as  an  early  family  fruit. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  inclining  to  oblong;  skin 
greenish  vellow,  often  a  shade  of  pale  red;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
medium;  calyx  closed;  basin  rather  deep;  flesh  half  fine,  whitish, 
juicy,  half  tender,  rich  honey  sweet;  core  rather  small.  September, 
November. 

KlNlvEAD. 

This  large,  beautiful,  and  fine  summer  apple  originated  on  the 


grounds  of  J.  < '.  Kinkead,  Lancaster,  <  >hio.     Tree  a  vigorous,  stout, 
uprio-ht  o-rower,  producing  good   crops  annually.      This  apple  « 


92  THE   APPLE. 

first  supposed  to  be  the  Western  Beauty,  or  Big  Rambo,  but  it  has 
proved  to  be  distinct,  being  of  better  quality,  brighter  in  color,  and 
earlier  in  ripening. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  to  round  oblate;  skin  whitish,  striped,  splashed 
and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  rich  red  over  nearly  the  whole  sur- 
face, and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  dots;  stalk  short,  moder- 
ated stout;  cavity  large,  sometimes  with  slight  russet;  calyx  closed 
or  nearly  so;  basin  large,  deep,  nearly  smooth;  flesh  white,  half  fine, 
tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  refreshing;  quality  very  good;  core 
small.      Season  all  the  month  of  September. 

KlRKLAND. 

An  old  variety,  but  little  disseminated  out  of  its  locality;  it 
originated  on  the  Kirkland  farm,  and  was  named  after  Dominie 
Kirkland,  a  missionary  to  the  Oneida  Indians.  Tree  hardy,  a  vigor- 
ous grower,  with  a  round,  rather  spreading  head;  an  early  and  good 
bearer  annually,  but  more  abundantly  on  alternate  years;  fruit  not 
of  the  best  quality,  but  valuable  for  its  hardiness,  productiveness, 
late  keeping,  market  and  culinary  uses. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  angular, 
or  almost  ribbed;  skin  smooth,  bright  straw  color,  a  shade  of  pale 
red  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  a  few  small  brownish  dots; 
stalk  short,  small;  cavity  medium,  a  little  uneven;  calyx  closed; 
basin  medium,  somewhat  furrowed  or  angled;  flesh  whitish  yellow, 
half  fine,  crisp,  half  tender,  juicy,  with  a  brisk  subacid  flavor;  core 
large.     January  to  May. 

Kxapp's   Harvey. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Capt.  Rufus  Knapp,  Sutton,  Mass. 
Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  inclining  to  droop;  a  good  bearer  annually. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate  to  round  oblate,  very  slightly 
conical;  skin  pale  yellow,  or  light  straw  color,  a  shade  of  pale  red 
in  the  sun,  and  many  grayish  dots;  stalk  short,  moderately  stout; 
cavity  large,  deep,  often  live  angled,  and  a  little  o-reenish;  calyx 
open;  basin  medium,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  rather 
coarse,  moderately  juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic, 
and  of  good  quality;  core  medium,  or  rather  large.  September, 
( )etober. 

Lankfoim). 
Vickers. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  land  of  Thomas  J.  Vickers,  Lankford, 
Md.,  and  is  much  valued  in  that  locality  for  its  vigor,  hardiness, 
product iveness,  good  quality,  and  adaptedness  to  that  latitude. 
Tree  vigorous,  upright,  with  rather  slender,  firm  branches,  forming 
a  round  head,  and  bearing  good  crops  annually. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  sides  sometimes  un- 
equal, or  a  little  oblique,  often  flattened  at  the  ends;  skin  pale 
green,  shaded  with  pale  and  dark  red  over  half  or  more  of  its  sur- 
face, and  moderately  sprinkled  with  large  light  and  grayish  dots— 


THE    APPLE.  93 

many  areole;  stalk  rather  short,  slender;  cavity  large,  deep,  green- 
ish; calyx  closed,  or  partially  open;  basin  large,  rather  deep,  slightly 


corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  tender,  moderately  juicy, 
mild  subacid,  inclining  to  sweet;  core  sniall.      December,  May. 

Large  Summer  Queen. 

This  fine  large  summer  apple  is  supposed  to  be  of  North  Caro- 
lina origin,  but  the  exact  locality  is  not  known.  The  tree  is  said  to 
be  very  vigorous,  upright  at  first,  but,  with  age,  spreading  and  ir- 
regular; in  the  orchard  an  early  and  abundant  annual  bearer,  and 
valuable  in  its  locality  for  its  time  of  ripening,  which  is  about  the 
time  ot'  the  American  Summer  Pearmain. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  nearly  regular;  skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  shaded,  splashed  and  mottled  with  pale  red, 
and  moderately  sprinkled  with  large,  light,  yellowish  dots,  a  few 
being  areole;  stalk  very  short,  moderately  stout;  cavity  rather 
large,  deep,  smooth;  calyx  closed;  basin  quite  large,  deep,  nearly 
smooth;  flesh  whitish,  line,  tender,  juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid,  slightly 
aromatic;  very  good;  core  medium.  Ripens  in  North  Carolina  from 
the  last  of  July  till  the  first  of  September. 

Lincoln-  Pippin. 

An  old  variety,  said  to  have  been  brought  from  Connecticut,  many 
years  since,  to  Syracuse,  N.  Y.,  by  a  Mr.  Knapp,  and  lately  brought 
into  notice  by  the  late  Reuben  Lincoln,  whose  name  it  bears,  tlie 
original   name   being   lost.      Tree   a  tall   vigorous  grower,  making  a 


94  TUK    AFPLE. 

large,  open,  spreading  head;  an  early  and  good  bearer  annually,  but 
large  crops  on  alternate  years;  and  being  hardy,  healthy,  long-lived, 
and  the  fruit  of  good  appearance,  large,  fair,  and  uniform  in  size, 
makes  it  valuable  for  market  or  family  use. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  slightly 


Lincolu  Pippin. 

angular,  sides  sometimes  a  little  unequal;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow, 
moderately  sprinkled  with  grayish  dots;  stalk  short  to  long,  slen- 
der; cavity  large,  deep;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  small  of  medium, 
slightly  corrugated;  Hesh  half  tine,  pale  whitish  yellow,  tender, 
juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  very  good;  core  rather  large. 
October,  December. 

Longwortii's  Red  Winter. 

Originated  with  William  Longworth,  Dubuque,  Iowa,  who  writes 
that  the  tree  is  hardy,  a  vigorous  grower,  with  a  roundish  head,  in- 
clining to  be  upright:  an  early  and  good  hearer  annually,  but  larger 
crops  on  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate  conical,  regular;  skin  whitish 
vellow,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  rich  red 
over  mosl  of  the  surface,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  light  dots;  stalk 
medium,  slender;  cavity  rather  large,  smooth ;  calyx  closed  or  nearly 
st>;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated;  llesh  white,  fine,  sometimes 
veins  of  red  around  the  core,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  having-  a 
slight  peculiar  quince-like  flavor;  very  good.     November,  February 


the  apple.  95 

Maggie's  Favorite. 

King  of  the  llauibos. 

An  old  variety  originating  ""  the  farm  of  Anson  Purple,  West- 
field,  Penn.,  and  although  a  first-class  summer  and  fall  apple,  it 
appears  not  to  have  been  widely  disseminated  out  of  the  neighbor- 
hood of  its  origin.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  making  a  large  spreading 
head,  bearing  very  full  crops  on  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium    or   above,  roundish    oblate,   nearly  regular;  skin 


Maggie's  Favorite. 

pale  yellow  at  full  maturity,  shaded  with  light  red,  having  short 
stripes  and  splashes  of  dark  red  over  half  or  more  of  the  surface, 
and  manv  large  yellowish  and  brown  dots,  a  portion  being  areole; 
stalk  short,  rather  stout;  cavity  medium,  regular,  slight  greenish 
russet;  calyx  open;  basin  medium,  roundish,  deep:  flesh  whitish, 
fine,  tender,  juicy,  very  pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aromatic  and  very 
o-ood  quality;  core  small  or  medium.  Ripens  in  September  and 
keeps  well. 

MART    Wo  mack. 

John  W.  Walker,  of  Anchorage,  Ky..  who  sends  specimens  of 
this  apple,  writes  that  it  is  a  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of 
George  Womack,  near  Middletown,  Ky.,  and  named  for  his 
bv  the  Kentucky  Horticultural  Society.  It  is  evidently  a  seedling 
of  the  Ram  bo,  the  color,  form  of  fruit,  and  habit  of  the  tree  in- 
dicate it.  yet  it  is  a  mild  sweet  apple  of  firsl  quality;  il  ripens  in 
Kentucky  in  August  and  September,  or  just  after  the  Porter  and 
Gravenstein.  Tree  a  thrifty  grower,  bears  full  crops  on  alternate 
years,  and  a  moderate  crop  intervening. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  somewhat   depressed,  nearly  regular;   skin 


96  THE    APPLE. 

whitish,  faintly  striped  and  splashed  with  pale  and  bright  red  where 
exposed  to  the  sun,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  and  large  ir- 
regular brown  dots;  stalk  short,  rather  small;  cavity  large,  deep,  a 


Mary  Womack. 

little  uneven;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  large,  saucer-like  form, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  moder- 
ately juicy,  mild  rich  sweet;  quality  very  good;  core  medium. 

Mercer. 

The  origin  of  this  apple  appears  to  be  unknown.  W.  H.  Lewis, 
of  Pike  County,  Miss.,  writes  that  it  was  obtained  by  the  late  Jere- 
miah Smith,  a  successful  fruit-grower  on  Bogue  Chitto  River,  from  a 
Baptist  minister  by  the  name  of  Mercer,  many  years  ago,  but  where 
he  procured  the  grafts  is  not  known.  It  is  more  highly  esteemed 
where  known  than  any  apple  ripening  at  the  same  season.  Tree  a 
thrifty,  strong,  upright  grower,  forming  a  round  head;  an  early  and 
abundant  bearer  nearly  every  year. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  nearly  regular;  skin  whitish,  shaded  and 
streaked  with  light  and  dark  red  rather  thinly  over  half  or  more  of 
the  surface,  and  a  few  light  dots;  stalk  short,  small ;  cavity  rather 
large,  slightly  russetted;  calyx  large,  open;  basin  large,  deep,  par- 
tially plaited;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild,  rich  subacid; 
quality  very  good;  core  small  and  close.  Ripening  all  the  month  of 
July  in  Mississippi,  or  at  the  same  time  with  the  Horse  apple. 

Moser's  Sweet. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Michael  Moser,  Cloverdale,  Inch,  the 
tree  having  been  obtained  as  a  seedling  from  the  nursery  of  Mr. 
Duncan.  The  tree  is  said  to  be  a  vigorous  grower,  with  rather  slen- 
der branches,  making  a  round  spreading  head,  and  producing  good 
crops  on  alternate  years;  it  is  much  valued  by  those  who  know  it 
for  its  uniform  size,  fine  appearance,  home  use,  and  for  market. 


THE    AITLE. 


97 


Fruit  medium,  oblate,  a  little  oblique;  skin  smooth,  bright  yel- 
low, with  a  few  scattering  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  rather  small; 
cavity  large,  deep;  calyx  nearly  closed;  basin  quite  large,  a  little 
uneven;  flesh  whitish,  half  hue,  half  tender,  moderately  juicy,  sweet 
and  rich;  core  small.     December  to  March. 

Mosher  Sweet. 

Originated  in  the  orchard  of  Ephraim  Mosher,  Washington,  N. 
Y.,  many  years  since.  Tree  very  hardy,  thrifty,  vigorous,  making  a 
large  spreading  head;  a  good,  but  not  prolific  bearer;  not  a  valua- 
ble market  fruit,  but  desirable  for  those  who  like  a  good  sweet  apple 
either  for  eating  or  cooking. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  conical,  angular,  often  considerably  ribbed; 
skin  pale  yellow;  stalk  medium,  rather  stout;  cavity  large,  deep; 
calyx  closed;  basin  narrow,  deep,  much  corrugated  or  ribbed;  flesh 
white,  half  fine,  moderately  juicy,  mild,  rich,  sweet,  aromatic;  core 
medium.     Season  all  of  October. 

Mother's  Favorite. 
Smith's  Favorite.  Big  Tree. 

A  large,  showy  summer  apple,  raised  by  Patrick  A^  .  Smith,  Kan- 
overton,  Ohio;  and  his  son,  L.  L.  Smith,  Brooklyn,  Iowa,  writes  that 
the  tree  is  hardy,  a  vigorous  grower,  making  a  laroe  round-headed 
tree;  requires  very  little  pruning,  and  producing  full  crops  on  alter- 
nate years. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin 
bright  yellow,  sometimes  pale  red  in  the  sun,  a  few  brown  dots,  and 
many  obscure  light  ones;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  large,  deep,  a 
little  uneven;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  plaited; 
flesh  pale  yellow,  half  fine,  rather  firm,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  aro- 
matic; of  very  good  quality,  and  one  of  the  best  for  culinary  uses; 
core  small.      Season  September. 

Mountain  Beauty. 

Originated  with  the  late  Stephen  Ferguson,  near  Keswick  Depot, 
Va.  Tree  vigorous,  with  stout  shoots,  spreading,  bearing  abundantly 
on  alternate  years;  it  is  a  beautiful  apple,  and  said  to  be  much  es- 
teemed in  the  locality  of  its  origin. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  somewhat  depressed  :  skin  smooth, 
whitish,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  rich  red  (purplish  red  where 
exposed),  with  some  obscure  stripes  and  splashes  on  the  shaded  side, 
and  many  light  dots,  a  few  being  areole;  stalk  very  short,  moderately 
stout;  cavity  broad,  moderated  deep,  russetted;  basin  broad,  not 
very  deep,  smooth;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid, 
inclining  to  sweet;  quality  very  good;  core  small.  December,  Jan- 
uary. 

Norton  Pippin. 

The  Norton  Pippin  originated  with  James  Brewington,  of  Free- 
dom, Ky.     Tree  thrifty,  a  moderate  grower,  making  a  round,  rattiel 


98  THE    APPLE. 

close  head;  an  early  and  prolific  bearer  on  alternate  years,  and  a  light 
crop  intervening. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  ends,  sides 
sometimes  a  little  unequal,  nearly  regular;  skin  whitish  yellow, 
shaded  with  Light  and  dark  red  over  nearly  the  whole  surface,  with 
some  obscure  stripes  and  splashes,   and    moderately   sprinkle,!  with 


Norton's  Pippin. 

light  dots — a  few  areole;  stalk  short  to  medium,  small;  cavity  me- 
dium, often  slight  russet  or  greenish;  calyx  closed,  or  nearly  so* 
basin  large,  round,  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  ten- 
der, juicy,  pleasant  subacid,  rich;  very  good;  core  rather  small. 
November,  December. 

Onstink  Greening. 

Of  uncertain  origin,  supposed  to  be  Ohio;  introduced  by'Seth  A. 
Bushnell,  of  Oberlin,  Ohio,  who  states  that  the  tree  is  a  vigorous 
grower,  somewhat  irregular,  spreading  open  head,  bearing  good 
crops  annually,  and  although  not  a  first  class  table  apple,  it  is  of 
goo. I  quality;  being  a  very  late  keeper,  retaining  its  firmness  and 
freshness  to  the  last,  makes  it  valuable  for  market  and  culinary  pur- 
poses. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  round  oblate,  slightly  conical,  a  little 
angular,  often  slightly  ribbed;  skin  greenish  yellow,  moderately 
sprinkled  with  grayish  and  greenish  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
rather  large,  sometimes  slight  russet:  calyx  open;  basin  rather  shal- 
low, corrugated,  or  with  small  ribs;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  quite  firm, 
moderately  juicy,  mild  subacid;  core  medium.      January  to  June. 


the  apple.  <.)<) 

Oxford. 

Originated  in  an  old  garden  on  the  farm  of  John  E.  Morgan,  of 
Oxford,  Ind.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  upright,  spreading  with  age; 
an  early  bearer,  producing  good  crops  annually;  it  is  said  to  he 
valuable  for  its  hardiness,  keeping,  and  quality  of  the  fruit. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  sometimes  sides 
unequal;  skin  pale  yellow,  Govered  with  light  red  on  the  shaded 
side,  dark  crimson  in  the  sun,  mixed  and  spotted  with  gray,  and 
many  yellowish,  conspicuous  dots — a  few  being  areole;  stalk  very 
short,  small,  often  by  a  lip;  cavity  large,  deep,  thin  russet;  calyx 
small,  closed,  or  nearly  so;  basin  rather  large,  slightly  corrugated; 
flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  tine,  rather  firm,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  a  lit- 
tle aromatic,  and  quite  rich;  core  rather  small.     January,  March. 

Palmer  Apple. 
Pear  Apple. 

An  old  variety,  of  uncertain  origin,  but  supposed  to  have  origi- 
nated in  Washington  County,  Ga.,  and  said  to  be  little  known  out 
of  its  locality,  where  it  is  much  esteemed  for  its  quality,  market 
value,  and  home  use  in  its  season,  which  is  a  week  or  two  later  than 
Red  Astrachan.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  spreading,  producing 
moderate  crops  annually. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical;  skin 
light  vellow,  streaked  and  splashed  with  pale  red  rather  thinly  over 
most  of  the  surface,  and  sprinkled  with  numerous  rather  large  light 
dots;  stalk  of  medium  length,  slender;  cavity  medium,  slight  russet; 
calyx  closed,  or  nearly  so;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  plaited;  flesh 
whitish  vellow,  half  fine,  a  little  firm,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid, 
slightly  aromatic;  core  medium.  Ripens  the  middle  of  June  in 
Central  Georgia. 

Peach  Blow. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Davis  Jumper,  Dexter,  Me.  Tree 
hardy,  healthy,  and  vigorous,  forming  a  wide,  rather  low-spreading 
head,  bearing  large?  crops  on  alternate  years,  with  a  light  one  inter- 
vening;  use,  culinary  and  market. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  nearly  regular; 
some  specimens  angular;  skin  smooth,  deep  yellow  al  maturity,  a 
shade  of  pale  brownish  red  where  exposed,  moderately  sprinkled 
with  grav  dots,  and  sometimes  nettings  of  russet;  stalk  short  to 
medium, "slender;  cavity  rather  large,  russetted;  calyx  open;  basin 
rather  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  pale  whitish  yellow, 
half  hue.  half  tender,  moderately  juicy,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic, 
and  of  good  quality;  core  medium.  Ripens  from  the  middle  of  Oc- 
tober to  the  middle  of  November. 

Pear  Pippin-.    . 

The  orio-in  of  this  apple  is  somewhat  uncertain,  but  it  is  said  to 
have  originated  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Thomas  Baldwin,  near 
Hightstown,    N.  J.,   and    considered,  where  known,    a    valuable    fall 


100  THE    APPLE, 

apple  for  its  fairness,  large  size,  and  good  bearing  qualities,  either 
for  market  or  family  use.  Tree  a  healthy,  free  grower,  making  a 
round  head;   an  early  and  abundant  bearer  nearly  every  year. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  inclining  to  oblong,  slightly  angu- 
lar; skin  pale,  greenish  yellow,  or  pale  yellow  at  full  maturity,  with 


Pear  Pippin. 

many  rather  obscure  light  and  green  dots;  stalk  short  to  long,  slen- 
der; cavity  large,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin 
large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  and  good  quality;  core  rather  large.  Sep- 
tember. 

Peasgood's  Nonesuch. 

This  beautiful  apple  was  raised  by  Mr.  Peasgood,  of  Stamford, 
England,  and  is  a  fine  culinary  or  dessert  apple,  and  is  like  a  hand- 
some and  highly-colored  Blenheim  Pippin. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate;  skin  yellow,  overspread  on  the 
sunny  side  with  red,  and  copiously  streaked  with  bright  darker 
crimson  streaks;  stalk  short,  deeply  inserted;  eye  very  large  and 
open,  set  in  a  deep,  round,  and  even  basin;  flesh  yellowish,  tender, 
very  juicy,  with  an  agreeable  acid  flavor.  September,  October 
(Hogg). 

Randolph  Sweet. 

An  accidental  seedling  on  the  farm  of  O.  T.  Hobbs,  Randolph, 
Pa.  The  tree  is  said  to  be  vigorous,  spreading;  not  an  early,  but  a 
good  bearer  annually,  when  it  has  attained  sufficient  age;  it  is  a 
late  keeper. 


THE    APPLE.  101 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  a  shade  of  red  where  exposed,  some  rather  ob- 
scure splashes,  and  a  few  grayish  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
deep,  rather  narrow,  slightly  russetted;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin 
small,  slightly  corrugated;  llesh  whitish,  halt  fine,  tender,  juicy, 
mild,  rich,  sweet;  very  good;  core  large.      February,  April. 

Ransom  or  Red  Stbeak. 

An  old  variety,  which  is  said  to  have  originated  in  Columbia, 
Conn.,  on  the  Pinneo  farm.  It  is  not  widely  known,  but  is  valued 
by  those  who  cultivate  it;  tree  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  some- 
what spreading,  bears  abundantly  on  alternate  years,  with  light 
crops  intervening. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular;  skin  pale 
yellow,  shaded,  striped,  splashed  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark 
red,  with  a  few  light  and  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
large,  deep,  often  russeted,  and  sometimes  extending  out  on  the 
fruit;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  ye\- 
lowish  white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid,  slightly  aro- 
matic; very  good;  core  medium.     Season  September. 

Red  Bietigheimer. 

Of  German  origin,  a  large  and  handsome  early  autumn  apple, 
valuable  for  market  and  culinary  purposes.  Tree  a  free  grower,  hav- 
ing large  shining  leaves,  spreading;  an  abundant  bearer  on  alternate 
years. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  regular;  skin 
smooth,  whitish  or  whitish  yellow,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red, 
(purplish  crimson  where  fully  exposed  to  the  sun,)  sometimes  ob- 
scure stripes  and  splashes,  a  few  grayish  and  many  rather  indistinct 
light  dots;  stalk  short,  rather  stout;  cavity  broad,  deep,  regular, 
often  russeted;  calyx  closed,  basin  larg-e,  deep,  slightly  corrugated; 
flesh  white,  half  fine,  quite  firm,  juicy,  with  a  brisk  subacid  flavor; 
core  medium  or  rather  large.     Season  September. 

Red  Winteb  Sweet. 

Originated  in  the  orchard  of  Gen.  Isaac  Sandford,  Vermillion, 
ill.  Tree  vigorous,  spreading,  not  an  early  bearer,  but  abundant  on 
alternate  years,  and  a  partial  crop  the  intervening  years;  a  late 
keeper. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate,  sometimes  slightly  oblique;  skin 
pale  vellow,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  dull  brownish  red,  quite 
thickiy  sprinkled  with  large  yellowish  dots — many  of  them  areole; 
stalk  "short,  small;  cavity  large,  slight  russet;  calyx  open;  basin 
large,  deep,  round;  flesh  yellowish,  rather  coarse,  moderately  juicy, 
rich,  sweet,  good;  core  small.      January,  April. 

Robinson. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  Moses  W.  Robinson,  near  Burlington, 
Iowa.    Tree  hardy,  thrifty,  vigorous,  forming  a  handsome  round  top, 


103  THE    APPLE. 

a  little  spreading,  producing  good  crops  annually;  it  is  valued  in  its 
locality  lor  hardiness,  keeping,  and  good  quality  as  a  table  apple. 
Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  conical,  sides  sometimes 

a  little  unequal,  slightly  oblique,  a  little  flattened  ;it  tin'  base;  skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  shaded  with  pale  brownish  red  over  one-third 
of  its  surface,  and  moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots; 
.stalk  short,  slender;  cavity  medium,  narrow,  thinly  russetted;  calyx 
closed  or  nearly  so;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh 
whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  very  mild  subacid,  or  almost 
sweet,  rather  rich;  quality  very  good;  core  rather  small.  January 
to  March. 

St.    Hilaire. 

Cabane  du  Chien.  Fameuse  Baldwin  (of  some). 

^  This  apple  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the  orchard  of  Alexis 
Dery,  Province  of  Quebec,  and  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  of  the 
Fameuse,  which  it  much  resembles  in  the  color  and  form  of  the  fruit, 
but  is  a  little  larger,  more  variable  in  size,  beais  nearly  as  early, 
and  quite  as  heavily,  keeps  longer,  will  carry  better,  and  is  a  favor- 


ite in  the  neighborhood  of  its  origin  ;  tree  as  hardy  as  the  Fameuse, 
and  similar  to  it  in  growth  and  bearing. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  oblate  or  round  oblate,  very  slightly  coni- 
cal, skin  smooth,  white,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red  and  crimson 
(purplish  crimson  in  the  sun),  sometimes  obscure  splashes,  and  sprin- 
kled with  a  few  light  and  brown  dots,  more  and  minute  ones  near 
the  basin  ;  stalk  short  to  medium,  slender  ;  cavity  medium,  regular  ; 


THE    APPLE.  103 

calyx  closed  ;  basin  rather  small,  .slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  quite 
white,  tine,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  possessing  a  slight  cran- 
berry llavor  ;  core  small.      November,  January. 

Salome. 

Anew  variety,  which  originated  on  the  grounds  of  Elias  C.  Hatha- 
way, Ottawa,  111.  Tree  said  to  be  very  hardy,  healthy,  vigorous; 
leaves  large,  thick  and  firm;  young  wood  very  dark,  hard,  and  fine- 
grained; an  upright  grower,  forming  a  round  head  with  age;  an  early 
and  good  bearer  annually,  but  more  abundantly  on  alternate  years; 
the  fruit  adheres  firmly  until  gathering  time.     Its  hardiness,  lo«g 


keeping,  good  quality,  uniform  size,  retaining  its  flavor  quite  late, 
even  into  summer,  will  no  doubt  make  it  valuable  for  the  West  and 
Northwest. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  roundish  conical,  slightly  angular  ; 
skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  with  pale  red,  striped  and  splashed  with 
dark  red  over  most  of  the  surface,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  large 
and  small  light  yellowish  dots — a  portion  areole  :  stalk  short,  rather 
small  ;  cavity  quite  large,  deep,  a  little  greenish  ;  calyx  (dosed  ;  basin 
rather  small,"  slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  aromatic;  very  good  ;  core  rather 
large.     January,  .May. 

Sanderson. 

This  handsome  apple  was  found  in  an  old  field  owned  by  Miss  Klla 
M.  Gray,  near  Holly  Springs,  Miss.,  and  was  introduced  by  ( !ol.  D.  D. 
Sanders.'     Tree  a  moderate  grower,  somewhat  spreading;  a  good  an- 


104  THE    APPLE. 

nual  bearer,  ripens  just  after  the  Red  Astrachan,  continues  a  long 
time  in  use,  and  is  considered  a  valuable  market  variety  for  the  lo- 
cality of  its  origin. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  slightly 
angular  ;  skin  whitish,  shaded,  striped,  and  mottled,  with  light  and 
dark  red,  some  specimens  entirely  covered  with  deep  red  or  crimson, 
and  purplish  red  where  fully  exposed,  having  a  light  bloom,  and 
many  light  dots  —  a  few  areole;  stalk  rather  short,  moderately  stout; 
cavity  medium,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin 
rather  small,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  white,  sometimes  a  little 
stained  next  the  skin,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasant  subacid;  core 
rather  small.     Season  last  of  July  to  the  20th  of  August. 

Sauta. 

This  apple  is  supposed  to  have  originated  in  White  County, 
Ga.,  on  the  banks  of  the  Sauta  River  or  Creek,  and  is  said  to  be 
popular  in  its  locality,  and  also  in  Mississippi  and  Alabama,  for  its 
long-keeping-,  where  only  a  few  varieties  are  known  possessing  this 
quality.  Tree  thrifty,  moderately  vigorous,  branches  rather  slender, 
spreading,  a  regular  and  moderate  bearer  annuallv. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate,  a  little  oblique,  sometimes  sides 
unequal,  angular  ;  skin  smooth,  light  yellow  or  straw  color,  a  few 
scattering  gray  dots  ;  stalk  very  short,  moderately  stout  ;  cavity 
medium,  dull  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  rather  large,  round,  quite 
deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  and  of  good,  but  not  high  quality;  core 
small.  •  February,  April. 

.  Shaffer. 
Schaeffer.  Bender. 

Shaffer's  Garden.  White  King. 

A  very  old  variety,  which  is  said  to  have  originated  with  a  Mr. 
Bender,  near  Philadelphia.  Some  forty  years  since,  the  late  George 
Shaffer,  of  Allentown,  Pa.,  obtained  grafts  and  introduced  it.  Tree 
thrifty,  very  vigorous,  making  a  large  spreading  top;  an  early  and 
abundant  bearer  on  alternate  years;  the  fruit  is  large,  fair,  of  uni- 
form size,  and  although  not  a  first  class  table  apple,  is  highly  es- 
teemed, where  known,  as  profitable  for  market  and  for  culinary 
purposes. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  or  very  large,  oblate,  very  slightly  coni- 
cal; skin  smooth,  pale  greenish  yellow,  or  whitish  yellow,  sometimes 
a  blush  in  th<»  sun,  and  a  few  gray  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
broad,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so; 
basin  rather  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  half  fine, 
tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  and  of  good  quality;  core  medium. 
September,  November. 

Shannon  Pippix. 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  disputed,  some  asserting  that  it  is  the 
Ohio  Pippin,  taken  from  Indiana  to  Arkansas  by  a  Mr.  Rector  in  1833; 


THE    APPLE.  105 

others  that  it  is  a  distinct  variety.  Mr.  Richard  Thurston,  of  Van 
Buren,  Ark.,  writes  that  he  has  lived  in  that  State  over  thirty  years,  is 
well  acquainted  with  the  apple,  and  that  it  is  distinct  from  the  Ohio 
Pippin;  that  Granville  Shannon,  some  thirty-live  years  ago,  bought 
of  a  tree-peddler  near  Evansville,  Ark.,  a  number  of  apple  trees  of 
various  kinds,  and  when  they  fruited,  the  labels  being  lost,  they 
were  named  Shannon  Pippin,  and  there  were  several  of  this  kind. 
The  tree  is  said  to  be  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  of  a  spreading  habit; 
not  an  early  bearer,  but  when  established  produces  good  crops  on 
alternate  years,  ripening  in  succession  from  September  to  Decem- 
ber, and  is  a  popular  and  valuable  apple  in  that  locality. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate,  slightly  conical;  skin  pale  yel- 
low, deep  yellow  in  the  sun,  and  a  few  gray  dots;  stalk  very  short, 
moderately  stout;  cavity  broad,  deep,  sometimes  slight  russet;  calyx 
closed  or  nearly  so;  basin  broad,  moderately  deep,  slightly  corru- 
gated; flesh  whitish  yellow,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  tender,  mild  sub- 
acid; good  to  very  good;  core  small. 

Sheriff. 
American  Beauty  (incorrectly). 

This  was  brought  from  Pennsylvania,  many  years  since,  by  James 
Sheriff— hence  its  name,  the  true  or  original  one  having  been  lost. 
The  tree  is  said  to  be  vigorous  and  very  hardy,  one  of  the  iron-clads; 
this  with  its  crops  of  fair  fruit,  although  not  rich,  makes  it  of  value 
for  a  cold  climate;  the  tree  grows  tall,  with  few  branches,  forming 
an  open,  somewhat  spreading,  symmetrical  top;  it  comes  early  into 
bearing,  and  bears  regular  annual  crops. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  roundish  oblate,  flattened  at  the 
ends,  nearly  regular;  skin  pale  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  light  and 
dark  red,  with  obscure  stripes  and  splashes,  and  many  small  light 
dots;  stalk  short;  cavity  small,  russetted;  calyx  closed;  basin  large, 
deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  sub- 
acid; pleasant  flavor,  but  not  rich;  core  small.     December,  February. 

Simmons'  Red. 
Red  Everlasting. 

The  Simmons'  Red  originated  with  the  late  John  W.  Davis,  near 
Perry,  Houston  County,  Ga.  Mr.  Davis  planted  the  seed  about  1840. 
Tree"  a  thrifty,  upright,  compact  grower;  an  early  bearer,  and  gives 
good  crops  nearly  every  year.  It  ripens  in  Georgia  the  end  of 
June,  continuing  in  use  two  or  three  months,  and  is  considered  one 
c«f  their  best  summer  apples. 

Fruit  medium  to  huge,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  sides  sometime  a  a 
little  unequal,  slightly  oblique;  skin  pale  yellow,  shaded  with  dark 
crimson  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  on  the  opposite  side  rather 
obscurely  striped  and  splashed  with  light  and  dark  red,  and  pretty 
thickly  sprinkled  with  yellowish  russet  dots,  small,  large,  and  irregu- 
lar in" form;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  broad,  deep,  a  little  uneven, 
with  light  russet,  sometimes  i  ^tending  out  on  the  fruit  in  rays  and 
baches;  calyx  closed,  or  nearly  so;  basin  round,  deep,  nearly  Bmootbj 


10G  THE    APPLE. 

flesh  pale  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  slightly  ara 
matic;  quality  very  good;  core  rather  small. 

Snepps. 
Snepps'  Nonesuch. 

This  fine  apple  is  said  to  have  originated  near  Edinburgh,  Ind. 
Tree  moderately  vigorous,  with  short-jointed  shoots,  forming  a  round 
head,  producing  good  crops  of  fair  fruit  of  uniform  size,  which  is  high- 
ly prized  by  those  who  have  grown  it,  both  for  the  table  and  for  culi- 
nary purposes. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  angular,  slightly  oblique,  or  sides  a  little 
unequal;  skin  pale  yellow  to  deep  yellow,  almost  golden  yellow  in 
the  sun,  moderately  sprinkled  with  gray  and  brown  dots;  stalk  very 
short,  quite  small;  cavity  large,  deep,  sometimes  with  slight  russet; 
calyx  small,  closed,  or  nearly  so;  basin  medium,  corrugated;  flesh 
whitish  yellow,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  rich,  a  little  aro- 
matic, and  inclining  to  saccharine;  quality  very  good,  at  least;  core 
small.      December,  February. 

Stayman's  Winesap. 

A  seedling  of  the  Winesap,  originated  with  Dr.  J.  Stayman,  Leav- 
enworth, Kansas.  We  give  his  description:  "Tree  very  vigorous, 
open,  irregular,  spreading;  wood  very  dark;  dark  heavy  foliage;  an 


Stayman's  Winesap. 


early  and  very  abundant  bearer;  tree  much  in  appearance  like  Wine- 
sap; fruit  hangs  well  on  the  tree. 

"  Fruit  medium  to  large,  heavy,  oblate  conical,  regular;  greenish 
yellow,  mostly  covered  and  indistinctly  splashed,  mixed  and  striped 
with  dark  dull  red;  dots  medium,  numerous,  distinct  gray;  stem  of 


THE    APPLE. 


107 


medium  length,  slender;  cavity  wide,  deep,  much  russetted,  extend' 
ing,  regular;  calyx  large,  open,  or  half  open,  erect,  large;  basin  rathel 
narrow,  abrupt,  deep,  furrowed;  core  medium;  flesh  yellow,  firm,  ten- 
der, juicy,  rich,  mild  subacid,  aromatic;  quality  best.  Season  Janu- 
ary to  May." 

Stearns'  Greening. 

Stearns'  Winter  Greening. 

This  fine  winter  apple  originated  with  Thomas  Stearns,  Jackson, 
Ind.  Tree  said  to  be  very  hardy,  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  mak- 
ing a  round  symmetrical  head;  an  early,  annual,  and  abundant  bearer, 
and  is  highly  esteemed  where  known. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  flattened  at  the  ends,  slightly  an- 


Stearns'  Greening. 


I 


ular;  skin  pale  green,  with  a  pale  blush  of  brown  in  the  sun,  and  a 
ew  scattering  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large, 
deep;  calyx  closed;  basin  large,  deep,  corrugated;  flesh  Hue,  pale  yel- 
low, tender,  juicy,  with  a  mild  subacid,  rich  flavor;  quality  very 
good;  core  small  or  medium.      December,  April. 


Steve  Baldwin. 
Baldwin's  Summer.  Early  Russet. 

A  chance  seedling  found  in  the  woods  on  the  farm  of  Stephen 
Baldwin,  town  of  Seymour,  Conn.  Tree  a  strong,  vigorous,  upright 
grower,  rather  an  early  bearer,  producing  large  crops  on  alternate 
vears;  it  is  said  to  be  valuable  for  home  use,  is  highly  esteemed 
where  known,  and  worthy  of  a  place  in  every  orchard. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  obiate,  very  slightly  angular;  skin  whit- 
ish, more  or  less  covered  with  a  peculiar  net-work  of  russet;    stalk 


108  T11K    APPLE. 

short,  small;  cavity  rather  large,  deep,  slight  russet;  calyx  closed; 
basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh  quite  white,  fine,  tender, 
moderately  juicy,  mild,  rich  subacid  flavor;  very  good;  core  rather 
small.  Season  from  the  last  of  August  and  continues  five  or  six 
weeks,  and  with  care  till  December. 

Stevenson  Pippin. 
D wight  Apple. 

An  Arkansas  apple,  which  originated  with  the  Cherokee  Indians 
in  what  is  now  Pope  County,  and  was  first  brought  to  notice  by  a 
Mr.  Dwight,  of  the  Dwight  Mission,  as  it  was  known  for  a  long- 
time. James  G.  Stevenson,  of  Crawford  County,  Ark.,  obtained 
trees  of  the  variety,  propagated  and  disseminated  them,  and  they 
are  highly  esteemed  where  known.  Tree  a  vigorous,  upright  grower, 
somewhat  spreading  with  age  and  bearing;  not  an  early  bearer,  but 
produces  heavy  and  light  crops  alternately. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  flattened  at  the 
ends,  nearly  regular;  skin  yellow,  shaded  with  light  red,  striped  and 
splashed  with  dark  red  and  crimson  rather  thickly  over  the  whole 
Surface,  and  large  and  small  yellowish  dots — a  portion  areole;  stalk 
6hort,  small;  cavity  rather  large,  deep,  much  russetted,  sometimes 
extending  out  on  the  fruit;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  rather  large, 
slightly  plaited;  flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  half  tender,  juicy, 
pleasant  subacid  and  aromatic;  quality  very  good;  core  medium. 
October,  February. 

Stonewall   Jackson. 

A  chance  seedling  found  growing  in  a  stone  wall  on  Silas  Jackson's 
farm,  in  Clarence,  Annapolis  County,  Nova  Scotia,  hence  the  name. 
The  tree  is  said  to  be  a  strong,  upright  grower  at  first,  but  becomes 
spreading  and  somewhat  drooping  with  age  and  bearing;  it  has 
quite  a  local  reputation,  but  is  not  much  known  elsewhere;  is  a  very 
good  bearer,  and  keeps  well. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  or  roundish  oblate,  slightly 
conical,  angular,  or  slightly  ribbed;  skin  yellow,  shaded  with  light 
and  dark  rich  red,  with  a  still  darker  hue  in  the  sun,  and  moderately 
sprinkled  with  light  and  brown  dots;  stalk  rather  short,  moderately 
stout;  cavity  deep,  rather  narrow;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  rather 
small,  corrugated;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sub- 
acid, slightly  aromatic,  rich,  and  of  very  good  quality;  core  large. 
January,  March. 

This  is  distinct  from  the  Stonewall  Jackson  of  Southern  Ala- 
bama. 

Stuart's  Golden.    . 

Stump  (incorrectly). 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  the  late  William  Stuart,  Rush  Creek, 
U.,  where  it  grew  near  a  stump  many  years  since.  It  is  said  to  be 
very  popular,  where  known,  for  home  use  and  a  near  market.  Tree 
hardy,   healthy,    moderately    vigorous,   spreading,  making  a  tree  of 


THE    APPLE. 


109 


medium  size,  with  tough,  close-grained  shoots;  an  early  and  prolific 
bearer,  alternate  years,  of  fair  fruit  of  uniform  size,  and  keeps  well. 
Fruit  below  medium,  oblate,  sometimes  a  little  oblique,  nearly- 
regular;  skin  bright  yellow,  deep  orange  red  in  the  sun,  with  a  few 


Stuart's  Golden. 


brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  medium,  sometimes  slight 
russet;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  rather  large,  moderately  deep, 
saucer-like  shape,  smooth;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant  subacid,  rich,  and  of  excellent  quality;  core  small. 
Season,  December  to  April. 

Sweet  Rhode  Island  Greening. 
New  Rhode  Island  Greening.  Curtis'  Greening. 

The  place  of  origin  of  this  apple  appears  to  be  unknown,  but  is 
supposed  to  be  Ohio;  it  was  first  introduced  into  Illinois  by  Joseph 
Curtis,  many  years  since.  Tree  very  vigorous,  spreading;  it  begins 
to  bear  rather  early,  and  produces  full  crops  the  even  years,  and 
moderate  crops  odd  years;  the  fruit  is  of  large  size,  excellent  qual- 
ity, and  is  said  to  be  the  best  sweet  apple,  where  known,  for  Decem- 
ber and  January,  for  culinary  purposes  and  market. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate,  often  oblique,  sides  sometimes 
unequal;  skin  greenish  yellow,  often  a  shade  of  pale  l«rown  in  the 
sun,  and  sometimes  spotted  with  red,  a  few  brown  and  gray  dots; 
stalk  very  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large;  calyx  closed;  basin  large, 
deep;  slightly  plaited;  flesh  yellowish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sweet, 
rich,  slightly  aromatic;  very  good  quality;  core  small.  December, 
January. 

Sweet  Winter  Spitzexberg. 

An  old  variety,  supposed  to  have  been  raised  by  the  late  Samuel 
Bartholomew,  of  Cornwall,  Vt.,  and  is  considered  one  of  the  most 
useful  and  profitable  winter  sweet  apples  of  thai  locality;  fruit  al- 
ways fair,  smooth,  and  keeps  well.  Tree  a  vigorous,  upright  grower, 
and  an  early  and  abundant  bearer  nearly  every  year. 


HQ  TIIE    APPLE. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  or  roundish  oblate,  conical,  smooth  and 
regular;  skin  golden  yellow  at  full  maturity,  some  rather  obscure 
light  and  green  dots;  stalk  short  to  medium,  rather  slender;  cavity 
broad,  not  very  deep;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  rather  small,  cor- 
rugated; flesh  deep  yellow,  half  fine,  tender,  moderately  juicy,  rich 
honey-sweet,  slightly  aromatic;  very  good;  core  medium.  Decern 
ber  to  February. 

Stump. 

A  chance  seedling  found  in  an  old  stump  on  the  grounds  of  John 
Prue,  Chili,  N.  Y.  Tree  a  thrifty,  vigorous,  upright  grower,  forming  a 
symmetrical,  roundish  conical  head;  rather  an  early  and  very  abun- 
dant bearer,  on  alternate  years,  of  fair,  handsome  fruit  of  good 
quality. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  conical,  inclining  to  oblong  coni- 
cal,  sometimes  sides   a    little   unequal;  skin   smooth,   white,   shaded 


with  bright  red,  moderately  striped  ami  splashed  with  crimson  over 
most  of  the  surface,  a  few  large  and  small  light  dots — a  portion 
areole;  stalk  very  short,  rather  small;  cavity  medium,  often  rus- 
setted;  calyx  small,  closed;  basin  medium,  slightly  plaited;  flesh 
white,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  pleasantly  subacid;  quality  good  to 
very  good;  core  rather  large.     September,  October. 

Tanner's  Winter. 

An  old  variety  of  unknown  origin.  It  is  considerably  grown  in 
Granville  County.  Ga.,  where  it  succeeds  and  is  prized  as  a  winter 
fruit  for  general  use.      The  history  and  original  name  are  unknown 


THE    APPLE.  HI 

Tree  a  good  thrifty  grower,  with  slender  branches,  upright,  inclined 
to  spread  with  age;  a  good  bearer  nearly  every  year. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  slightly  angular;  skin 
whitish  yellow,  sbaded,  rather  obscurely  striped  and  splashed  with 
pale  purplish  red;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  broad,  deep,  sometimes 
thin  russet;  calyx  small,  half  open;  basin  large,  very  deep,  nearlv 
smooth;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  mild 
subacid;  good  to  very  good;  core  small.     October,  February. 

Valley. 
Van  Horn. 

Originated  with  George  C.  Stamford,  Boston,  O.  The  tree  is 
saiil  to  be  vigorous,  healthy,  of  a  roundish,  rather  spreading  top,  and 
has  borne  abundant  crops  biennially  for  sixty  yearSj  of  smooth  fair 
fruit,  and  comes  early  into  bearing. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  oblate,  sides  sometimes  unequal,  a 
little  flattened  at  the  ends;  skin  smooth,  pale  whitish  yellow,  occa- 
sionally a  shade  of  pale  red,  a  few  small  brown  or  russet  dots,  and 
sometimes  a  few  obscure  stripes  and  splashes  on  the  sunny  side; 
stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large,  deep;  calyx  closed;  basin 
large,  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  half  tine,  tender,  juicy;  mild  sub- 
acid; core  small.      December,  March. 

Victoria  Pippin. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of  John  Benge,  near  Elkton,  Cecil 
County,  Mil.,  and  being  an  Englishman,  named  it  in  honor  of  his 
Queen.  Tree  a  healthy,  vigorous  grower,  making  a  round,  rather 
spreading  head;  an  early  and  moderate  bearer  every  year,  but  full 
crops  on  alternate  years;  it  is  not  a  rich,  high-flavored  table  apple, 
but  is  highly  valued  in  its  locality  for  culinary  purposes  and  for 
market. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate;  skin  yellow, 
shaded,  striped  and  splashed  rather  thinly  over  most  of  the  surface 
with  light  and  dark  red,  and  pretty  thickly  sprinkled  with  grayish 
and  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity  rather  large,  sometimes 
slight  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  broad,  moderately  deep,  a  little 
uneven;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  rather  coarse,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid, 
and  of  good  quality.      September,  October. 

Victoria   Sweet. 

This  is  quite  an  old  variety,  the  origin  of  which  Is  uncertain,  al- 
though claimed  for  Chenango  County,  N.  Y.;  it  may  have  an  older 
and  prior  name.  Tree  a  moderate  grower,  spreading,  very  produc- 
tive on  alternate  years;  a  beautiful  and  very  good  sweel  apple  of  its 
season. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  regular;  skin   entirely  covered    with   light 
and  dark  red  and  crimson,  sometimes  obscure  stripes  and  splasl 
a   darker   hue,   and    many    rather  conspicuous  yellowish    dots;   stalk 
rather  small;  cavity  medium,  regular,  sometimes  slight  russet;  calyx 


112  THE    APPLE. 

small,  closed;  basin  rather  large,  moderately  deep,  slightly  plaited; 
flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  rich;  very  good;  core 
small.     October,  November. 


Victoria  Sweet. 

Westmoreland  Rambo. 

Grown  from  seed  of  the  Common  Rambo,  by  Joseph  Kern, 
Greensburg,  Tenn.  Tree  vigorous  and  a  rapid  grower,  makes  a 
large,  spreading,  open  head,  requiring  very  little  pruning;  it  bears 
annually  fair  crops  of  large  fruit  of  very  good  quality,  and  evenly 
distributed  over  the  tree.  There  are  several  varieties  of  the  Large 
Rambo  raised  from  seed  of  the  Old  Rambo,  which  are  much  larger 
in  size,  more  vigorous  in  growth;  most  of  them  ripen  earlier,  but  do 
not  quite  equal  it  in  quality. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate,  somewhat  flattened  at  the  ends; 
skin  pul''  greenish  yellow,  shaded,  striped  and  splashed  with  light 
and  dark  red  over  nearly  the  whole  surface,  with  a  few  brown  dots; 
stalk  short,  rather  small;  cavity  large,  deep,  a  little  greenish;  calyx 
closed,  or  nearly  so;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated;  flesh 
whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  tender,  pleasant  subacid;  quality  good 
or  very  good;   core  small.      September,  October. 

Wilson's  Simmer. 

Origin  unknown,  but  supposed  to  be  near  Salem,  N.  C.  Tree  a 
thrifty,  upright  grower,  with  rather  slender  wood,  making  a  medium- 
sized  tree  when  fully  grown.  It  bears  young  and  abundantly  on 
alternate  years,  and  is  valued,  where  known,  for  its  fine  quality  for 
summer  use. 

Fruit  rather  below  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  side  some- 
times a  little  unequal;  skin  smooth,  whitish  yellow,  nearly  covered 
with  rich  bright  reel,  more  or  less  striped  and  splashed  with  crimson, 


THE    APPLE. 


113 


and  moderately  sprinkled  with   light  dots;   stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
medium,  regular,  often  a  little  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium, 


Wilson's  Summer. 

nearly  smooth;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  mild  subacid,  rich, 
and  of  excellent  quality;  core  small.  Season  about  the  time  of 
American  Summer  Pearmain. 

Williams'  Red  Winter. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  the  elder  Abraham  Williams,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.,  many  years  since,  and  is  but  little  known  out  of  its 
m-iyhborhood.  Tree  a  strong,  vio-orous  "Tower,  form  in  g  a  very  large, 
spreading  head;  not  a  very  early  bearer,  but  bearing  moderately  an- 
nually; it  is  highly  esteemed  by  those  who  know  it  best. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate,  slightly  conical,  slightly  angular;  skin 
whitish,  nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark  red  (dark  crimson  in  the 
sun),  somewhat  obscurely  striped  and  splashed,  and  moderately 
sprinkled  with,  yellow  russet  dots;  stalk  very  short,  small :  cavity 
medium,  slight  russet;  calyx  closed;  basin  large,  moderately  deep, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  white,  fine,  tender,  juicy,  sprightly  sub- 
acid, not  rich,  but  pleasant  and  of  good  quality;  core  rather  small. 
December,  February. 

Wolf  River. 

A  new,  large,  handsome  apple,  the  tree  of  which  was  grown  by 
W.  A.  Springer,  and  disposed  of  before  fruiting  to  the  late  Henry 
Riflen,  near  the  east  bank  of  Wolf  River,  Fremont,  Wis.;  suppi 
to  bea  seedling  of  the  Alexander,  which  it  somewhat  resembles;  not 
usually  so  large  nor  so  regular  in  form,  darker  in  color,  and  rath*  i 
better  in  quality.  The  tree  is  said  to  be  very  hardy;  a  strong,  vig- 
orous grower,  spreading,  with  large  thick  leaves;  not  an  early  bearer, 
but  producing  full  crops  on  alternate  years. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightlj  an- 
gular, some  of  the  larger  specimens  uneven  and  irregular,  but  those 
of  average  size  are  regular;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  but    becomes 


114  THE    APPLE. 

whitish  when  mat  are,  shaded  with  light  and  dark  red  or  crimson 
where  fully  exposed,  having  a  thin  whitish  bloom,  and  a  few  light 
dots;  stalk  very  .short,  quite  small;  cavity  rather  large,  greenish, 
sometimes  much  russetted;  calyx  open,  or  nearly  so;  basin  large, 
very  deep,  a  little  uneven;  flesh  white,  rather  coarse,  half  tender, 
juicy,  pleasant,  mild  subacid,  with  a  peculiar  spicy,  slight  quince- 
like  flavor;  core  medium.      Season,  October,  November. 

Yellow  Pippin. 

Origin  unknown;  specimens  under  this  name  were  received  from 
B.  (  ).  Curtis,  Edgar  County,  111.,  whose  father  brought  it  from 
Adams  County,  Ohio,  some  sixty  years  ago;  it  is  distinct  from  either 
the  Green  or  Yellow  Newtown  Pippin  in  tree  and  fruit,  and  may 
prove  to  be  the  Newtown  Pippin  of  Lewis  Sanders,  of  Kentucky. 
Tree  hardy,  a  very  thrift}'  upright  grower,  rather  late  coming  into 
bearing,  but  then  bears  abundant  crops  nearly  every  year.  Com- 
mences to  ripen  in  January  and  continues  in  use  till  April,  and  longer 
with  care. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  angular,  often  slightly 
oblique,  somewhat  flattened  at  the  ends;  skin  deep  yellow,  sometimes 
a  shade  of  light  red,  and  many  brown  dots;  stalk  short,  small;  cavity 
medium,  deep,  slight  russet;  calyx  open,  or  nearly  so;  basin  medium, 
quite  deep,  a  little  wrinkled;  flesh  pale  yellow,  half  line,  half  firm, 
crisp,  juicv,  rich,  subacid,  slightly  aromatic,  and  very  good;  core 
small.      January  to  April. 

ZoI.OTOREFF. 

One  of  the  new  Russian  apples  lately  introduced,  which  promises 
to  be  valuable  for  a  cold  climate;  it  is  said  to  be  quite  as  hardy  as 
the  Duchess  of  Oldenburg;  a  good  upright  grower,  an  early  and 
abundant  bearer  of  large,  showy  fruit,  ripening  about  a  month  later 
than  the  Duchess. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  very  slightly  conical,  slightly  angular;  skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  or  light  yellow  at  full  maturity,  shaded,  splashed 
and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red  over  most  of  the  surface;  stalk 
short,  rather  stout;  cavity  rather  narrow,  deep;  calyx  closed  or  half 
ope,,;  basin  large,  deep,  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender, 
juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  and  of  good  quality;  core  rather  large. 
Season  middle  to  the  last  of  September. 

Yello w  Transparent. 

A  new  Russian  variety,  which  was  imported  from  St.  Petersburg 
in  1870  by  the  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington.  I).  C,  and 
promises  to  be  valuable  \'<>v  a.  cold  climate  as  an  early  fruit  of  good 
quality*,  ripening  before  the  Tetofsky,  with  more  tender  and  delicate 
flesh,  but  does  not  continue  long  in  use.  It  is  said  that  the  tree  so  far 
lias  proved  to  be  very  hardy,  moderately  vigorous,  upright,  an  early 
and  good  bearer  annually. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  conical,  slightly  angular: 
skin  clear  white  at  first,  becoming   pale   yellow    when    fully   mature, 


THE    APPLE. 


115 


moderately  sprinkled  with  light  and  greenish  dots,  somewhat  ob- 
scure; stalk  short  to  medium,  rather  slender;  cavity  rather  large, 
sometimes  a  little  greenish;  calyx  closed;  basin  medium,  slightly 
corrugated,  sometimes  small  protuberances;   flesh  white,    half   fine, 


Yellow  Transparent. 

tender,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid;  quality  good  to  very  good;  core  me- 
dium. Season  early  in  August,  and  a  week  or  two  before  Tetofsky. 
There  appears  to  be  some  confusion  regarding  some  of  the  new 
Russian  apples,  a  few  not  being  true  to  name,  and  others  having 
proved  synonymous  with  older  varieties;  some  of  the  new  varieties 
are  large  and  handsome,  and  if  the  trees  prove  as  hardy  as  is  claimed 
for  them,  they  will  be  valuable  acquisitions  for  the  North  and  North- 
west, 


APPENDIX. 


U  RAPES,   PEACHES.  PEARS   &o 


For  specimens  of  Fruit,  and  information  relating  to 
many  of  the  varieties  in  this  Appendix,  I  am  indebted 
to  many  of  the  leading  Pomologists  in  tnany7  parte 
of  the  country,  who  will  please  accept  my  cordiaJ 
thanks. 

C'iarles  Downing. 


GRACES. 


ALLEN'S    HyBKID. 

Originated  with  J.  Fisk  Allen,  Salem,  Mass.  It  is  a  hybrid  be- 
tween the  native  and  foreign,  and  is  one  of  the  best  in  quality,  and  has 
peculiar  crumpled  leaves.  The  vine  is  not  hardy,  and  requires  winter 
protection,  but  is  vigorous  and  productive,  ripening  quite  early,  and  in 
sheltered  situations  is  a  desirable  variety. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  shouldered,  compact;  berry  medium  to 
large,  round,  sometimes  depressed ;  skin  thin,  white,  changing  to  pale 
yellow  when  fully  ripe ;  flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  with  a  delicate 
slightly  vinous  flavor,  and  one  of  the  best  in  quality. 

Janie  Wylik 

A  new  hybrid  between  Clinton  and  foreign,  raised  by  Dr.  A.  P. 
Wylie,  of  Chester,  S.  C,  who  kindly  sent  us  specimens,  and  writes  that 
the  vine  is  vigorous  and  has  a  pretty  large,  thick,  deep  green  foliage, 
and  so  far  free  from  mildew ;  an  early  and  productive  variety,  hangs 
well  and  late.     It  may  require  protection  at  the  north  during  winter. 

Bunch  large,  shouldered ;  berry  varying  from  medium  to  large, 
roundish  oval ;  some  of  the  larger  ones  are  nearly  globular ;  color  dark 
red,  with  a  thick  grayish  bloom;  flesh  rather  firm  and  meaty,  juicy, 
sweet,  rich,  slightly  vinous,  refreshing;  skin  tliick  yet  tender;  very 
good. 

Kalamazoo. 

Said  to  have  originated  with Dixon,  of  Steuben ville,  O.,  from 

*eed  of  Catawba,  which  it  somewhat  resembles  in  color,  but  the  bunch 
&nd  berry  are  larger,  and  it  ripens  a  week  or  ten  days  earlier,  and  is  a 
showy  grape. 

.  Bunch  large,  long,  often  shouldered,  compact ;  berry  large,  round ; 
skin  rather  light  dull  red,  with  a  lilac  bloom ;  flesh  soft,  but  not  quite 
tender,  and  adheres  a  little  to  the  seeds,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous. 

Peter  Wylie. 

This  fine  new  early  grape  was  raised  by  Dr.  A.  P.  Wylie,  of  Ches- 
ter, S.  C,  from  a  seedling  of  a  hybrid.  The  Doctor  informs  us  when 
sending  the  specimens  of  fruit  that  the  vine  is  ono  of  the  most  rapid 
growers,  free  from  mildew  and  rot,  entirely  native  in  its  appearance ; 
wood  short  jointed;  leaves  not  large,  but  thick  and  leathery,  hold  well 
and  late,  and  the  fruit  one  of  the  first  to  ripen. 


120  PEACHES. 

Bunch  medium ;  berry  medium  to  small,  round,  transparent,  yellow , 
with  a  rather  thick  whitish  bloom ;  flesh  soft,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  slightly 
vinous,  with  a  Frontignan  flavor ;  skin  thin  but  tough ;  very  good  01 
best 

Senasqua. 

This  new  grape  was  raised  by  Stephen  Underhili,  of  Croton  Point, 
.N.  Y.,  and  is  a  hybrid  between  Concord  and  Black  Prince.  The  vine 
is  vigorous  and  hardy,  and  the  fruit  similar  to  Black  Prince,  and  of 
fine  quality ;  but  in  consequence  of  its  thin  skin  and  compactness  of 
bunch  the  fruit  is  sometimes  apt  to  crack,  especially  in  wet  weather. 

Bunch  large,  often  shouldered,  very  compact ;  berry  large,  round ; 
»kir>  deep  black,  with  a  thick  blue  bloom ;  flesh  quite  firm,  but  tender, 
breaking,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  slightly  vinous;  ripens  about  the  time  of 
Concord,  or  soon  after. 


PEACHES. 


Atlanta. 


Raised  by  Dr.  E.  W.  Sylvester,  Lyons,  N.  Y.  Tree  vigorous,  pro- 
ductive ;  reniform  glands. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  compressed,  regular,  suture  large, 
distinct,  extending  nearly  round  the  fruit ;  cavity  quite  deep ;  skin  whi- 
tish, shaded,  and  mottled  with  deep  red,  almost  purplish  in  the  sun ; 
flesh  white,  a  little  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  adheres 
partially  to  the  stone.     Ripe  last  of  September. 

Black's  Extra  Early  Peach. 

An  accidental  seedling  found  on  the  farm  of  Dr.  J.  Stayman,  Leav- 
enworth, Kansas.     Tree  a  good  grower,  hardy,  and  productive. 

Fruit  large,  round  with  a  slight  point,  suture  distinct,  shallow  all 
around ;  color  clear  rose  pink,  shaded  maroon,  and  slightly  mottled  with 
light  yellow,  very  handsome ;  flesh  stained  red  to  the  seed,  to  which  it 
slightly  adheres;  juicy,  tender,  with  rich  subacid  ;  excellent. 

This  is  the  earliest  peach  we  are  acquainted  with,  ripening  this  sea- 
son (1871)  before  the  4th  of  July,  being  ten  days  before  Hale's  Early  > 
and  it  is  of  larger  size  and  better  quality. — Nomologist  and  Gardener. 

Early  Rivers. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth,  England.  It  ripens  a 
few  days  earlier  than  the  Albert  or  Alfred,  and  quite  equal  to  them  in 
flavor.  The  tree  is  thrifty,  healthy,  and  productive ;  glands  reniform, 
flowers  large. 


PEACHES.  121 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  slightly  compressed,  suturi  slight, 
ending  at  the  apex,  which  is  a  little  sunk,  and  has  a  very  small  nipple ; 
skin  creamy  white,  shaded  with  light  red  in  the  sun,  cavity  deep ;  flesh 
white  to  the  stone;  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  refreshing,  slightly  vi- 
nous ;  very  good ;  separates  freely  from  the  stone.  Ripe  middle  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Foster. 

Originated  with  J.  T.  Foster,  Medford,  Mass.  Tree  said  to  be 
hardy,  vigorous,  and  productive ;  a  good  market  variety. 

Fruit  large,  slightly  flattened,  with  a  slight  suture,  stem  moderately 
depressed ;  flesh  yellow,  very  rich  and  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  subacid 
flavor ;  freestone  of  medium  size ;  color  a  deep  orange  red,  becoming 
very  dark  red  on  the  exposed  side.  Ripe  from  the  middle  to  the  last 
of  September. — Jour,  of  Sort 

Free  Mason. 

This  new  late  peach  originated  with  Nathan  Todd,  Denton,  Caroline 
County,  Md.  Tree  a  vigorous  grower,  rather  spreading ;  leaves  serrated, 
without  glands  ;  flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  inclining  to  oblong,  a  little  compressed,  su- 
ture slight,  apex  small ;  skin  white,  shaded  with  red  where  exposed 
to  the  sim ;  flesh  white,  deep  red  at  the  stone,  juicy  and  good.  Ripens 
just  after  the  Smock. — Hearth  and  Home. 

Laporte. 

Raised  by  M.  Laporte  at  Ecully,  near  Lyons,  France.  Tree  mode- 
rate vigorous,  productive,  a  curious  resemblance  to  the  blood  peach. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  a  little  oval,  tapering  to  the  apex ;  suture 
large,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  little  swollen;  skin 
yellow,  covered  and  washed  and  strongly  striped  and  splashed  with 
dark  red ;  flesh  white,  reddish,  or  rose  tint,  but  darker  towards  the  pit, 
fine,  juicy,  sugary,  melting,  delicate  and  agreeable;  very  good. —  The 
Verger. 

Mountain  Rose. 

This  new  peach  is  said  to  have  originated  in  Morris  County,  N.  J . 
Tree  vigorous  and  very  productive.  It  ripens  about  the  same  time  as 
Laige  Early  York,  is  more  highly  colored,  but  not  cpiite  as  rich.  Glands 
globose.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  compressed ;  suture  distinct,  extend- 
ing a  little  beyond  the  apex ;  skin  whitish,  nearly  covered  with  light 
and  dark  rich  red ;  flesh  white,  slightly  stained  at  the  stone,  juicy, 
sweet,  slightly  vinous  ;  very  good  ;  separates  freely  from  the  stone. 

Parks'  Cling. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  grounds  of  A.  L.  Parks,  Alton,  111.  Tree 
vigorous,  productive,  leaves  with  globose  glands,  ripens  eight  or  ter 
days  later  than  Heath  Cling. 


122  PEARS. 

Fruit  ven  large,  broader  than  deep ;  suture  deep,  extei  ding  quite 
around  the  fruit ;  skin  slightly  downy,  light  creamy  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  red ;  flesh  also  of  a  light  creamy  color,  stained  with  red, 
but  deeper  red  at  the  stone,  very  juicy,  but  not  of  the  highest  flavor; 
adheres  to  the  stone. — Prairie  Farmer. 


Richmond. 

Raised  by  Dr.  E.  W.  Sylvester,  Lyons,  N.  Y.,  who  writes  that  the 
tree  is  vigorous  and  very  productive,  and  ripens  a  few  days  later  than 
Crawford's  Early,  is  less  acid,  and  a  promising  market  variety.  Glands 
reniform. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  slightly  compressed ;  suture  slight 
but  distinct,  ending  at  the  apex,  which  is  a  little  swollen ;  skin  fine 
yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  dark  rich  red ;  flesh  yellow,  a  little 
red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous ;  very  good ;  separates 
from  the  stone,  which  is  of  medium  size.     Ripe  last  of  September. 

Salway. 

Originated  with  Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridge worth,  England.  Tree 
vigorous,  very  productive,  ripens  soon  after  the  Smock.  Flowers  small. 
Glands  reniform. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate ;  suture  broad,  deep,  extending  beyond 
the  apex ;  skin  downy,  creamy  yellow,  with  a  warm,  rich,  clear  crimson 
red  cheek  in  the  sun ;  flesh  deep  yellow,  stained  with  red  at  the  stone, 
which  is  free,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  sweet,  slightly  vinous;  very  good. 
— H.  JV.  Yorker. 

Southwick's  Late. 

An  accidental  seedling  on  the  grounds  of  T.  T.  South  wick,  Dansville. 
N.  Y.,  and  is  said  by  those  who  have  it  to  be  very  juicy  and  rich. 
Tree  vigorous  and  productive.     Flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  a  little  depressed  at  the  summit;  suture  quite 
distinct,  mainelon  small,  sunken  nearly  to  a  level  with  the  parts  around  ; 
skin  yellowish  white,  sprinkled  with  minute  red  dots  in  the  shade,  and 
streaked  and  clouded  with  red  towards  the  sun ;  flesh  white,  parting 
freely  from  the  stone,  very  juicy,  melting,  with  a  fine  delicate  flavor; 
stone  very  small.     Last  of  September. — Jour,  of  Ilort. 


PEAE8. 

Beurre  Lade. 


Originated  by  M.  Gregoire-Nelis,  of  Jodoigne,  Belgium,  and  dedi- 
cated to  M.  le  Consul  Lade.  Tree  vigorous,  an  abundant  bearer,  and 
fruit  holds  well  to  the  tree. 


PEARS.  123 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  fine  yellow,  shaded 
with  carmine  in  the  sun ;  stalk  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  slight  depres 
Bion;  calyx  and  basin  rather  small,  surrounded  somewhat  by  pointea 
knobs;  flesh  white,  almost  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sugary,  with  a  delicate 
aroma.     October,  November. — Revue  Horticole. 


Bonne  du  Puits  Ansault. 

Originated  at  Angers,  France,  in  the  nursery  of  Andre  Leroy ;  foi 
specimens  of  this  and  several  other  new  varieties,  we  are  indebted  to 
Messrs.  Ellwanger  &  Barry,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Tree  moderately  vigor- 
ous, very  productive. 


Bonne  du  Polta  Ansault. 


Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  obtuse  pni 
form,  surface  a  little  rough,  uneven  ;  skin  light  greenish  yellow,  mostly 
covered  with  a  thin  light  russet ;  stalk  short ;  cavity  medium,  uneven ; 
calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  deep,  rather  narrow;  flesh  white,  fine,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  vinous,  and  rich  ;  very  good.     September. 


Brockworth. 

A  new  English  variety  raised  by  Mr.  Lawrence,  Brcckworth  Park 
and  the  English  journals  say  it  is  of  excellent  quality. 

Fruit  large,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform;  skin  smooth  pale  yellow, 
■lightly  flushed  anl  streaked  with  red  on  the  exposed   side;  stalk    an 


124  PEAK*. 

inch  long,  rather  stout,  obliquely  inserted  without  any   depression 

calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  shallow  ;  flesh  white,  buttery,  melting,  very 
iuicy,  vinous,  and  rich. — Lon.  Jour,  of  Sort. 

Bronze  d'Enghiem. 

Originated  by  M.  Paternoster,  in  the  province  of  Hainaut,  Belgium. 
Tree  moderately  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  ovate  pyriform,  regular ;  skin  rough,  deep  yel- 
low, nearly  covered  with  brown  russet  and  slightly  bronzed  in  the  sun ; 
stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  cavity  shallow ;  basin  small,  uneven ;  flesh 
yellowish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  vinous,  slightly  astringent; 
good.     November,  January. 

COLMAR    DELAHAUT. 

Raised  by  M.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne,  Belgium.  Tree  vigorous, 
spreading,  moderately  productive ;  young  shoots  olive  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  acute  pyriform ;  skin  pale  yellow,  partially 
netted  and  patched  with  russet  and  many  russet  dots ;  stalk  long, 
curved,  slender,  joined  to  the  fruit  without  depression ;  calyx  half 
closed ;  basin  small,  uneven,  russeted ;  flesh  white,  juicy,  half  melting, 
sweet;  good.     November,  December. 

Delpierre. 
Beurre  Delpierre. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  M.  Delpierre,  of  Jodoigne,  Bel- 
gium. Tree  very  vigorous,  very  productive  ;  young  shoots  dark  olive 
brown. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriforni;  skin  pale  yellow,  partially 
blotched  and  netted  with  russet  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  russet 
dots ;  stalk  rather  long,  generally  curved ;  cavity  medium ;  calyx 
closed;  basin  medium,  nearly  smooth  ;  flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  juicy, 
melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous ;  good  to  very  good.     September. 

Doctor  Koch. 

Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angeus,  France.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform  ;  skin  pale  yellow,  a  shade  of  red 
when  fully  exposed,  a  few  traces  of  russet  and  many  small  russet  dots  ; 
stalk  long,  rather  slender,  curved ;  cavity  shallow;  calyx  half  closed; 
basin  rather  small,  uneven;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, slightly  vinous ;  good.      October. 

DUC    DE    MORNY. 

A  seedling  of  M.  Boisbunel,  Rouen,  France.  Tree  vigorous,  pr> 
ductive ;  young  shoots  dark  olive  brown,  many  grayish  specks. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse ;  skin  pale  yellow, 
sometimes  a  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  a  few  traces  of  russet,  and  many 


PEARS.  125 

small  russet  dots;  stalk  of  medium  length,  inclined,  curved,  cavity 
very  small ;  calyx  open ;  basin  medium,  a  little  uneven ;  flesh  yellowish  j 
half  fine,  juicy,  half  melting,  vinous ;  good.     November,  December. 


Delpierra 
DUCHESSE    DE    MOUCHT. 

A  chance  seedling  discovered  by  Florentin  Delavier,  of  Beauvaise, 
in  a  garden  at  Breteuil,  France.  Tree  vigorous,  upright,  moderately 
productive. 

Fruit  medium  roundish,  inclining  to  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  deep 
yellow,  shaded  with  light  orange  red  in  the  sun,  slight  nettings  of  russet 
and  small  russet  dots ;  stalk  rather  short,  stout ;  cavity  small ;  calyx 
half  open;  basin  medium,  a  little  uneven;  tlesh  white,  half  fine,  half 
melting,  moderately  juicy,  sweet;  good.     April,  May. 

Duciiesse  Pr6coce. 

Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree 
Btroug  and  vigorous,  moderately  productive. 


126  PEAKS. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  long  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse  ;  skin  pale 
yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  pale  red  where  exposed  to  the  sun, 
and  covered  with  many  small  russet  dots ;  stalk  of  medium  length, 
rather  stout,  inclined,  inserted  in  a  slight  depression,  sometimes  small 
cavity ;  calyx  large,  open ;  basin  shallow,  uneven ;  flesh  whitish,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  and  a  little 
astringent ;  good.     Ripe  first  of  September. 


Eastern  Belle. 

Raised  by  Henry  McLaughlin,  Bangor,  Me.,  from  whom  we  received 
specimens,  which  were  of  excellent  quality.  Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  and 
a  regular  bearer ;  young  shoots  yellow  brown. 


Eartern  Belle. 


Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriforni,  somewhat  obtuse  ;  skin  pale  yellow, 
often  shaded  with  light  red  in  the  sun,  a  few  nettings  and  patches  of 
russet,  and  many  russet  dots  ;  stalk  short,  stout,  inclined,  and  sometimes 
fleshy  at  its  insertion  in  a  slight  depression,  much  russeted;  calyx 
open;  basin  medium,  nearly  smooth,  slight  russet;  flesh  whitish  yellow, 
a  little  coarse  at  the  core,  juicy,  half  melting,  very  sweet,  rich,  slightly 
aromatic,  and  a  peculiar  slight  musky  perfume  ;  very  good.     September, 


127 


Egerie. 


A  chance  seedling  in  the  grounds  of  M.  Tavenier  de  Boullongue  at 
Angers,  France.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  rather  upright,  a  good 
hearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyiiform,  slightly  obtuse;  skin  pale  yellow, 
partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots ;  stalk 
rather  long,  slightly  cuiwed ;  cavity  small;  calyx  open;  basin  medium, 
regular,  russet;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet, 
slightly  vinous ;  good  to  very  good.     October. 

Eliot's  Early. 

A  new  early  pear,  raised  by  Charles  Eliot,  of  Windsor,  Ontario. 
Specimens  received  from  James  Dougall,  who  writes  that  the  tree  ia 
very  hardy,  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  an  early  bearer,  very  productive, 
and  ripens  a  week  or  more  before  the  Madeline. 

Fruit  small  pyriform,  regular  ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  brownish 
red  when  exposed  to  the  sun  ;  stalk  long,  slender,  curved  ;  cavity  small, 
russeted  ;  calyx  closed  or  partially  open  ;  basin  small,  slightly  plaited  ; 
flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slight  perfume ;  good  to 
very  good.     July. 

Indian  Queen. 

Raised  by  Henry  McLaughlin,  Bangor,  Me.,  who  writes  that  the 
tree  is  perfectly  hardy,  a  vigoi-ous  grower,  productive,  and  a  good  mar- 
ket variety,  although  not  of  the  best  quality. 

Fruit  rather  large,  long  pyriform,  somewhat  acute,  surface  a  little 
uneven ;  skin  pale  yellow,  often  shaded  with  light  red  where  exposed  to 
the  sun,  slight  nettings  of  russet,  and  many  russet  and  brown  dots ; 
stalk  of  medium  length,  rather  stout,  set  in  a  slight  depression ;  calyx 
open ;  basin  medium,  uneven ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  a  little  coarse, 
moderately  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  but  not  rich.     September. 

Jacques  Chamaret. 

A  seedling  of  the  late  Leon  Leclerc,  at  Laval,  France.  Tree  strong, 
vigorous,  erect,  moderately  productive ;  young  shoots  Light  redclif1 
brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  acute  pyriform  ;  skin  pale  yel- 
low, sometimes  thinly  shaded  and  marbled  with  light  red  in  the  sun  ; 
stalk  rather  long,  curved,  a  little  swollen  at  its  insertion,  sometimes  by 
a  lip;  calyx  open;  basin  shallow,  uneven;  flesh  whitish,  fine,- juicy, 
half  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous  ;  good  to  very  good.     October. 

Josephine  de  Binche. 

Raised  at  Binche,  Belgium,  from  seed  of  Josephine  de  Malines 
Tree  very  vigorous  and  very  productive,  branches  smooth,  of  a  yellow- 
ish brown,  with  grayish  dots. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  smooth,  clear  yellow. 
netted  with  brown  and  russet ;  stalk  of  medium  length,  small,  inserted 


128  PEARS. 

in  a  moderate  cavity ;  eye  large,  deeply  sunk ;  flesh  half  fine,  half  iaelt 
ing,  very  juicy,  sugary,  of  an  exquisite  perfumed  flavor.  October,  De 
cember. — IUils.  Horticole. 


LORIOL    DE    BARNY. 

Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree 
vigorous,  upright,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oblong  pyriform,  slightly  obtuse ;  skin  pale 
yellow,  a  few  nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  and  numerous  russet  dots , 
stalk  of  mediiun  length ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  medium, 
slightly  corrugated;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  pleas- 
ant; good  to  very  good.     September. 


Louis  Vilmorin. 

Originated   with   Andre  Leroy,   Angers,   France.     Tree   vigorous, 
rather  spreading,  very  productive. 


Louis  Vilmorin. 


Fruit  medium,  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse ;  skin  deep  yellow,  consider- 
ably netted  with  russet,  many  russet  dots,  and  sometimes  a  shade  of  red 
wnere  exposed ;  stalk  short,  curved  ;  cavity  small,  sometimes  broad  and 


PEA1 


129 


shallow  ;  calyx  large,  open ;  basin  medium,  uneven,  russet ;  flesh  white, 
half  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  perfumed ;  good  to  very  good. 
December 

Madame  Andre  Leroy. 

Raised  by  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree  moderately  vigo 
rous,  but  healthy,  with  long  shoots,  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong  pyriform,  somewhat  obtuse,  inclined  or 
sides  unequal ;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  sometimes  a  shade  of  red  in 
the  sun,  and  many  brown  dots  ;  stalk  rather  long,  set  at  an  inclination 
in  a  small  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  Up  ;  calyx  closed  or  half  open ;  basin 
medium,  uneven ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting, 
vinous,  a  little  astringent ;  good  to  very  good.  Last  of  September  and 
first  of  October. 

Madame  Cuissard. 

A  seedling  of  M.  Cuissard,  of  Ecully,  near  Lyons,  France.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow, 
with  many  green  and  brown  dots ;  stalk  rather  long,  curved ;  cavity 
small ;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so  ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated  ; 
flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  very  slight  acid  or 
vinous  ;  good.     Last  of  August  and  first  of  September. 

Madame  Favre. 

A  chance  seedling  discovered  by  M.  Favre,  of  Chalons,  France. 
Tree  very  strong,  upright,  pyramid,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obovate,  a  little  obtuse ;  skin  pale  greenish 
yellow,  with  numerous  traces  and  splashes  of  russet ;  stalk  rather  long, 
quite  strong,  set  in  a  slight  depression  ;  calyx  large,  open ;  basin  quite 
deep,  and  rather  abrupt;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  and 
of  a  delicate  flavor.     October,  November. — Illustrated  Monthly. 

Madame  Loriol  de  Barny. 

Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree 
vigorous,  upright,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse  ;  skin  greenish  yel- 
low at  first,  changing  to  a  deep  yellow,  slightly  bronzed,  sometimes  a 
shade  of  red  in  the  sun ;  stalk  short ;  cavity  small,  or  slight  depression; 
calyx  closed,  or  nearly  so  ;  basin  rather  shallow,  a  little  uneven  ;  flesh 
yellowish,  a  little  coarse,  meltiug,  juicy,  slightly  vinous  ;  good  to  very 
good.     October,  November. 

Mannington 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  James  M.  Hannah,  of  Salem,  Manning 
ton  Township,  N.  J.,  who  writes  that  the  tree  is  rather  %  slow  grower, 
forming  a  compact  symmetric  head ;   branches   strong,   short   jointed  ; 


1 30  PEAKS. 

ripens  two  or  three  weeks  later  than  Seckel,  of  the  best  quality,  and 

keeping  remarkably  well. 

Fruit  rather  small,  ovate  acute  pyriform ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow, 
a  shade  of  brownish  red  in  the  sun,  slight  nettings  of  russet  and  many 
russet  dots ;  stalk  short,  slightly  curved,  joined  to  the  fruit  without 
depression  ;  calyx  open;  basin  shallow,  uneven  ;  flesh  white,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, sugary,  rich,  aromatic ;  very  good  or  best.     September,  October. 


Madame  Loriol  de  Barny. 
MARfiCHAL   YAILLANT. 

Originated  with  M.  Boisbunel,  of  Rouen,  France.  Tree  vigorous, 
upright,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,  broad  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  greenish  yellow,  a  few 
nettings  of  russet  and  many  russet  and  brown  dots  ;  stalk  rather  short, 
moderately  stout,  curved  ;  cavity  broad,  not  very  deep ;  calyx  open ; 
basin  large,  deep,  uneven;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  melting,  sweet, 
slightly  vinous  ;  very  good.     November,  December. 

Maurice  Desportes. 

Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tre« 
▼igorous,  moderately  productive ;  young  shoots  yellow  brown. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  long  acute  pyriforni ;  surface  somewhat  un- 


PEABS.  131 

even ;  skin  pale  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  thin  light  russet,  often  a 
shade  of  red  in  the  sun ;  stalk  long,  rather  slender,  curved,  joined  to 
the  fruit  acutely  without  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  ring  or  lip ;  calyx 
open ;  basin  medium,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  melt- 
ing, sweet,  slightly  perfumed ;  very  good.     September,  October. 


]far6chal  Vafllant. 


Petite  Marguerite. 


Originated  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  very  productive ;  young  shoots  olive  brown. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  oblate  obtuse  pyriform,  surface  slightly 
uneven ;  skin  greenish  yellow,  or  pale  yellow  when  mature,  shaded  with 
brownish  red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  many  greenish  dots ;  stalk  long, 
slightly  curved,  set  in  a  narrow,  rather  deep  cavity ;  calyx  half  open ; 
basin  quite  large,  shghtly  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  half  fine,  buttery, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slight  perfume  flavor ;  very  good.  Ripens  last  of 
August. 


132 


PEARS. 

Premices  d'Ecully. 


Originated  with  M.  Luizet,  at  Ecully,  near  Lyons,  France.  Tr©« 
moderately  vigorous,  very  productive. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  pale  yellow,  a 
few  nettings  of  russet,  and  many  russet  dots ;  stalk  of  medium  length, 
a  little  inclined ;  cavity  broad,  shallow ;  calyx  closed  or  half  open ; 
basin  rather  shallow,  russet ;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  half 
melting,  sweet,  slightly  aromatic ;  good.     September. 


Maurice  Desportea, 


Professor  Hortoles. 


Tree 


This  new  pear  originated  with  M.  Morel,  at  Lyons,  France, 
very  strong  and  vigorous,  and  a  very  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  pyriform,  slight 
ly  obtuse ;  skin  dee])  yellow,  slight  nettings  of  russet,  and  many  large 
dark  brownish  red  dots,  and  often  brownish  red  in  the  sun ;  stalk  short, 
stout;  cavity  medium;  calyx  large,  open;  basin  rather  wide,  quite 
deep ;  flesh  tine,  juicy,  melting,  sugary,  vinous,  and  of  the  highest  qual 
ity.      September,  October.-  -Illustrated  Montldy. 


PEARS. 


133 


Petite  Marguerite. 


Rogers. 


Dean. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  the  late  Capt.  Rogers,  of  Boston, 
Mass.,  and  introduced  by  A.  J.  Dean,  of  the  same  place.  Tree  vigor- 
ous, somewhat  spreading,  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  ovate  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  yellowish  green, 
sometimes  a  shade  of  dull  red  in  the  sun,  and  many  green  and  russet 
dots ;  stalk  long,  curved,  inserted  in  a  slight  depression  or  small  cavity ; 
calyx  half  open ;  basin  rather  small,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  whitish 
yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  and 
slightly  aromatic ;  good  to  very  good.     September. 


Saint  Germain  Van  Mons. 

Origin  Belgium,  one  of  Van  Mons'  seedlings.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  nearly  so,  roundish  obovate  pyriform ;  skin  light 
greenish  yellow,  many  brown  dots ;  stalk  long,  curved ;  cavity  very 
small  ;  calyx  open ;  basin  small,  russet ;  flesh  whitish,  buttery,  melting, 
juicy,  sweet ;  good.     October. 


134 


PEARS. 

Sam  Brown. 


Originated  with  Samuel  Brown,  Jr.,  at  Walnut  Hills,  MA  Trea 
a  free  grower,  an  early  and  regular  bearer. 

Fruit  nearly  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  a  little  uneven; 
■kin  pale  yellow,  partially  covered  with  thin  russet,  sometimes  a  little 


Rogers. 

brownish  in  the  sun ;  stalk  short,  rather  stout,  inserted  in  a  large 
cavity ;  calyx  open  or  partially  closed ;  basin  large,  deep ;  flesh  white,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  and  rich  ;  very  good.     September. 


Souvenir  Favre. 

A  variety  raised  by  M  Favre,  of  Chalons,  France.  Tree  vigorous, 
moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  obovate  pyriform ;  skin  greenish  yellow,  sometimes 
a  shade  of  red  in  the  sun,  many  brown  and  green  dots ;  s^alk  short, 
inserted  at  an  inclination  in  a  slight  depression  by  a  lip  ;   calyx  open ; 


PEAKS. 


135 


basin  small  or  medium,  uneven,  slightly  russeted ;  flesh  whitish)  half 
fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  perfumed;  good  to  very  good 
October. 


Bam  Bxown. 


Tberese  Appert. 


136  quince kaspbkkk*. 

Therese  Appert. 

A  new  variety  raised  by  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree 
utrong,  vigorous,  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  rather  long  pyriform  to  roundish  obovate  pyriform, 
a  little  obtuse ;  skin  deep  yellow,  partially  netted,  dotted,  and  patched 
with  russet,  sometimes  a  shade  of  rich  brownish  red  in  the  sun;  stalk 
short,  a  little  inclined  ;  cavity  small,  often  without ;  calyx  open ;  basin 
rather  shallow,  smooth ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  slightly  vinous  ;  very  good.     September. 


QUIlSrCE. 

Sweet  Quince. 

Origin  said  to  be  Chainbersburg,  Pa.,  many  years  since.  Tree  a 
good  grower  and  an  abundant  bearer.  The  fruit  is  less  acid  than  other 
kinds,  keeps  late,  and  cooks  tender. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  angular  or  somewhat 
ribbed;  skin  deep  yellow;  stalk  short,  set  on  a  swollen  projection  in  a 
broad,  shallow  depression  ;  calyx  open,  with  long,  broad  segments  ;  basin 
large,  deep,  corrugated ;  flesh  Arm,  deep  yellow,  with  the  same  juice  and 
acid  astringency  of  the  apple-quince,  but  much  less  of  it. 


EA8PBEREY. 

Herstine. 

This  new  raspberry  originated  with  D.  "W.  Herstine,  Branchtown, 
Fa.  The  plant  is  said  to  be  hardy,  is  very  vigorous,  and  very  produc- 
tive, and  is  a  promising  market  variety,  except  for  carrying  long  dis- 
tances I  fear  it  will  not  be  quite  firm  enough ;  canes  strong,  erect ; 
spines  short,  strong,  scattering,  greenish  white,  slightly  purple. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  bright  scarlet ;  flesh  moderately 
6rm,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  separates  freely  from  the  core. 

Narraganset. 

A  new  variety  raised  by  John  F.  Jolls,  of  Providence,  R.  1.,  which 
is  said  to  be  very  large,  very  productive,  and  a  promising  variety  for 
market,  being  large  and  keeping  in  good  condition  for  a  long  time ;  the 
berry  is  scarlet,  of  a  conical  form  and  fine  flavor.  We  have  not  seen 
the  fruit. 


RABPBBKBY.  137 

Ontakio. 

A  variety  cf  the  Black  Cap  found  on  the  grounds  of  E.  E.  Lord, 
Fairport,  N.  Y.  Plant  hardy,  vigorous,  and  very  productive,  and,  being 
firm,  it  will  bear  carriage  to  a  distant  market.  The  fruit  is  quite  large 
of  its  class,  deep  black,  -with  a  very  thick  bluish  bloom,  juicy,  sweet, 
and  very  good. 

SUSQUECO. 
Brandywine. 

Of  unknown  origin,  but  said  to  be  a  good  market  sort  for  Delaware 
and  Maryland. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  bright  red ;  flesh  quite  firm, 
moderately  juicy,  sprightly  subacid. 


SECOND  APPENDIX 


TO 


SECOND  REVISED  EDITION 


PEACHES,  PEARS,  Ac 


PEACHES. 


141 


PEACHES. 


Alexander's  Early. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  farm  of  0.  A.  Alexander,  near  Mount  Pulaski, 
Illinois.  This  new  peach  ripened  here  last  season,  towards  the  last  of 
July,  two  weeks  before  Hale's  Early ;  tree  vigorous,  productive ;  the 
fruit  showy,  of  good  flavor,  and  promises  to  be  an  acquisition  as  an  early 
market  variety  and  for  home  use ;  leaves  with  globose  glands ;  flowers 
large. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular,  slightly  depressed ;  suture  shallow, 
ending  at  the  apex,  which  is  slightly  sunk  ;  skin  greenish  white,  nearly 
covered  with  deep  rich  red,  almost  purplish  in  the  sun ;  flesh  whitish, 
with  a  tinge  of  green,  sometimes  a  little  stained  next  the  skin ;  a  little 
firm,  or  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  white  at  the  stone,  to 
which  it  adheres  slightly,  and  which  is  small. 


Amsden's   June. 

A  chance  seedling  on  the  grounds  of  L.  C.  Amsden,  near  Carthago, 
Missouri ;  tree  vigorous,  productive,  and  it  is  said  to  ripen  two  or  three 
weeks  earlier  than  Hale's  Early,  but  not  having  fruited  it  here,  cannot 
eay  as  to  time.  Fruit  received  July  13  from  the  originator,  where  the 
season  is  earlier  ;  leaves  with  globose  glands ;  flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  slightly  depressed  ;  suture  rather  broad, 
shallow,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  slightly  sunk  ;  skin 
greenish  white,  nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark  red,  almost  purplish 
in  the  sun,  and  somewhat  mottled  in  the  shade ;  flesh  greenish  white, 
while  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  slightly  adheres,  and  which  is  small ;  flesh 
half  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous  and  very  good. 

Cook's    Late  White. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  an  unknown  person  in  Philadel- 
phia, but  was  introduced  by  Joseph  Cook  of  Salem,  New  Jersey  ;  it  is 
a  large  peach,  highly  esteemed  and  popular,  where  known,  for  market 
and  family  use ;  tree  vigorous,  an  abundant  bearer ;  flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  a  little  inclining  to  oblong ;  skin  pale  whitish 
yellow,  a  shade  of  pale  red  where  exposed  ;  suture  small,  extending  a 
little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  point ;  flesh  white,  a  little  stained 
with  red  next  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich  and  delicious  ;  free 
stone.     Pipe  last  of  September. 


142  PEACHES. 

Early  Ascot. 

Raised  a  few  years  since  by  Mr.  Standish,  of  the  Royal  Ascot 
Nursery,  England,  and  is  considered  a  choice  peach ;  leaves  with  small 
roundish  reniform  glands  ;  flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  somewhat  depressed  ;  suture  shallow  ;  skin 
flushed  with  bright  red  on  nearly  all  parts,  suffused  on  the  shady  with 
crimson  and  on  the  exposed  side  with  deeper  blood  red  ;  flesh  slight  red 
at  the  stone,  from  which  it  parts  freely,  pale  greenish  straw  color,  with 
abundant  juice,  and  an  excellent  flavor.  Ripe  first  of  September. 
(Florist  cmd  Nomologist.) 

Fetters. 

A  new  variety,  raised  by  John  Fetters,  near  Lancaster,  Ohio ;  tree 
vigorous,  a  good  aud  regular  bearer  and  fine  quality  ;  glands  globose  ; 
flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong  ;  suture  distinct 
but  not  deep,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  point ; 
skin  creamy  white,  with  a  slight  blush  where  exposed ;  flesh  white,  a 
slight  tinge  of  red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich  and  excellent ; 
freestone.     Ripens  the  first  of  September. 

High's   Early  Canada. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Abraham  High,  Jordan,  Ontario,  who  claims 
that  it  is  as  early  or  a  few  days  earlier  than  Early  Beatrice,  larger  and 
better  quality  :  and  the  fruit  he  sent  me  was  very  similar  in  size,  form, 
color  and  quality  to  Alexander's  Early,  Amsden's  June  and  Honeywell, 
and  I  am  inclined  to  think  they  are  all  seedlings,  varying  slightly,  of 
one  kind — probably  Hale's  Early. 


Hill's  Chili  Peach. 

Synonyms  : 

Cass Seagrove. 

Climax Seagrove's  Smolk. 

Connecticut Stanley's  Late. 

Jenny  Lind Smolk. 

Leopold Sugar. 

Madison Wilcox. 

Queen  of  Sheba 

It  is  now  pretty  well  ascertained  that  this  peach  originated  on  the 
farm  of  Deacon  Pitinann  Wilcox,  of  Riga,  Monroe  County,  N.  Y.,  more 
than  sixty  years  since,  and  is  still  healthy  and  bearing  fruit ;  it  was 
first  called  Connecticut  Peach.  The  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  very  pro- 
ductive, and  is  considered  a  valuable  market  variety.  It  is  also  said 
to  reproduce  itself  from  seed,  and  the  many  names  by  which  it  is  called 
in  different  localities  is  no  doubt  the  result  of  its  reproduction. 


TEACHES.  143 

Fruit  medium  oval ;  suture  slight,  ending  a  little  beyond  the  apex, 
which  is  a  small  point ;  skin  deep  yellow,  shaded  with  dark  red,  often 
dark  spots  or  blotches  of  brownish  red  where  exposed ;  flesh  deep  yel- 
low, red  at  the  stone,  moderately  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  vinous; 
separates  freely  from  the  stone,  which  is  rather  small ;  ripens  the  last  oi 
September  and  first  of  October. 

Honeywell. 

A  new  variety,  raised  by  John  Honeywell,  Randolph,  Ohio ;  a  hand- 
some early  peach,  ripening  a  week  or  two  before  Hale's  Early,  and 
growing  here  last  season  side  by  side  with  Alexander's  Early  was  two 
or  three  days  earlier  ;  tree  is  vigorous  and  productive,  and  promises  to 
be  valuable  ;  leaves  without  glands,  flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular,  a  little  flattened  ;  suture  slight,  rather 
shallow,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  small ;  skin  green- 
ish white,  nearly  covered  with  light  and  dark  rich  red ;  reddish  purple 
where  fully  exposed ;  flesh  whitish,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  slightly 
vinous  and  very  good ;  adheres  slightly  to  the  stone,  which  is  small  and 
not  stained. 

Mrs.  Brett. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  Mrs.  Maria  Brett,  Newburgh, 
N.  Y. ;  tree  vigorous,  productive ;  glands  reniform  ;  flowers  small ; 
glands  globose. 

Frxut  medium,  roundish  ;  suture  broad  and  shallow,  extending  a  little 
beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  swollen  point ;  skin  whitish,  shaded 
with  dark  rich  red  where  fully  exposed ;  flesh  white,  red  at  the  stone ; 
juicy,  melting,  sweet  and  rich ;  free  stone. 


Muscogee. 

A  variety  of  the  Columbia,  raised  by  J.  C.  Cook,  Columbia,  Georgia ; 
the  tree  much  resembles  the  Columbia  in  all  its  parts  ;  flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  depressed;  suture  rather  broad  and 
distinct,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  point ; 
skin  downy,  dull  yellow,  more  or  less  striped,  splashed  or  mottled  with 
dull  or  brownisli  red  ;  the  splashes  vary  in  form  and  size ;  flesh  whitish, 
a  little  coarse,  sometimes  a  little  stained  and  veined  with  red  ;  juicy, 
sweet,  slightly  vinous;  free  stone,  which  is  nearly  round  and  of  medium 
size.  Ripens  at  the  South  the  first  of  August,  and  a  month  later  at 
the  No^h. 

Nix's  Late  White. 

Origin  said  to  be  Newtown  County,  Georgia ;  tree  vigorous,  produc- 
tive, and  ripens  a  week  or  two  later  than  Heathcling ;  leaves  with  reni- 
form glands  ;   flowers  large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong ;  suture  medium,  extending 


144  PEACHES. 

to  the  apex,  which  is  slightly  sunk  ;  skin  white,  downy,  a  shade  of  red 
in  the  sun ;  flesh  white  to  the  stone,  to  which  it  adheres ;  rather  firm, 
juicy,  sweet,  vinous  and  rich.     Ripe  middle  and  end  of  October. 


Petit's  Imperial. 
Imperial  Yellow. 

This  was  raised  by  David  Petit,  Salem,  N.  J. ;  it  is  a  large,  hand- 
some late  peach,  one  of  the  richest  of  the  yellow-fleshed  varieties,  and 
continues  in  use  longer  than  most  kinds ;  tree  vigoixms,  a  moderate 
bearer  generally,  but  some  seasons  produces  good  crops ;  flowers  small. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish,  slightly  depressed  ;  suture  shal- 
low, extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  small ;  skin  deep 
orange  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  dark  rich  red ;  flesh  yellow ; 
red  at  the  stone,  juicy,  melting,  rich,  sweet  and  high  flavored;  freestone. 
Ripe  last  of  September. 

Thurber. 

A  new  variety,  raised  from  the  seed  of  Chinese  Cling,  by  Dr.  L.  E. 
Berckmans,  Rome,  Georgia,  and  named  after  his  friend,  Dr.  George 
Thurber  ;  it  is  a  handsome  and  very  promising  variety,  and  as  it  is  said 
to  carry  well,  and  being  of  good  size,  it  will  be  an  acquisition  for  market 
and  general  use ;  tree  very  healthy,  Aigorous  and  symmetric  in  form  ; 
tiowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong ;  suture  slight,  extending 
to  the  apex,  which  is  slightly  sunk  ;  skin  slightly  downy,  creamy  white, 
shaded  and  mottled  with  pale  red  and  carmine  where  fully  exposed  ; 
flesh  white,  a  little  red  at  the  stone,  which  is  free ;  fine  grained,  very 
juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous,  rich  and  delicious.  Ripe  from  middle  t< 
the  end  of  July  in  Georgia. 


FBABS. 


14; 


PEARS 


Calebasse   d'Octobre. 


Of  Belgian  origin ;  tree  vigorous,  upright ;  promises  to  be  an  abun- 
dant bearer. 

Fruit  large,  elongated  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse,  some  specimens  acute, 
when  the  stalk  is  inserted  by  a  lip,  without  cavity  ;  skin  smooth,  pale 
yellow,  a  shade  of  rich  crimson  where  fully  exposed  ;  stalk  long,  in- 
clined, curved;  cavity  small;  calyx  closed;  basin  shallow,  slightly  cor- 
rugated ;  flesh  white,  fine,  jncy,  melting,  with  a  pleasant,  rather  riot 
flavor.     Ripens  in  October. 


Oolonel  Wilder. 


1 4(3  PEARS. 

Colonel   Wilder. 

A.  new  seedliDg  raised  by  B.  S.  Fox,  San  Jose,  California,  and  is  said 
to  be  a  valuable  late  variety. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  obtuse  pyriform  ;  skin  light  ye. low, 
a  shade  of  light  orange  red  in  the  sun,  slight  nettings  of  russet,  and 
numerous  small  russet  and  brown  dots ;  stalk  rather  short ;  cavity 
small  ;  calyx  small,  open,  or  nearly  so  ;  basin  rather  shallow,  slightly 
plaited  ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  a  little  coarse  around  the  core,  juicy, 
melting,  very  sweet,  with  a  peculiar  slight  musky  and  slightly  aromatic 
flavor.     December,  January. 

Courte  Queue  d'Automne. 

Originated  with  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France ;  tree  vigorous,  some- 
what spreading,  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblate  to  roundish  oblate,  slightly  elevated,  surface 
rough,  uneven  and  irregular;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  sometimes  a 
shade  of  pale  red  in  the  sun,  and  many  russet  dots  ;  stalk  short,  stout, 
a  little  inclined  ;  cavity  medium  ;  calyx  closed  ;  basin  broa  i,  corrugated ; 
flesh  whitish,  fine,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  and  a  slight  cinna- 
mon perfume.    Last  of  September  and  first  of  October. 

Doctor  Howe. 

Origin,  in  the  garden  of  Dr.  John  J.  Howe,  Birmingham,  Conn.;  tree 
healthy,  vigorous,  spreading,  with  numerous  branches  of  firm  texture 
and  persistent  foliage  ;  very  productive  ;  a  new  promising  variety  of  its 
season. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  pyriform,  slightly  obtuse  ;  skin 
greenish,  but  becoming  light  yellow  at  maturity ;  slightly  netted  and 
patched  with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots  ;  stalk  medium  ;  cavity  small ; 
calyx  open ;  basin  medium,  a  little  uneven  ;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine, 
juicy,  melting,  with  a  sweet,  rich,  slightly  vinous  flavor.  Ripens  the  last 
half  of  October. 

Doctor  Lindlev. 

Origin  unknown ;  tree  vigorous  ;  an  abundant  bearer  of  handsome, 
high-flavored  fruit. 

Fruit  nearly  medium,  oblate  pyriform,  or  broadly  turbinate  ;  skin  pale 
yellow,  a  shade  of  bright  red  where  exposed,  thinly  netted  and  traced 
with  russet,  and  many  russet  dots  ;  stalk  rather  long,  inclined,  set  in  a 
small  cavity,  sometimes  by  a  lip  ;  calyx  open  ;  basin  medium,  slightly 
plaited  ;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich  and  excellent. 
November. 

Duiiamel  du  Monceau. 

Raised  by  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France,  and  dedicated  to  Duhamei 
du  Monceau  ;  tree  vigorous,  spreading,  and  a  good  bearer. 


PEARS. 


147 


Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform ;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  a  shade  ot 
brown  in  the  sun,  partially  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  sprinkled 
with  many  russet  and  brown  dots ;  stalk  long,  inclined,  set  in  a  slight  d(»- 


Duhamel  dn  Monceau. 


pression,  sometimes  by  a  lip;  calyx  open,  or  half  closed  ;  basin  shallow,  a 
little  uneven;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
slightly  vinous,  and  very  good.     November. 

Elizabeth  Maury. 


A  chance  seedling  on  the  ground  of  Reuben  Maury,  Charlottsville 
Virginia,  and  named  after  his  grand-daughter,  Elizabeth  Maury ;  tree 
vigorous ;  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  small,  oblate,  slightly  elevated  ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow, 
sometimes  a  shade  of  brown  in  the  sun,  and  many  greenish  dots;  stalk 
short  to  medium;  cavity  small;  calyx  small,  open  or  half  open;  basin 
rather  small,  slightly  plaited;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  tender,  juicy, 
luelting,  Bweet,  slightly  vinous.     August. 


MS 


PEARS. 


Frederick  Clapp. 

Clapp's  No.  22. 

This  fine  new  pear  was  raised  by  Lemuel  Clapp,  (brother  of  the  late 
Frederick  and  Thaddeus  Clapp,  who  produced  Clapp's  favorite  pear,  and 
upon  the  same  farm)  Dorchester,  Mass.,  from  seed  of  Urbaniste  crossed 
with  Beurre  Superfin,  which  it  much  resembles  in  flavor,  only  a  little 
more  vinous.  Mr.  Clapp  writes  that  the  tree  is  vigorous,  with  rather 
slender  branches,  somewhat  inclined  to  spread ;  a  good  bearer,  and 
keeps  remarkably  well. 


Frederick  Clapp. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  obovate  pyriform,  but 
often  variable  and  irregular  in  form ;  skin  smooth,  bright  yellow,  with- 
out blush  or  russet,  but  many  minute  brown  dots  ;  stalk  of  medium 
length  and  thickness,  sometimes  a  little  fleshy  inclined,  set  in  a  slight 
depression  or  small  cavity  ;  calyx  nearly  closed  ;  basin  medium,  regular  ' 
flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine,  very  juicy,  melting,  rich,  highly  vinous  and 
slightly  aromatic.      Ripens  from  the  middle  to  the  last  of  October. 


PEARS. 


149 


Harris. 

This  is  another  of  the  fine  pears  raised  by  Lemuel  Clapp,  of  Dor- 
chester, Mass.,  from  seed  of  Urbaniste,  supposed  to  be  crossed  with 
Beurre  Bose.  Mr.  Clapp  states  that  the  tree  is  moderately  vigorous, 
short-jointed  wood,  and  naturally  inclined  to  make  a  compact  pyramid, 
and  very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong,  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  smooth,  thin  pale 
yellow,  nearly  covered  with  light  cinnamon  russet,  sometimes  a  shade 


Harris. 


of  crimson  where  fully  exposed  ;  stalk  medium,  or  rather  long,  curved. 
Bet  in  a  slight  depression ;  calyx  open  or  nearly  so  ;  basin  shallow 
regular;  flesh  white,  fine,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  slightly 
aromatic  and  vinous.     Ripens  from  the  middle  to  the  last  of  September 


5f 


PEARS. 


Homestead. 

A  new  pear,  raised  by  Asahel  Foote,  of  Williamstowu,  Mass.,  Iron, 
seed  of  tlie  Virgalieu  or  White  Doyenne ;  tree  vigorous,  upright,  ■ 
good  bearer,  annually.  Mr.  Foote  has  raised  many  seedling  pears  which 
promise  well,  and  when  fully  tested  will  be  noticed,  if  worthy. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform  ;  skin  greenis^  yel- 
low, often  pale  yellow  when  fully  matured,  sometimes  a  shade  of  brown- 
ish red  where  exposed,  slightly  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and 
many  russet  dots  ;  stalk  long,  curved  ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  large,  open  ; 
basin  shallow,  regular  ;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse  around  the  core : 
half  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous  and  slightly  aromatic 
Ripens  from  the  first  week  in  November  to  the  middle  of  December. 


Horace  Greeley. 

Hohace  Greeley. 


Origin,  in  the  garden  of  Dr.  John  J.  Howe,  Birmingham,  Conn., 
tree  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  holding  its  foliage  well ;  very  productive 
*nd  promising. 


PEABS. 


151 


Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  inclining  to  obtuse  pyrifoini  ;  skin 
j^le  yellow  at  maturity,  partially  netted  and  blotched  with  russet,  anil 
many  russet  dots  ;  stalk  rather  long,  inclined,  curved,  set  in  a  slight  de- 
pression or  small  cavity  ;  calyx  open ;  basin  medium,  rather  shallow, 
and  a  little  uneven  ;  flesh  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich  and 
Blightly  ruinous.   Ripe  last  half  of  October. 


Housatonic. 

Origin,  in  the  garden  of  Dr.  John  J.  Howe,  of  Birmingham,  Conn. ; 
tree  healthy  and  vigorous,  rather  upright ;  a  good  bearer,  and  a  good  late 
variety. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  pyrifonn;  surface  a  little  uneven ;  skin 
greenish  yellow,  many  green  and  brown  dots  ;  stalk  rather  long,  curved  ; 
cavity  small ;  calyx  small,  closed  ;  basin  rather  shallow,  slightly  plaited  ; 
flesh  white,  half  fine,  juicy,  melting,  rich  and  vinous.     November. 

Longue   du  Bosquet. 

Origin,  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France  ;  tree  moder- 
ately vigorous ;  an  early  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  acute  pyriform  ;  skin  bright  straw  color, 
shaded  and  mottled  with  pale  red  or  carmine,  a  few  traces  of  russet  and 
many  small  russet  dots;  stalk  long,  slender,  curved,  joined  to  the  fruit 
acutely  ;  cal)  x  closed  or  half  open  ;  basin  shallow,  a  little  uneven ;  flesh 
whitish,  fine,  melting,  juicy,  sprightly,  with  a  slight  musky  perfume. 
September. 

Lucie    Andusson. 

Raised  by  Alexis  Andusson,  Augers,  France  ;  tree  vigorous,  upright, 
somewhat  spreading,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  pyriform,  obtuse ;  skin  pale  yellow, 
much  netted  and  patched  with  russet,  and  many  small  russet  dots, 
stalk  medium,  inclined  ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  open ;  basin  rather  shal- 
low, slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh  white,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich, 
slightly  aromatic.     Ripens  the  last  of  October  and  first  of  November. 

Lucy  Grieve. 

A.  new  pear  raised  from  seed  by  Lucy  Grieve,  Guilford,  England. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  obtuse  pyriform ;  skin  clear,  deep  lemon-yel- 
low thinly  marked  with  russet  dots,  and  slight  russet  around  the  stem 
and  calyx  ;  stalk  of  medium  length  and  thickness,  set  at  an  inclination 
in  a  shallow,  uneven  cavity  ;  calyx  closed ;  basin  shallow,  regular ;  flesh 
moderately  firm,  fine  grained,  tender,  melting,  very  juicy,  rich,  slightly 
vinous.     October.     (Florist  and  Pomologist.) 

Madame  Appert. 

Raised  by  Andre  Leroy,  and  dedicated  to  his  oldest  daughter ;  tre«j 
rigoroixs,  upright,  pyramidal ;  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium   or  above,  roundish  acute  pyriform  ;  skin  pale  green. 


152  PKABS. 

sprinkled  with  many  brown  dots;  stalk  long,  curved,  slender,  joined  to 
the  fruit  acutely,  sometimes  by  a  lip  ;  calyx  half  open ;  basin  small, 
slightly  plaited  ;  flesh  whitish  yellow,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly 
perfumed,  and  quite  rich.     Last  of  September  and  first  of  October. 


Madame  Baptiste  Desportes. 

Origin,  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France  ;  tree  moder- 
ately vigorous  ;  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval  ;  skin  pale  yellow,  sometimes  a  shade 
of  brownish  red,  partially  patched  and  netted  with  russet,  and  many 
russet  dots ;  stalk  long,  rather  stout,  inclined,  set  in  a  small  cavity ; 
calyx  open ;  basin  large,  deep,  slightly  corrugated ;  flesh  white,  fine, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  slightly  aromatic.     October. 

Maria. 
Curran. 

Origin,  in  the  garden  of  the  late  Cuthbert  M.  Curran,  Windsor,  Nova 
Scotia,  and  was  brought  to  notice  by  the  late  Hon.  C.  R.  Prescott,  and 
named  by  him  in  honor  to  his  wife  ;  tree  hardy,  moderately  vigorous, 
or  of  slow  growth  ;  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  a  little  elevated  around  the  stalk ; 
skin  pale  yellow,  often  shaded  with  light  bright  red  ;  stalk  long,  curved  ; 
cavity  small ;  calyx  open  ;  basin  rather  small,  slightly  corrugated  ;  flesh 
white,  fine,  buttery,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous,  rich.  Ripens  a  week 
or  two  earlier  than  the  Bartlett. 

P.   Bakry. 

A  very  promising  new  variety,  raised  by  S.  B.  Fox,  San  Jose,  Cali- 
fornia. Mr.  Fox  has  raised  several  seedling  pears  of  great  merit,  at 
least  as  grown  with  him  ;  how  they  will  succeed  elsewhere  has  yet  to 
be  tested.  We  give  descriptions  of  Colonel  Wilder,  P.  Barry  and  S.  B. 
Fox,  from  specimens  received  from  Ellwanger  &  Barry  and  Marshall  P. 
Wilder. 

Fruit  large,  elongated  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse;  skin  deep  yellow, 
nearly  covered  with  rich  golden  russet ;  stalk  of  medium  length  and 
thickness,  inclined,  set  rather  obliquely  in  a  medium  cavity,  sometimes 
by  a  lip  ;  calyx  small,  open ;  basin  small,  regular ;  flesh  whitish,  fine, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous  and  rich.     December. 


Puebla. 

Origin,  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France  ;  tree  strong, 
vigorous,  rather  upright ;  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse ;  surface  rough,  un- 
even ;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  sprinkled  with  many  brown  and  greer 


PEARS. 


153 


dots ;  stalk  medium,  stout ;  cavity  small ;  calyx  closed  or  nearly  so ; 
basin  mediixm  or  broad,  corrugated  ;  flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  buttery 
half  melting,  juicy,  slightly  vinous.  Last  of  September  and  first  ol 
OHobor. 


Origiiated  in  the  nurseries  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France ;  tree  a 
good  grower,  upright,  somewhat  spreading. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  pyriform,  slightly  obtuse  ;  skin  whitish  yellow, 
shaded  with  bright  red,  slight  nettings  of  russet,  and  many  russet  and 
brown  dots  ;  stalk  of  medium  length  and  thickness,  inserted  in  a  slight 
depression,  or  small  cavity  ;  calyx  open  ;  basin  medium,  a  little  uneven ; 


L54  PEARS. 

flesh  whitish  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  buttery,  sweet,  and 
very  good.     October. 

B.  S.  Fox. 

This  is  thought  by  some  to  be  one  of  Fox's  best  late  fall  varieties. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  obtuse  pyriform;  skin  clear  bright  yellow,  nearly 
covered  with  rich  golden  russet ;  stalk  rather  short,  stout,  inserted 
obliquely  by  a  lip  in  a  slight  depression ;  calyx  small,  open;  basin 
medium,  uneven;  flesh  whitish,  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich  ana 
excellent. 

Sutton's  Great  Britain. 

A  seedling  of  the  Bartlett,  raised  by  William  Sutton,  Cornwallis, 
Nova  Scotia;  the  tree  is  said  to  be  hardy,  with  stout  short-jointed,  dark 
colored  young  wood  ;  fruit  large,  showy,  very  productive,  and  is  becom- 
ing popular  as  a  market  fruit. 

Fruit  large,  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse ;  skin  greenish  yellow  or  pale 
yellow,  often  with  a  shade  of  red  where  exposed,  slight  nettings  and 
patches  of  russet,  and  manv  russet  dots  ;  stalk  long,  rather  stout,  a  little 
inclined,  set  in  a  small  cavity ;  calyx  open ;  basin  shallow,  a  little  ud- 
even;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  half  melting,  juicy,  sweet  and  plea- 
sant.   Bipens  about  ten  days  later  than  the  Bartlett. 

Talmadge. 

Northford  Seckel. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  Levi  Talmadge,  i  .  -iiford,  Conn. 
Tree  hardy,  vigorous,  sy  me  trie  ;  an  early  and  abundant  beai'er. 

Fruit  rather  small,  obovate  ;  skin  yellow,  more  or  less  netted  and 
patched  with  russet ;  stalk  long,  inclined  ;  cavity  medium  ;  calyx  small, 
open;  basin  small,  regular;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine,  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  slightly  aromatic.     September. 


CORRECTIONS. 

Ananas  or  Ananas  d'Ete  Pear. 

There  is  much  confusion  in  regard  to  the  pears  Ananas,  Ananas  d'Ete 
Ananas  de  Courtrai,  and  Henry  the  Fourth.  The  three  first  having 
proved  identical  with  me,  and  the  latter  distinct,  I  have  received  trees 
and  grafts  of  Ananas  de  Courtrai  from  many  sources,  both  in  Europe 
and  this  country,  and  when  in  bearing  have  proved  to  be  Ananas  d'ete. 
From  all  I  can  learn  of  its  history,  it  is  a  very  old  variety,  and  was 
first  called  De  Bonchet,  but  was  afterward  named  Ananas,  which  is  still 
retained,  with  the  syr  onyms  annexed : 


PEARS. 


155 


Ananas. 

De  Bouchet ...  Pouchet. 

Ananas  d'Ete Comperette. 

Ananas  de  Courtrai Beurre  Ananas. 

Summer  Pine  Apple..      Ananas  Francaise. 

Favori  Musque 

Favor i  Musque  du  Conseiller,  V.  M 

Henry  IV. ,  incorrectly 

The  Henry  the  Fourth  pear  has  but  two  synonyms,  viz.,  Henry 
Quatre  and  Jacquin,  and  as  we  received  it  from  Europe,  and  as  it  is 
generally  known  m  tins  country,  is  a  small  pear  of  -very  good  quality; 
but  Andre  Leroy,  in  his  Dictionuaire  de  Pomologie,  describes  Henry  the 
Fourth  as  a  large  pear  of  second  quality ;  which  of  the  two  is  correct,  I 
am  unable  to  decide. 


Additional  Synonyms 

Pears. 

Abbe  le  Berriays Syu.  to 

Amande  regenerie " 

Baron  de  Geer " 

Belleville  Baking " 

Beurre  d'Apremont " 

Beurre  Dilly " 

Beurre  de  Paquea " 

Beurre  Robert *' 

Beurre  Sceringe " 

Due   d'Orleans " 

Early  Bergamont  of  Wisconsin " 

Ennes  of  Kentucky " 

Esturion " 

Francis  Borgia  " 

Henkel  d'Automne " 

Humboldt's  Butterbirn " 

Jackson's  Seckel " 

Josephine  Bouvier '* 

Lauren's  Summer " 

Marquis  d'Hem '* 

Nana " 

Phillip  Goes " 

Itetour  de  Rome " 

Smith's  Superior '* 

Sylvestre  d'Automne " 

Sylvestre  d'Hiver '* 

Turner's  Early  of  Illinois " 

SVredow ** 


Berriays. 

Walker. 

Henri  Van  Mons. 

Harrison's  Fall. 

Beurre  Bosc. 

Beurre  DeRannoy. 

Bonne  de  Soulers. 

Doyenne  du  Cornice. 

Doyenne  de  Saumur. 

Marechal  de  la  Cour. 

Passans  du  Portugal. 

Windsor. 

Winter  Xelis. 

Onondaga. 

Henkel. 

Beurre  Bosc 

Jackson's  Elizabeth. 

Beurre  Navez. 

English  Jargonelle. 

Hanipdeu's  Bergamotte. 

Manning's  Elizabeth. 

Barronne  de  Mello. 

Nouveau  Poiteau. 

Windsor. 

Frederick  de  Wurtemberg 

U  11  .< 

Rousselet  Hatif. 
Delices  de  Chai-les. 


PLUMS. 


PLUMS. 


Boddaert's  Green  Gage. 
Reine  Claude  Boddaert. 

Of  foreign  origin ;  tree  vigorous,  rather  upright ;  branches  snooth, 
brownish ;  productive. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong  ;  suture  slight,  apex  a  dot ; 
skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  with  broad  splashes  of  green,  and  covered 
with  a  thin  whitish  bloom ;  stalk  medium,  rather  stout ;  cavity  small ; 
flesh  light  yellow,  melting,  juicy,  sugary  and  delicious.  Ripens  the  end 
of  August. 

Early  Yellow  Gage. 

A  new  early  plum,  raised  by  Asahel  Foots,  Williamstown,  Mass. , 
tree  a  strong,  upright  grower ;  an  early  and  abundant  bearer  ;  branches 
smooth,  dark  brown. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  narrowing  a  little  towards  the  stalk ; 
suture  broad,  shallow,  extending  to  the  apex  ;  skin  greenish  yellow  or 
pale  yellow  at  maturity,  covered  with  a  whitish  bloom ;  stalk  medium, 
slender  ;  cavity  small ;  flesh  greenish  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  sugary 
and  rich ;  adhces  slightly  to  the  stone. 

Hungarian  Prune. 
Datte  de  Hongrie. 

Of  Belgian  origin  ;  tree  vigorous,  spreading  ;  branches  smooth,  grayish 
brown  ;  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  elongated  oval,  slight  neck,  sides  compressed,  one 
edge  considerably  flattened,  and  the  other  much  rounded  ;  suture  shal- 
low, apex  a  pointed  dot ;  skin  dark  purplish  black,  with  a  thick  blue 
bloom ;  stalk  long,  slender,  curved  at  the  end ;  cavity  small ;  flesh 
greenish  yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  rich,  separates  freely  from  the  stone. 
Ripens  the  first  of  September. 

Precoc£e  de  Lucas. 

Of  foreign  origin  ;  tree  vigorous,  upright ;  branches  smooth,  grayish; 
»ery  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  oval,  narrowing  a  little  towards  the  apex;  suture  a 
line ;  stalk  rather  long,  slender  ;  cavity  very  small ;  skin  deep  black, 
thick  blue  bloom  ;  flesh  greenish,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous ;  separates 
from  the  stone.     Ripens  the  last  of  August. 


PLUMS.  157 

Prunk  Tardine. 

Origin  unknown ;  tree  vigorous,  upright ;  branches  smooth,  light 
reddish  brown  ;  very  productive. 

Fruit  below  medium,  oval,  narrowing  a  little  at  the  ends,  one  side  a 
little  enlarged ;  suture  a  line,  apex  a  point ;  skin  black,  with  a  thick 
blue  bloom ;  stalk  rather  long,  slender ;  cavity  small ;  flesh  greenish 
yellow,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous ;  separates  from  the  stone.  Ripens 
the  middle  of  October. 

Royal  de  Braunac. 

Of  foreign  origin  ;  tree  vigorous,  upright ;  branches  smooth,  grayish, 
slightly  downy  at  the  ends  ;  a  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  regular,  almost  without  suture ;  skin 
bight  reddish  in  the  shade,  purplish  black  in  the  sun,  thickly  dotted 
with  brown  dots,  and  covered  with  a  thick  lilac  bloom  ;  flesh  greenish 
yellow,  a  little  coarse,  rather  firm,  juicy,  rich ;  adheres  to  the  stone.. 
Ripens  the  first  of  September. 

Sultan. 

Raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth,  England ;  tree  vigorous  ; 
very  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  round ;  suture  rather  shallow ;  skin  dark,  purplish 
red,  dotted  with  minute  brown  specks,  and  covered  with  a  thin  bluish 
bloom  ;  stalk  medium  ;  cavity  large  ;  flesh  greenish  yellow,  firm,  brisk, 
sweet,  pleasant  flavor ;  adheres  partially  to  the  pit.  Ripe  middle  of 
August.     {Florist  and  Nomologist.) 

VlOLETTE    DE    GALOPIN. 

Origin  unknown ;  tree  vigorous,  upright ;  branches  smooth,  brownish, 
short-jointed  ;  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  nearly  globular,  slightly  oval  at  the  apex;  almost 
without  suture ;  apex  slightly  sunk  ;  stalk  of  medium  length,  rather 
Btout;  cavity  small,  deep;  skin  dark  purple,  almost  black,  thick  blue 
bloom;  flesh  deep  yellow,  juicy,  sugary,  rich;  adheres  slightly  to  the 
pit  on  one  side.     Ripens  the  last  of  August. 


NOTE. 


There  have  been  many  new  grapes,  strawberries  and  raspberries  in- 
troduced during  the  past  few  years,  some  of  which  are  very  promising, 
but  further  experience  and  examination  is  necessary  before  deciding 
"ully  as  to  their  merits. 


THIBD  APPENDIX 

TO 

SECOND  REVISED  EDITION. 


CHERRIES,  GRAPES,  PEARS,  &c. 


CHERRIES. 


Barnhart. 

This  new  cherry  originated  on  the  farm  of  Louis  Shepler,  of 
Belle  Vernon,  Pa.,  and  is  much  grown  by  the  Shepler  Brothers, 
who  have  a  large  collection  of  cherries  and  other  fruits,  which  are 
grown  in  quantities  for  the  market,  and  it  is  said  this  cherry  com- 
mands a  higher  price  than  any  other  variety.  The  fruit  is  large, 
handsome,  firm  flesh,  and  of  excellent  quality;  the  tree  is  healthy, 
vigorous,  and  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  large,  obtuse  heart-shaped,  a  little  compressed;  suture 
slight;  cavity  large,  deep;  stalk  rather  long,  slender;  skin  whitish 
yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  rich  red;  flesh  firm, 
juicy,  sweet,  with  a  sprightly,  rich  flavor.  Ripens  the  last  of  June 
and  the  first  of  July. 

Burghley  Park. 

Origin  Burghley  Park,  Stamford,  England;  a  Duke  cherry  of 
moderately  vigorous  growth;  a  shy  bearer  at  first,  but  abundantly 
productive  in  a  few  years. 

Fruit  large,  usually  round,  with  an  obscure  suture,  but  occasion- 
ally compressed  or  flattened;  skin  very  thin,  transparent,  the  color 
deep  rich  red,  with  shades  of  maroon;  the  flesh  is  of  a  tawny  color, 
juicv,  melting,  a  little  astringent  at  first,  but  very  pleasant,  refresh- 
ing,' subacid  flavor  when  fully  ripe.  It  belongs  to  the  Red  Duke 
class,  and,  in  general  characteristics,  nearest  to  Reine  Hortense, 
though  it  appears  to  combine  the  best  qualities  of  both. —  Gardeners' 
Weekly. 

Dyehouse. 

Origin  unknown;  was  introduced  by  H.  T.  Harris,  of  Stamford, 
Kv„  and  was  found  growing  in  an  old  MoreHo  orchard,  or-  the  farm 
of  a  Mr.  Dvehouse,  in  Lincoln  County,  over  thirty  years  smce;  it  is 
still  grown  there  from  suckers,  and  is  claimed  to  be  hardy,  moder- 
ately vigorous,  somewhat  spreading,  of  the  Morello  typ-»,  but  par- 
takes both  of  the  Morello  and  Duke  in  growth,  wood,  pnd  fruit;  a 
very  early  and  sure  bearer;  ripens  a  week  before  Early  Richmond,  is 
about  the  same  size,  of  better  quality,  and  quite  as  productive. 

Fruit  meoium,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  slightly  depressed, 
without  suture;  apex  slightly  depressed;  skin   bright  red,  dark  red 


1G2  CHERRIES. 

in  the  sun;  stalk  of  medium  length,  slender;  cavity  rather  large, 
smooth;  flesh  soft,  juicy,  tender,  sprightly  subacid,  rather  rich;  pit 
very  small;  sometimes  the  stalk  adheres  to  the  pit. 

Early  Lyons. 

Rose  Hative  de  Lyon.  Guigne  Hative  de  Lyon. 

A  very  large  and  handsome  cherry  of  excellent  quality.  The 
fruit  is  roundish,  obtuse  heart-shape,  with  a  faint  depression  or 
suture  on  the  flattened  side,  and  having  the  stalk,  which  is  an  inch 
and  three-quarters  long,  set  in  a  rather  shallow  cavity;  the  skin  is 
blackish  crimson-purple,  or  glossy  blackish  mahogany  color;  the 
flesh  is  of  a  very  dark  brownish-red,  sweet,  tender,  juicy,  and  well- 
flavored.  It  is  an  early  variety,  ripening  about  the  end  of  June. 
(Flo.  &  Pom.) 

Early  Rivers. 

A  new  early  cherry  raised  from  seed  of  Early  Purple  Guigne,  by 
Thomas  Rivers,  Sawbridgeworth,  England.  Tree  luxuriant,  healthy, 
and  an  abundant  bearer;  fruit  as  large  as  its  parent,  very  rich  and 
good,  and  a  triile  later. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  heart-shape,  and  somewhat  un- 
even on  the  surface,  slightly  pitted  on  the  apex,  with  a  distinct 
style  point;  suture  not  well  defined;  skin  deep  black;  stalk  long, 
rather  slender;  cavity  small,  rather  deep;  flesh  very  tender,  sweet, 
and  agreeably  perfumed;  stone  very  small;  a  very  excellent  cherry. 
Ripe  the  end  of  June.      {Lon.  Jour,  of  Jlort.) 

Gloire  de  France. 

This  beautiful  cherry  originated  with  Auguste  Bonnemain, 
Etamps  (.Seine-et-Oise),  France,  and  is  of  the  Mayduke  type.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  erect,  with  rather  slender  branches,  making  a 
regular,  roundish,  conical  head,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  somewhat  depressed;  suture 
broad,  shallow,  often  very  slight;  apex  rather  large,  a  little  sunk, 
skin  bright  scarlet  or  crimson,  almost  transparent;  flesh  pale  red, 
tender,  very  juicy,  sprightly,  and  when  fully  ripe  of  a  rich,  refresh- 
ing acid  flavor.      Season  the  first  of  July. 

Ida. 

A  new  and  promising  variety,  raised  by  E.  H.  Cocklin,  of  Shep- 
henlstown,  Pa.,  who  says  that  it  is  a  seedling  of  the  Cocklin's  Fa- 
vorite, and  has  borne  good  crops  for  fifteen  years;  it  is  considered 
worthy  of  general  cultivation;  it  is  named  after  his  daughter  Ida. 
Tree  vigorous,  upright,  an  abundant  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  or  rather  large,  obtuse  conical,  slightly  compressed; 
suture  slight;  skin  pale  whitish  yellow,  nearly  covered  wit  h  bright 
red,  more  or  less  mottled;  stalk  of  medium  length,  slender,  inserted 
in  a  rather  large,  deep  cavity;  flesh  very  tender,  juicv,  rich;  very 
good,  if  not  nest  quality;  pit  very  small.  Season  about  the  time  of 
the  Mayduke. 


4  CHERRIES.  -.  fiq 

Lancaster. 

An  accidental  seedling  in  the  grounds  of  Daniel  Smeych,  Lan- 
caster, Pa.  The  tree  is  said  to  be  a  vigorous,  upright,  compact 
grower,  a  prolific  bearer,  and  the  fruit  continues  in  use  a  long  time. 

Fruit  medium,  heart-shape,  regular;  suture  very  slight;  apex  very 
small;  skin  bright  red;  stalk  long,  slender;  cavity  medium,  smooth; 
flesh  half  tender,  juicy,  sweet  with  a  sprightly  good  flavor;  the 
flesh  adheres  slightly  to  the  pit,  which  is  of  medium  size.  Ripens 
during  the  month  of  June. 

Large  Montmorency. 
Montmorency,  Large  Fruited.     Montmorency  a  Longue  Queue. 

According  to  Andre  Leroy,  this  is  a  very  old  variety,  and  is  sup- 
posed to  have  originated  near  Paris  or  Montmorency,  France,  more 
than  200  years  since.  Tree  hardy,  a  vigorous  grower  of  its  class, 
and  bearing  abundantly. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  oblate,  slightly  flattened  at  th  > 
base,  regular,  almost  without  suture;  apex  small;  skin  dark,  rich  red; 
stalk  of  medium  length,  moderately  stout;  cavity  medium,  or  rather 
large,  smooth;  flesh  soft,  tender,  juicy,  rich  acid,  becoming  subacid 
when  fully  mature.  Season  a  week  or  ten  days  later  than  Early 
Richmond. 

The  Morello  cherries  appear  to  have  been  neglected  of  late  years, 
probably  on  account  of  the  introduction  of  so  many  choice  varieties 
of  sweet  cherries.  The  Morellos  are  now  becoming  more  popular, 
as  they  are  more  hardy,  more  certain  bearers,  less  subject  to  rot, 
continue  a  longer  time  in  use,  are  more  valuable  forearming,  drying, 
and  for  various  culinary  purposes;  also  many  of  the  kinds  when 
fully  ripe  are  good  table  fruits. 

Leib. 

This  fine  Morello  cherry  is  said  to  have  been  brought  from  Ger- 
many thirty  years  ago  and  planted  in  the  garden  of  a  Mr.  Leib,  in 
the  city  of  Galena,  111.,  where  it  still  stands  and  is  over  thirty  feet 
high;  it  is  said  to  be  very  hardy,  thrifty,  healthy,  upright  in  growth, 
bearing  abundantly  annually.  The  fruit  is  as  large  or  larger  than 
Early  Richmond,  a  little  later,  much  less  acid,  of  better  quality,  and 
commands  a  better  price  in  market. 

Love  Apple. 
Tomato. 

A  vigorous  growing  variety  of  the  Duke  cherry,  which  is  said  to 
have  originated  in  Spain;  it  has  borne  abundantly  here,  and  is  a 
promising  kind  of  its  class. 

Fruit  rather  large,  roundish  oblate,  often  depressed,  or  tomato- 
shape;  suture  .'hallow;  apex  a  dot;  skin  yellowish,  shaded  with  light 
red,  bright  rich  red  in  the  sun;  stalk  rather  long,  slender;  cavity 
quite  large,  broad,  moderately  deep;  flesh  pale  yellow,  tender,  juicy, 
sprightly  subacid,  rich;  very  good.      Ripens  the  first  half  of  July. 


104 


(  HKRKIKS. 


Marik  Thkkksk. 


A  new  seedling  of  M.  tie  Luigne,  near  Chateaugontier  (Mayenne), 
France,  and  was  dedicated  to  his  daughter  Marie  Therese.  Tree 
strong,  vigorous,  with  rather  long  slender  branches,  forming  a  beau- 
tiful head;  moderately  productive,  of  excellent  quality,  and  well 
worthy  of  cultivation. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish,  flattened  at  the  ends;  suture 
broad,  shallow;  apex  small,  a  little  sunken;  stalk  long,  slender; 
cavity  very  small;  skin  fine,  strong,  transparent,  clear  red  in  the 
shade,  a  cornelian  red  in  the  sun,  slightly  dotted  with  whitish  gray; 
flesh  yellow,  compact,  melting,  very  juicy,  sugary,  deliciously  acid 
and  perfumed;  first  quality.      Ripens  the  last  of  August.      (Leroy.) 

Olivet. 

A  new  French  cherry,  with  the  following  description  from  the 
catalogue  of  Transou  Brothers,  of  Orleans,  France: 

"  This  sort  takes  a  place  not  occupied  up  to  the  present  among 
the  list  of  early  cherries.  Nearly  all  the  early  sorts  that  we  possess 
are  sweet,  amber,  or  red  varieties,  with  a  limited  fruiting  season. 
The  Olivet  cherry  is  a  large,  globular,  very  shining  deep  red  sort. 
The  flesh  is  red,  with  a  rose-colored  juice,  tender,  rich,  and  vinous, 
with  a  very  sweet  subacidulous  flavor.  It  ripens  in  the  beginning  of 
June,  and  continues  till  July  without  losing  its  quality.  It  pos- 
sesses the  fertility  of  the  best  of  the  Duke  tribe,  and  is  perhaps  the 
largest  of  that  class." 

A  friend  writes  that  it  fruited  with  him  the  past  season,  but 
being  very  dry  the  fruit  was  small,  otherwise  it  sustained  i.s  for- 
eign reputation. 

Daniel  B.  "YYier,  of  Lacon,  111.,  has  been  engaged  for  many  years 
in  growing  and  testing  seedling  cherries  of  the  Morello  class,  in  large 
numbers,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  varieties  suited  to  a  cold  cli- 
mate, and  of  equal  if  not  superior  qualitv  to  those  now  in  use.  He 
states  that  he  has  been  successful  beyond  his  expectations,  and  is 
offering  some  of  the  most  valuable  of  them  to  the  public.  The  fol- 
lowing are  his  descriptions  of  three  which  he  values  highly: 

Flag  a,  or  Wieb's  Early  Kentish. 

"  Fruit  medium,  heart-shaped;  black;  ten  days  earlier  than  Early 
Richmond;  in  quality  when  fully  ripe  equaling  the  finest  of  the  dark- 
colored  sweet  cherries,  combining  all  the  desirable  qualities  for 
kitchen  or  table;  flesh  firm;  skin  strong;  at  first  rich  subacid,  but  be- 
coming very  rich  and  sweet,  and  so  strong  that  it  has  hung  upon  the 
tree  for  a  full  month  after  being  fully  ripe  without  decaying  or  drop- 
ping; pit  small.  Tree  a  slender,  short- jointed,  regularly  conical, 
moderate  grower,  entirely  hardy,  and  enormously  productive;  should 
have  high,  dry,  light  soil,  and   an  airy  situation." 

Mr.  Wier  sent  me  specimens  of  this  variety  in  1876,  which  were 
of  medium  size,  black  color,  with  purplish-red  flesh,  tender,  juicy, 
having  a  rich  subacid  flavor,  of  very  good  quality. 


Galusha,  oe  No.  1 1. 

"  One  of  the  finest  of  cherries;  fruit  above  medium;  light  and 
subacid  at  first,  very  good,  but  as  it  matures,  growing  darker,  firmer, 
richer,  sweeter,  until  at  last  a  very  dark  bright  red,  and  one  of  the 
sweetest  and  most  delicious  of  cherries;  three  days  earlier  than 
Early  Richmond;  hangs  on  the  tree  for  a  long  period  after  being 
fully  ripe  without  any  rot.  Tree  hardy,  foliage  entirely  free  from 
disease,  a  vigorous  and  strong  grower  in  the  orchard,  a  very  abun- 
dant bearer." 

Northwest,  oe  No.  29. 

"This  is  undoubtedly  the  most  valuable  of  all  cherries  for  the 
Northwest  for  market  and  home  use.  Fruit  dark  bright  red,  a  little 
larger  and  six  days  earlier  than  Early  Richmond,  and  the  tree 
almost  exactly  similar  in  general  appearance.  This  variety  in  time 
will  supersede  all  other  sour  cherries  of  its  season.  Its  fine  size, 
color,  richness,  earliness,  firmness,  and  great  productiveness,  with  en- 
tire hardihood  of  tree  and  fruit-bud,  and  perfect  health  of  foliage,  will 
make  it  the  cherry  both  for  North  and  South.  The  fruit  is  a  brisk, 
pleasant  acid,  entirely  without  the  intense  sourness  of  the  English 
Morello.  Pit  small;  fruit  globular;  stem  long,  adhering  quite  firmly 
to  the  fruit;  and  ripening  very  evenly  and  quickly  after  coloring, 
and  hangs  on  the  tree  for  weeks  without  becoming  soft  or  rotting. 

"I  have  found  all  cherries  ripening  earlier  than  Early  Richmond 
free  from  the  attacks  of  the  plum  eurculio." 


GRAPES. 


Beauty. 

"One  of  the  seedlings  of  Jacob  Rommel,  of  Morrison,  Mo.,  and 
is  a  cross  between  Delaware  and  Maxatawney  ;  has  been  vigorous 
and  healthy  so  far;  a  strong  grower  and  very  productive;  bunch  full 
medium,  compact,  shouldered;  berry  about  the  size  and  color  of 
Catawba,  oblong,  covered  with  lilac  bloom;  ripens  here  the  last  week 
in  August;  sweet  exquisite  flavor;  thin  but  rather  tough  skin;  tender 
pulp;  this  promises  to  keep  well,  and  as  the  bunches  are  very  even 
and  attractive  in  appearance,  it  may  be  a  very  valuable  market 
grape,  as  it  is  superior  in  quality  to  Delaware;  and  as  it  excels  the 
Catawba  in  fine  and  delicate  flavor,  is  without  its  harshness  and  aus- 
terity in  pulp.  I  consider  it  the  most  promising  of  all  our  varieties 
of  the  Labrusca  class."     (Husmann.) 

Brighton. 

This  handsome  and  fine  grape  was  raised  by  Jacob  Moore,  of 
Brighton.  N.  Y.,  being  a  cross  of  the  Concord  and  Diana  Hamburg; 
vine  hardy,  a  rapid   vigorous  grower,  with    medium   to  long-jointed 


16G 


GRAPES. 


shoots,  which  ripen  early;  leaves  large,  thick,  dark  green,  coarsely 
seriated,  occasionally  lobed;  very  productive,  and  if  the  small 
bunches  were  taken  off  early  in  the  season  it  would  be  a  great  bene 
lit  to  the  others. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  shouldered,  occasionallv  double  shoulders, 
moderately  compact;  berries  medium  to  large,  round,  light  bright 
red  at  first,  changing  to  a  dark  crimson,  or  maroon  when  fully  ma- 
ture, sometimes  almost  black,  and  covered  with  a  thick  lilac  bloom; 
the  berries  adhere  well  to  the  peduncle;  skin  thin  but  tough;  flesh 
tender,  very  slight  pulp,  sweet,  juicy,  slightly  aromatic,  verv  slightly 
vinous,  and  of  very  good  quality  for  an  early  grape.  It  has  its  best 
flavor  when  it  is  first  Hue,  but  becomes  pasty  and  loses  its  sprightly 
flavor  when  fully  ripe.  Ripens  nearly  as  early  as  Hartford  Prolific 
and  before  the  Delaware. 

Duchess. 

This  fine  grape  was  raised  by  A.  J.  Caywood,  Modena,  N.  Y.,  who 
states  that  "  it  was  produced  by  crossing  a  White  Concord  seedling 
with  Delaware  or  Walter,  the  pollen  of   both   being  applied    at    the 

same  time."  The  vine  is  a  vigorous  grower,  with  moderatelv  short- 
jointed  shoots;  leaves  large,  light  green,  rather  thick,  eoarselv  ser- 
rated, adhere  to  the  vine  very  late  in  the  season;  vine  abundantly 
productive. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  shouldered,  occasionally  double  shoul- 
dered, compact;  berries  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval;  skin 
rather  thick,  light  green  at  first,  but  pale  greenish  yellow  when 
mature,  sometimes  a  golden  yellow  where  fully  exposed  and  gath- 
ered late,  and  covered  with  a  thin  whitish  bloom  :  flesh  tender,  free 
from  pulp,  juicy,  sweet,  spicy,  rich,  and  of  excellent  quality;  the  ber- 
ries adhere  strongly  to  the  peduneie,  and  the  fruit  keeps  a  long 
time  after  being  gathered.      Ripens  soon  after  the  Concord. 

Early.   Dawn. 

An  early  black  grape  of  fine  quality,  which  original:  W'th  Dr. 
Wm.  A.  M.  Culbert,  of  Newburgh,  X.  V.,  being  a  cross  v\  M  iscat 
Hamburg  and  Israella;  vine  healthy,  vigorous,  and  very  productive; 
wood  moderately  short  jointed;  leaves  large,  thick,  and  firm,  rcund-- 
ish,  broadly,  but  not  deeply  serrated,  sometimes  slightly  lobed. 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  long,  shouldered,  occasionally  double 
shouldered;  berry  medium,  round,  black,  with  a  thick  blue  bloom, 
skin  thin  but  firm;  flesh  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  rich, 
and  of  very  good  quality;  the  fruit  adheres  well  to  the  peduncle, 
keeps  well,  and  is  a  valuable  addition  to  the  early  grapes,  either  for 
the  table  or  market.  Ripens  a  week  or  more  before  the  Hartfoid 
Prolific. 

Early  Victor. 

"A  chance  seedling  that  originated  with  John  Burr,  of  Leaven- 
worth, Kansas,  about  ten  years  ago,  of  the  Labrusca  class.  Vine 
very  hardv,  health v,  vigorous,  and  very  productive;  wood  dark 
gray,  rather  long  jointed;   foliage  thick,  medium,  dark  green,  deeply 


GRAPES. 


16? 


iobed,  partaking  somewhat  of  the  character  of  the  Delaware  and 
Hartford  Prolific — not  as  pubescent  as  the  latter.  The  original  vine 
has  not  been  injured  by  the  severe  cold  and  sudden  changes  of  our 
climate,  and  has  shown  no  rot  or  disease;  it  is  not  only  the  very 
best  early  market,  but  also  the  best  wine  grape  that  we  know  of  in 
cultivation,  making  a  rich,  high  bouquet,  claret  wine. 

"  Bunch  above  medium,  compact,  often  shouldered,  and  sometimes 
double  shouldered;  berry  medium,  round,  black,  with  a  heavy  blue 
bloom;  adheres  to  the  peduncle  until  it  shrivels;  flesh  slightly  pulpy, 
juicy,  sprightly  vinous,  agreeably  sweet,  without  any  foxiness.  Sea- 
son at  least  a  week  earlier  than  Hartford  Prolific."  (Dr.  J.  Stay- 
man.) 

Jefferson. 

This  new,  handsome,  and  excellent  grape  was  raised  by  James 
H.  Ricketts,  Newburgh,  N.  Y.,  and  is  a  cross  of  the  Concord  and 
Iona  ;  it  is  healthy,  very  vigorous:  wood  rather  short  jointed;  leaves 
large,  thick  and  downy;   very  productive. 

Bunch  large,  shouldered,  often  double  shouldered,  compact;  berry 
medium  to  large,  roundish  oval;  skin  rather  thick,  light  red,  with 
a  thin  lilac  bloom;  flesh  meaty,  yet  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly 
vinous,  aromatic  and  rich  ;  the  berries  adhere  strongly  to  the 
peduncle,  and  the  fruit  maintains  its  freshness  for  a  long  time  after 
being  gathered;  it  is  of  fine  quality,  and  very  promising  either  for 
market  or  home  use.  It  ripens  about  the  time  of  the  Concord,  or 
soon  after. 

Lady  Washington. 

This  beautiful  and  very  good  grape  wras  raised  by  James  EI. 
Ricketts,  Newburgh,  N.  Y.,  and  is  a  seedling  of  Concord  crossed 
with  Allen's  Hybrid;  vine  healthy,  vigorous,  short  jointed;  leaves 
large,  roundish,  coarsely  serrated,  occasionally  lobed,  thick  and 
downy. 

Bunch  large  to  very  large,  compact,  shouldered,  often  double 
shoulders;  berry  medium  to  large,  being  very  nearly  uniform  in 
size,  round;  skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  delicate  pink  where 
exposed  to  the  sun,  having  a  thin  whitish  bloom;  flesh  soft,  tender, 
juicy,  sweet,  very  slightly  vinous,  and  of  very  good  quality;  the 
berries  adhere  well  to  the  peduncle,  and  the  fruit  continues  a  long 
time  in  use.  Ripens  about  the  time  of  the  Concord,  or  soon  after, 
and  is  a  very  promising  variety  for  the  table  or  for  market. 

Niagara. 

This  new  grape  originated  with  Hoag  &  Clark,  of  Lockport,  N, 
Y. ;  not  having  seen  the  vine  in  its  growing  and  bearing  state,  I 
give  Mr.  Hoag's  description  of  it:  "  Vine  a  cross  of  Concord  and 
Cassady,  hardy,  healthy,  very  vigorous,  and  very  productive;  wood 
rather  long  jointed;  leaves  very  large,  thick,  leathery,  downy,  lobed, 
sometimes  double  lobed." 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  compact,  occasionally  with  small  shoul- 
ders;  berry  large,  roundish,  slightly  inclining  to  oval,  quite  uniform 


168  GRAPES. 

in  size;  skin  pale  green  at  first,  but  changing1  to  pale  yellow  when 
fully  ripe,  with  a  thin  whitish  bloom;  flesh  soft,  tender,  sweet,  pleas- 
ant, and  in  quality  about  the  same  as  Concord,  and  ripening  with  it 
or  soon  after;  it  has  quite  a  foxy  odor  when  first  gathered,  but  loses 
much  of  this  when  fully  ripe. 

PoCKXINGTON. 

This  large  showy  grape  was  raised  from  seed  of  the  Concord  by 
John  Pocklington,  Sandy  Hill,  N.  Y.,  and  as  I  have  not  seen  the 
vine  in  a  growing  and  bearing  condition,  I  give  Mr.  Pocklington's 
description:  "  Vine  very  hardy,  healthy,  very  vigorous,  with  short- 
jointed  shoots;  wood  close  and  firm;  leaves  large,  thick,  tough,  and 
downy;   very  productive." 

Bunch  medium  to  large,  or  very  large,  generally  shouldered,  com- 
pact; berry  large  to  very  large,  roundish,  whitish  yellow,  pale  yellow 
when  fully  mature,  covered  with  a  thin  light  bloom;  flesh  with  con- 
siderable pulp,  juicy,  sprightly,  but  not  rich;  perhaps  not  fully  ripe 
when  tested.  The  originator  claims  that  when  fully  ripe  the  "  flesh 
is  not  hard,  but  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  and  superior  to  Concord, 
and  ripens  at  the  same  time." 

Prentiss. 

This  promising  grape  is  a  seedling  of  the  Isabella,  raised  by  J.  W. 
Prentiss,  Pultnev,  X.  Y.  Not  having  seen  the  vine  during  its 
growth  and  bearing,  I  give  Mr.  Prentiss'  description  of  it,  viz.:  "  A 
hardy,  healthy  and  good  grower;  wood  rather  short  jointed;  leaves 
quite  large,  thick,  slightly  downy;  very  productive  and  inclined  to 
overbear.  It  ripens  with  Concord,  except  when  overloaded,  when  it 
is  a  little  later." 

Bunch  medium,  occasionally  with  small  shoulders,  compact;  berry 
medium,  round,  inclining  to  oval;  skin  thick,  greenish  white,  pale 
yellow  when  fully  i  lature,  with  a  thin  whitish  bloom;  flesh  with  a 
slight  pulp,  tender,  juicy,  sweet  and  pleasant;  the  berries  adhere 
well  to  the  peduncle,  and  keep  well  in  good  condition;  its  firm  skin 
makes  it  valuable  for  market,  where  it  has  so  far  commanded  a  high 
price. 

QrjASSAICK. 

This  fine  black  grape  originated  with  James  H.  Ricketts,  of  New- 
burgh,  N.  Y.,  and  is  a  seedling  of  the  Clinton  fertilized  with  Muscat 
Hamburg;  vine  vigorous,  short  jointed;  leaves  large,  roundish,  mod- 
erately thick,  lobed,  coarsely  serrated:  bunch  large  to  very  large, 
shouldered,  sometimes  double  shouldered,  compact;  berry  medium 
to  large,  roundish  oval;  skin  thin,  but  firm,  black,  with  thick  blue 
bloom;  flesh  meaty,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  very  slightly  vinous,  rich 
and  refreshing;  the  fruit  adheres  well  to  the  peduncle,  and  con- 
tinues a  long  time  in  use;  very  productive,  and  is  a  valuable  table 
<or  market  grape.  It  ripens  about  the  middle  of  September,  or  soon 
after  the  Concord. 


TEACHES.  169 


Rochester. 


One  of  Ellwanger  and  Baixy's  seedlings  ;  I  give  their  de- 
scription of  it:  "  Vine  a  remarkably  vigorous  grower;  wood  short 
jointed  and  hardy;  foliage  large,  thick,  healthy;  the  habits  of  the 
vine  are  similar  to  those  of  the  Diana,  and  it  requires  ample  room 
and  rather  long  pruning. 

"  Bunch  laro-e  to  very  large,  shouldered,  frequently  double  shoul- 
dered, very  compact;  berries  medium  to  large  size,  round,  dark 
purple  or  purplish  lilac,  peculiar,  with  thin  white  bloom;  flesh  very 
sweet,  vinous,  rich  and  aromatic.  Ripens  usually  the  first  week  in 
September;  has  never  failed  to  ripen  well  in  the  worst  of  seasons 
since  it  first  bore." 

Triumph. 

This  new  hybrid  of  the  Concord  and  Chasselas  Musque  was  raised 
by  George  W.  Campbell,  Delaware,  0.,  and  considered  by  him  too 
late  for  that  locality,  and  wanting  in  character.  George  Husmann, 
in  his  new  work  on  grapes,  etc.,  says  that  "it  ripens  in  perfection  in 
Missouri,  and  is  certainly  one  of  the  most  attractive  white  grapes  for 
the  table  I  have  yet  seen. 

''Bunch  large  and  heavy,  shouldered,  moderately  compact;  berry 
verv  large,  golden  yellow,  transparent,  with  delicate  bloom;  skin  thin; 
pulp  tender,  sweet,  juicy,  and  excellent.  Ripens  about  with  Ca- 
tawba; it  seems  to  be  hardy  and  tolerably  healthy." 

Samuel  Miller,  of  Bluffton,  Mo.,  writes  me  that  "  it  is  the  finest 
table  grape  I  have  for  open  air  cultivation." 

T.  V.  Munson,  of  Dennison,  Texas,  has  fruited  the  Triumph  for 
six  years,  and  pronounces  it  a  great  acquisition  to  the  grapes  for  the 
South.  "  Had  bunches  weighing  one  and  a  half  pound  each,  fine  aa 
Golden  Chasselas  in  quality,  vigorous,  and  very  productive." 


PEACHES. 


Axmk  Wylie. 

A  new  seedling  raised  by  the  late  Dr.  A.  P.  Wylie,  Chester, 
S.  C.  It  is  of  the"  Heath  Cling  type,  valuable  for  the  South,  but 
ripens  too  late  here,  except  in  very  favorable  seasons.  Tree  healthy, 
vigorous,  and  a  good  bearer;  leaves  without  glands,  but  finely  ser- 
rated; flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  globular;  suture  shallow,  extending  a  little 
beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  point;  cavity  rather  narrow,  deep; 
skin  whitish,  or  a  creamy  white,  pale  red  in  the  shade,  dark  crimson 
red  in  the  sun;  flesh  wlute,  rather  firm,  juicy,  melting,  vinous,  rich, 
and  of  excellent  quality;  adheres  to  the  pit,  which  is  a  little  stained. 
Ripens  at  the  South  from  the  first  to  the  10th  of  September;  here 
the  middle  of  October. 


170 


PEACH  KS. 


K.VK1.V     SlLVEE. 


This  fine  peach  was  raised  from  seed  of  the  White  Nectarine  bv 
Thomas  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth,  England.  Tree  vigorous  and 
productive;  one  of  the  best  for  family  and  home  use,  but  too  delicate 
for  market  purposes;  leaves  with  reniform  glands;  flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oval;  suture  small,  extend- 
ing a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  little;  sunken,  with  a  small 
point;  cavity  rather  small,  deep;  skin  thin,  of  a  delicate  cream  color, 
sometimes  with  a  marbled  blush;  flesh  -white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet, 
rich,  with  the  vinous  flavor  of  its  parent;  flesh  white  at  the  stone, 
from  which  it  separates  freely.      It  ripens  the  last  of  August. 

Early  Victoria. 

A  new  peach  raised  from  seed  of  the  Large  Early  York  by 
Thomas  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth,  England;  rather  earlier  in  its 
time  of  ripening;  a  health v  and  productive  sort;  named  in  honor  of 
Queen  Victoria;  leaves  without  glands;  flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  marked  on  one  side  with  a  shallow  su- 
ture; skin  very  thin,  pale  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  and  dark  dull 
maroon  on  the  side  next  the  sun;  flesh  yellowish  white,  very  tender, 
melting,  very  juicy,  with  a  sweet  and  luscious  flavor.  A  first-rate 
early  peach,  ripening  the  beginning  of  August. — Tlogg^s  Fruit 
Manual. 

Family  Favorite. 

A  new  seedling  peach  of  Texas,  which  is  said  to  be  of  superior 
quality,  but  not  having  seen  the  fruit,  by  request,  T.  V.  Munson, 
of  Dennison,  Texas,  has  furnished  the  following  description:  "The 
Family  Favorite  originated  with  W.  IT.  Locke,  of  Bonham,  Fannin 
('ountv,  Texas,  and  is  a  seedling  of  the  Chinese  Cling,  bul  a  free- 
stone, two  weeks  earlier,  of  liner  color  and  quality,  firmer,  not  as 
liable  to  rot,  very  large.  Tree  exceedingly  vigorous,  with  very  large 
leaves;  the  original  tree  has  borne  six  successive  crops,  yei  is  in 
good  health;  very  productive;  flowers  small;  leaves  with  reniform 
glands. 

"  Fruit  large,  inclining  to  oblong;  but  not  as  much  so  as  its  parent; 
suture  shallow;  apex  medium;  skin  cream  color,  with  a  blush  on  the 
sunny  side;  flesh  with  r<  d  streaks  next  the  stone,  firm,  yei  juicy, 
high  aromatic  flavor,  but  not  very  sweet,  resembling  the  Chinese 
Cling  in  this  respect,  and  it  possesses  that  same  peculiarly  agreeable 
perfume  when  thoroughly  ripened.1' 

1  [OPKINSVILLE. 
Quisenburg.  Styles. 

Raised  from  seed  by  James  Quisenburg,  near  Hopkinsville,  Ky., 
and  it  is  said  to  be  the  most  popular  of  any  peach  in  that  sec- 
tion of  the  country  for  family  use.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  very 
productive,  and  is  remarkable  for  reproducing  itself  from  seed; 
flowers  small;   leaves  serrate,  without  glands. 

Fruit    rather   large,    inclining    to    oblong;   suture    small,   wdth   a 


PEACHES. 


171 


swollen  point  at  the  apex;  skin  dull  white,  quite  downy,  shaded  and 
mottled  with  red  and  crimson;  flesh  white,  slightly  red  at  the 
stone,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  and  of  excellent  flavor;  separates 
ireely  from  the  stone.      Season  about  the  first  of  September. 

Leva's  Late. 
Henrietta. 

A  new  late  Clingstone,  which  originated  in  the  garden  of  W.  W. 
Levy,  Washington,  D.  C,  and  it  is  said  to  be  a  valuable  and  profit- 
able variety  for  the  market  at  the  South;  leaves  with  globose  glands; 
flowers  small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  slightly  depressed;  suture  large,  extending 
a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  very  small  point;  cavity  medium, 
deep;  skin  deep  yellow,  a  shade  of  rich  brownish  red  in  the  sun; 
flesh  deep  yellow,  rather  firm,  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet,  a  little  vi- 
nous, and  very  good.  Ripens  in  Kentucky  the  middle  of  October, 
and  continues  into  November,  and  will  seldom  ripen  in  this  latitude. 

N  ECTARiNE  Peach. 

A  new  peach,  which  was  raised  by  Thomas  Rivers,  of  Sawbridge- 
worth,  England,  from  the  seed  of  a  Nectarine;  a  very  fine  and  hand- 
some peach,  which  ripens  just  after  the  Royal  George;  it  may  be 
carried  almost  any  distance,  on  account  of  its  firm  substance;  flowers 
large;   leaves  with  reniform  glands. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  terminating  at  the  apex  in  a  pointed  nipple; 
suture  well  marked,  particularly  near  the  nipple;  skin  nearly  quite 
smooth,  like  a  Nectarine,  yellow,  with  a  bright  mottled  red  cheek 
next  the  sun;  flesh  semi-transparent,  with  a  brilliant  red  next  the 
stone,  from  which  it  separates  freely;  very  richly  flavored,  and  with 
a  fine  refreshing  briskness.  Season  middle  of  September. — IIo<j<fs 
Fruit  Manual. 

Raisin. 

A  Southern  peach,  of  uncertain  origin,  but  supposed  to  have 
originated  in  Coweta  County,  Gra.,  and  is  probably  a  cross  be- 
tween the  Columbia  and  Heath  Cling;  it  often  reproduces  itself 
from  seed,  except  that  it  varies  in  its  time  of  ripening.  Tree  healthy 
very  prolific,  and  lives  to  a  good  age;  glands  reniform;  flowers 
large. 

Fruit  large,  roundish;  suture  distinct,  but  small,  ending  at  the 
apex,  which  is  a  small  point;  cavity  rather  deep;  skin  whitish, 
nearly  covered  with  pale  red,  purplish  red  in  the  sun.  with  more  or 
less  narrow  stripes  and  a  few  splashes  of  purplish  red  on  the  shaded 
side;  flesh  white,  stained  next  the  skin,  and  sometimes  through  the 
flesh,  rather  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  and  rich;  adheres 
to  the  pit.  Ripens  the  first  of  September  at  the  South,  and  the 
first  week  in  October  at  the  North. 

Salt. iic    Worrell. 

Originated  on  the  farm  of  C.  W.  Westbrook,  Wilson,  N.  C, 
%nd  was   raised  from  seed    by   an  old   lady    named    Sallie  Worrell; 


172  PEACHES. 

it  is  regarded  in  that  locality  as  one  of  the  largest  and  best  peaches 
they  cultivate,  either  for  market  or  family  use.  Tree  healthy,  vigor- 
ous, and  an  abundant  bearer;  leaves  serrate,  without  glands;  flowers 
small. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  one  side  a  little  enlarged;  suture  shallow, 
but  distinct,  extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small 
swollen  point;  cavity  rather  narrow,  deep;  skin  creamy  white, 
shaded  and  mottled  over  half  the  surface  with  light  red;  flesh  white, 
juicy,  melting,  slightly  vinous,  rich,  and  of  excellent  quality;  the 
flesh  is  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates  readily.  It  ripens 
with  the  Stump  of  the  World,  or  the  last  of  September. 

Sener. 

A  handsome  yellow  peach,  which  originated  with  Gottleib  Sener, 
many  years  since,  and  it  is  said  that  it  reproduces  itself  from  seed 
with  scarcely  any  variation  since  its  first  introduction.  Tree  healthy, 
vigorous,  and  bears  full  and  regular  crops;  glands  reniform;  flowers 
small. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  nearly  globular,  regular;  suture  shal- 
low; cavity  medium;  skin  deep  yellow,  with  a  dark  red  cheek;  flesh 
yellow,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  with  a  rich  aroma,  and  is  one  of  the 
very  best  of  the  yellow-fleshed  peaches;  red  at  the  stone  (from  which 
it  separates  freely),  which  is  rather  flat  and  small  in  proportion  to 
the  size  of    the  fruit.      Season  September. 

Steadily. 

This  new  late  peach  originated  with  John  Steadly,  Bluffton, 
Mo.  Tree  healthy,  vigorous,  and  bears  abundantly ;  it  is  a  very  prom- 
ising- late  variety,  of  good  size,  handsome,  and  of  excellent  quality; 
leaves  with  globose  glands;   flowers  small. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong;  suture  rather  shal- 
low, extending  a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  swollen 
point;  skin  whitish,  or  creamy  white,  shaded  and  mottled  with  light 
and  dark  red  where  fully  exposed  to  the  sun;  cavity  medium,  rather 
narrow,  deep;  ilesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous, 
with  a  little  of  the  Rareripe  flavor;  ilesh  white  at  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates  freely.    Season  first  half  of   October. 

Tuskena. 

Origin  uncertain,  but  it  is  said  to  have  originated  in  South  Mik* 
sissippi,  while  others  say  in  Alabama;  it  is  a  beautiful  early  Cling- 
stone, ripening  at  the  South  soon  after  the  Early  Tillotson,  and  is  es- 
teemed in  iis  locality  the  best  of  its  season,  either  for  home  use  or 
market.  Tree  vio-orous  and  a  good  bearer;  leaves  with  globose 
glands;   flowers  large. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong;  suture  distinct,  but 
small,  ending  a,  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  or  medium 
sharp  point;  cavity  rather  large,  deep;  skin  deep  yellow,  nearly  cov- 
ered with  light  and  dark  rich  red  and  crimson,  sometimes  mottled 
and  splashed  with  brownish  red   in    the   sun;   flesh   rather  Arm,  deep 


PEACHES.  173 

yellow,  juicy,  vinous,  subacid,  rich,  and  of  very  good  quality.     Rip- 
ens the  last  of  August. 

Wager. 

Originated  with  the  late  Benjamin  Wager,  West  Bloomfield, 
N.  Y.,  many  years  since,  and  is  considered  in  .that  section  valuable 
as  a  market  fruit,  and  for  canning  purposes.  The  tree  is  hardy, 
healthy,  very  productive,  and  bears  good  crops  in  unfavorable  sea- 
sons when  many  other  kinds  fail;  it  is  claimed  that  it' often  repro- 
duces itself  from  seed,  or  nearly  so. 

Fruit  medium,  oblong  oval,  varying  in  form,  one  side  often  en- 
larged; suture  medium,  extending  to  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  point, 
or  a  little  beyond;  cavity  medium,  rather  narrow;  skin  quite  downy, 
of  a  light  golden  yellow  when  fully  mature;  flesh  bright  yellow, 
rather  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  not  very  melt- 
ing or  rich;  separates  freely  from  the  stone.  Season  the  first  of  Sep- 
tember or  a  little  later  than  Crawford's  Early. 

Waterloo. 

A  new  early  peach  raised  by  Henry  Lisk,  Waterloo,  N.  Y.,  who 
says  that  the  tree  is  a  healthy,  vigorous  grower,  a  prolific  bearer,  and 
the  fruit  uniform  in  size;  flowers  large;  glands  reniform. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish;  suture  rather  large,  distinct,  extending 
a  little  beyond  the  apex,  which  is  a  small  point  ;  cavity  of  medium 
depth;  skin  greenish  white,  dark  purplish  red  in  the  sun,  pale  red  in 
the  shade,  where  it  is  mottled  with  some  short  splashes  of  a  darker 
hue;  flesh  greenish-white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous; 
quality  very  good;  adheres  partially  to  the  pit,  where  the  flesh  is 
white.      Ripens  the  last  week  in  July. 

Wheatland. 

This  fine  new  peach  is  a  chance  seedling  on  the  grounds  of  Dan- 
iel E.  Rogers,  Scottsville,  N.  Y.  The  tree  is  said  to  be  remarkably 
vigorous,  healthy,  and  somewhat  resembles  Crawford's  Late,  but 
more  sturdy  and  strong,  more  spreading  in  its  growth,  and  with 
larger  foliage;  it  bears  large  crops  of  fruit  of  large  size,  showy,  and 
ripens  nearly  at  the  same  time;  it  is  a  very  promising-  late  variety  for 
market,  being  quite  firm,  will  endure  distant  shipment,  and  is  valu- 
able for  all  purposes  in  the  family;  the  leaves  have  reniform  glands; 
flowers  large. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  roundish;  a  distinct  suture  on  one  side, 
but  not  large;  cavity  medium;  skin  deep  golden  yellow,  shaded  with 
dark  red  or  crimson  on  the  sunny  side;  flesh  yellow,  rather  firm, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  of  fine  quality;  the  flesh  is  light  red  around  the 
stone,  which  is  small,  and  from  which  it  separates  easily.  It  ripens 
between  the  Early  and  Late  Crawford. 

Wirt. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  William  Wirt  Smith,  New- 
burgh,  N.  Y.  Tree  thrifty,  vigorous,  an  abundant  bearer  of  fair 
fruit,  of  fine  quality. 


174 


TEAKS. 


Fruit  rather  large,  nearly  globular,  suture  very  slight,  ending  at 
the  apex,  which  is  a  small  point;  cavity  of  medium  size;  skin  shaded 
and  mottled  with  light  and  dark  red,  purplish  red  where  fully  ex- 
posed; flesh  white,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  slightly  vinous  and 
of  excellent  quality;  flesh  white  to  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates 
freely.      Ripens  the  second  week  in  August. 


Many  new  varieties  of  peaches,  much  earlier  than  those  before 
known  to  the  public,  have  been  introduced  within  the  last  ten  or 
twelve  years.  The  Alexander  was  exhibited  in  1872  by  J.  Capp  & 
Son,  of  Mt.  Pulaski,  111.,  and  found  to  be  nearly  two  weeks  earlier 
than  Hale's  Early,  or  any  of  the  older  varieties;  this  was  followed 
the  next  season  by  Amsden's  June,  grown  by  L.  C.  Amsden,  near 
Carthage,  Mo.;  these  are  so  nearly  alike  in  size,  form,  color, 
flesh,  and  quality,  that  good  judges  are  seldom  able  to  find  any  marks 
of  distinction  between  them.  x  The  Honeywell,  High's  Early  Canada, 
and  many  other  early  varieties,  claimed  attention  about  the  same 
time,  or  soon  after,  but  while  all  of  them  are  noted  for  earliness  in 
ripening,  they  are  so  nearly  alike  in  all  respects,  that  the  planter  of 
one  named  sort  can  have  no  advantage  over  another. 

It  is  supposed  that  most  of  these  early  kinds  are  reproductions  of 
Hale's  Early  and  Alexander,  and  so  nearly  alike  that  the  distinction 
of  name  is  not  worth  retaining.  It  is  probable  that  after  a  few  years 
of  fruiting,  many  of  the  new  seedlings  will  show  the  same  failing  as 
Hale's  Early — "  soon  ripe,  soon  rotten."  They  adliere,  more  or  less, 
to  the  pit,  and  our  effort  should  be  directed  to  correcting  this  fault, 
and  obtaining  a  fruit  as  early  as  the  Alexander  and  of  as  good  color, 
size  and  quality,  free  from  rot.  That  this  desirable  result  will  be 
ultimately  secured,  we  have  no  reason  to  doubt,  and  the  originator 
will  be  giving  the  country  a  valuable  contribution,  and  bring  honor 
and  credit  to  himself. 


PEARS. 

Chambers. 

Origin  uncertain,  but  report  says  was  brought  from  Maryland 
by  Judge  William  Chambers  to  Middletown,  Kentucky,  many  years 
since,  where  it  has  the  reputation  of  being  the  most  profitable  early 
market  pear  in  that  locality;  it  ripens  a  week  after  the  Madeleine, 
but  is  not  equal  in  quality  to  many  of  the  later  varieties.  Tree  a 
moderate  grower,  spreading,  and  said  to  be  perfectly  hardy,  free 
from  blight;  a  good  and  regular,  but  not  an  early  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  or  nearly  SO,  roundish  obovate,  regular;  skin 
smooth,  pale  yellow,  shaded  and  mottled  with  light  red  where  fully 
exposed,  and  many  greenish  dots;  stalk  medium,  moderately  stout; 
cavity  medium;   calyx  open;   basin   rather  shallow,  slightly  plaited; 


PEARS. 


175 


flesh  white,  a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  half  melting,  sweet  and 
pleasant,  but  not  rich.  Ripens  in  Kentucky  the  first  half  of  July, 
here  the  last  of  July. 

Eugene  Appekt. 

Origin  in  the  nursery  of  Andre  Leroy,  Angers,  France.  Tree 
moderately  vigorous,  with  slender  shoots,  somewhat  spreading  and 
irregular;  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  below,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  obtuse 
pyriform;    skin   greenish   yellow,   considerably   netted  and  patched 


Eugene  Appert. 


with  russet,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots;  stalk  short  to 
long,  rather  slender;  cavity  medium,  smooth;  calyx  quite  large, 
open;  basin  small  or  medium,  nearly  smooth;  flesh  white,  half  fine, 
juicy,  melting,  sweet,  rich,  with  a  slight  aroma;  quality  very  good. 
Ripens  the  middle  of  September. 


Fall  Beurre  d'Aremberg. 

A  seedling  of  the  Beurre  d'Aremberg,  raised  by  Asahel  Foote, 
"Williamstown,  Mass.,  and  is  a  promising  variety.  Tree  moderately 
vigorous,  an  early  and  good  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblate,  inclining  to  obtuse  pyriform; 
skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  orange  yellow  where  fully  exposed,  some- 


176 


PEARS. 


times  a  blush  in  the  sun,  slight  nettings  and  patches  of  russet,  es- 
pecially  around  the  stalk  and  calyx,  and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet 
dots;  stalk  short  to  medium,  set  at  an  inclination  in  a  shallow  cavity; 
calyx  open,  or  partially  closed;  basin  shallow,  slightly  corrugated; 
flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  vinous,  with  a 
peculiar  slight  musky  flavor;  quality  very  good.     October. 

General  de  Bourn  amp. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  M.  Penneton,  Saint-Florent- 
le-\  ieil  (Maine-et-Loire),  France.  Tree  moderately  vigorous,  thrifty, 
rather  upright,  moderately  productive. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  a  little  obtuse,  regular;  skin 
greenish  yellow,  a  shade  of  red  wdiere  exposed  to  the  sun,  a  few  net- 
tings and  traces  of  russet,  and  many  russet  dots;  stalk  short,  small,  in- 
clined, sometimes  obliquelv  set  in  a  shallow  cavity;  llesh  white,  fine, 
juicy,  buttery,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  and  slightly  aromatic. 
Season  November. 

Grand  Isle. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  Benjamin  Macomber,  Grand 


Isle,    Vt.      Tree    vigorous,    upright,   somewhat    spreading   with  age 
and   bearing;   i*;  has  proved   quite   hardy  so  far,  and  bids  fair  to  be 


PEAKS. 


177 


valuable  for  a  cold  locality;  a  good  and  regular  bearer  annually,  but 
more  abundant  on  alternate  years. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oblong,  obtuse  pyriform;  skin  smooth, 
bright  straw  color,  covered  with  many  small  russet  dots;  stalk  of 
medium  length,  rather  slender,  a  little  inclined,  set  in  a  small  cavity; 
calyx  small,  open;  basin  small,  nearly  smooth;  flesh  whitish,  half 
fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  slightly  vinous,  and  of  very  good  quality. 
It  ripens  from  the  last  of  September  to  the  middle  of  October. 

Hoosic. 

A  promising  new  variety,  raised  from  seed  of  Hacon's  Incom- 
parable by  Asahel  Foote,  of  Williamstown,  Mass.  Tree  vigorous, 
upright,  very  productive. 

Fruit  large,   roundish,  inclining  to  obtuse  pyriform;  skin  green- 


ish yellow,  deep  yellow  where  exposed  and  fully  mature,  some  traces 
and  nettings  of  russet,  and  many  russet  dots;  stalk  long,  curved, 
set  at  an  inclination  in  a  small  cavitv;  calvx  open;  basin  rather 
broad,  moderately  deep,  a  little  uneven;  flesh  whitish,  half  fine, 
juicy,  melting,  quite  rich  and  aromatic;  very  good.    Season  October. 


178  PEARS. 

Jules  d'Airoles  (De  Leon  Leclerc). 

A  seedling  of  Leon  Leclerc,  raised  at  Laval,  France,  and  dedi- 
cated to  his  friend,  M.  de  Liron  d'Airoles.  Tree  moderately  vigor- 
ous, rather  upright,  a  good  but  not  very  prolific  bearer. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  pyriform,  a  little  elongated,  and  slightly 
obtuse,  regular;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  often  shaded  with  crim- 


Jules  d'Airoles. 


son  in  the  sun,  partially  netted  and  traced  with  russet,  and  many 
russet  dots;  stalk  long,  slender,  curved;  cavity  small,  nearly  regular; 
flesh  whitish  yellow,  half  fine,  juicy,  melting,  sweet,  a  little  vinous, 
slightly  aromatic,  and  of  very  good  quality.  Ripening  the  last  of 
November  and  the  first  of  December. 


Jules  d'Airoles  (De  X.  Gregoire). 

This  pear  was  produced  at  Jodoigne  (Belgium),  in  1857,  by 
Xavier  Gregoire,  a  distinguished  pomologist.  Tree  quite  vigorous, 
with  rather  long,  stout  branches,  making  an  upright,  regular  head; 
moderately  productive. 


PEAKS.  179 

Fruit  above  medium,  slightly  inclining  to  turbinate;  stem  long, 
slender,  curved  at  the  upper  end;  cavity  small;  basin  shallow;  skin 
a  little  rough,  thick,  bright  yellow,  partly  covered  with  large  dots, 
marbled,  and  streaked  with  brownish  red;  flesh  yellowish  white, 
line,  melting,  a  little  coarse  at  the  core,  juicy,  sugary,  slightly  vinous, 
and  pleasantly  perfumed.  Season  last  of  October  to  the  last  of 
November.      (Leroy.) 

M.  de  Liron  d'Airoles  having  accepted  the  dedication  of  these 
two  pears,  it  is  necessary  to  be  careful  that  the  two  be  not  con- 
founded. 

Keiffer. 
Keiffer's  Hybrid. 

This  new  and  unique  pear  was  raised  by  Peter  Keiffer,  Roxbury, 
near  Philadelphia,  from  seed  of  the  Chinese  Sand  pear,  accidentally 
crossed  with  Beurre  d'Anjou,  or  some  other  kind  grown  near  it. 
Tree  remarkably  vigorous,  having  large,  dark  green,  glossy  leaves, 
and  is  an  early  and  very  prolific  bearer;  the  fruit  is  of  good  size, 
good  color,  good  quality,  and  is  a  promising  variety  for  the  table  or 
market. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish  oval,  nan-owing  at  both  ends,  with  the 
largest  diameter  near  the  centre,  some  specimens  roundish,  inclining 
to  oblong  obtuse  pyriform;  skin  deep  yellow,  orange  yellow  in  the 
sun,  a  few  patches  and  nettings  of  russet,  and  many  brown  russet 
dots;  stalk  short  to  medium,  moderately  stout;  cavity  medium;  calyx 
open;  basin  medium,  a  little  uneven;  flesh  whitish,  a  little  coarse, 
juicy,  half  melting,  sweet;  quality  very  good,  partaking  slightly  of 
the  Chinese  Sand  pears.  Ripens  all  of  October  and  a  part  of  No- 
vember. To  have  it  in  perfection,  it  should  be  gathered  when  fully 
grown,  and  ripened  in  the  house. 


Marshall. 

This  pear  is  said  to  have  originated  on  the  farm  of  William  Mar- 
shall, Cambridge,  N.  Y.,  some  years  since.  Tree  a  moderate  grower, 
making  a  roundish,  rather  spreading  head,  and   bearing  abundantly. 

Fruit  medium,  roundish,  inclining  to  obtuse  pyriform;  skin  yel- 
low, netted  and  patched  with  russet  over  nearly  the  whole  surface, 
and  thickly  sprinkled  with  russet  dots;  stalk  long,  curved,  rather 
slender;  cavity  small;  calyx  open;  basin  rather  shallow,  a  little  un- 
even; flesh  white,  half  fine,  juicy,  half  melting,  slightly  vinous,  and 
slightly  aromatic;  very  good.     Ripens  the  last  of  September. 


PLUMS. 

Canada  Orleans. 

Canada  Egg  ? 

The  origin  of  this  fine  plum  is  obscure;  it  has  been  grown  in  and 
around  Hamilton,  Ontario,  for  many  years  as  the  German  Prune, 
but  bears  no  resemblance  to  it,  and  is  believed  to  have  originated 
with  the  old  settlers,  and  is  grown  by  them  from  suckers.  Tree 
grows  strong,  vigorous,  and  makes  short-jointed  wood,  with  promi- 
nent buds,  and  is  very  productive;  it  is  highly  esteemed  where  known 
for  its  handsome  appearance,  fine  quality,  market  value  and  family 
purposes;  branches  smooth,  brownish  gray. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  nearl}'-  globular;   suture  broad,  shallow, 


Canada  i  » leans. 


ending  at  the  apex,  which  is  a  little  depressed;  stalk  long,  slender; 
cavity  srnail;  skin  dark  reddish  purple,  covered  with  a  thick  blue 
bloom;  flesh  pale  yellow,  juicy,  melting,  very  sweet  and  rich;  adher- 
ing to  the  stone,  which  is  small.      Ripens  early  in  August  and  keeps 

well.  .  .       .,,.'. 

The  Canada  Ea;g,  highly   valued   in   some  localities   in  Michigan, 

is  no  doubt  this  variety. 

Frankfort  Peach. 
Of    German  origin;  tree    moderately  vigorous,   spreading,    very 
productive;  branches  rather  slender,  slightly  downy,  grayish  brown. 


PLUMS.  181 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  oval,  narrowing  a  little  toward  the  apex; 
sides  a  little  unequal;  suture  shallow;  skin  black,  covered  with  a 
thick  blue  bloom;  stalk  medium,  rather  stout;  cavity  small;  flesh 
orange  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  sweet,  vinous,  and  of  good 
quality;  separates  freely  from  the  pit,  which  is  oval  and  thin.  Sea- 
son first  half  of  September. 

Frogmore  Damson. 

This  plum  originated,  as  its  name  implies,  in  the  Royal  Gardens 
at  Frogmore,  England,  and  although  a  lew  years  have  elapsed  since 
it  was  raised  and  distributed,  it  is  not  as  well  known  as  it  deserves 
to  be;  the  habit  of  the  tree  is  different  from  that  of  the  usual  type, 
since  it  has  broader  leaves,  is  of  spreading  growth,  and  has  its  shoots 
less  thorny;   it  is  an  enormous  bearer. 

The  fruit  is  a  trifle  larger  than  that  of  its  class,  of  a  purplish 
black  color,  and  inclining  to  obtuse  oval  in  shape;  the  flesh  is  tender 
and  richly  flavored;  it  is  suitable  for  all  purposes  to  which  Damsons 
are  applied. — {Flo.  &  Pom.) 

Glass. 

Raised  by  Alexander  Glass,  Guelph,  Ontario.  Tree  hardy,  very 
vigorous,  upright,  with  thick  dark  green  foliage;  very  productive;  a 
showy  fruit  of  second-rate  quality,  but  valuable  for  market  and  cul- 
inary purposes;   branches  smooth,  brownish  gray. 

Fruit  large,  oval;  suture  large  and  broad,  one  side  often  en- 
larged; stalk  of  medium  length,  slender;  cavity  large;  skin  dark 
purple,  almost  black,  with  a  thin  blue  bloom;  flesh  greenish  yellow, 
a  little  coarse,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  good;  separates  freely  from 
the  stone.      Ripens  in  September. 

Green  Italian. 

Of  German  origin;  tree  moderately  vigorous,  fairly  productive; 
branches  slightly  downy,  brownish,  short-jointed. 

Fruit  medium,  oval;  suture  very  shallow  or  a  distinct  green  line; 
apex  a  dot;  skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  streaked  and  blotched  with 
green;  covered  with  a  thin  grayish  bloom;  stalk  long,  slender;  cav- 
ity small;  flesh  green,  a  little  coarse,  juicy,  sweet,  quite  rich,  and 
very  good;  adheres  partially  to  the  pit,  which  is  long  and  thin.  Sea- 
son first  half  of   September. 

Gun. 

Gweii — Gueii— Blue  Magnum  Bonum — Big  Blue — Bradshaw,  incorrectly. 

This  plum  is  said  to  have  orig-inated  with  a  Mr.  Hagaman,  Lan- 
singburgh,  X.  Y..  about  fifty  years  since;  it  was  cultivated  largely 
by  John  Goeway  (Guii),  and  was  generally  called  by  this  name,  but 
was  not  much  disseminated  until  quite  recently;  it  is  now  quite  ex- 
tensively grown  for  market,  having  proved  to  be  one  of  the  most 
profitable  for  that  purpose;  tree  hardy,  a  very  strong,  vigorous  up- 
right grower,  spreading  with  age  and  bearing;  an  early  ami  very 
abundant  bearer;   branches  smooth,  light  brown,  grayish. 


182  PLUMS. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oval,  narrowing  a  little  at  the  apex,  whirl: 
is  a  dot  or  small  point;  suture  slight,  often  without  any;  skin  dark 
purple,  covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom;  stalk  long,  slender;  cavity 
large,  deep;  flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little  coarse,  rather  firm,  juicy,  sweet, 
sprightly  subacid;  not  a  rich  table  fruit,  but  valuable  for  culinary 
purposes  and  market;  free  stone,  but  often  adheres  slightly  to  the 
pit;  season  last  of  August  and  first  of  September. 

Moore's  Arctic. 

A  new  hardy  plum  which  originated  on  the  Highlands  of  Aroo- 
stook County,  Me.,  about  forty  miles  north  of  Bangor,  on  the 
grounds  of  A.  T.  Moore,  Ashland,  Me.,  where,  unprotected  and  ex- 
posed to  Arctic  colds,  it  has  for  many  years  borne  enormous  crops, 
and  is  claimed  to  be  the  hardiest  plum  known,  and  so  far  free  from 
black  knots;  tree  health v,  vigorous,  an  early  and  abundant  bearer; 
branches  smooth,  olive  brown,  grayish. 

Fruit  below  medium,  roundish,  slightly  inclining  to  oval;  suture 
nearly  obscure,  apex  a  dot;  skin  purplish  black,  thin  blue  bloom; 
stalk  medium,  rather  slender;  cavity  small;  flesh  greenish  yellow,  a 
little  coarse,  juicy,  sweet,  pleasant  flavor,  but  not  rich,  adheres  a 
little  to  the  stone;  season  first  half  of  September. 

Pride  of  AVatert.oo. 
A  new  variety  raised  by   A.  H.    Doles,  Waterloo,    N.    Y.,  from 


Pride  of  Waterloo. 

seed  of  Smith's  Orleans;  a  vigorous  upright  grower,  very  productive, 


BASPBEKKIES.  183 

and  promises  to  be  valuable  for  market  and  culinary  uses;  branches 
smooth,  reddish  brown. 

Fruit  large,  oval,  narrowing  a  little  toward  the  stalk,  regular; 
suture  scarcely  visible,  apex  a  dot,  skin  light  reddish  purple,  with  a 
thin  blue  bloom  and  many  brown  dots;  stalk  of  medium  length  and 
thickness;  cavity  rather  large;  flesh  deep  yellow,  rather  coarse,  juicy, 
sweet,  sprightly,  but  not  rich;  it  adheres  slightly  to  the  pit;  ripen* 
the  middle  of  September. 


RASPBERRIES. 


Baumforth's  Seedling. 

A  new  variety  raised  from  the  seed  of  the  Northumberland  Fill- 
basket  by  John  Baumforth,  of  Pontefract,  England;  the  plant  is  of  a 
stronger  constitution  than  its  parent,  and  more  prolific;  the  fruit  ia 
large  and  handsome,  being  remarkable  for  their  broad,  roundish, 
rather  than  conical  outline;  it  is  about  ten  days  earlier,  and  at  least 
one-third  larger — that  is,  broader,  more  uniform  in  shape  and  size, 
and  of  a  deeper  and  richer  crimson  color,  while  the  separate  succu- 
lent carpel  or  drupes,  of  which  the  fruit  is  composed,  are  large  and 
prominent;  the  color  of  the  drupes,  which  are  of  large  size,  and  very 
juicy,  is  of  a  deep  lake  crimson,  and  the  flavor  is  rich  and  full,  with 
a  fine  aroma.  The  plant  frequently  bears  fruit  in  the  autumn  from 
the  current  season's  growth.     (Flo.  &  Pom.) 

Caroline. 

This  fine  new  raspberry  was  raised  by  S.  P.  Carpenter,  New  Ro- 
chelle,  N.  Y.,  and  is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  of  Brinckle's  Orange 
and  a  Golden  Cap.  Mr.  Carpenter  informs  me  that  it  has  proved 
very  hardy,  and  the  plant  is  an  Antwerp  in  nearly  all  its  character- 
istics; suckers  quite  freely  and  can  with  care  be  propagated  from  the 
tips;  canes  very  strong,  vigorous,  sometimes  branching,  light  red  in 
the  sun,  having  a  thin  whitish  bloom,  and  a  few  slender  green  spines. 
It  is  a  very  prolific  bearer  and  is  an  acquisition  worthy  of  a  place  in 
the  home  garden,  but  is  too  soft  for  shipping. 

Fruit  quite  large,  roundish  oblate,  deep  orange  yellow,  or  salmon 
color,  with  a  slight  bloom,  grains  of  medium  size;  flesh  soft,  juicy, 
sweet,  rich,  and  of  very  good  quality;  it  continues  a  long  time  in 
use. 

ClJTIIBERT. 

Queen  of  the  Market. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  the  late  Thomas  Cuthbert, 
Riverdale,  N.  Y.  It  is  said  to  be  hardy,  and  is  generally  so,  but  I 
have  seen  it  more  or  less  killed  in  severe  and  changeable  winters,  or 
when  the  canes  were  not  well  ripened;  it  has  so  far  proved  a  valua- 


1^4  RASPBERRIES. 

ble  market  variety,  also  one  of  the  best  for  family  use;  it  is  very 
productive;  canes  strong,  vigorous,  upright,  sometimes  branching; 
spines  short,  stout,  purplish,  rather  numerous;  it  suckers  freely,  too 
much  so  for  the  benefit  of  the  plant  and  fruit. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  scarlet  crimson,  roundish,  obtuse-conical; 
grains  rather  small,  compact,  separates  freely  from  the  stalk;  flesh 
quite  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  sprightly,  having  a  slight  flavor  of  the  com- 
mon Red,  which  is  probably  one  of  its  parents. 

Gregg. 

Great  Western. 

This  is  one  of  the  largest,  if  not  the  largest  of  the  Black  Cap 
family;  it  originated  with  R.  &  P.  Gregg,  Randolph,  Ind.  It  is  a 
hardy,  strong  grower,  with  round,  heart-shaped,  coarsely  serrated 
leaves;  canes  strong,  brandling,  with  a  few  sharp  greenish  spines. 

Fruit  large,  oblate  or  roundish  oblate,  black,  with  a  slight  bloom; 
grains  large,  compact;  flesh  quite  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  and 
rich;  the  fruit  ripens  evenly,  making  the  picking  season  short;  it  is 
much  like  the  McCormick  or  Mammoth  Cluster  in  growth,  bearing, 
etc.;  the  fruit  is  a  little  larger,  darker  in  color,  and  firmer,  but  not 
quite  as  sweet,  nor  quite  as  juicy. 

MoNTCLAIR. 

This  new  variety  is  a  chance  seedling  on  the  grounds  of  E.  &  J. 
C.  Williams,  Montclair,  N.  J.;  canes  strong,  vigorous,  light  red, 
often  branching,  spines  quite  numerous  at  the  base,  rather  slender, 
purplish;  leaves  thick,  roundish,  deeply  veined  or  crumpled;  very 
productive;  it  promises  to  be  valuable  as  a  market  variety,  and  for 
family  use;  it  propagates  moderately  by  suckers. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  or  roundish  oblate,  dark  red  or 
crimson,  grains  rather  small,  compact;  flesh  quite  firm,  juicy,  sweet, 
and  sprightlv,  and  of  very  good  quality;  separates  readily  from  the 
stalk  in  picking. 

New  RoriiEi.LE. 

A  seedling  of  the  Catawissa,  raised  by  S.  P.  Carpenter,  New 
Rochelle,  N.  Y. ;  plant  hardy,  or  nearly  so,  a  very  strong,  upright, 
stockv  grower,  short-jointed  and  much  branched,  spines  rather 
numerous,  short,  stiff,  green  and  light  red;  it  is  very  productive, 
linn,  and  bears  carriage  well,  but  lacks  the  bright  color  so  attractive 
to  the  popular  taste;  propagated  by  tips. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish,  obtuse-conical,  brownish  red, 
or  dark  maroon,  with  a  slight  bloom;  flesh  quite  firm,  juicy,  with  a 
rich  subacid  flavor,  making  it  valuable  for  canning  and  all  culinary 
purposes,  as  well  as  for  the  table;   it  continues  a  long  time  in  use. 

Pride  of  the  Hudson. 

A  chance  seedling  in  the  garden  of  the  late  William  Roe,  New- 
burgh,  N.  Y.;  canes  rather  strong,  vigorous,  a  few  short  purplish 
spines;  leaves  large,  deeply  veined  or  corrugated;   very  productive; 


KASPBEKRIES. 


185 


one  of  the  best  varieties  for  family  use,  but  not  firm  enough  for  dis- 
tant market;  it  requires  good  cultivation,  which  well  repays  the 
labor  bestowed. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  conical,  a  little  obtuse,  grains  rather  large; 
color  scarlet  crimson;  flesh  moderately  Arm,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  and 
of  fine  flavor;  separates  freely  from  the  stem. 

Reliance. 

A  seedling  of  the  Philadelphia,  raised  by  0.  L.  Felton,  Mer- 
chantville,  N.  J.;  it  is  hardy,  healthy,  and  vigorous,  very  produc- 
tive, one  of  the  largest  of  its  class;  canes  strong,  branching,  with 
a  few  small  greenish  spines. 

Fruit  large,  nearly  globular,  or  roundish  oblate,  dark  red  or  crim- 
son; grains  large;  flesh  quite  firm,  juicy,  sweet  and  sprightly,  but 
not  of  high  flavor;   separates  freely  from  the  stem. 

TuBNEE. 

Southern  Thornless.     Baldwin's  Choice. 

A  hardy  variety  which  originated  in  the  garden  of  Prof.  J.  B. 
Turner,  Jacksonville,  111.  ;  it  appears  to  succeed  in  more  localities 
than  any  of  the  red  varieties,  and  less  subject  to  changes  of  heat 
and  cold;  the  canes,  foliage,  and  fruit  possess  many  characteristics 
of  the  native  red  berry,  and  it  suckers  quite  as  freely;  canes  vigor- 
ous, light  reddish  on  the  sunny  side;  upright, seldom  with  branches; 
verv  lew  short  purplish  spines;  foliage  quite  large  and  abundant; 
very  productive. 

Fruit  medium  or  above,  roundish  conical,  bright  scarlet;  grains 
of  medium  size,  compact;  flesh  rather  soft,  sweet,  pleasant,  but  not 
rich;  a  good  berry  for  home  use,  but  not  quite  Arm  enough  for  a 
distant  market. 

The  Black  Cap  family  is  now  numerous,  and  of  large  size  and  good 
qualitv;  Gregg,  McCormick,  or  Mammoth  Cluster  among  the  best, 
yet  there  are  growers  who  claim  to  have  produced  varieties  as  large 
and  of  better  quality.  The  Sweet  Home  is  said  to  be  equal  in  size, 
rather  more  productive,  and,  report  says,  of  better  quality,  although 
the  distinction  is  hardly  perceptible.  The  Surprise  and  Elsie  are 
nearlv  or  quite  as  large,  more  conical  in  form,  of  a  brighter  color, 
and  richer.  Duncan's  Black  Cap,  or  Kentucky  Prolific  is  highly  ex- 
tolled in  its  locality  as  the  best  and  largest  of  Black  Caps.  The 
Hamilton  Black  Cap  of  Shelby  County,  Tenn.,  has  the  reputa- 
tion of  being  a  very  large  berry  of  the  finest  quality. 

There  are  many  other  varieties  before  the  public  not  named 
above,  for  the  reason  that  they  are  so  near  alike  in  growth,  color, 
qualitv,  and  season  of  ripening  as  to  require  no  separate  description. 

Effort  has  been  made  to  obtain  a  perfectly  hardy,  bright-colored 
red  raspberry,  of  high  quality,  and  flesh  sufficiently  firm  to  bear 
transportation  for  a  long  distance,  and  many  think  they  have  it  in 
the  Cuthbert,  but  it  will  require  the  test  of  time  and  experience  to 
decide  upon  these  points.  The  cultivator  who  is  so  fortunate  as 
to  produce  a  variety  to  meet  all  the  requirements  of  the  grower  and 
marketman  ought  to  be,  and  1  think  would  be,  richly  rewarded. 


186  STRAWBERRIES. 

But  while  continuing  the  work  of  seed-planting  for  this  desiiablo 
result,  it  is  to  he  regretted  that  the  foreign  tender  varieties  of  such 
delicious  flavor  as  the  Antwerps — Franconia,  Brinekle's  Orange, 
Fastolff,  and  Belle  de  l'alluau — are  being  neglected.  The  little  extra 
care  and  labor  of  covering  in  the  fall  is  more  than  repaid  by  the 
large  size  and  luscious  fruit.      For  family  use  they  are  much  superior. 


STRAWBERRIES. 


BlDAVEEL. 


This  fine  variety  is  a  Michigan  seedling,  receiving  its  name  from 
a  Mr.  Bidwell,  although  its  origin  is  a  matter  of  uncertainty  and 
somewhat  in  dispute.  It  has  received  favorable  notice  from  the 
Michigan  Pomological  Society;  it  has  received  considerable  atten- 
tion on  account  of  its  very  promising  character,  especially  on  light 
soils;  it  is  very  vigorous,  with  light  green  leaves;  very  productive, 
and  continues  long  in  bearing.  An  early  berry;  with  hill  culture  or 
the  narrow  row  system,  rich  soil,  and  removal  of  runners,  it  makes 
large  stools  and  fine  fruit;   staminate. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  the  first  berries  sometimes  irregular  in 
form,  being  round  conical  and  long  conical,  often  with  an  uneven 
surface,  and  a  slight  neck,  somewhat  glossy;  color  bright  crimson; 
flesh  light  red,  quite  firm,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid,  quite  rich,  and 
very  promising  for  family  use  and  market. 

Black  Defiance. 

One  of  the  seedlings  of  E.  W.  Durand,  Irvington,  N.  J. ;  plant 
vigorous,  with  dark  grt  en  foliage,  productive  in  heavy  soils;  re- 
quiring high  culture  in  hills  or  narrow  rows  and  removal  of  runners  to 
obtain  the  fruit  in  quantity  and  perfection;  staminate. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse  conical,  regular;  color  dark  crimson; 
flesh  dark  red,  firm,  juicy,  sprightly  and  rich;  rather  early,  fine  for 
the  amateur,  and  gives  promise  of  being  a  good  variety  for  shipment 
to  a  distant  market. 

Champion. 

Windsor  Chief. 

These  were  sent  out  as  two  distinct  varieties,  and  this  claim  is 
still  made  by  some,  while  others  who  have  grown  them  near  each 
other  and  examined  them  carefully,  have  been  unable  to  detect  any 
difference.  It  originated  with  Dr.  J.  C.  Neff,  Carlisle,  Pa.;  it 
requires  high  cultivation  to  produce  good  crops;  it,  is  a  vigorous 
grower,  with  healthy  deep  green  foliage;  very  productive;   pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  corneal,  or  roundish  obtuse  conical,  regular,  except  a 
few  of  the  first  berries,  which  are  a  little  uneven;  color  deep  scarlet 


STRAWBERRIES.  187 

or  crimson,  flesh  dark  red,  rather  soft,  sprightly,  rich  acid,  and  of 
good  quality;  it  holds  its  size  well  to  the  end,  and  is  a  fine  variety 
for  the  amateur  and  a  near  market. 

Crescent  Seedling. 

The  Crescent  originated  with  William  Parmelee,  New  Haven, 
Conn.  It  is  a  hardy,  strong,  vigorous  grower  and  very  productive; 
leaves  of  medium  size,  dark  green;  the  plant  requires  much  room  to 
give  good  results;  it  ripens  early  and  continues  late,  holding  its 
size  tolerably  well,  and  although  not  of  high  flavor,  its  fair  size, 
good  color,  and  moderately  firm  flesh  has  given  it  a  near  market 
value;   pistillate. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  the  first  berries  a  little 
irregular  or  uneven;  bright  scarlet;  seeds  yellow  and  brown,  near 
the  surface;  it  requires  less  time  and  attention  than  most  varieties, 
and  is  well  calculated  for  those  who  cannot  and  will  not  give  the 
necessary  labor  to  produce  the  better  kinds. 

Cumberland  Triumph. 

The  Cumberland  Triumph  is  a  fine  large  strawberry,  originated 
oy  Amos  Miller,  Carlisle,  Pa. ;  the  plant  is  a  vigorous  grower,  with 
dark  green  foliage;  a  good  but  not  prolific  bearer;  when  grown 
in  hills  and  the  runners  clipped,  it  makes  heavy  stools,  giving  large, 
handsome,  regular  fruit;  stamiuate. 

Fruit  large,  oblate,  broadly  conical,  very  regular,  light  scarlet; 
seeds  yellow  and  brown,  near  the  surface;  flesh  pale  red,  rather 
soft,  juicy,  sweet;  very  good,  but  not  of  high  quality;  a  fine  variety 
for  the  amateur  and  family  use,  but  too  soft  and  light-colored  for 
market. 

Duchess. 

This  excellent  early  strawberry  was  first  found  in  the  garden  of 
D.  H.  Barnes,  Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y.  The  plant  is  very  vigorous, 
foliage  of  medium  size,  dark  green  and  healthy;  very  productive; 
when  grown  in  hills  or  narrow  rows  it  stools  and  makes  large  plants, 
thus  saving  the  labor  of  replanting;  stain inate. 

Fruit  medium  to  largo,  roundish,  obtuse-conical,  regular  in  form, 
bright  searlet  or  crimson;  flesh  light  red,  quite  firm,  juicv,  sprightly 
subacid,  and  of  fine  quality;  one  of  the  earliest  to  ripen,  and  con- 
tinues a  long  time  for  an  early  variety;  it  retains  its  size  quite  well 
to  the  last;  is  valuable  for  early  market,  also  for  general  use  in  the 
family. 

Forest  Rose. 

Originated  in  the  garden  of  John  A.  Fetters,  Lancaster,  O. ;  it 
is  a  vigorous  grower  and  good  bearer,  succeeding  well  with  good 
culture;  the  foliage  sometimes  a  little  affected  with  unfavorable  and 
changeable  seasons  of  heat  and  cold:  a  good  variety  for  home  use 
and  a  fancy   market;   staminate. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical,  a  little  obtuse,  some- 
times   oval,    and  some  of    the  first  berries   a  little  uneven;    bright 


1§3  STRAWBERRIES. 

scarlet;  flesh  light  red,  moderately  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  sprightly  and 
rich;   rather  early,  and  retains  its  size  well  through  the  season. 

Glendale. 

The  Glendale  is  an  accidental  seedling,  found  by  W.  B.  Storer 
in  the  Glendale  Cemetery,  Akron,  0.  Plant  hardy,  healthy,  vigor- 
ous, with  large,  dark  green  leaves;  very  productive;  it  promises  to 
be  a  valuable  market  variety,  as  it  blooms  late,  has  quite  a  firm  flesh 
and  a  large  calyx,  which  is  favorable  for  carriage;  rather  late  in 
ripening,  and  of  fair  quality;  staminate. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  long  conical,  regular  in  form,  sometimes 
with  a  slight  neck;  color  light  scarlet;  flesh  firm,  sprightly,  of  good 
but  not  best  flavor;  it  holds  its  size  well  to  the  end;  it  separates 
readily  from  the  stalk,  making  it  easy  to  gather. 

Golden  Defiance. 

The  Golden  Defiance  originated  with  Amos  Miller,  Carlisle,  Pa. 
Plant  very  vigorous,  with  large,  thick,  dark  green  leaves  when  ma- 
ture, deeply  veined,  and  moderately  serrated;  very  productive;  it  is 
said  to  be  hardy,  stands  the  drought,  and  the,  leaves  endure  the  sun 
well;  it  is  a  handsome  berry  of  excellent  quality,  and  worthy  of  a 
general  trial;  it  succeeds  either  in  hills  or  narrow  rows;  pistillate. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  obtuse-conical,  regular,  sometimes  with  a 
slight  neck;  color  dark  scarlet  or  crimson;  seeds  yellow,  near  the  sur- 
face; flesh  scarlet,  quite  firm,  juicy,  subacid,  rich,  and  of  very  good 
quality.  Season  rather  late.  It  is  a  good  variety  for  the  market  or 
family  use. 

Miner's  Prolific 
Miner's  Great  Prolific. 

This  originated  with  the  late  T.  13.  Miner,  Linden,  N.  J.  Plant 
hardy,  vigorous,  and  healthy,  with  light  green  foliage;  very  prolific 
bearer,  and  gives  t he  greatest  success  under  the  hill  and  narrow  row 
system  of  culture;  a  promising  variety  for  family  use  and  near  mar- 
ket:  staminate. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  roundish  conical;  surface  somewhat  ir- 
regular or  uneven;  color  dark  scarlet  or  crimson;  flesh  light  red,  mod- 
erately firm,  juicy,  subacid  and  of  fair  quality.  Ripens  medium  to 
late  and  holds  out  well  in  size  to  the  end. 

Monarch  <>f  the   West. 

This  highly  praised  strawberry  was  raised  by  Jesse  Brady,  of 
Piano,  111.  '  Plant  very  vigorous,  witli  large,  pale  green  leaves,  mod- 
erately productive;  a  good  variety  for  home  use  and  a  near  market; 
it  requires  high  cultivation  and  a  rich  soil  to  produce  large  fruit 
abundantly  and  of  good  quality;  it  should  be  grown  in  hills  or  nar- 
row rows. 

Fruit  large,  sometimes  very  large,  roundish  conical,  nearly  regu- 
lar; a  few  of  the  first  berries  are  coxcomb  shape,  and  a  little  irregu- 


STRAWBERRIES.  189 

lar;  light  scarlet;  flesh  light  red,  rather  soft,  juicy,  sprightly  subacid- 
rich ;  quality  very  good. 

Pioneer. 

The  Pioneer,  raised  by  E.  W.  Durand,  of  Irvington,  N.  J.,  is  said 
to  be  one  of  the  best  of  the  strawberries  grown  by  him.  Plant  tall 
and  vigorous,  although  the  foliage  is  said  to  burn  in  some  localities 
occasionally;' leaves  large,  light  green;  ripens  rather  early,  and  main- 
tains size  well;  but  like  most  of  the  Durand  seedlings  requires  good 
culture  and  removal  of  the  runners  to  make  it  fairly  productive; 
yields  best  under  the  narrow  row  system;  very  good  for  home  use 
and  near  market;  staminate. 

Fruit  medium  to  large;  roundish  oval,  with  a  slight  neck;  seeds 
mostly  dark,  a  little  below  the  surface;  color  light  scarlet;  flesh  light 
red,  moderately  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  with  a  delicate  flavor. 

Primo. 

A  new  seedling  raised  by  Daniel  Smith,  Newburgh,  N.  Y. ;  plant 
verv  vigorous,  with  large,  roundish  dark  green  leaves,  deeply  veined; 
foot-stalks  stout  and  heavy;  berries  large  and  handsome;  productive 
and  promising  good  returns  for  home  use  and  a  near  market;  a  new 
variety  not  extensively  tested;  staminate. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblate,  obtuse-conical,  regular;  color  dark 
scarlet;  flesh  white,  moderately  firm,  juicy,  sweet  and  pleasant; 
ripening  with  the  early  varieties. 

Sharpless. 

This  large,  showy  strawberry  originated  with  J.  K.  Sharpless,  of 
Catawissa,  Pa.;  it  is  very  vigorous,  with  large  dark  green,  coarsely 
serrated,  and  deeplv  veined  leaves;  very  productive,  and  is  best 
adapted  to  the  hill' system,  making  large  stools;  it  also  succeeds 
when  cultivated  in  narrow  rows;   staminate. 

Fruit  large  to  very  large,  variable  in  form,  from  irregular  cox- 
comb shape  to  roundish  conical  and  oval;  bright  scarlet,  somewhat 
glossy;  flesh  light  red,  quite  firm,  moderately  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  and 
of  very  good  flavor;  medium  to  late  in  ripening.  The  Sharpless  is 
very  promising,  either  for  market  or  family  purposes. 

Triple  Crown. 

This  excellent  strawberry  was  raised  by  William  Hunt,  of 
Waterloo,  N.  Y. ;  it  is  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  and  a  very  good 
bearer;  it  should  be  grown  in  hills  or  narrow  rows  to  have  it  in  per- 
fection; staminate. 

Fruit  medium  to  large,  oval  conical,  often  with  a  neck;  a  few  of 
the  first  berries  are  of  wedge  or  coxcomb  shape,  the  surface  some- 
what uneven  and  irregular;  crimson ;  flesh  light  red,  quite  firm,  juicy, 
sprightly,  rich  and  of  high  flavor;  separates  readily  from  the  calyx; 
one  of  the  most  promising  varieties  for  market,  also  for  any  use  in 
the  family;  it  holds  its  size  very  well  through  the  season. 

END. 

ir  r.  St*t*  CM*** 


SHORT-TITLE    CATALOGUE 

OF  THE 

PUBLICATIONS 


OF 


JOHN   WILEY   &    SONS, 

New    York. 
London-:    CHAPMAN    &    HALL,   Limited. 

ARRANGED  UNDER  SUBJECTS. 


Descriptive  circulars  sent  on  application. 

Books  marked  with  an  asterisk  are  sold  at  net  prices  only. 

All  books  are  bound  in  cloth  unless  otherwise  stated. 


AGRICULTURE. 

Cattle  Feeding— Dairy  Practice— Diseases  of  Animals- 
Gardening,  Etc. 

Armsby's  Manual  of  Cattle  Feeding, 12mo,  $1  75 

Downing's  Fruit  and  Fruit  Trees 8vo,  5  00 

Grotenfelt's  The  Principles  of  Modern  Dairy  Practice.     (Woll.) 

12mo,  2  00< 

Kemp's  Landscape  Gardening .  .12mo,  2  50> 

Loudon's  Gardening  for  Ladies.     (Downing.) 12mo,  1  50 

Mayuard's  Landscape  Gardening 12mo,  1  50 

Steel's  Treatise  on  the  Diseases  of  the  Dog 8vo,  3  50 

Treatise  on  the  Diseases  of  the  Ox 8vo,  6  00 

Stockbridge's  Rocks  and  Soils 8vo,  2  50 

Woll's  Handbook  for  Farmers  and  Dairymen 12mo,  1  50 

ARCHITECTURE. 

Building — Carpentry— Stairs— Ventilation — Law,  Etc. 

Berg's  Buildings  and  Structures  of  American  Railroads 4to,  7  50' 

Birkmire's  American  Theatres— Planning  and  Construction. 8vo,  3  00 

"        Architectural  Iron  and  Steel 8vo,  3  50* 

'*        Compound  Riveted  Girders 8vo,  2  00 

"        Skeleton  Construction  in  Buildings 8vo,  3  00 

1 


Birkmire's  Planning  and  Construction  of  High  Office  Buildings. 

8vo,  $3  50 

Briggs'  Modern  Am.  School  Building 8vo,  4  00 

Carpenter's  Heating  and  Ventilating  of  Buildings 8vo,  3  00 

Freitag's  Architectural  Engineering 8vo,  2  50 

The  Fireproofing  of  Steel  Buildings 8vo,  2  50 

Gerhard's  Sanitary  House  Inspection 16mo,  1  00 

Theatre  Fires  and  Panics 12mo,  1  50 

Hatfield's  American  House  Carpenter 8vo,  5  00 

Holly's  Carpenter  and  Joiner ISuio,  75 

Kidder's  Architect  and  Builder's  Pocket-book. .  .16mo,  morocco,  4  00 

Merrill's  Stones  for  Building  and  Decoration 8vo,  5  00 

Monckton's  Stair  Building — Wood,  Iron,  and  Stone 4to,  4  00 

T  Tait's  Engineering  and  Architectural  Jurisprudence 8vo,  6  00 

Sheep,  6  30 
Worcester's  Small  Hospitals — Establishment  and  Maintenance, 
including   Atkinson's   Suggestions    for    Hospital   Archi- 
tecture  12mo,  1  25 

TVorld's  Columbian  Exposition  of  1893 Large  4to,  2  50 

ARMY,  NAVY,  Etc. 

Military  Engineering— Ordnance — Law,  Etc. 

Bourne's  Screw  Propellers 4to, 

*Bruff's  Ordnance  and  Gunnery 8vo, 

Chase's  Screw  Propellers  8vo, 

Cooke's  Naval  Ordnance 8vo, 

Cronkhite's  Gunnery  for  Non-com.  Officers 32mo,  morocco, 

*  Davis's  Treatise  on  Military  Law 8vo, 

Sheep, 

*  "      Elements  of  Law 8vo, 

De  Brack's  Cavalry  Outpost  Duties.     (Carr. ). . .  .32mo,  morocco, 
Dietz's  Soldier's  First  Aid 16mo,  morocco, 

*  Dredge's  Modern  French  Artillery. .  ..Large  4to,  half  morocco, 

"  Record   of   the   Transportation    Exhibits    Building, 

World's  Columbian  Exposition  of  1893.. 4to,  half  morocco, 

Durand's  Resistance  and  Propulsion  of  Ships 8vo, 

Dyer's  Light  Artillery 12mo, 

Hoff's  Naval  Tactics 8vo, 

2 


5  00 

6  00 

3  00 

12  50 

2  00 

7  00 

7  50 

2  50 

2  00 

1  25 

15  00 

10  00 

5  00 

3  00 

1  50 

*  Ingalls's  Ballistic  Tables 8vo,  $1  50 

Handbook  of  Problems  in  Direct  Fire 8vo,  4  00 

Mohan's  Permanent  Fortifications.  (Mercur.).8vo,  half  morocco,  7  50 

*  Mercur's  Attack  of  Fortified  Places 12mo,  2  00 

*  "         Elements  of  the  Art  of  War 8vo,  4  00 

Metcalfe's  Ordnance  and  Gunnery 12rno,  with  Atlas,  5  00 

Murray's  A  Manual  for  Courts-Martial 16mo,  morocco,  1  50 

Infantry  Drill  Regulations  adapted  to  the  Springfield 

Rifle,  Caliber  .45 32mo,  paper,  10 

*  Phelps's  Practical  Marine  Surveying 8vo,  2  50 

Powell's  Army  Officer's  Examiner 12mo,  4  00 

Sharpe's  Subsisting  Armies 32mo,  morocco,  1  50 

Very's  Navies  of  the  World 8vo,  half  morocco,  3  50 

Wheeler's  Siege  Operations 8vo,  2  00 

Wiuthrop's  Abridgment  of  Military  Law 12mo,  2  50 

Woodhull's  Notes  on  Military  Hygiene 16mo,  1  50 

Young's  Simple  Elements  of  Navigation  ".16mo,  morocco,  2  00 

first  edition 1  00 

ASSAYING. 

Smelting — Ore  Dressing — Alloys,  Etc. 

Fletcher's  Quant.  Assaying  with  the  Blowpipe..  16mo,  morocco,  1  50 

Furman's  Practical  Assaying 8vo,  3  00 

Kunhardt's  Ore  Dressing 8vo  1  50 

O'Driscoll's  Treatment  of  Gold  Ores 8vo,  2  00 

Ricketts  and  Miller's  Notes  on  Assaying 8vo,  3  00 

Thurston's  Alloys,  Brasses,  and  Bronzes 8vo,  2  50 

Wilson's  Cyanide  Processes  12mo,  1  50 

"        The  Chloriuation  Process 12m»,  150 

ASTRONOMY. 

Practical,  Theoretical,  and  Descriptive. 

Craig's  Azimuth   4t0,  3  50 

Doolittle's  Practical  Astronomy 8vo,  4  00 

Gore's  Elements  of  Geodesy 8vo,  2  50 

Hayford's  Text-book  of  Geodetic  Astronomy 8vo.  3  00 

*  Michie  and  Harlow's  Practical  Astronomy 8vo,  3  00 

*  White's  Theoretical  and  Descriptive  Astronomy 12mo,  2  00 


BOTANY. 

Gardening  for  Ladies,  Etc. 

Baldwin's  Orchids  of  New  England Small  8vo,  $1  50 

Loudon's  Gardening  for  Ladies.     (Downing.) 12mo,  1  50 

Thome's  Structural  Botany 16mo,  2  25 

Westermaier's  General  Botany.     (Schneider.) 8vo,  2  00 

BRIDGES,  ROOFS,    Etc. 

Cantilever — Draw — Highway — Suspension. 

(See  also  Engineering,  p.  8.) 

Boiler's  Highway  Bridges 8vo,       2  00 

*  "       The  Thames  River  Bridge 4to,  paper,       5  00 

Burr's  Stresses  in  Bridges 8vo,       3  50 

Crehore's  Mechanics  of  the  Girder 8vo,       5  00 

Dredge's  Thames  Bridges 7  parts,  per  part,       1  25 

Du  Bois's  Stresses  in  Framed  Structures Small  4to,     10  00 

Foster's  Woodeu  Trestle  Bridges .4to,       5  00 

Greene's  Arches  iu  Wood,  etc 8vo,       2  50 

Bridge  Trusses 8vo,       2  50 

Roof  Trusses 8vo,       125 

Howe's  Treatise  on  Arches 8vo,       4  00 

Johnson's  Modern  Framed  Structures Small  4to,     10  00 

Merriman    &    Jacoby's     Text-book     of    Roofs     and    Bridges. 

Part  I.,  Stresses 8vo,       2  50 

Merriman    &    Jacoby's     Text-book    of    Roofs    and     Bridges. 

Part  II.,  Graphic  Statics, 8vo,       2  50 

Merriman    &    Jacoby's     Text-book    of    Roofs    and     Bridges. 

Part  III.,  Bridge  Design Svo,       2  50 

Merriman    &    Jacoby's     Text-book    of    Roofs     and    Bridges. 

Part  IV.,  Continuous,  Draw,  Cantilever,  Suspension,  and 

Arched  Bridges 8vo, 

*  Morisou's  The  Memphis  Bridge Oblong  4to, 

Waddell's  Iron  Highway  Bridges 8vo, 

"        De  Poutibus  (a  Pocket-book  for  Bridge  Engineers). 

16mo,  morocco, 

Wood's  Construction  of  Bridges  and  Roofs 8vo, 

Wright's  Designing  of  Draw  Spans.     Parts  I.  and  II..8vo,  each 

"  "  "      "  "  Complete 8vo, 


g 

50 

.0 

00 

4  00 

3 

00 

2 

00 

2 

50 

3 

50 

CHEMISTRY— BIOLOGY-PHARMACY. 

Qualitative — Quantitative — Organic — Inorganic,  Etc 

Adriance's  Laboratory  Calculations 12mo, 

Allen's  Tables  for  Iron  Analysis Svo, 

Austen's  Notes  for  Chemical  Students 12mo, 

Bolton's  Student's  Guide  in  Quantitative  Analysis 8vo, 

Boltwood's  Elementary  Electro  Chemistry {In  the  press.) 

Classen's  Analysis  by  Electrolysis.   (Herrick  and  Boltwood.).8vo, 

Cohn's  Indicators  and  Test-papers 12mo 

Crafts's  Qualitative  Analysis.     (Schaeffer.) 12m o, 

Davenport's  Statistical  Methods  -with  Special  Reference  to  Bio- 
logical Variations 12mo,  morocco, 

Drechsel's  Chemical  Reactions.    (Merrill.) 12mo, 

Fresenius's  Quantitative  Chemical  Anatysis.    (Allen.) Svo, 

"  Qualitative  "  (Johuson.) 8vo, 

(Wells.)         Trans. 

16th  German  Edition Svo, 

Fuertes's  Water  and  Public  Health 12mo, 

Gill's  Gas  and  Fuel  Analj'sis 12mo, 

Hammarsten's  Physiological  Chemistry.    (Mandel.) 8vo, 

Helm's  Priuciples  of  Mathematical  Chemistry.    (Morgan).  12mo, 

Eolbe's  Inorganic  Chemistry 12mo, 

Ladd's  Quantitative  Chemical  Analysis 12mo, 

Landauer's  Spectrum  Analysis.     (Tingle.) 8vo, 

Lob's  Electrolysis  and  Electrosyuthesis  of  Organic  Compounds. 

(Lorenz.) 12mo, 

Mendel's  Bio-chemical  Laboratory 12mo, 

Mason's  Water-supply 8vo, 

Examination  of  Water 12mo, 

Meyer's  Radicles  in  Carbon  Compounds.  (Tingle.)  {In  the  press.) 

Miller's  Chemical  Physics Svo, 

Mixter's  Elementary  Text-book  of  Chemistry 12mo, 

Morgan's  The  Theory  of  Solutions  and  its  Results 12mo, 

"         Elements  of  Physical  Chemistry 12mo, 

Nichols's  Water-supply  (Chemical  and  Sanitary) 8vo, 

O'Brine's  Laboratory  Guide  to  Chemical  Analysis 8vo, 

Perkins's  Qualitative  Analysis 12mo, 

Pinner's  Organic  Chemistry.     (Austen.) 12mo, 


$1  25 

3  00 

1  50 

1  50 

3  00 

2  00 

1  50 

1  25 

1  25 

6  00 

3  00 

5  00 

1  50 

1  25 

4  00 

1  50 

1  50 

1  00 

3  00 

1  00 

1  50 

5  00 

1  25 

2  00 

1  50 

1  00 

2  00 

2  50 

2  00 

1  00 

1  50 

2 

00 

2 

50 

2 

00 

3 

00 

2 

50 

3 

00 

1 

50 

1 

50 

1 

50 

Q 
O 

50 

3 

00 

9 

50 

2 

00 

Poole's  Calorific  Power  of  Fuels 8vo,     $3  00 

Ricketts  and   Russell's  Notes   on   Inorganic  Chemistry  (Non- 
metallic) Oblong  8vo,  morocco,  75 

Ruddiman's  Incompatibilities  in  Prescriptions 8vo, 

Schimpf's  Volumetric  Analysis 12mo, 

Spencer's  Sugar  Manufacturer's  Handbook 16mo,  morocco, 

Handbook    for    Chemists    of   Beet    Sugar    Houses. 

16mo,  morocco, 

Stockbridge's  Rocks  and  Soils 8vo, 

*  Tillman's  Descriptive  General  Chemistry 8vo, 

Van  Deventer's  Physical  Chemistry  for  Beginners.     (Bolt-wood.) 

12mo, 

Wells's  Inorganic  Qualitative  Analysis 12mo, 

"      Laboratory   Guide   in    Qualitative   Chemical   Analysis. 

8vo, 

Whipple's  Microscopy  of  Drinking-water 8vo, 

Wiechmann's  Chemical  Lecture  Notes 12mo, 

Sugar  Analysis Small  8vo, 

Wulling's  Inorganic  Phar.  and  Med.  Chemistry 12mo, 

DRAWING. 

Elementary — Geometrical— Mechanical — Topographical. 

Hill's  Shades  and  Shadows  and  Perspective 8vo,  2  00 

MacCord's  Descriptive  Geometry 8vo,  3  00 

"           Kinematics Svo,  5  00 

Mechanical  Drawing Svo,  4  00 

Mahan's  Industrial  Drawing.    (Thompson.') 2  vols.,  8vo,  3  50 

Reed's  Topographical  Drawing.     (H.  A.) 4to,  5  00 

Reid's  A  Course  in  Mechanical  Drawing Svo.  2  00 

"      Mechanical  Drawing  and  Elementary  Machine   Design. 
8vo.     (In  the  press.) 

Smith's  Topographical  Drawing.     (Macmillan.) Svo,  2  50 

Warren's  Descriptive  Geometry 2  vols.,  8vo,  3  50 

"         Drafting  Instruments 12mo,  1  25 

"         Free-hand  Drawing 12mo,  1  00 

"         Linear  Perspective 12mo,  100 

"         Machine  Construction 2  vols.,  8vo,  7  50 


Warren's  Plane  Problems 12mo,  $1  25 

"         Primary  Geometry 12mo,  75 

"         Problems  and  Theorems 8vo,  2  50 

"         Projection  Drawing 12mo,  1  50 

Warren's  Shades  and  Shadows 8vo,  3  00 

"         Stereotomy— Stone-cutting 8vo,  2  50 

Whelpley's  Letter  Engraving 12mo,  2  00 

ELECTRICITY  AND  MAGNETISM. 

Illumination — Batteries — Physics — Railways. 

Anthony  and  Brackett's  Text-book  of  Physics.     (Magie.)   Small 

8vo,       3  00 

Anthony's  Theory  of  Electrical  Measurements 12mo,       1  00 

Barker's  Deep-sea  Soundings 8vo,       2  00 

Benjamin's  Voltaic  Cell 8vo,       3  00 

"         History  of  Electricity 8vo,       3  00 

Classen's  Analysis  by  Electrolysis.    (Hcnick  and  Boltwood.)  8vo,       3  00 

Cosmic  Law  of  Thermal  Repulsion 12mo,  75 

Crehore  and  Squier's  Experiments  with  a  New  Polarizing  Photo- 
Chronograph 8vo,       3  00 

Dawson's  Electric  Railways  and  Tramways.     Small,  4to,  half 

morocco, 
*  Dredge's  Electric  Illuminations.  .  .  .2  vols.,  4to,  half  morocco, 

Vol.  II 4to, 

Gilbert's  De  magnete.     (Mottelay.) 8vo, 

Holman's  Precision  of  Measurements 8vo, 

"  Telescope-mirror-scale  Method Large  8vo, 

Lob's  Electrolysis  and  Electrosynthesis  of  Organic  Compounds. 

(Lorenz.) . .  .12mo, 

*Michie's  Wave  Motion  Relating  to  Sound  and  Light 8vo, 

Morgan's  The  Theory  of  Solutions  and  its  Results 12mo, 

Niaudet's  Electric  Batteries.     (Fishback.) 12mo, 

Pratt  and  Alden's  Street-railway  Road-beds 8vo, 

Reagan's  Steam  and  Electric  Locomotives 12mo, 

Thurston's  Stationary  Steam  Engines  for  Electric  Lighting  Pur- 
poses  8vo, 

*Tillman's  Heat 8vo, 

7 


12 

50 

25  00 

7 

50 

o 

50 

2 

00 

75 

1 

00 

4  00 

1 

00 

2 

no 

2 

00 

2 

00 

2 

50 

1 

50 

ENGINEERING. 

Civil — Mechanical — Sanitary,  Etc. 
(See  also    Bridges,    p.    4 ;   Hydraulics,    p.    9 ;   Materials  of  En- 
gineering, p.  10  ;  Mechanics  and  Machinery,  p.  12  ;  Steam 
Engines  and  Boilers,  p.  14.) 

Baker's  Mason ry  Construction 8vo, 

"        Surveying  Instruments 12mo, 

Black's  U.  S.  Public  Works Oblong  4to, 

Brooks's  Street-railway  Location , 16mo,  morocco, 

Butts's  Civil  Engineers'  Field  Book 16mo,  morocco, 

Byrne's  Highway  Construction 8vo, 

"       Inspection  of  Materials  and  Workmanship 16mo, 

Carpenter's  Experimental  Engineering  8vo, 

Church's  Mechanics  of  Engineering — Solids  and  Fluids 8vo, 

"        Notes  and  Examples  in  Mechanics 8vo, 

Crandall's  Earthwork   Tables «...  .8vo, 

The  Transition  Curve 16mo,  morocco, 

*  Dredge's    Penu.    Railroad     Construction,    etc.      Large     4to, 

half  morocco, 

*  Drinker's  Tunnelling 4to,  half  morocco, 

Eissler's  Explosives — Nitroglycerine  and  Dynamite 8vo, 

Fol well's  Sewerage 8vo, 

Fowler's  Coffer-dam  Process  for  Piers 8vo. 

Gerhard's  Sanitary  House  Inspection 12mo, 

Godwin's  Railroad  Engineer's  Field-book 16mo,  morocco, 

Gore's  Elements  of  Geodesy 8vo, 

Howard's  Transition  Curve  Field-book .16mo,  morocco, 

Howe's  Retaining  Walls  (New  Edition.) .12mo, 

Hudson's  Excavation  Tables.     Vol.  II 8vo, 

Hutton's  Mechanical  Engineering  of  Power  Plants 8vo, 

"         Heat  and  Heat  Engines 8vo, 

Johnson's  Materials  of  Construction Large  8vo, 

Stadia  Reduction  Diagram.  .Sheet,  221  X  281  inches, 

Theory  and  Practice  of  Surveying Small  8vo, 

Kent's  Mechanical  Engineer's  Pocket-book 16mo,  morocco, 

Kiersted's  Sewage  Disposal 12mo, 

Mahan's  Civil  Engineering.      (Wood.) 8vo, 

Merriman  and  Brook's  Handbook  for  Surveyors.  .  .  .16mo,  inor., 

Merriman's  Precise  Surveying  and  Geodesy 8vo, 

Retaining  Walls  and  Masonry  Dams 8vo, 

Sanitary  Engineering 8vo, 

Nagle's  Manual  for  Railroad  Engineers 16mo,  morocco, 

Ogden's  Sewer  Design 12mo, 

Patton's  Civil  Engineering 8vo,  half  morocco, 


$0 

00 

3 

00 

5 

00 

1 

50 

2 

50 

5 

00 

3  00 

6 

00 

6  00 

o 

00 

1 

50 

1 

50 

20 

00 

25 

00 

4  00 

3 

00 

2 

50 

1 

00 

2 

50 

2 

50 

1 

50 

1 

25 

1 

00 

5 

00 

5  00 

6 

00 

50 

4  00 

5 

00 

1 

25 

5  00 

2 

00 

2 

50 

2 

oo 

2  00 

3 

00 

2 

oo 

7  50 

Patton's  Foundations 8vo> 

Pratt  and  Alden's  Street-railway  Road-beds 8vo, 

Rockwell's  Roads  and  Pavements  in  France 12mo, 

Searles's  Field  Engineering 16mo,  morocco, 

Railroad  Spiral 16mo,  morocco. 

Siebert  and  Biggin's  Modern  Stone  Cutting  and  Masonry. .  .8vo, 

Smart's  Engineering  Laboratory  Practice 12mo, 

Smith's  Wire  Manufacture  and  Uses Small  4to, 

Spalding's  Roads  and  Pavements 12mo, 

Hydraulic  Cement. . . , 12mo, 

Taylor's  Prismoidal  Formulas  and  Earthwork 8vo, 

Thurston's  Materials  of  Construction  8vo, 

*  Trautwine's  Civil  Engineer's  Pocket-book 16mo,  morocco, 

*  • '  Cross-section Sheet, 

*  "  Excavations  and  Embankments Svo, 

*  "  Laying  Out  Curves 12mo,  morocco, 

Waddell's  De  Pontibus  (A  Pocket-book  for  Bridge  Engineers). 

ICino,  morocco, 

"Wait's  Engineering  and  Architectural  Jurisprudence Svo, 

Sheep, 

"      Law  of  Field  Operation  in  Engineering,  etc Svo. 

Warren's  Stereotomy— Stone-cutting 8vo, 

Webb's  Engineering  Instruments.  New  Edition.  16mo,  morocco, 

Wegmanu's  Construction  of  Masonry  Dams 4to, 

Wellington's  Location  of  Railways Small  Svo, 

Wheeler's  Civil  Engineering 8vo, 

Wolff's  Windmill  as  a  Prime  Mover 8vo, 


HYDRAULICS. 

Water-wheels— Windmills— Service  Pipe— Drainage,  Etc. 

(See  also  Engineering,  p.  8.) 

Bazin's  Experiments  upon  the  Contraction  of  the  Liquid  Vein. 

(Trautwiue.) 8vo>  3  00 

Bovey 's  Treatise  on  Hydraulics 8vo,  4  00 

Coffin's  Graphical  Solution  of  Hydraulic  Problems 12mo,  2  50 

Ferrel's  Treatise  on  the  Winds,  Cyclones,  and  Tornadoes. .  .Svo,  4  00 

Fuertes's  Water  and  Public  Health 12mo,  1  50 

Ganffuillet  &  Kutter's  Flow  of  Water.     (Hering  &  Trautwiue.) 

8vo,  4  00 

Hazeu's  Filtration  of  Public  Water  Supply Svo,  2  00 

Herschel's  115  Experiments 8vo,  2  00 

Kiersted's  Sewage  Disposal 12mo-  !  25 

9 


15  00 

2  00 

1  25 

3  00 

1  50 

1  50 

2  50 

3  00 

2  00 

2  00 

1  50 

5  00 

5  00 

25 

2  00 

2  50 

3  00 

6  00 

6  50 

2  50 

1  25 

5  00 

5  00 

4  00 

3  00 

.$5  00 

1  25 

4  00 

2  50 

10  00 

5  00 

3  50 

4  00 

2  00 

3  00 

2  50 

Mason's  Water  Supply 8vo, 

"     Examination  of  Water 12mo, 

Merrim'an's  Treatise  on  Hydraulics 8vo, 

Nichols's  Water  Supply  (Chemical  and  Sanitary) 8vo, 

Wegmann's  Water  Supply  of  the  City  of  New  York 4to, 

Weisbach's  Hydraulics.     (Du  Bois. ) 8vo, 

Whipple's  Microscopy  of  Drinking  Water 8vo, 

Wilson's  Irrigation  Engineering 8vo, 

"        Hydraulic  and  Placer  Mining 12mo, 

Wolff's  Windmill  as  a  Prime  Mover 8vo, 

Wood's  Theory  of  Turbines 8vo, 

MANUFACTURES. 

Boilers — Explosives — Iron — Steel— Sugar — Woollens,    Etc. 

Allen's  Tables  for  Iron  Analysis 8vo,  3  00 

Beaumont's  Woollen  and  Worsted  Manufacture ,12mo,  1  50 

Bolland's  Encyclopaedia  of  Founding  Terms 12mo,  3  00 

The  Iron  Founder 12mo,  2  50 

"        Supplement 12mo,  2  50 

Bouvier's  Handbook  on  Oil  Painting 12mo,  2  00 

Eissler's  Explosives,  Nitroglycerine  and  Dynamite 8vo,  4  00 

Ford's  Boiler  Making  for  Boiler  Makers 18mo,  1  00 

Metcalfe's  Cost  of  Manufactures 8vo,  5  00 

Metcalf's  Steel— A  Manual  for  Steel  Users 12mo,  2  00 

*  Reisig's  Guide  to  Piece  Dyeing 8vo,  25  00 

Spencer's  Sugar  Manufacturer's  Handbook  . .  .  .16mo,  morocco,  2  00 
"        Handbook    for    Chemists    of    Beet    Sugar    Houses. 

16mo,  morocco,  3  00 

Thurston's  Manual  of  Steam  Boilers 8vo,  5  00 

Wal ke's  Lectures  on  Explosives 8vo,  4  00 

West's  American  Foundry  Practice 12mo,  2  50 

"      Moulder's  Text-book 12mo,  2  50 

Wiechmaun's  Sugar  Analysis Small  8vo,  2  50 

Woodbury's  Fire  Protection  of  Mills 8vo,  2  50 

MATERIALS  OF  ENGINEERING. 

Strength — Elasticity — Resistance,  Etc. 
(See  also  Engineering,  p.  8.) 

Baker's  Masonry  Construction 8vo,  5  00 

Beardslee  and  Kent's  Strength  of  Wrought  Iron 8vo,  1  50 

Bovey's  Strength  of  Materials 8vo,  7  50 

Burr's  Elasticity  and  Resistance  of  Materials Svo,  5  00 

Byrne's  Highway  Construction 8vo,  5  00 

10 


$6  00 

10  00 

6  00 

7  50 

7  50 

5  00 

4  00 

1  00 

5  00 

1  25 

2  00 

5  00 

8  00 

2  00 

3  50 

2  50 

2  00 

Church's  Mechanics  of  Engineering— Solids  and  Fluids 8vo, 

Du  Bois's  Stresses  in  Framed  Structures Small  4to, 

Johnson's  Materials  of  Construction 8vo, 

Lanza's  Applied  Mechanics.    3vo, 

Marteus's  Testing  Materials.     (Henning.) 2  vols.,  Svo, 

Merrill's  Stones  for  Building  and  Decoration Svo, 

Merriman's  Mechanics  of  Materials 8vo, 

Strength  of  Materials 12mo, 

Patton's  Treatise  on  Foundations Svo, 

Rockwell's  Roads  and  Pavements  in  France 12mo, 

Spalding's  Roads  and  Pavements 12mo, 

Thurston's  Materials  of  Construction Svo, 

Materials  of  Engineering 3  vols.,  8vo, 

Vol.  I. ,  Non-metallic    8vo, 

Vol.  II. ,  Iron  and  Steel Svo, 

Vol.  III.,  Alloys,  Brasses,  and  Bronzes Svo, 

"Wood's  Resistance  of  Materials Svo, 

MATHEMATICS. 

Calculus— Geometry— Trigonometry,  Etc. 

Baker's  Elliptic  Functions 8vo- 

Ballari's  Pyramid  Problem   8vo- 

Barnard's  Pyramid  Problem 8vo> 

*Bass's  Differential  Calculus 12mo, 

Briggs's  Plane  Analytical  Geometry 12mo, 

Chapman's  Theory  of  Equations 12mo, 

Compton's  Logarithmic  Computations 12mo, 

Davis's  Introduction  to  the  Logic  of  Algebra 8vo, 

Halsted's  Elements  of  Geometry 8vo, 

Synthetic  Geometry Svo, 

Johnson's  Curve  Tracing 12mo, 

Differential  Equations— Ordinary  and  Partial. 

Small  8vo, 

Integral  Calculus 12mo, 

•  <  "  "         Unabridged.     Small  8vo. 

(In  the  press.) 

Least  Squares 12mo, 

*Ludlow's  Logarithmic  and  Other  Tables.     (Bass.) 8vo, 

*       "        Trigonometry  with  Tables.     (Bass.) -Svo, 

*Mahan's  Descriptive  Geometry  (Stone  Cutting)  8vo, 

Merriman  and  Woodward's  Higher  Mathematics 8vo, 

Merriman's  Method  of  Least  Squares 8vo, 

Parker's  Quadrature  of  the  Circle 8vo,       2  50 

Rice  and  Johnson's  Differential  and  Integral  Calculus, 

2  vols,  in  1,  small  8vo,       2  50 
11 


1 

50 

1 

50 

1 

50 

4  00 

1 

00 

1 

50 

1 

50 

1 

50 

1 

75 

1 

50 

1 

00 

3 

50 

1 

50 

1 

50 

2 

00 

3  00 

1 

50 

5  00 

2  00 

1 

50 

2 

50 

3 

50 

1 

25 

1 

00 

1 

00 

75 

1 

25 

2 

50 

1 

50 

2 

00 

1 

00 

3  00 

Rice  and  Johnson's  Differential  Calculus Small  8vo,     $3  00 

"  Abridgment  of  Differential  Calculus. 

Small  8vo, 

Totten's  Metrology 8vo, 

Warren's  Descriptive  Geometry 2  vols.,  8vo, 

"         Drafting  Instruments 12mo, 

"         Free-hand  Drawing ...12mo, 

"         Linear  Perspective 12mo, 

"        Primary  Geometry 12mo, 

"        Plane  Problems 12mo, 

"         Problems  and  Theorems 8vo, 

"         Projection  Drawing 12mo, 

"Wood's  Co-ordinate  Geometry 8vo, 

"       Trigonometry 12mo, 

Woolf's  Descriptive  Geometry Large  8vo, 

MECHANICS-MACHINERY. 

Text-books  and  Practical  Works. 
(See  also  Engineering,  p.  8.) 

Baldwin's  Steam  Healing  for  Buildings 12mo,       2  50 

Barr's  Kinematics  of  Machinery 8vo, 

Benjamin's  Wrinkles  and  Recipes 12mo, 

Chordal's  Letters  to  Mechanics 1 2mo, 

Church's  Mechanics  of  Engineering 8vo, 

"        Notes  and  Examples  in  Mechanics 8vo, 

Crehore's  Mechanics  of  the  Girder 8vo, 

Cromwell's  Belts  and  Pulleys 12mo, 

Toothed  Gearing 12mo, 

Compton's  First  Lessons  in  Metal  Working 12mo, 

Compton  aud  De  Groodt's  Speed  Lathe 12mo, 

Dana's  Elementary  Mechanics 12mo, 

Dingey's  Machinery  Pattern  Making 12mo, 

Dredge's      Trans.     Exhibits     Building,      World     Exposition. 

Large  4to,  half  morocco, 

Du  Bois's  Mechanics.     Vol.  I.,  Kinematics  8vo, 

Vol.  II.,   Statics 8vo, 

Vol.  III.,  Kinetics 8vo, 

Fitzgerald's  Boston  Machinist 18mo, 

Flather's  Dynamometers 12mo, 

"         Rope  Driving 12mo, 

Hall's  Car  Lubrication 12mo, 

Holly's  Saw  Filing 1 8mo, 

Johnson's   Theoretical    Mechanics.      An   Elementary   Treatise. 
{In  the  press.) 

Jones's  Machine  Design.     Part  I.,  Kinematics 8vo,       1  50 

12 


2 

00 

2 

00 

6 

00 

2 

00 

5 

00 

1 

50 

1 

50 

1 

50 

1 

50 

1 

50 

2 

00 

.0 

00 

q 

50 

4  00 

3 

50 

1 

00 

2 

00 

2 

00 

1 

00 

75 

:3  oo 

7  50 

5  00 

4  00 

5  00 

4  00 

1  50 

3  00 

3  00 

3  00 

1  00 

7  50 

5  00 

Jones's  Machine  Design.     Part  II.,  Strength  and  Proportion  of 

Machine  Parts 8vo, 

Lanza's  Applied  Mechauics Svo, 

MacCord's  Kinematics 8vo, 

Merriman's  Mechauics  of  Materials 8vo, 

Metcalfe's  Cost  of  Manufactures 8vo, 

*Michie's  Analytical  Mechauics 8vo, 

Richards's  Compressed  Air 12mo, 

Robinson's  Principles  of  Mechanism Svo, 

Smith's  Press-working  of  Metals 8vo, 

Thurston's  Friction  and  Lost  "Work Svo, 

' '         The  Animal  as  a  Machine 12mo, 

Warren's  Machine  Construction 2  vols.,  Svo, 

Weisbach's  Hydraulics  and  Hydraulic  Motors.    (Du  Bois.)..Svo, 
Mechanics    of    Engineering.      Vol.    III.,    Part   I., 

Sec.  I.     (Klein.) Svo,       5  OO 

Weisbach's   Mechanics    of  Engineering.     Vol.    III.,    Part  I., 

Sec.  II.     (Klein.) Svo,  ■     5  00 

Weisbach's  Steam  Engines.     (Du  Bois.) Svo,       5  00 

Wood's  Analytical  Mechanics Svo,       3  00 

Elementary  Mechanics 12mo,       125 

"  "  '*  Supplement  and  Key 12mo.       1  25 

METALLURGY. 

Ikon — Gold— Silver — Alloys,  Etc. 

Allen's  Tables  for  Iron  Analysis 8vo,  3  00 

Egleston's  Gold  and  Mercury Large  Svo,  7  50 

Metallurgy  of  Silver Large  Svo,  7  50 

*  Kerl's  Metallurgy — Copper  and  Iron Svo,  15  00 

*  "                Steel,  Fuel,  etc 8vo,  15  00 

Kunhardt's  Ore  Dressing  in  Europe Svo,  1  50 

Metcalf's  Steel— A  Manual  for  Steel  Users 12mo,  2  00 

O'Driscoll's  Treatment  of  Gold  Ores 8vo,  2  00 

Thurston's  Iron  and  Steel 8vo,  3  50 

Alloys 8vo,       2  50 

Wilson's  Cyanide  Processes 12mo,       1  50 

MINERALOGY   AND   MINING. 

Mine  Accidents — Ventilation — Ore  Dressing,  Etc. 

Barringer's  Minerals  of  Commercial  Value Oblong  morocco,  2  50 

Beard's  Veutilatiou  of  Mines 12mo,  2  50 

Boyd's  Resources  of  South  Western  Virginia Svo,  3  00 

Map  of  South  Western  Virginia Pocket-book  form,  2  00 

Brush  and  Peufield's  Determinative  Mineralogy.    New  Ed.  8vo,  4  00 

13 


Chester's  Catalogue  of  Miuerals 8vo,  $1  25 

Paper,  50 

"       Dictionary  of  the  Names  of  Minerals 8vo,  3  00 

Dana's  American  Localilii     of  Minerals Large  8vo,  1  00 

"      Descriptive  Miner            (E.S.)  Large  8vo.  half  morocco,  12  50 

"      First  Appendix  t<      \  stem  of  Mineralogy.   ..   Large  8vo,  1  00 

"     Mineralogy  and  Petrography.     (J.  D.) 12mo,  2  00 

"       Minerals  and  How  to  Study  Them.     (E.  S.) 12mo,  1  50 

",    Text-book  of  Mineralogy.     (E.  S.)..  .New  Edition.     8vo,  4  00 

*  Drinker's  Tunnelling,  Explosives,  Compounds,  and  Rock  Drills. 

4to,  half  morocco,  25  00 

Egleston's  Catalogue  of  Minerals  and  Synonyms 8vo,  2  50 

Eissler's  Explosives — Nitroglycerine  and  Dynamite 8vo,  4  00 

Hussak's  Rock- forming  Minerals.'    (Smith.) Small  8vo,  2  00 

Ihlseng's  Manual  of  Mining 8vo,  4  00 

Kunhardt's  Ore  Dressing  in  Europe 8vo,  1  50 

O'Driscoll's  Treatment  of  Gold  Ores 8vo,  2  00 

*  Peufield's  Record  of  Mineral  Tests Paper,  8vo,  50 

Roseubusch's    Microscopical    Physiography   of    Minerals    and 

Rocks.     (Iddings.) 8vo,  5  00 

Sawyer's  Accidents  in  Mines Large  Svo,  7  00 

Stockbridge's  Rocks  and  Soils Svo,  2  50 

Walke's  Lectures  on  Explosives Svo,  4  00 

Williams's  Lithology Svo,  3  00 

Wilson's  Mine  Ventilation 12mo,  1  25 

"         Hydraulic  and  Placer  Mining.  ,■ 12mo,  2  50 

STEAM  AND  ELECTRICAL  ENGINES,  BOILERS,  Etc. 

Stationary — Marine— Locomotive — Gas  Engines,  Etc 
{See  also  Engineering,  p.  8.) 

Baldwin's  Steam  Heating  for  Buildings 12mo,  2  50 

Clerk's  Gas  Engine. , Small  Svo,  4  00 

Ford's  Boiler  Making  for  Boiler  Makers 18mo,  1  00 

Hemenway's  Indicator  Practice 12mo,  2  00 

Hoadley's  Warm-blast  Furnace 8vo,  1  50 

Kneass's  Practice  and  Theor}'  of  the  Injector 8vo,  1  50 

MacCord's  Slide  Valve Svo,  2  00 

Meyer's  Modern  Locomotive  Construction 4to,  10  00 

Peabodyand  Miller's  Steam-boilers 8vo,  4  00 

Peabody's  Tables  of  Saturated  Steam Svo,  1  00 

"          Thermodynamics  of  the  Steam  Engine 8vo,  5  00 

"          Valve  Gears  for  the  Steam  Engine Svo,  2  50 

Pray's  Twenty  Years  with  the  Indicator. . . . Large  Svo,  2  50 

Pupin  and  Osterberg's  Thermodynamics 12mo,  1  25 

14 


Reagan's  Sleam  and  Electric  Locomotives 12mo, 

Routgen's  Theianodyuamics.     (Du  Bois.) 8vo 

Sinclair's  Locomotive  Running 12mo, 

Snow's  Steam-boiler  Practice 8vo.     (In  the  press.) 

Thurston's  Boiler  Explosions 1 2mo, 

"  Engine  and  Boiler  Trials 8vo, 

"  Manual  of  the  Steam  Engine.      Part  L,   Structure 

and  Theory, , 8vo, 

Manual  of  the   Steam  Engine.      Part  II.,    Design, 

Construction,  and  Operation 8vo, 

2  parts, 

Thurston's  Philosophy  of  the  Steam  Engine 12mo, 

Retlectio^  oti  the  Motive  Power  of  Heat.    (Carnot.) 

12mo, 

Sleam  Engines 8vo, 

er  Construction  and  Operation 8vo, 

• 8vo, 

Weisbach's  Steam  Eferine.     (Du  Bois.)  8vo, 

Whitham's  Coustruclve  Steam  Engineering 8vo, 

le  Design 8vo, 

i.     (Flather.) 12mo, 


f3  00 

5  00 
2  00 

1  50 

5  00 

6  00 


"  Stationar 

"  Steam-bo 

Spaugler's  Valve  Ge 


Steam-en, 
Wilson's  Steam  Boil 


6  00 

10  00 

75 

1  50 

2  50 

5  00 

2  50 

5  00 

6  00 

5  00 

2  50 

4  00 

Wood's  Thermodynamics,  Heat  Motors,  etc 8vo, 

TABLE!    WEIGHTS,  AND  MEASURES. 

For  Actuaries,  Chemists,  Engineers,  Mechanics— Metric 
Tables,  Etc. 

Adriauce's  Laboratonpalculations 12mo,  1  25 

Allen's  Tables  for  IrolAnalysis 8vo,  3  00 

Bixby's  Graphical  Coilmting  Tables Sheet,  25 

Comptou's  Logarithms 12mo,  1  50 

Crandall's  Railway  anffiarthwork  Tables 8vo,  1  50 

Egleston's  Weights  anhleasures 18mo,  75 

Fisher's  Table  of  Cubittards Cardboard,  25 

Hudson's  Excavation 'ljles.     Vol.11 Svo,  100 

Johnson's  Stadia  and  Ejthwork  Tables 8vo,  1  25 

Ludlow's  Logarithmic   d  Other  Tables.     (Bass.) 12mo,  2  00 

Totteu's  Metrology \ 8V0>  g  50 

VENTILATION. 

Steam  Heating— Jotjse  Inspection— Mine  Ventilation. 

Baldwin's  Steam  Heatin 12mo,  2  50 

Beard's  Ventilation  of  Jies 12mo,  2  50 

Carpenter's  Heating  andTentilating  of  Buildings Svo,  3  00 

Gerhard's  Sanitary  Houifnspection 12mo,  1  00 

Reid's  Ventilation  of  Aiiican  Dwellings 12mo,  1  50 

Wilson's  Mine  Ventilati(| 12mo,  1  25 

15 


MISCELLANEOUS   PUBLICATIONS. 

Alcott's  Gems,  Sentiment,  Language Gilt  edges,  $5  00 

Bailey's  The  New  Tale  of  a  Tub 8vo,  75- 

Ballard's  Solution  of  the  Pyramid  Problem. 8vo,  1  50 

Barnard's  The  Metrological  System  of  the  Great  Pyramid.  .8vo.  1  50 

Davis's  Elements  of  Law 8vo,  2  00 

Emmon's  Geological  Guide-book  of  the  Rocky  Mountains.  .8vo,  1  50 

Ferrel's  Treatise  on  the  Winds 8vo,  4  00 

Haines's  Addresses  Delivered  before  the  Am.  Ry.  Assn.  ..12mo.  2  50 

Mott's  The  Fallacy  of  the  Present  Theory  of  Sound.  .Sq.  IGmo,  1  00 

Ricketts's  History  of  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute 8vo,  3  00 

Rotherham's    The     New    Testament     Critically   Emphasized. 

12mo,  1  50 
The  Emphasized  New  Test.     A  new  translation. 

Large  8vo,  2  00 

Totteu's  An  Important  Question  in  Metrology 8vo,  2  50 

Whitehouse's  Lake  Mceris Paper,  25 

*  Wiley's  Yosemite,  Alaska,  and  Yellowstone 4to,  3  00 

HEBREW  AND   CHALDEE   TEXTBOOKS. 

Fou  Schools  and  Theological  Sminakies. 

Gesenius's  Hebrew   and    Chaldee   Lexicon   to  'Id   Testament. 

(Tregelles.) Small  4t,  half  morocco, 

Green's  Elementary  Hebrew  Grammar 12mo, 

"        Grammar  of  the  Hebrew  Language  (N<v  Edition  ).8vo, 

"        Hebrew  Chrestomathy 8vo, 

Letteris's    Hebrew   Bible   (Massoretic   Notes   i  English). 

8vo,  arabesque,       2  25 

MEDICAL. 

Bull's  Maternal  Management  in  Health  and  Dease 12mo, 

Hammarsten's  Physiological  Chemistry.    (Malel.) 8vo, 

Mott's  Composition,  Digestibility,  and  Nutrite  Value  of  Food. 

Lae  mounted  chart, 

Ruddiman's  Incompatibilities  in  Prescriptios 8vo, 

Steel's  Treatise  on  the  Diseases  of  the  Ox 8vo, 

Treatise  on  the  Diseases  of  the  Dog 8vo, 

Woodhull's  Military  Hygiene lGmo, 

Worcester's  Small  Hospitals— Establishmei and  Maintenance, 
including  Atkinson's  Suggestions  f  Hospital  Archi- 
tecture  12mof       1  25 

16 


>,   5  00 

,   1  25 

,   3  00 

,   2  00 

1 

00 

■1 

00 

1 

25 

2 

00 

6  00 

3  50 

1 

50 

