) 


CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 


BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
OF  THE  SAGE  ENDOWMENT 
FUND  GIVEN  IN  1 89 1  BY 

HENRY  WILLIAMS  SAGE 

RETURN  TO 

ALBERT  R.  MANN  LIBRARY 


ITHACA,  N.  Y. 


date  due 


GAYLORD  J 

| 

PRINTED  INU.S  A. 

■ 


# 


\ 


THE 


COLOURED  FIGURES  AND  DESCRIPTIONS  OF  THE  MOST  ESTEEMED  KINDS  OF 


APPLES  AND  PEARS. 


) 


WITH  ILLUSTRATIONS  DRAWN  AND  COLOURED  FROM  NATURE  BY  MISS  ELLIS  AND  MISS  BULL. 

TECHNICAL  EDITOR  I  ROBERT  HOGG,  LL.D.,  F.L.S., 

Honorary  Member  of  the  Woolhope  Naturalists'  Field  Club ;  Vice-President  of  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society  ; 
Author  of  1  The  Fruit  Manual' ;  1  British  Pomology' ;  1  The  Vegetable  Kingdom  and  its  Products',  crc. , 


“  Hope  on.  Hope  ever." 


“  ’Zecpvply  level  over  a  ra  /fev  (pvei  aXXa  Se  irecrueL 
oygyt]  eV  oJXv>J  yppScrKei,  /a rj\ov  S'  eir\  jurfip, 
avrap  67T4  o-TcupyXy  crTacpvXyj,  cru/cov  S'e7ri  cru/cw.” 

Homer  Odyssey  vii.  ng-22. 

“The  balmy  spirit  of  the  western  gale, 

Eternal  breathes  on  fruits  untaught  to  fail  ; 

Each  dropping  pear,  a  following  pear  supplies, 

On  apples  apples,  figs  on  figs  arise.” 

Pope. 


General  Editor:  HENRY  GRAVES  BULL,  M.D.,  &c.,  J.P.  for  the  City  and 

County  of  Hereford. 


VOLUME  II. 

HEREFORD  :  JAKEMAN  AND  CARVER,  HIGH  TOWN. 

LONDON  :  JOURNAL  OF  HORTICULTURE  OFFICE,  171,  FLEET  STREET,  E.C. 


« 


1876-1885. 


I\  .  \  %<4  o 


KJf  vi? 


M  Si  - 1  - 


” EiKTOcrOev  h’  avXr/s  peyas  6p^aro<;  ayyi  dvpdcov 
rerpdyvos'  7 repl  h’  eptcos  iXpXarai  dpc^orepu/Oev. 
ev9a  he  hevhpea  pa/cpa  rre^vKei  rrjXedocovra, 
oy^vai,  teal  poial,  teal  prjXeai  dyXao/capTroi, 
av/cal  re  yXv/cepal,  /cal  eXalai  rpXedocauai. 
rdcov  oinroTe  tcapirbs  d7r6XXvrai,  ovh’  emXeLrrei 
'XeLpcaros,  ovhe  depev 9,  eirerpaios’  dXXa  pdX'  alel 
Zetyvpirj  rrveiovaa  ra  pev  cfrvei,  aXXa  he  rreacrei. 
oyxyv  e7r’  °1XVV  7 ypacncei,  prjXov  h'  eVl  ppXw, 
avrdp  errl  aracjivXr]  ara^vXp,  avtcov  h  eVi,  av/cw. 

Homer,  Od.  vii.  112-121. 


Without  the  court-yard,  nigh  the  door,  extends  a  garden  ground, 

Four  acres  broad,  on  either  side  with  fencework  girt  around, 

And  orchard  trees  of  lofty  height  grow  in  luxuriance  there, 

Laden  with  apple,  golden  fruit,  pomegranate,  or  with  pear  ; 

Or  in  rich  plenty  luscious  fig  or  blooming  olive  bear. 

Of  these  the  fruitage  through  the  year  nor  perishes  nor  fails, 

Winter  or  Summer,  evermore  blow  Zephyr’s  gentle  gales, 

And  with  their  breath  to  early  life  force  on  the  budding  shoot, 

Or  on  the  pendent  branches  fan_to  mellowness  the  fruit. 

Apple  on  apple  ripens  fast,  pear  follows  upon  pear, 

Fig  upon  fig,  and  grape  on  grape  the  vine  doth  daily  bear. 

Translation  by  Sir  C.  Du  Cane,  K.C.M.G., 

Formerly  Governor  of  Tasmania. 


/ 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


VOLUME  II. 


1.  — Seventy-six  Plates  of  Fruits,  Drawn  and  Coloured  from  Nature, 

representing  four  hundred  and  twenty-four  varieties,  with  Wood-cut 
Sections,  and  descriptive  Letterpress.  (Plate  Seventy-seven,  in 
Volume  I,  contains  eight  additional  figures.) 

2.  — Alphabetical  List  of  Other  Cider  Apples,  exhibited  at  the  Hereford 

Apple  Shows. 

3.  — List  of  Cider  Apples  and  Perry  Pears  Recommended  for  Planting 

by  the  Club. 

4.  — Index  to  Dessert  and  Culinary  Apples,  and  their  Synonyms. 

5.  — Index  to  Cider  Apples,  and  their  Synonyms. 

6.  — Index  to  Dessert  and  Culinary  Pears,  and  their  Synonyms. 

7.  — Index  to  Perry  Pears,  and  their  Synonyms. 


The  number  of  F'ruits  represented  on  the  whole  of  tpie  Plates  are  as  follows 


Apples,  Culinary  or  Dessert  ...  .  .  207 

Cider  Apples  ...  ...  ...  ...  56 

Pears,  Culinary  or  Dessert  ...  ...  129 

Perry  Pears  ...  ...  •••  29 

Ornamental,  or  Preserving  Fruits  ...  n 

432 


T  OTAL 


' 


I  ■ 


Plate  X  X  X  1 


BsSrH 


G.Severeyns,  Chromolithu  Brussels. 


3 


Miss  Edith  E. Bull. del 
for  The  Woolhope  Cluh 


2.  French  Codlm. 


ti.fi 


5.  En£li 


4  Transparent  Codlm. 


Royal  Co  dim. 


4.»* 


Jolly  Be££ar 

?  )  t ) 


PLATE  XXXI. 


ii 


. 

i.  Jolly  Beggar.  2.  French  Codlin. 

1.  JOLLY  BEGGAR. 

[Syn  :  Lord  Grosvenor.~\ 

A  variety  without  any  history. 

Description. — Fruit  :  about  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  two  inches 
high  ;  roundish,  but  apt  to  be  irregular  in  shape.  Skin  :  pale  yellow,  with  an  orange  tint  next 
the  sun.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  set  in  a  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  rather  deeply 
inserted.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  briskly,  and  pleasantly  flavoured. 

An  early  cooking  apple  of  great  merit,  in  season  from  August  till  October. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  most  prolific.  It  bears  very  early,  and  when  grown  as  a  dwarf 
on  the  Paradise  Stock,  the  bushes  are  covered  with  fruit.  It  is  one  of  the  most  useful  varieties 
for  garden  culture. 

2.  FRENCH  CODLIN. 

The  history  of  this  fruit  is  nowhere  given. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  conical,  with  an  irregular  outline  and  obtusely 
angular.  Skin  :  smooth  greenish  yellow,  passing  to  a  clear  yellow  as  it  ripens,  with  a  rich 
orange  red  blush  towards  the  sun,  more  or  less  deep  in  colour.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set 
in  a  narrow  cavity,  very  irregular,  with  small  plaits  and  tubercles.  Stalk  :  thin,  nearly  an  inch 
long,  set  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity  lined  with  streaks  of  russet  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  tender, 
with  a  pleasant  subacid  flavour. 

This  apple  resembles  the  Manx  Codlin  very  much  in  general  appearance,  and  also 
in  its  culinary  properties. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  bears  well.  It  has  long  been  grown  in  the  Royal  Horticultural 
Society’s  Garden  at  Chiswick. 


PLATE  XXXI. 


3.  ROYAL  CODLIN. 

There  is  no  published  account  of  the  origin  or  history  of  this  Apple. 

Description . — Fruit :  large  and  handsome,  conical,  with  broad  base  ;  three  and  a  half  inches 
broad  by  two  and  three  quarters  high  ;  irregular  in  outline  with  very  obtuse  angles.  Skin  :  greenish 
yellow  with  a  red  blush  on  the  sunny  side,  and  mottled  with  deeper  colours  ;  the  whole  surface 
covered  with  distinct  fine  spots  of  thin  russet  which  also  covers  the  stalk  cavity  and  extends  in  faint 
lines  from  it  up  the  side  of  the  apple.  Eye  :  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  plaited  cavity.  Stalk  :  stout 
with  fleshy  protuberance  inserted  in  a  broad  and  not  very  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  white  and  tender 
with  a  sweet  acidulated  flavour. 

This  Apple  is  so  pleasant  and  agreeable  when  fresh  gathered  from  the  tree  as  to  make  it 
worthy  of  the  dessert  table.  It  is  also  an  excellent  culinary  apple. 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  bears  well.  Its  blossoms  are  beautiful,  they  are  very  large,  the 
outer  side  of  the  petals  of  a  deep  rosy  crimson,  whilst  the  inner  side  is  a  pearly  white. 


PLATE  XXXI. 


5.  Old  English  Codlin. 
4.  TRANSPARENT  CODLIN. 


The  history  of  this  variety  is  also  wanting. 

Description. — Fruit:  large  and  conical.  Skin:  smooth,  clear  yellow,  tinged  with  pale 
crimson  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  short  segments,  placed  in  a 
deep  and  angular  basin.  Stalk :  short  and  tender,  inserted  in  a  deep,  round,  and  wide  cavity. 
Flesh  :  tender,  almost  transparent,  juicy,  sugary,  and  well  flavoured. 

A  very  useful  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  September  to  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  bears  well,  as  is  the  habit  of  Codlin  trees  in  general. 


5.  OLD  ENGLISH  CODLIN. 

[Syn  :  English  Codlin ;  Common  Codlin.  ] 

The  history  of  this  favourite  old  English  apple  is  lost. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  conical,  and  irregular  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  fine  yellow  with 
a  faint  red  blush  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  closed.  Stalk  :  short  and  stout.  Flesh  : 
white,  tender,  and  agreeably  acid. 

A  very  early  cooking  apple,  in  season  from  August  to  September. 

The  tree  grows  well,  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  XXXII. 


i.  DUCHESSE  D’ORLEANS. 

[Syn  :  St.  Nicholas  ;  B curve  St.  Nicholas. ] 

This  Pear  is  said  to  have  been  a  wilding  found  at  St.  Nicholas  near  Angers,  which  bore 
fruit  in  1839. 

Description. — Fruit :  large  and  pyriform.  Skin  :  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  but  with  a 
tinge  of  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  mottled  with  greenish  brown  russet.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a 
wide  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  melting, 
buttery  and  juicy,  with  a  rich,  sugary  and  vinous  flavour  and  a  fine  aroma. 

A  very  delicious  pear  in  season  in  October. 

The  tree  is  vigorous  and  bears  abundantly,  but  in  England  it  requires  a  warm  situation. 


Plate  XXXII 


2 ;  Emile 


1 . ■  Duchess e  dl Orleans 


5.  Duron  dean 


Beurre 


G. Severeyns,  Chromolith.  Brussels.  Miss  Alice  B. Ellis  i  Miss  Edith  E. Bull, del. 

for  The  Woolhppe  Club. 


- 


PLATE  XXXII. 


2.  EMILE  D’HEYST. 

This  Pear  was  raised  by  Major  Esperen  of  Malines  (c.  1830-40),  and  was  named  by  him  in 
honour  of  M.  Iimile  Berckmans,  of  Heyst-op-den-Berg,  who  continued  the  collection  of  M.  Esperen. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide  and  three  inches  and  a 
quarter  long  ;  oblong  pyriform,  undulating  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  bright  yellow  when  ripe,  marked 
with  patches  and  veins  of  cinnamon-coloured  russet.  Eye  :  small,  set  almost  even  with  the  surface, 
and  sometimes  quite  prominent.  Stalk  :  about  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  narrow,  uneven  cavity.  Flesh : 
tender,  very  rich,  buttery  and  melting,  juicy,  exceedingly  sugary,  sprightly,  and  with  a  fine  rose 
water  perfume. 

A  most  delicious  pear  ;  in  season  at  the  end  of  October  and  November.  It  will  not 
keep  long. 

The  tree  grows  weakly  on  the  Quince,  but  much  better  on  the  Pear  stock.  It  has  a 
spreading  growth  and  keeps  its  foliage  late  in  Autumn.  It  bears  abundantly  and  holds  its  fruit  well. 


PLATE  XXXII. 


3.  BEURRE  BOSC. 

[Syn  :  Beurri  d  Apremont ;  Beurri  Rose  ;  Canelle  ;  Marianne  Nouvellei\ 

This  pear,  which  is  generally  supposed  to  have  been  a  seedling  of  Van  Mons,  was  really 
found  as  a  wilding  at  Apremont,  in  the  Haute  Saone,  and  was  named  after  M.  Bose,  the  eminent 
Director  of  the  Jardin  des  Plantes  at  Paris. 

Description. — Fruit:  large,  acutely  pyriform.  Skin:  almost  entirely  covered  with  cinnamon- 
coloured  russet,  leaving  only  a  small  portion  of  the  yellow  ground  colour  visible,  here  and  there. 
Eye  :  open,  placed  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted  without 
depression.  Flesh  :  white,  melting  and  buttery,  very  juicy,  rich  and  aromatic. 

A  dessert  pear  of  the  first  quality  ;  ripe  in  October  and  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  very  prolific,  seldom  failing  to  bear  a  good  crop  of  fruit.  In  a  warm 
light  soil  it  does  well  as  a  Standard,  or  pyramid;  but  in  a  cold  soil,  or  a  hard  situation,  the  fruit  is  apt 
to  be  crisp,  or  only  half  melting.  It  is  one  of  the  most  profitable  pears  for  the  market,  and  is  very 
fine  when  grown  on  a  wall,  or  in  a  warm  situation. 


PLATE  XXXII. 


4.  BEURR6  CLAIRGEAU. 

[Syn  :  Clairgeau ;  Clairgeau  de  Nantes. ] 

This  handsome  Pear  was  raised  at  Nantes  by  a  gardener  of  the  name  of  Pierre  Clairgeau, 
in  the  Rue  de  Bastille,  abont  the  year  1840.  The  original  tree  was  purchased  by  M.  de  Jonghe,  of 
Brussels,  who  distributed  it.  It  was  sent  to  England  in  the  year  1848  by  M.  Rene  Langelier,  of 
Jersey. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  and  very  handsome ;  curved  pyriform.  Skin  :  smooth  and 
shining,  of  a  fine  lemon  yellow  colour,  and  with  a  tinge  of  bright  orange  red  on  the  side  next  the 
sun  ;  it  is  thickly  covered  all  over  with  large  russety  dots,  and  patches  of  thin  delicate  russet, 
particularly  round  the  stalk.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  level  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch 
long,  stout  and  rather  fleshy,  with  a  swollen  lip  on  one  side  of  it.  Flesh  :  white,  crisp,  or  half 
melting,  coarse-grained,  juicy,  sweet,  and  slightly  musky. 

A  very  handsome  showy  Pear  ;  in  season  in  November.  It  commands  a  good  price  in  the 
market  by  its  great  beauty  and  size,  but  these  are  its  chief  recommendations.  It  is  a  very  variable 
Pear,  and  in  a  warm  situation,  on  a  wall,  it  sometimes  proves  good,  but  its  usual  fate  in  English 
gardens,  is  to  give  place  to  better  fruit.  The  Durondeau ,  which  is  fully  as  large,  almost  equally 
handsome,  and  of  much  finer  quality,  should  take  its  place. 

The  tree  is  very  vigorous,  forms  a  good  pyramid,  bears  freely,  and  when  trained  on  a  wall, 
yields  an  abundance  of  fruit  of  large  size  and  great  beauty. 


PLATE  XXXII. 


5.  DURONDEAU. 

/ 

[Syn  :  Beurre  Durondeau ;  De  Tongre.~\ 

The  exact  origin  of  this  Pear  is  not  known.  The  original  tree  exists  in  the  garden  of  the 
late  M.  Durondeau,  at  the  village  of  Tongre-Notre-Dame,  near  Ath,  in  Belgium.  It  was  therefore, 
in  all  probability,  one  of  the  early  results  of  hybridization  towards  which  it  was  the  good  fortune  of 
Thomas  Andrew  Knight  to  give  so  great  an  impulse  at  the  beginning  of  the  present  century. 

Description. — Fruit :  large  and  handsome,  regularly  formed  ;  obtuse  pyriform,  and  small  at 
the  stalk.  Skin  :  shining,  as  if  varnished,  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  where  it  is  of  a  lively  crimson, 
marked  with  broken  streaks  of  darker  crimson,  and  covered  with  large,  grey,  russet  dots  ;  on  the 
shaded  side  it  is  yellow,  with  a  thin  crust  of  cinnamon  russet,  and  large  russet  dots.  Eye  :  small 
and  open  set  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  very  slender,  and  inserted  on  the  end 
of  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  very  tender,  melting  and  very  juicy,  sweet,  rich,  and  delicious. 

A  first-rate  and  beautiful  Pear  ;  ripe  in  the  end  of  October  and  beginning  of  November.  It  is 
one  of  the  finest  and  most  beautiful  of  the  autumn  Pears  ;  and  when  grown  in  a  good  aspect,  it  has 
all  the  brillancy  of  Beurri  Clairgeau  in  colour,  without  its  capriciousness  in  flavour.  The  tree  is 
hardy  in  habit,  and  bears  well  as  a  pyramid,  or  espalier,  but  it  does  not  colour  so  well  in  the  northern 
as  it  does  in  the  southern  counties.  A  fine  dish  of  these  Pears  is  as  imposing  on  the  dessert  table 
as  they  themselves  are  delicious  in  flavour ;  and  the  Pear  is  so  effective  for  exhibition,  that  it 
should  always  be  shown  in  every  collection. 


Plate  XXXIII. 


1 .  Wkeeler’s  Russe 


itiriaston 


3. Royal  Russet 


Miss  Alice  B.ElIii 
for  The  Wool  hope 


G.  Severeyns,  Chromolith.  Brussels 


PLATE  XXXIII. 


i.  WHEELER’S  RUSSET. 

This  apple  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  Mr.  James  Wheeler  who  founded  the  Gloucester 
Nursery  Garden,  now  in  the  occupation  of  his  great  grandson.  Mr.  Wheeler  was  an  intelligent 
man,  and  assiduous  in  his  profession.  He  published  in  1763,  “  The  Botanist's  and  Gardener  s  New 
Dictionary .”  He  died  about  the  beginning  of  the  century,  having  attained  over  ninety  years  of 
age.  It  is  a  little  doubtful  however  whether  this  apple  which  bears  his  name  was  really  raised  by 
him,  for  in  an  old  day  book,  dated  1717,  and  which  belonged  to  Smith  and  Carpenter  of  the 
Brompton  Park  Nursery,  it  appears  that  it  was  cultivated  there  at  that  period,  when  of  course 
Mr.  James  Wheeler  must  have  been  a  mere  child. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  broad  and  two  inches  and 
a  quarter  high  ;  roundish  obovate,  and  somewhat  irregular  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  entirely  covered 
with  pale  yellowish  grey  russet,  with  a  reddish  brown  colour  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  strewn  with 
russety  freckles.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  short  segments,  set  in  a  wide  and  undulated  basin. 
Stalk  :  from  a  quarter  to  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  round,  narrow,  and  deep  cavity.  Flesh  : 
greenish  white,  firm,  juicy,  brisk  and  sugary  ;  with  a  rich  vinous  and  aromatic  flavour. 

A  valuable  and  highly-flavoured  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality.  It  is  in  season  from 
November  to  April  ;  and  as  Mr.  Lindley  says  when  it  is  well  ripened  and  begins  to  shrivel,  it  is 
one  of  the  best  russets  of  its  season. 

The  tree  is  a  free  grower,  healthy  and  hardy,  but  does  not  attain  a  large  size.  It  is 
generally  .a  good  bearer,  and  succeeds  well  in  almost  any  soil  provided  it  is  not  too  moist. 


PLATE  XXXIII. 


2.  PITMASTON  RUSSET. 

[Syn  :  Pitmaston  Nonpareil ;  Pitmaston  Russet  Nonpareil ;  St.  Johns  Nonpareil ;  Russet 
Coat  Nonpar eil.~\ 

This  excellent  variety  was  raised  by  Mr.  John  Williams  of  Pitmaston,  in  the  Parish  of 
St.  John’s,  near  Worcester.  It  was  a  seedling  from  the  Nonpareil ,  and  the  tree  first  bore  fruit  in 
1815.  It  was  exhibited  at  the  London  Horticultural  Society  1818,  in  the  name  of  Pitmaston 
Russet  Nonpareil ,  and  a  coloured  representation  is  given  of  it  in  Vol.  Ill  of  the  Society’s 
Transactions,  Plate  10. 

Description . — Fruit:  above  medium  size,  three  inches  wide  and  two  and  a  half  high; 
roundish  and  flattened.  Skin  :  pale  green,  almost  entirely  covered  with  russet,  and  with  a  faint 
tinge  of  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  broad,  shallow  and  plaited  basin. 
Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  firm,  rich,  and  highly  aromatic. 

This  is  a  dessert  apple  of  the  greatest  excellence,  in  season  from  December  to  February. 


PLATE  XXXIII. 


3.  ROYAL  RUSSET. 

[Syn  :  Leather-Coat ;  Reinette  de  Canada  gr is e  ;  Reinette  de  Canada  Platte\. 

Justice  Shallow’s  House  in  Gloucestershire  : 

“  Nay,  you  shall  see  mine  orchard,  where  in 
an  arbor  we  will  eat  a  last  year’s  pippin  of  my  own 
grafting,  with  a  dish  of  carraways  and  so  forth.” 

(Shakespeare  “ King  Henry  IV,  Part  ii ,  Scene.  3”). 

“  There’s  a  dish  of  leather-coats  for  you  !” 

(“  ibid.”) 

This  apple  has  been  a  favourite  old  English  variety  for  time  immemorial.  It  is  mentioned  by 
Lawson  so  early  as  1597,  and  has  been  much  esteemed  by  every  writer  since  that  period.  It  has 
been  well  figured  in  the  P ontological  Magazine ,  Plate  125. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
high  ;  roundish,  somewhat  flattened  and  angular.  Skin  :  covered  with  rough  brown  russet,  which 
has  a  brownish  tinge  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  the  ground  colour  is  yellowish  green,  but  only  some 
portions  of  it  are  visible.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  and  rather  shallow  basin.  Stalk : 
half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  tender,  crisp,  brisk, 
juicy,  and  sugary. 

A  most  excellent  culinary  apple  of  the  first  quality.  It  is  in  season  from  November  to  May, 
but  is  apt  to  shrink  and  become  dry,  unless  kept  in  a  good  fruit  house.  Mr.  Thompson 
recommends  it  to  be  kept  in  dry  sand. 

The  tree  is  perfectly  hardy,  of  a  very  vigorous  habit,  and  attains  the  largest  size.  It 
succeeds  admirably  in  Herefordshire,  bears  very  freely,  and  is  much  valued  by  all  who  have 
experienced  its  great  merits. 

There  is  another  apple  known  by  the  name  of  Leather-Coat  or  Old  Leather-Coat ,  which  is 
small  and  of  a  conical  shape,  thickly  covered  with  rough  russet.  It  is  met  with  in  the  Gloucestershire 
orchards 


PLATE  XXXIV. 


i.  FONDANTE  D’AUTOMNE. 

[Syn  :  Arbre  Super  be ;  Excellentissime ;  Literate;  Belle  Lucrative;  Beurre  Lucratif ; 
Beurre  d'  Albret ;  Bergamotte  Fieve  ;  Gresiliere  ;  Seigneur  D'  Esperenl\ 

There  is  no  account  given  of  the  origin  of  this  favourite  Pear,  but  judging  from  its  last 
synonym,  it  is  probably  one  of  the  many  excellent  pears  raised  by  Major  Esperen,  of  Malines 

(c.  1830 — 40). 

% 

Description . — Fruit  :  large,  obovate,  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  lemon  yellow,  with 
tinges  of  green  over  the  surface,  marked  with  patches  of  yellowish  brown  russet.  Eye  :  small  and 
open,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  long,  fleshy  at  the  base,  and  obliquely  inserted  without 
depression.  Flesh  :  white,  very  tender,  fine  grained  and  melting  ;  very  juicy,  sugary,  and  aromatic. 

A  delicious  early  Autumn  pear  ;  ripe  during  September  and  October. 

The  tree  makes  an  excellent  dwarf  standard,  but  as  it  does  not  grow  very  vigorously,  it  is 
better  on  the  pear  than  on  the  Quince  Stock.  It  bears  well,  rarely  failing  a  crop.  There  is  one 
draw-back  to  it,  and  that  is,  the  birds  are  very  fond  of  it.  In  a  garden  near  Hereford  it  is  called 
the  “  Tomtit  pear,”  because  these  birds  will  scarcely  wait  until  it  is  ripe,  before  they  set  to  work 
upon  the  fruit. 


Plate  xxxiv: 


G.Sww^xWnwlHh  BrniwJe. 


Miss  Alice  B.EIlis  &  Miss  Edith  E.Bull.del. 

for  The  Wooihooe  Club. 


* 


* 


PLATE  XXXIV. 


2.  THOMPSON’S. 

[Syn:  Vlesembeekl] 

This  variety  was  raised  by  Van  Mons  (c.  1820 — 30),  and  was  sent  by  him  to  the  London 
Horticultural  Society  without  a  name.  Mr.  Sabine  named  it  in  honour  of  Mr.  Robert  Thompson, 
at  that  time  the  Superintendent  of  the  Fruit  Department  in  the  Society’s  Garden  at  Chiswick. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  :  pale  yellow,  and  considerably  covered 
with  a  coating  and  dots  of  a  pale  cinnamon  coloured  russet.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  inserted  in  an  uneven  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  buttery,  and 
melting,  very  juicy,  exceedingly  rich  and  sugary,  and  with  a  fine  aroma. 

One  of  our  best  pears,  and  when  well  ripened  delicious.  In  season  the  end  of  October  and 
November.  This  pear  won  the  first  prize  for  flavour  at  the  Woolhope  Club’s  Apple  and  Pear 
Show,  held  October,  1880,  at  Hereford,  in  competition  with  Seckle ,  Pitmaston  Duchess ,  and  several 
others  of  the  best  pears. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  succeeds  best  on  the  pear  stock.  It  is  slow  in  coming  into  bearing, 
but  when  it  does  begin,  it  bears  well. 


3.  SANGUINOLE. — [See  section  in  coloured  plate.] 

[Syn:  Sang  Rouge ;  Sanguinole  de  Roydcr  ;  Sanguinole  dl Eti  ;  Musquce,  ou  Africaine  ;  Grenade .] 

A  very  old  Pear  that  has  been  known  for  centuries.  The  earliest  notice  of  it  in  this  country 
is  given  by  Rea,  unless  the  “  Blood  Red  Pear of  Parkinson,  be  the  same. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  size,  turbinate.  Skin  :  smooth,  green  at  first,  but  changing  to 
yellowish  green,  and  dotted  with  grey  dots  on  the  shaded  side,  and  pale  brownish  red  next  the  sun. 


PLATE  XXXIV. 


Eye  :  very  large,  set  in  a  rather  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity. 
Flesh  :  red,  crisp,  juicy,  with  a  sweet  and  rather  insipid  flavour. 

An  early  dessert  pear ;  ripe  in  August  and  September,  chiefly  remarkable  for  the  colour  of 
its  flesh. 

The  tree  is  healthy  and  vigorous,  and  bears  well  as  a  standard.  It  succeeds  either  on  the 
pear  or  Quince  Stock.  Its  red  flesh  creates  for  it  almost  a  superstitious  reverence  in  country 
districts,  and  certainly  ensures  for  it  a  degree  of  favour  beyond  its  merits  as  a  dessert  fruit. 


4.  ASTON  TOWN. 

This  very  favourite  pear  takes  its  name  from  the  towm  of  Aston,  in  Cheshire,  but  the 
definite  history  of  its  origin  is  nowhere  to  be  found.  It  is  well  figured  in  Hooker’s  “  Pomona 
Londinensis ,”  pi.  18,  and  in  the  “  Pomo logical  Magazine ,”  pi.  139. 

Description. — Fruit :  rather  below  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  the  same  in 
height  ;  roundish  obovate.  Skin  :  rather  rough,  pale  green  at  first,  but  changing,  as  it  ripens,  to 
pale  yellow,  and  thickly  covered  with  brown  russet  spots.  Eye  :  small,  nearly  closed,  and  set  in  a 
small  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  and  without  depression,  and  writh 
a  swollen  lip  on  one  side  of  it.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  tender  and  buttery,  with  a  rich  sugary  and 
perfumed  flavour,  very  much  resembling,  and  even  equalling  that  of  the  Crasanne. 

A  dessert  pear  of  the  first  quality,  and  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  our  native  varieties.  It 


PLATE  XXXIV. 


is  in  season  from  about  the  middle  of  October  to  the  middle  of  November.  In  appearance  it  much 
resembles  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight’s  pear  Eyewood. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  a  vigorous  grower,  and  bears  abundantly  year  after  year.  The  year  1880, 
after  the  cold  wet  season  of  1879,  is  the  only  year  for  the  last  thirty  years  that  the  Herefordshire 
Aston  Town  pear  trees  failed  to  bear  a  crop.  It  succeeds  admirably  as  a  standard,  but  has  the 
peculiarity  of  a  tendency  in  its  branches  to  become  twisted  and  entangled.  This  should  be 
prevented  by  a  timely  attention  to  pruning. 


\ 


5.  SWAN’S  EGG. 

The  history  of  this  well  known  pear,  one  of  the  oldest  varieties,  is  nowhere  given. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  roundish  ovate.  Skin  :  smooth,  yellowish  green  on  the 
shaded  side,  and  clear  brownish  red  next  the  sun,  and  covered  with  pale  brown  russet.  Eye: 
small,  partially  closed,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk :  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted  without 
depression.  Flesh  :  tender,  very  juicy,  with  a  sweet  and  sprightly  flavour,  and  a  musky  aroma. 

A  fine,  old  and  favourite  pear  ;  ripe  in  October. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  an  excellent  bearer. 


PLATE  XXXV. 


i.  COLLEGE  APPLE. 

Nothing  definite  is  known  with  reference  to  the  origin  of  this  Apple.  It  was  imported  into 
Herefordshire  by  the  late  Mr.  W.  H.  Apperley,  of  Withington  (c.  1820-30),  who  obtained  the 
grafts,  with  some  others,  from  Somersetshire.  This  specific  name  is  believed  to  have  been  given  to 
it  in  Herefordshire. 

Description. — Fruit :  about  three  inches  high,  and  two  and  three-quarters  wide,  conical,  or 
pearmain  shaped,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline,  resembling  an  obtuse  Adams  Pearmain  in  figure. 
Skin  :  smooth  and  shining,  streaked  all  over  with  bright  crimson  on  a  golden  yellow  ground,  and  with 
patches  of  brown  russet  on  the  base  surrounding  the  stalk.  Eye  :  small,  set  in  a  narrow  shallow 
basin,  surrounded  with  ridges ;  segments  convergent,  with  divergent  tips  ;  tube,  funnel  shaped  ; 
stamens,  marginal.  Stalk  :  a  fleshy  knob,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  very 
shallow  and  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  soft,  and  briskly  acid.  Cells  of  the  core  closed. 

0 

This  Apple  is  very  attractive  in  appearance,  and  sells  well  in  the  market.  It  cooks  well  and 
keeps  until  Christmas  or  longer  with  proper  care. 

The  tree  is  healthy  and  strong.  It  bears  well,  and  has  been  gradually  spreading  through 
Herefordshire,  from  its  centre  at  Withington  Court. 


'Plate  XXXV 


G.  Severeyns,  Chromolith.  Brussels 


Alice  B. Ellis  &.  Edith  E. Bull.d 
for  The  Wool  hope  Club. 


PLATE  XXXV. 


2.  NORFOLK  BEEFING. 

[Syn  :  Norfolk  Beau  fin  ;  Norfolk  Beau-fin  ;  Norfolk  Beefin  ;  Catshead  Beaufin  ;  Reed's 
Baker ;  Tallesin.~\ 

The  name  of  this  Apple  is  frequently  written  “  Beaufin"  as  if  of  French  origin.  It  is  more 
correctly  called  Beefing ,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been  named  from  the  similarity  the  dried  fruit 
presents  to  beef.  Its  definite  history  is  lost. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  three  inches  wide,  and  two  inches  and  three-quarters 
high  ;  oblate,  irregular  in  its  outline  caused  by  several  obtuse  angles  or  ribs,  which  extend  from  the 
base  to  the  basin  of  the  eye,  where  they  form  prominent  knobs  or  ridges.  Skin  :  smooth,  green  at 
first,  but  changing  to  yellow,  and  almost  entirely  covered  with  dull  brownish  red,  which  is  thickest 
and  darkest  next  the  sun  ;  sometimes  it  is  marked  with  a  few  broken  stripes  of  dark  crimson,  and 
in  specimens  where  the  colour  extends  over  the  whole  surface,  the  shaded  side  is  mottled  with 
yellow  spots.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  deep 
and  russety  cavity.  Flesh  :  firm  and  crisp,  with  a  brisk  and  pleasant  flavour. 

A  well  known  and  first-rate  culinary  Apple,  in  season  from  Jannuary  to  June.  The  tree  is 
very  vigorous,  but  requires  a  rich  soil  and  not  too  moist,  or  it  is  apt  to  canker. 

This  valuable  variety  is  extensively  cultivated  in  Norfolk,  where,  besides  being  applied  to 
general  culinary  purposes,  the  apples  are  baked  in  ovens,  and  from  the  dried  fruits  met  with  among 
confectioners  and  fruiterers,  called  “  Norfolk  Biffins.” 


PLATE  XXXV. 


3.  STRIPED  BEEFING. 

[Syn  :  Striped  Beaufind\ 

This  noble  Apple  was  found  growing  in  1794  in  the  garden  of  William  Crow,  Esq.,  at 
Lakenham,  near  Norwich,  by  Mr.  George  Lindley,  who  introduced  it  to  notice.  It  does  not  seem 
to  have  been  in  general  cultivation  until  1847,  since  it  was  never  mentioned  in  any  of  the  Nursery 
Catalogues,  nor  was  it  in  that  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society.  Dr.  Hogg  obtained  grafts  of 
it  at  this  time,  and  propagated  and  distributed  them  through  several  of  the  principal  nurseries  of  the 
kingdom,  and  thus  caused  it  to  be  more  generally  known  and  cultivated. 

Description. — Fruit  :  of  the  largest  size  ;  beautiful  and  handsome,  roundish  and  somewhat 
depressed.  Skin  :  bright  lively  green,  almost  entirely  covered  with  broken  streaks  and  patches  of 
fine  deep  red,  and  thickly  strewed  with  russety  dots  ;  in  some  specimens  the  colour  extends  almost 
entirely  round  the  fruit.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  like  that  of  the  Blenheim  Orange ,  with  short,  erect 
ragged  segments,  set  in  a  deep  irregular  and  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  imbedded  its 
whole  length  in  the  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  and  pleasantly  acid. 

One  of  the  handsomest  and  best  culinary  apples.  It  is  in  season  from  October  until  May. 
The  tree  is  hardy,  an  excellent  bearer,  and  of  large  growth. 


PLATE  XXXV. 


4.  HEREFORDSHIRE  BEEFING. 


Nothing  is  known  of  the  origin  of  this  Apple.  Dr.  Hogg  first  saw  it  at  the  Apple  Show  of 
the  Woolhope  Naturalists’  Field  Club,  held  at  Hereford  in  1876.  It  was  then  named  simply 
“  Beefing ,”  to  distinguish  it  from  the  Norfolk  Beefing.  Dr.  Hogg  called  it  the  Herefordshire 
Beefing ,  a  name  which  was  adopted  by  the  pomological  committee  of  the  Club.  Some  months 
afterwards,  when  referring  to  some  pomological  MSS.  which  belonged  to  Forsyth,  the  author  of  a 
Treatise  on  Fruit  Trees ,  Dr.  Hogg  found  amongst  them  a  record  of  a  collection  of  fruits  that  had 
been  sent  to  him  in  the  year  1801  by  a  Mr.  Stroud  from  Dorsetshire,  and  of  these  one  was  “  The 
Hereford  Beefin ,  a  flat  apple  of  a  brownish  red  with  some  yellow  on  the  side  from  the  sun.  This 
is  very  different  from  the  Norfolk  Beefing — keeps  till  the  end  of  April.”  Dr.  Hogg’s  nomenclature 
was  thus  long  anticipated,  and  this  opportunity  of  mentioning  the  circumstance  is  taken,  because 
there  is  no  record  of  the  Hereford  Beefin  to  be  found  in  the  Treatise  on  Fruit  Trees  ;  nor  indeed  is 
any  mention  to  be  found  of  it  elsewhere.  It  is  now  therefore  described  and  figured  for  the  first 
time. 

Description. — Fruit :  roundish  oblate,  even  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  almost  entirely  of  a  dark 
chestnut  colour,  veined  and  dotted  all  over  with  cinnamon  coloured  russet,  but  especially  over  the 
crown  and  round  the  stalk,  where  it  spreads  over  the  base  in  ramifications  ;  on  the  shaded  side  it  is 
orange  with  a  greenish  tinge.  Eye  :  rather  large,  set  in  a  rather  deep  round  plaited  basin,  with 
convergent  segments  which  are  also  sometimes  erect ;  tube,  funnel  shaped  ;  stamens,  basal.  Stalk  : 
stout  and  straight  set  in  a  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  very  firm  and  solid,  crisp,  very  juicy, 
and  with  a  brisk  but  not  harsh  acidity.  Cells  of  the  core  closed. 

This  is  an  excellent  culinary  apple,  and  in  season  from  December  to  April  or  May.  It  has 
also  the  very  valuable  property  of  drying  well  in  the  oven,  like  the  Norfolk  Beefing ,  for  which 
purpose  it  would  well  repay  extensive  cultivation. 

The  tree  grows  to  a  medium  size  and  is  very  hardy.  It  is  so  prolific  that  in  the  miserable 
seasons  of  1879  and  1880  the  Herefordshire  Beefing  trees  were  conspicuous  for  their  crops  of  fruit, 
whilst  all  the  surrounding  trees  in  the  orchard  were  barren.  The  spray  of  fruit  represented  (grown 
in  1880)  represents  the  apples  small,  owing  to  the  large  crop  on  the  tree,  and  it  also  shows  a  peculiarity 
its  apples  frequently  have,  of  growing  back  to  back. 


PLATE 


XXXVI. 


i.  TARDIVE  DE  MONS. 

There  is  no  published  account  of  the  origin  of  this  Pear. 

Description. — Fruit :  oblong,  obovate,  even  and  regularly  formed.  Skin  :  of  an  uniform 
yellow  colour,  paler  on  the  shaded  side,  and  with  an  orange  tint  next  the  sun,  strewed  with  large 
russety  dots.  Eye  :  large,  clove  like,  open,  very  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  rather 
slender,  obliquely  inserted,  not  depressed.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  buttery,  melting,  and  very  juicy, 
rich  and  sugary. 

An  excellent  Pear,  in  season  in  November. 

The  tree  is  vigorous,  and  in  good  situations  bears  well. 


Plate  xxxvr 


7,  grOWn  T 


t?-  oe /ereyns ,  Chromolith .  Brussels. 


Miss  Alice  B. Ellis,  del. 
for  The  Woolhope  Club. 


- 


PLATE  XXXVI. 


2.  BEURRE  D’ANJOU. 

[Syn  :  Ne  Plus  Meuris ,  of  the  French.] 

The  history  of  this  Pear  is  nowhere  given  ;  and  its  name  offers  the  sole  guide  to  its  origin. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  and  handsome,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline,  roundish  obovate. 
Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  with  sometimes  a  shade  of  dull  red  next  the  sun,  marked  with  patches  of 
russet,  and  thickly  strewed  with  brown  and  crimson  dots.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  deeply  inserted 
in  a  wide  cavity.  Stalk  :  short  and  stout,  set  in  a  round  hole.  Flesh  :  white,  very  tender,  buttery 
and  melting,  very  juicy,  vinous,  and  with  a  delicate  rosewater  perfume. 

A  very  superior  Pear  ;  ripe  the  end  of  October,  and  continues  in  season  till  December  and 
January. 

This  Pear  is  quite  distinct  from  the  Ne  Plus  Meuris  of  Van  Mons,  and  a  very  valuable 
variety  for  the  market. 

The  tree  is  vigorous  and  productive ;  and  very  profitable  for  orchard  growth. 


PLATE  XXXVI. 


3.  ALEXANDRINE  DOUILLARD. 

/ 

This  variety  was  raised  by  M.  Douillard,  jun.,  architect,  of  Nantes,  and  first  produced  fruit 
in  1849. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  high,  and  two  inches  and  three-quarters 
wide  ;  pyriform.  Skin  :  yellowish  grey,  becoming  brighter  at  maturity.  Eye  :  small,  with  downy 
segments,  placed  in  a  slightly  depressed  basin.  Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender, 
curved,  swollen  at  the  point  of  junction  with  the  fruit,  and  inserted  in  a  slight  cavity.  Flesh  : 
white,  fine  grained,  juicy,  agreeably  flavoured,  sweet  and  perfumed. 

A  dessert  Pear  of  great  excellence  ;  in  season  during  November  and  December. 

The  tree  is  healthy,  and  very  vigorous  in  growth.  It  forms  a  handsome  pyramid  on  the 
Quince,  and  is  well  adapted  for  a  standard.  It  bears  well. 


PLATE  XXXVI. 


4.  DELICES  D’H  ARDEN  PONT. 

This  Pear  was  raised  by  Abbe  Hardenpont,  of  Mons,  in  Belgium,  in  1759,  in  his  garden 
which  was  situated  at  the  Porte  du  Havre,  at  Mons.  It  was  received  by  Van  Mons  from  the  Abbe, 
and  is  entered  twice  in  his  catalogue;  first  in  the  1st  Series  No.  331  ;  and  again  in  the  2nd  Series 
No.  714,  as  “  D Slices  cT Hardenpont,  par  son  patron.”  Grafts  of  it  were  sent  by  Dr.  Van  Mons  to 
Dr.  Diel  in  1810,  and  his  description  leaves  no  doubt  as  to  the  true  variety.  Dr.  Van  Mons  sent 
it  to  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London. 

There  has  been  much  contention  amongst  pomologists  with  reference  to  the  true  variety  of 
this  pear.  Some  authorities  make  Charles  d' Autriche  and  Archduc  Charles  merely  synonymes  of 
it.  Both  these  pears  were  received  by  Diel  from  Van  Mons,  and  the  description  of  them  both 
differs  so  widely  from  Delices  d' Hardenpont  that  it  is  a  matter  of  surprise  that  any  one  could  for  a 
moment  suppose  them  to  be  identical.  The  figure  of  Dttices  d' Hardenpont  given  by  M.  Willermoz 
in  “  Pomologie  de  la  France  ”  is  excellent,  but  that  given  by  M.  Bivort  is  incorrect,  and  has  no 
resemblance  to  it. 

Description. — •Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  over  two  inches  and  a  half 
wide  ;  oblong  obovate,  blunt  at  the  stalk,  irregular  and  uneven  in  its  outline,  narrowing  from  the 
bulge  to  the  eye.  Skin  :  smooth,  at  first  bright  green,  changing  as  it  attains  maturity  to  bright 
lemon  yellow,  thickly  covered  with  pale  brown  russety  dots  on  the  sunny  side,  but  less  so  in  the 
shade.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  short,  dry,  erect  segments,  and  set  in  an  uneven  and  considerable 
depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  thick  and  fleshy,  rather  obliquely  inserted  in  a  small  compressed 
cavity,  and  sometimes  on  the  apex  of  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  buttery,  melting,  with  a  rich, 
sweet,  and  perfumed  flavour. 

An  excellent  dessert  Pear  ;  ripe  in  November. 

The  tree  is  rather  delicate,  but  is  a  good  bearer.  It  succeeds  well  on  the  Quince  stock,  and 
may  be  grown  either  against  a  wall  or  as  a  standard. 


PLATE  XXXVI. 


[Syn  :  Six.~\ 

This  Pear  was  raised  at  Courtrai,  in  Belgium,  about  the  year  1845,  by  M.  Six,  a  gardener. 
Dr.  Hogg  received  it  from  M.  Papeleu,  of  Ghent,  in  1848. 

Description. — Fruit:  large,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  wide,  and  four  inches  and  a  quarter 
long  ;  pyriform,  very  uneven,  and  bossed  on  the  surface.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  green,  with  patches 
of  russet  round  the  eye  and  the  stalk,  but  changing  to  pale  yellow  when  ripe.  Eye  :  small,  open, 
set  in  a  shallow,  slightly  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  long,  slender,  curved,  inserted  a  little  on  one  side 
of  the  axis,  without  depression.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  very  juicy,  firm,  buttery,  and  melting. 
Core  :  very  small. 

A  very  fine  distinct  pear  of  high  character,  ripe  in  October. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  vigorously,  makes  a  fine  pyramid  on  the  Quince  stock,  and  bears 

freely. 


PLATE  XXXVI. 


6.  PASSE  COLMAR. 

[Syn  :  Passe  Colmar  dore  ;  Colmar  dor 6 ;  Passe  Colmar  Ppineux ;  Colmar  Iipineux  ;  Passe 
Colmar  gris  ;  Colmar  gris  ;  Colmar  d' Hardenpont ;  Colmar  Preul ;  Preul;  Colmar  souveraine  ; 
Colmar  Bonnet ;  Chapmans  Passe  Colmar ;  Chapmans;  Beurri d’Argenson ;  Cellite  ;  Fondante  de 
Panisel ;  Fondante  de  Mons ;  Gambler ;  Marotte  Sucre  ;  Precel ;  Present  de  M aline s ;  Pucelle 
Condesienne  ;  Regentine  ;  Roi  de  Baviere  ;  Souverain  ;  Souverain  d' Hiverd\ 

This  Pear  is  of  Belgian  origin,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been  raised  by  M.  Hardenpont,  of 
Mons,  in  Hainault,  in  1758,  and  has  for  many  years  been  cultivated  in  Belgium,  under  the  various 
names  above  given.  It  was  first  received  in  this  country  by  Mr.  R.  Wilbraham,  of  Twickenham, 
and  given  by  him  to  a  person  named  Chapman,  a  market  gardener  at  Brentford  End,  Isleworth, 
who  cultivated  it  extensively  and  attached  his  own  name  to  it.  It  was  at  first  so  highly  esteemed 
that  a  single  pear  was  sold  for  5/-,  and  the  trees  at  21/-  each.  This  pear  is  figured  in  the 
Pomological  Magazine ,  PI.  64. 

Description. — Fruit:  medium  sized,  obovate,  or  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin:  smooth,  lively 
green  at  first  sight,  but  changing  to  a  fine  uniform  deep  lemon-yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  brownish  red 
next  the  sun,  and  strewed  with  numerous  brown  dots,  and  a  few  reticulations  of  russet.  Eye  :  open, 
with  dry,  erect,  rigid  segments,  and  set  in  a  wide,  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  varying  from  three- 
quarters,  to  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  set  in  a  small  sheath-like  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white, 
fine-grained,  very  juicy,  buttery  and  melting,  and  of  a  rich,  sweet,  vinous  and  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  Pear  of  the  best  quality  ;  in  season  during  November  and  December. 

The  tree  is  very  vigorous,  healthy,  and  hardy,  but  is  apt  to  grow  loosely  with  long  pendent 
branches.  It  is  an  excellent  bearer  as  a  standard.  It  forms  a  handsome  pyramid,  but  requires  to 
be  grown  in  a  rich  warm  soil  and  situation,  or  the  flesh  is  apt  to  be  crisp  and  gritty.  It  grows  well 
on  a  wall. 


PLATE  XXXVI. 


7.  BROWN  BEURRE. 

[Syn  :  Beurri  d'Amboise  ;  D' Amboise  ;  Beurri  gris  ;  Beurri  Dor 6 ;  Beurri  Roux  ;  Beurri 
du  Roi ;  Beurre  de  Terwerenne  ;  Benedictine  ;  Isambert  le  Bon  ;  Badkam  si\ 

This  very  old  Pear  is  mentioned  by  the  earliest  French  authors,  and  it  has  been  cultivated 
in  this  country  for  upwards  of  two  centuries,  since  it  is  mentioned  by  Rea  in  1665  as  “  Boeure  de 
Roy ,  a  good  French  pear  of  a  dark  brown  colour,  long  form  and  very  good  taste.  It  is  well  figured 
in  the  Pomo logical  Magazine,  PI.  114. 

Description. — Fruit:  large,  three  inches  wide  and  three  inches  and  three-quarters  long; 
oblong  obovate.  Skin :  green,  almost  entirely  covered  with  thin  brown  russet,  and  faintly  tinged 
with  reddish  brown  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  set  in  an  even  shallow 
basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  thickest  at  the  base,  where  it  is  inserted  in  a  narrow  round  cavity  with 
generally  a  small  fleshy  lip  on  one  side.  Flesh  :  greenish  white  under  the  skin,  but  yellowish  at 
the  centre,  melting,  tender  aud  buttery,  and  sprightly  with  a  rich  musky  flavour. 

An  old  and  favourite  dessert  Pear  of  great  excellence  ;  ripe  in  October. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  will  succeed  on  either  the  pear  or  quince  stock,  and  upon  almost  every 
variety  of  soil,  except  it  be  too  moist,  and  then  the  shoots  are  apt  to  canker.  It  prefers  a  sheltered 
situation,  but  to  have  the  fruit  in  perfection  it  requires  a  wall.  The  colour  of  this  fruit  is  very 
subject  to  change  according  to  the  soil,  situation,  or  stock  on  which  it  is  grown,  and  thus  have  arisen 
the  different  synonymes  of  Red,  Grey ,  Brown ,  and  Golden  Beurri. — The  fruit  is  large,  grey,  and 
long  when  grown  upon  a  vigorous  pear  stock  even  in  dry  light  soil ;  but  it  is  smaller,  and  of  redder 
colour  when  grown  upon  the  quince  stock,  even  if  placed  in  deep  rich  soil. 


N 


* 


Cv' 


I 


/ 


0 


l 


. 


» 


/ 


I  . 


\ 


PART  V. 


PRICE  21s. 


THE 

HEREFORDSHIRE  POMONA, 

CONTAINING 

COLOURED  FIGURES  AND  DESCRIPTIONS  OF  THE  MOST  ESTEEMED  KINDS  OF 

APPLES  AND  PEAKS, 


CULTIVATED  IN  GREAT  BRITAIN, 

EDITED  BY 

ROBERT  HOGG,  L.L.D.,  F.L.S., 

Honorary  Member  of  the  Woolhope  Naturalists'  Field  Club;  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society  ; 
Author  of  1  The  Fruit  Manual ’ /  1  British  Pomology' ;  ’■The  Vegetable  Kingdom  and  its  Products' ,  &>c.,  &C. 


“  Hope  on.  Hope  ever." 


“  ’Zetpvpii]  TTveiovTa  ~ra  fev  (pvei  aWa  Se  Trecrcrei 
oy yvrj  eir  oy'gvr-]  yijpacricei ,  /u.rj\ov  S  e7ri  /u.r/\(f>, 
avTap  enri  <TTa<pv\n  <TTa(fn>\f  uvkov  o  eir\  uvncp." 

Homer  Odyssey  vii.  ng-22. 


“  The  balmy  spirit  of  the  western  gale, 

Eternal  breathes  on  fruits  untaught  to  fail  ; 

Each  dropping  pear,  a  following  pear  supplies, 

On  apples  apples,  figs  on  figs  arise.” 

Homer ,  Odyssey  vii. — Pope. 


LONDON:  THE  JOURNAL  OF  HORTICULTURE  OFFICE,  171,  FLEET  STREET,  LONDON,  E.C.. 

HEREFORD:  JAKEMAN  AND  CARVER,  HIGH  TOWN. 


Plate  XXXVII 


’  'X-.. • 


.lii  ’ 


jr  h 


rsT«J4-  .£*•,  ,  ; ' 

. .  «gp  K»i^i  ” - 

3  Franklins  G!P 


4.  Hughes  G.P.  5  Pitmaston  G.P. 


G.  Severeyns,  Chromolith.  Brussels. 


Alice  B.Ellxs  &  Edith.  E. Bull. del 
for  The  Wool  hope  Club. 


PLATE  XXXVII. 


i.  GOLDEN  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Herefordshire  Golden  Pippin  ;  London  Golden  Pippin  ;  Bayfordbury  Pippin ;  Milton 
Golden  Pippin  ;  Russet  Golden  Pippin  ;  Warier  s  Golden  Pippin  ;  American  Plate  ;  Balgone  Pippin  ; 
with  many  other  French  and  German  Synonyms.] 

The  precise  origin  of  the  Golden  Pippin  is  unknown.  All  writers  agree  in  calling  it  an 
English  variety,  as  is  also  indicated  by  its  foreign  nomenclature  ;  and  some  writers  state  that  it  was 
raised  at  Parham  Park,  near  Arundel,  in  Sussex.  There  is  no  doubt  that  it  is  a  very  old  variety, 
although  it  is  not  mentioned  by  authors  at  so  early  a  period  as  some  others.  It  is  not  the  “  Golden 
Pippin  ”  of  Parkinson,  for  he  speaks  of  it  as  the  “ greatest  and  best  of  all  sorts  of  Pippins.”  It  was 
perhaps  this  circumstance  that  led  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight  to  remark  that  “  from  the  description 
Parkinson  has  given  of  the  apples  cultivated  in  his  time,  it  is  evident  that  those  known  by  the  same 
names  are  different,  and  probably  new  varieties  but  this  is  no  evidence  of  such  being  the  case. 
The  fact  is  there  were  two  varieties  of  Golden  Pippin ,  the  “  Great  Golding  ”  and  the  “  Small  Golding 
or  Bay  ford,”  both  of  which  are  mentioned  by  Leonard  Meager,  and  there  is  no  doubt  the  “  Golden 
Pippin  ’  of  Parkinson  was  the  “  Great  Golding .”  Ralph  Austin  calls  it  “a  very  speciall  apple  and 
a  great  bearer.”  Evelyn  states  that  Lord  Clarendon  cultivated  it,  but  it  was  only  as  a  cider  apple  : 
for  he  says,  “  At  Lord  Clarendon’s  seat  at  Swallowfield,  there  is  an  orchard  of  1,000  Golden  and 
other  cider  Pippins.”  In  his  treatise  on  “  Cider  ”  Evelyn  frequently  notices  it  as  a  cider  apple  ; 
but  never  alludes  to  it  as  a  dessert  fruit.  In  the  “  Pomona"  he  says,  “About  London  and  the 
southern  tracts,  the  Pippin,  and  especially  the  Golden,  is  esteemed  for  making  the  most  delicious 
cider,  most  wholesome  and  most  restorative.”  Switzer  calls  it  “  the  most  antient,  as  well  as  most 
excellent  apple  that  is.”  This  is  one  of  the  old  varieties  of  English  apples  that  Mr.  Knight  so 
erroneously  pronounced  to  be  in  the  last  stage  of  decay.  A  good  figure  is  given  of  the  Golden 
Pippin  in  Ronalds’  “  Pyrus  Malus  Brentfordiensis,  PI.  xvii.,  fig.  5  ;  and  it  is  also  well  figured  in 
Thomas  Andrew  Knight’s  “ Pomona  Herefordiensis ,”  PI.  ii. 

Description . — Fruit  :  small,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblong,  regularly  and  handsomely  shaped, 


PLATE  XXXVII. 


without  inequalities  or  angles  on  the  sides.  Skin  :  rich  yellow,  assuming  a  golden  tinge  when 
perfectly  ripe,  with  a  deeper  tinge  where  it  has  been  exposed  to  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  is 
strewed  with  russety  dots,  which  are  largest  on  the  sunny  side,  and  intermixed  with  these  are  numerous 
imbedded  pearly  specks.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  long  segments,  placed  in  a  shallow  smooth 
and  even  basin.  Stalk  :  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch  in  length,  inserted  ip.  a  pretty  deep  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  very  juicy  and  sweet,  with  a  brisk  vinous  and  particularly  fine  flavour. 

One  of  the  oldest  and  most  highly  esteemed  of  our  dessert  apples.  It  is  in  season  from 
November  till  April.  *  One  hundred  years  since  Covent  Garden  market  was  abundantly  supplied 
with  Golden  Pippins,  which  were  sold  at  from  4/-  to  5/-  the  bushel  ;  but  tradition  states  that  shortly 
afterwards  the  supply  disappeared  almost  suddenly,  owing  to  their  being  bought  up  for  the  Empress 
of  Russia,  at  a  guinea  a  bushel.  Certain  it  is  that  of  late  years  the  supply  has  greatly  diminished, 
whether  it  may  have  been  from  Royal  preference,  or  from  the  introduction  of  better  varieties. 
Many  orchards  of  Golden  Pippin  trees  were  planted  in  Herefordshire  before  the  end  of  the  17th 
century,  says  Mr.  Knight,  as  a  cider  fruit,  but  it  has  not  been  cultivated  during  the  present  century 
for  this  purpose.  Many  trees  exist  at  this  time  spread  over  the  country,  and  it  is  curious  to  add, 
that  frequently  they  are  not  recognised,  and  the  fruit  finds  its  way  into  the  mixed  apple  heaps. 

The  tree  is  healthy  in  growth,  and  makes  very  handsome  bushes  and  espalier  trees.  It  is 
hardy  and  bears  freely.  It  is  said  to  be  much  grown,  and  to  flourish  well  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Oporto,  Portugal. 


PLATE  XXXVI 1. 


2.  SCARLET  GOLDEN  PIPPIN. 

This  very  beautiful  variety  originated  as  a  bud  spurt  on  the  old  Golden  Pippin ,  about  fifty 
years  since  (c.  1820),  at  Gourdie  Hill,  in  Perthshire.  The  variety  is  named,  but  not  described,  in 
the  Catalogue  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society  for  1831.  It  is  also  mentioned  in  the  edition  of 
1842,  though  without  any  description. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  roundish  oblong  in  shape,  very  regular  and  free  from  angles,  but 
rather  flattened  at  the  eye  and  base.  Skin :  very  rich  in  colour,  of  a  golden  yellow  on  the  shaded  side, 
but  covered  almost  entirely  with  a  scarlet  blush,  and  becoming  of  a  deep  red  opposite  the  sun  ;  the 
whole  surface  being  strewed  with  small  russety  dots.  Eye  :  large  and  open  with  broad  calyx 
segments,  placed  in  a  shallow  basin,  generally  even  but  sometimes  grooved.  Stalk  :  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  but  rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow,  crisp,  and 
firm,  with  a  sweet  and  pleasant  flavour,  very  similar  to  the  Golden  Pippin  itself,  from  which  indeed, 
except  for  its  brilliant  colour,  it  differs  but  little. 

The  great  beauty  of  this  variety  renders  it  one  of  the  most  attractive  fruits  of  the  table,  quite 
apart  from  its  own  merits  as  a  dessert  Apple.  It  is  in  season  from  November  to  March. 

The  tree  makes  an  excellent  espalier  or  dwarf  standard.  It  bears  abundantly,  and  forms  a 
beautiful  object  in  the  garden. 


PLATE  XXXVII. 


3.  FRANKLIN’S  GOLDEN  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Sudlows  Fall  Pippin,  j 

An  American  Apple,  introduced  into  England,  by  John  Sudlow,  Esq.,  of  Thames  Ditton. 
It  was  first  exhibited  at  the  London  Horticultural  Society  in  1819,  and  grafts  were  then  distributed 
from  this  Society.  It  had  been  growing  in  England  many  years  before  this  date.  Dr.  Diel 
describes  it  in  his  great  work,  and  says  that  he  received  it  from  England  from  the  Messrs.  Loddiges, 
and  this  must  have  been  earlier  than  1806.  Scott  says  “There  were  two  old  trees  growing  in 
Claremont  Gardens,  Surrey,  in  1833.  They  were  at  least  30  feet  high,  stunted  and  knarled,  and 
must  have  been  at  least  60  years  old.”  From  these  facts  it  seems  very  probable  that  this  variety 
is  of  English  origin.  It  is  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  137;  and  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xviii.,  fig.  3. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  oblato-ovate,  even  and  regularly  formed.  Skin  :  of 
an  uniform  deep  yellow,  covered  all  over  with  dark  spots,  interspersed  with  fine  russet,  particularly 
round  the  apex.  Eye  :  small,  with  long,  narrow  segments,  overlapping  each  other,  partially  open 
and  set  in  a  wide  and  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  short  and  slender,  about  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a 
round  narrow  and  smooth  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow,  tender  and  crisp,  very  juicy,  vinous  and  aromatic. 

A  dessert  Apple  of  first  quality,  in  season  from  October  to  December. 

The  tree  is  vigorous,  healthy  and  hardy.  It  does  not  attain  a  large  size,  but  is  an  excellent 
bearer.  Succeeds  well  on  the  paradise  stock,  and  is  well  suited  for  dwarf  or  espalier  growth. 


PLATE  XXXVII. 


4.  Hughes’  Golden  Pippin.  5.  Pitmaston  Golden  Pippin. 

4.  HUGHES’  GOLDEN  PIPPIN. 

The  history  of  the  origin  of  this  variety  is  not  given  by  any  of  the  pomological  authorities. 
It  is  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  132  ;  Iy  Hooker,  “Pomona  Londinensis ,”  PI.  26;  and  by  Ronalds, 
PL  xviii.,  fig.  4. 

Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a-half  wide  and  two  inches  high ; 
round  and  flattened  at  both  extremities.  Skin  :  rich  yellow,  covered  with  large  green  and  russety 
dots,  which  are  thickest  round  the  eye.  Eye  :  open,  with  short  flat  acuminate  segments,  which 
are  generally  reflexed  at  the  tips,  and  set  in  a  wide  shallow  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  very  short, 
and  not  at  all  depressed,  being  sometimes  like  a  small  knob  on  a  flattened  base.  Flesh  :  yellowish 
white,  firm,  rich,  brisk,  juicy,  sugary  and  aromatic. 

A  dessert  Apple  of  first-rate  quality ;  in  use  from  December  to  February  or  March. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  healthy,  but  grows  slenderly.  It  bears  most  abundantly  when  grafted 
on  the  paradise  stock. 

5.  PITMASTON  GOLDEN  PIPPIN. 

This  pretty  variety  was  raised  by  J.  Williams,  Escp,  of  Pitmaston,  near  Worcester 
(c.  1820-30).  The  particulars  of  its  origin  are  not  known. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  reinette  shaped,  even  and  regular.  Skin  :  rough  to  the  feel, 
being  entirely  covered  with  a  coat  of  rough,  pale  brown  russet,  with,  here  and  there,  the  smooth, 
yellow  ground  colour  of  the  skin  shining  through  it.  Eye  :  small  and  wide  open,  with  the  short 
remains  of  a  deciduous  calyx,  set  in  a  wide  saucer-like  basin.  Stalk  :  short  and  slender,  inserted  in 
a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  deep  yellow  or  saffron  coloured,  crisp  and  tender,  very  juicy  and  sweet, 
and  with  a  rich  flavour. 

A  fine  dessert  Apple  of  high  quality,  in  season  from  December  to  February. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  freely,  but  the  variety  has  not  been  propagated  of  late  years. 


PLATE  XXXVII. 


6.  PINE  GOLDEN  PIPPIN. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  leading  horticultural  works. 

Description .• — Fruit :  small,  roundish,  somewhat  flattened,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline. 
Skin :  entirely  covered  with  a  light  smooth  coat  of  fawn-coloured  russet,  and  marked  with  large 
grey  specks.  Eye  :  wide  open,  with  long  acuminate  and  recurved  segments,  like  those  of 
Court  of  Wick ,  set  in  a  deep,  wide  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  very  short,  imbedded  in  the  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  very  tender  and  juicy,  with  a  fine  sprightly  and  distinct  flavour  of  the  pine 
apple. 

One  of  the  best  dessert  Apples ;  in  season  during  October  and  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well. 


V 


. 


Plate  XXXVIII 


inn 


Hapon's  Incomparable 


3.  Winter  Nell 


4.  Chaumontel. 


Gr.  Severejns ,  Chromolith:  Brussels . 


Alice  B.Ellis  &  Edith  E.'Bull  del 

for  The  Wco’lhope  Club. 


PLATE  XXXVIII. 


i.  HACON’S  INCOMPARABLE. 

[Syn  :  Downham  Seedling .] 

This  esteemed  variety  was  raised  by  Mr.  J.  G.  Hacon,  of  Downham  Market,  Norfolk,  about 
the  year  1815,  from  a  seed  of  a  local  variety  called  Raynor  s  Norfolk  Seedling.  Another  account 
states  that  it  was  produced  in  1792  from  a  pip  planted  by  Mrs.  Raynor  in  a  baker’s  yard  there. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  roundish.  Skin  :  pale  yellowish  green,  with  a  mixture 
of  brown,  covered  with  numeroifs  russety  spots  and  markings  of  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open, 
with  short,  narrow  segments,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  stout  and  inserted  in  a 
wide  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  buttery  and  melting,  with  a  rich,  sweet,  vinous  and  musky 
flavour. 

A  dessert  Pear  of  excellent  quality  ;  in  season  from  November  to  January. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  vigorous.  It  takes  eight  or  ten  years  to  bear,  but  then  bears  well. 
It  succeeds  well  as  a  standard,  and  makes  a  good  pyramid. 


PLATE  XXXVIII. 


2.  ZIiPHIRIN  GRpLGOIRE. 

A  variety  raised  in  Belgium  by  M.  Gregoire,  of  Jodoigne,  and  first  brought  into  notice  in 
1843.  A  coloured  illustration  is  given  of  this  fruit  in  the  “  Florist  and Pomologist  ”  for  1863. 

Description . — Fruit :  roundish,  about  medium  size.  Skin  :  pale,  greenish  yellow,  sometimes 
becoming  of  an  uniform  pale  waxen  yellow,  covered  with  russet  dots  and  markings.  Eye  :  very 
small,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  without  depression.  Flesh  :  yellow, 
buttery,  melting,  and  very  juicy,  It  is  very  rich,  sugary  and  vinous,  with  a  powerful  and  peculiar 
aroma. 

A  very  delicious  Pear  ;  in  season  in  December  and  January.  One  of  the  best  late  Pears, 
and  like  JosSphine  de  M alines,  it  is  always  good. 

This  variety  succeeds  best  on  the  pear  stock.  It  forms  a  large  handsome  pyramid,  and  is  an 
excellent  bearer. 


PLATE  XXXVIII. 


3.  WINTER  NELIS. 


[Syn  :  Colmar  Nelis  ; 


Nells  d' Hive r ; 


Malinoise ;  Malinoise  Cuvelier ;  Etourncatil ] 


B curve  de  M alines ;  Bonne  de  M alines ;  Bonne 


This  valuable  Pear  was  raised  early  in  the  present  century  by  M.  Jean  Charles  Nelis,  of 
M alines,  Belgium.  It  was  introduced  to  this  country  in  1818  by  the  Horticultural  Society  of 
London.  An  excellent  figure  of  it  is  given  by  Lindley.  PI.  126. 


Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size  ;  roundish-obovate,  narrowing  abruptly  towards  the 
stalk.  Skin  :  dull  green  at  first,  changing  to  yellowish  green,  covered  with  numerous  russety  dots 
and  patches  of  brown  russet,  particularly  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open  with  erect  rigid 
segments,  set  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stalk  :  from  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  curved  and 
set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  fine  grained,  buttery  and  melting,  with  a  rich,  sugary 
and  vinous  flavour  and  a  fine  aroma. 


This  Pear  is  one  of  the  best  in  quality.  It  is  a  very  general  favourite,  and  the  more  so 
perhaps,  because  it  is  always  ready  to  enrich  the  dessert  table  through  the  festivities  of  Christmas. 
With  good  management  and  care,  its  season  may  be  made  to  extend  from  November  to  February. 
A  few  pears  at  a  time  should  be  placed  in  a  warm  temperature  to  hasten  their  maturity ;  whilst 
others  should  be  kept  at  a  low  temperature  to  retard  it ;  and  thus  the  required  extension  of  their 
ripening  season  may  be  produced.  Some  think  the  flavour  of  the  Winter  Nelis  superior  to  the 
Chaumontel,  and  it  is  certainly  much  more  hardy  and  prolific. 


The  tree  grows  freely  on  the  quince,  and  forms  a  small  handsome  pyramid.  It  is  hardy  and 
an  excellent  bearer.  In  Herefordshire  it  does  best  on  a  wall,  where  it  may  always  be  depended 
upon  for  a  good  crop  of  fruit.  As  a  standard,  its  fruit  is  apt  to  be  cut  off  by  late  frosts.  Where  late 
pears  will  ripen,  this  variety  should  always  be  grown. 


I 


/ 


PLATE  XXXVIII. 


4.  CHAUMONTEL. 

[Syn  :  Best  de  Chaumontel ;  Beurre  de  Chaumontel ;  Guernsey  Chaumontel ;  Oxford 
Chaumontel ;  Beurre  d'  Hirer  ;  Winter  Beurre  ;  Grey  A  chan.] 

This  old  and  highly-esteemed  variety  was  discovered  about  the  year  1665,  growing  in  the 
garden  of  the  Chateau  Chaumontel,  between  Luzarches  and  Chantilly,  on  the  road  from  Amiens  to 
Paris.  It  seems  to  have  been  first  noticed  by  Merlet  (1690),  who  grafted  it  from  the  original 
tree  on  the  quince  stock.  It  is  well  figured  by  Brookshaw,  “  Pomona  Britannica ,”  PI.  lxxx. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  oblong,  or  obtuse  pyriform  ;  irregular  and  undulating  in  its 
outline.  Skin  :  rather  rough,  yellowish  green,  covered  with  numerous  russety  spots  and  patches ; 
and  with  a  brownish  red  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  with  long  reflexed  segments,  set  in  a  deep 
irregular  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  deep  knobbed  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white, 
buttery  and  melting,  rich  and  vinous,  and  highly  perfumed. 

A  dessert  Pear  of  the  highest  merit  when  grown  in  a  rich  warm  soil,  and  good  climate  ;  but 
in  heavy  soils  and  cold  situations  it  does  not  ripen  and  becomes  gritty  or  strong,  hard,  flavourless, 
and  not  worth  growing.  Its  season  is  from  November  to  March. 

The  tree  is  vigorous  but  irregular  in  growth,  and  fairly  hardy.  Herefordshire  is  too  cold  for 
it  to  ripen  its  fruit ;  but  in  warmer  localities  it  succeeds  well  as  an  espalier,  or  as  a  standard,  and 
bears  abundantly.  Everywhere  in  England  it  is  much  improved  by  being  grown  in  an  orchard 
house,  or  on  a  south  or  south-west  wall. 


PLATE  XXXVIII. 


[Syn  :  Medaille;  Bonaparte ;  B curve  Napoleon;  Bon  Chretien  Napoleon;  NapoUon  d' Hirer; 
Captif  de  St.  Helene ;  Roi  de  Rome;  Glorie  de  /’ Empereur ;  B curve  Autien ;  Charles  X. ; 
Liard;  Suer Se  dor ee  ;  Wurtemberg. ] 

This  variety  was  raised  in  1808  by  M.  Liard,  a  gardener  at  Mons,  and  was  exhibited  by  him 
at  a  meeting  of  the  Pomological  Society  of  Hennegan.  A  gold  medal  was  awarded  to  it,  and  hence 
it  was  first  called  Medaille.  The  original  tree  was  afterwards  sent  to  the  Abbe  Duquesne,  and  was 
by  him  named  Napoldon.  It  was  sent  into  England  by  Van  Mons  in  1816,  and  was  the  first  of  the 
Flemish  pears  received  with  an  authenticated  name. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  :  smooth,  bright  green  at  first,  changing 
as  it  ripens  to  greenish  yellow,  and  sometimes  to  a  fine  lemon-yellow,  and  covered  with  numerous 
brown  dots.  Eye  :  partially  open,  with  long,  erect,  acuminate  segments,  and  set  in  a  moderate 
depression.  Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout,  and  inserted  in  a  round  and  pretty  deep 
cavity.  Flesh  :  whitish,  tender,  melting,  and  very  juicy  ;  with  a  rich,  sweet  and  refreshing  flavour. 
To  such  a  degree  does  it  abound  in  juice,  that  Diel  says  of  it,  that  one  may  be  supposed  “  to  drink 
the  fruit.” 

A  very  valuable  Pear;  in  season  from  November  to  December. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  vigorous,  and  bears  well.  It  succeeds  as  a  standard  in  a  warm 
situation,  but  produces  the  finest  fruit  against  a  wall. 


PLATE  XXXIX. 


i.  RED  HAWTHORNDEN. 

This  Apple  was  sent  out  from  the  nurseries  of  Messrs.  Richard  Smith  and  Sons,  Worcester. 
Its  exact  origin  is  not  known,  but  the  original  tree  was  found  growing  near  Worcester,  and  from  its 
age,  it  probably  dates  from  the  beginning  of  the  present  century  (1800). 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  and  oblate,  with  four  very  obtuse  angles  on  the  sides  ;  the  crown 
is  flat,  and  there  is  only  a  slight  depression  in  which  the  eye  is  placed.  Skin  :  smooth,  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  red  blush  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stalk  : 
very  short,  set  in  a  very  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  tender  and  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  and  agreeable 
acidity. 

A  very  early  and  valuable  culinary  apple.  It  is  in  season  the  end  of  August  to  the  middle 
of  September. 

The  tree  grows  well  and  freely,  and  succeeds  best  as  a  standard. 


Plate  XXXIX 


5.  Graven  stem 


6.  Hymen. 


&■  Severeyns,  Chcomolith.  Brussels 


Alice  B.ElIis  &  Edith  E. Bull, del. 

for  The  Woolhope  Club. 


PLATE  XXXIX. 


2.  SLEEPING  BEAUTY. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  nowhere  given.  It  is  extensively  cultivated  in  Lincolnshire. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  roundish  and  somewhat  flattened,  slightly  angular  on  the 
sides,  and  undulating  round  the  eye  ;  in  some  specimens  there  is  an  inclination  to  an  ovate  or  even 
conical  shape,  in  which  case  the  apex  is  narrow  and  even.  Skin  :  pale  straw  coloured,  smooth  and 
shining,  occasionally  washed  on  one  side  with  delicate  lively  red  ;  very  thinly  sprinkled  with  minute 
russety  dots.  Eye :  large,  somewhat  resembling  Trumpington ,  with  broad  flat  and  incurved 
segments,  which  dovetail,  as  it  were,  to  each  other,  and  set  in  a  shallow,  uneven  and  plaited  basin. 
Stalk  :  from  a  quarter  to  half  an  inch  long,  slightly  fleshy,  inserted  in  a  narrow,  round  and  rather 
shallow  cavity,  which  is  tinged  with  green,  and  lined  with  a  delicate  pale  brown  russet.  Flesh  : 
yellowish  white,  crisp,  tender  and  juicy,  with  a  fine  poignant  and  agreeably  acid  flavour. 

A  most  excellent  and  valuable  apple  for  all  culinary  purposes,  and  especially  for  sauce.  It  is 
in  season  from  November  to  the  end  of  February.  This  Apple  resembles  Dumeloiv  s  Seedling  very 
closely  at  first  sight,  and  has  much  the  same  character,  but  it  is  nevertheless  a  perfectly  distinct 
variety. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well  in  almost  every  situation.  It  grows  freely  and  does 
best  as  a  standard. 


PLATE  XXXIX. 


3.  THE  SCHOOLMASTER. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  not  accurately  known.  It  is  believed  to  have  been  raised  in 
Herefordshire  from  the  seed  of  an  American  apple,  by  a  descendant  of  Dr.  Gretton,  formerly  Dean 
of  Hereford  Cathedral  (1809-1820).  It  was  first  introduced  to  public  notice  by  Mr.  Thos.  Laxton, 
who  received  a  first  class  certificate  for  it  from  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society,  November  16,  1880. 

Description. — Fruit:  conical,  obtusely  ribbed  on  the  side,  terminating  at  the  eye  in  broad 
ridges,  and  knobbed  at  the  base.  Skin  :  bright  green  changing  to  greenish  yellow  as  it  ripens, 
coloured  all  over  with  large  russety  freckles,  and  with  a  pale  thin  red  tinge  where  it  is  exposed  to 
the  sun  ;  russety  round  the  stalk.  Eye  :  closed  with  long  pointed  segments,  the  tips  of  which  are 
reflexed,  set  in  a  pretty  deep  basin  ;  tube  long,  funnel-shaped  ;  stamens  marginal.  Stalk  :  very 
short,  slender,  or  a  mere  knob,  deeply  inserted  in  a  close  cavity,  with  a  large  swollen  protuberance 
on  one  side.  Flesh  :  white,  crisp,  tender,  and  mildly  acid,  with  some  sweetness.  Cells  of  the  core 
open. 

A  very  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  October  to  December. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  XXXIX. 


This  Apple  was  raised  twenty-two  years  ago  (1858),  with  three  others  growing  beside  it, 
from  the  pips  of  an  apple  purchased  in  the  market.  It  first  bore  fruit  about  the  time  of  the  famous 
1  ichbourne  trial  (1874),  and  was  originally  called  “  The  Claimant .”  It  was  introduced  to  Messrs. 
Saltmarsh  &  Sons,  Chelmsford,  who  were  awarded  a  First  Class  Certificate  for  it  by  the  Fruit 
Committee  of  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society,  on  November  16,  1880. 

Description . — FYuit  :  medium  sized  ;  oblate,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline,  and  ribbed  round 
the  eye.  Skin  :  clear  lemon  colour,  almost  entirely  covered  with  bright  crimson,  which  is  again 
marked  with  broken  streaks  and  patches  of  dark  crimson,  and  with  a  lining  of  russet  in  the 
stalk  cavity.  Eye  :  half  open,  with  long  erect  slightly  divergent  segments,  set  in  a  deep  and 
ribbed  basin  ;  tube  short  and  conical ;  stamens  median.  Stalk  :  nearly  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  long,  deeply  inserted  in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  white,  tender, 
very  juicy  and  sweet;  with  a  mild  and  pleasant  acidity.  Cells  of  the  core  open.  It  is  very  fragrant 
when  fully  ripe. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  October  to  December.  It  is  a  very  handsome 
apple ;  larger,  a  better  keeper,  and  more  productive  than  Cox’s  Pomona.  Some  authorities, 
however,  consider  it  differs  but  slightly  from  Cox  s  Pomona. 

The  tree  grows  freely  as  a  standard,  is  very  hardy  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  XXXIX. 


This  beautiful  variety  is  one  of  the  favorite  Apples  of  Germany,  particularly  about  Hamburgh, 
and  in  Holstein,  where  it  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the  garden  of  the  Duke  of  Augustenberg,  at 
the  Castle  of  Grafenstein.  The  original  tree  is  said  to  have  been  in  existence  about  the  middle  of 
the  last  century  (1750).  It  was  long  since  introduced  into  England,  where  its  great  merits  were 
fully  recognised. 

This  Apple  is  well  represented  in  the  “  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society ,” 
Vol.  IV.,  PI.  xxi.  ;  by  Lindley,  PI.  98  ;  and  also  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xl.,  fig.  1. 

Description. — Fruit :  above  medium  size,  roundish,  but  irregular  and  angular  on  the  sides, 
the  ribs  of  which  extend  from  the  base  even  to  the  eye.  Skin  :  smooth,  clear  pale  waxen  yellow  in 
colour,  streaked  and  dotted  with  lively  crimson,  intermixt  with  orange  on  the  side  next  the  sun. 
Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  long  segments  a  little  reflexed,  and  set  in  an  irregular,  angular  and 
knobbed  basin,  which  is  sometimes  lined  with  fine  delicate  russet,  and  dotted  round  the  margin  with 
minute  russety  spots.  Stalk  :  very  short,  but  sometimes  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  set  in  a 
deep  and  angular  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  crisp,  very  juicy,  with  a  rich,  vinous  and  powerful  aromatic 
flavour  ;  and  if  held  up  between  the  eye  and  the  light,  with  the  hand  placed  on  the  margin  of  the 
basin  of  the  eye,  it  exhibits  a  transparency  like  porcelain. 

It  is  a  very  valuable  Apple  of  the  first  quality,  and  is  equally  desirable  either  for  dessert 
or  culinary  purposes.  “  As  a  kitchen  apple,”  says  Lindley,  “  it  is  considered  to  have  no  equal.” 
Its  season  lasts  from  October  to  the  end  of  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  a  vigorous,  healthy  grower,  and  generally  bears  well.  It  has  somewhat 
of  a  pyramidal  habit  of  growth,  and  attains  a  considerable  size. 

This  variety  is  very  generally  known  and  esteemed,  and  few  apples  have  so  extended  a  range 
of  growth  ;  for  it  may  be  said  to  be  commonly  cultivated  in  both  hemispheres,  equally  in  the  North 
of  Europe,  and  in  the  Southern  parts  of  the  United  States  of  America. 


PLATE 


[Syn  :  Caldwell;  Green  Cossings ;  Newbolds  Duke  of  York. ] 

This  variety  was  first  brought  into  notice  by  Sir  Thomas  Frankland.  It  derives  its  name 
from  the  gentleman  at  Thirsk,  who  raised  the  tree,  “  several  years  since  says  Sir  Thomas,  in  the 
“  Trans,  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society  ”  for  1 8 1 8  ;  so  that  its  origin  probably  dates  from 
the  end  of  last  century.  It  is  figured  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xli.,  fig.  2. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  wide,  and  two  inches  and  three-quarters 
high  ;  roundish  and  flattened,  with  five  obscure  ribs  on  the  sides  extending  to  the  basin  of  the  eye. 
Skin  :  smooth,  thinly  strewed  with  reddish  brown  dots,  and  a  few  faint  streaks  of  pale  red  on  the 
shaded  side,  and  of  a  beautiful  deep  red,  covered  with  yellowish  grey  dots  on  the  side  next  the  sun. 
Eye  :  open,  with  broad  reflexed  segments,  set  in  a  round  and  moderately  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  short, 
inserted  in  a  round  and  deep  cavity,  lined  with  rough  russet,  which  extends  in  ramifications  over  the 
base.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender  and  pleasantly  subacid. 

A  good  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  October  to  Christmas. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  and  succeeds  best  as  a  standard  ;  in  which  form  it  is  an  old  and 
lavourite  variety  in  many  localities. 


PLATE  XL. 


i.  BRITISH  OUEEN. 

This  fine  Pear  was  raised  by  Mr.  Thomas  Ingram,  gardener  to  Her  Majesty,  at  Frogmore, 
and  the  tree  is  said  to  be  a  seedling  from  the  Seckle  crossed  with  Marie  Louise.  Some  of  the  fruit 
was  sent  to  Her  Majesty  a  few  months  before  the  decease  of  His  Royal  Highness  the  Prince 
Consort  who  highly  approved  of  it.  It  received  a  first-class  certificate  from  the  Royal  Horticultural 
Society.  A  coloured  representation  is  given  of  it  in  the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist  ”  for  1863. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  ;  obovate-pyriform,  the  outline  undulating  and  bossed.  Skin  : 
smooth,  almost  entirely  covered  with  a  thin  coat  of  crimson-coloured  russet,  but  on  the  side  next  the 
sun,  it  has  a  blush  of  bright  rosy  crimson.  Eye  :  rather  small,  with  short  narrow  segments,  and 
considerably  depressed.  Stalk  :  about  an  inch  long,  very  stout,  and  sometimes  inserted  obliquely 
in  a  round,  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  very  fine  grained,  buttery  and  melting,  rich, 
sugary  and  having  something  of  the  flavour  of  Marie  Louise ,  coupled  with  that  peculiar  briskness 
which  is  found  in  the  Windsor  pear. 

This  is  an  excellent  Pear.  It  ripens  in  the  beginning  of  October,  but  its  good  qualities  are 
very  transitory,  and  it  should  therefore  be  presented  at  table  the  very  day  it  becomes  ripe. 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  forms  a  good  pyramid  on  the  quince.  It  was  first  distributed  by 
Mr.  Charles  Turner,  of  Slough,  in  1863. 


I 


Plate  XL 


2.  Professor  Du  Brieul 


d'Alengon 


7.  Besi  de  Quessoy 


8.  Olivier  de  Serres 


G-.  Severevns,  CBromolitli.  Brussels. 


Alice  B.E His,  del. 
for  The  Woolhope  Club. 


PLATE  XL. 


2.  Professeur  Du  Breuil.  3.  Baronne  De  Mello. 

ft 

2.  PROFESSEUR  DU  BREUIL. 

This  Pear  was  raised  at  Rouen.  The  tree  is  said  to  have  first  fruited  in  1851.  The  pear 
was  named  in  honour  of  M.  Alphonse  du  Breuil,  Professor  of  Arboriculture  in  Paris. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  long  and  twx>  and  a 
half  wide  ;  obovate,  uneven  and  undulating  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  thickly  dotted 
with  russet,  and  with  a  tinge  of  red  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  level  with  the  surface. 
Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  without  depression.  Flesh  :  half  melting,  very  juicy,  with 
a  rich  sprightly  flavour,  and  a  musky  perfume. 

This  is  an  excellent  Pear,  and  is  in  season  in  September. 

The  tree  makes  a  good  pyramid  on  the  quince. 


3.  BARONNE  DE  MELLO. 

[Syn  :  His ;  Phillipe  Goes.~\ 

This  excellent  Pear  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  Van  Mons,  who  sent  it,  about  1830,  to 
M.  Poiteau,  of  Paris.  This  gentleman  dedicated  it  to  M.  His,  at  that  time  Inspector  General  of 
Public  Libraries.  At  a  later  period  M.  Jamin,  of  Bourg-la-Reine,  having  received  it  from  Belgium 


PLATE  XL. 


I 


without  a  name,  called  it  Baronne  de  Aiello  in  honour  of  that  lady,  who  resided  at  Piscop,  in  the 
Department  of  Seine  et  Oise.  “  This  is  the  true  Baronne  de  Aiello  d  says  Dr.  Hogg,  “  respecting 
which  there  has  been  much  confusion.  I  received  it  from  M.  Papeleu,  of  Wetteren,  in  1847,  and  it 
proved  to  be  identical  with  the  fruit  described  by  M.  Decaisne,  M.  Mas,  and  M.  Liron  d’Airolles. 
It  is  singular  that  the  last  author  is  the  only  one  who  notices  the  greenish  tinge  of  the  flesh, 
which  I  have  remarked  as  a  constant  character.  It  also  corresponds  with  the  fruit  of  Baronne  de 
Aiello,  sent  me  by  M.  Andre  Leroy  in  1866.’’ 

There  is  an  admirable  figure  of  this  Pear  in  the  Jardin  Fruitier  du  Aluseum ,  in  which  the 
characteristic  dark  brown  russet  of  the  skin  is  well  represented. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  of  a  curved,  pyramidal  shape,  rounding  to  the  eye,  and 
tapering  on  one  side,  with  a  dipping  curve  towards  the  stalk  ;  sometimes  the  surface  is  bossed  or 
undulating,  but  generally  it  is  even.  Skin  :  almost  entirely  covered  with  dark  brown  russet,  which 
is  thin  and  smooth,  so  that  it  has  no  roughness  to  the  touch  ;  on  the  shaded  side,  the  ground  colour 
which  is  more  or  less  visible,  is  greenish  yellow  mottled  over  with  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open, 
with  incurved  tooth-like  segments,  and  placed  in  a  very  slight  depression,  sometimes  almost  level 
with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  woody,  and  of  a  brown  colour,  inserted  on  the 
surface  of  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  fine  grained,  melting,  and  buttery.  Juice  :  very 
abundant,  rich,  sugary,  brisk,  and  vinous.  It  has  a  fine  aroma  when  in  perfection,  but  in  some 
seasons,  and  in  poor  soils,  or  in  exposed  and  cold  situations,  it  becomes  coarse-grained  and  gritty, 
with  a  watery  juice  not  at  all  sugary. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  Autumn  Pear,  in  season  from  the  end  of  October  to  the  end  of 
November.  It  ripens  well  without  the  liability  to  decay  at  the  core,  which  so  many  early  Autumn 
pears  unfortunately  possess. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  grows  well.  It  is  an  excellent  bearer,  and  succeeds  well  on  the 
quince  stock,  either  as  a  pyramid  or  dwarf  bush. 


PLATE  XL. 


4.  NAPOLEON  III. 

This  fruit  was  raised  by  M.  Andre  Leroy,  of  Angers,  in  whose  nursery  the  tree  first  bore 
fruit  in  1864,  and  it  was  named  by  him  in  honour  of  the  Emperor. 

Description. — b  ruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  long  and  two  and  three-quarters  wide  ; 
obovate,  uneven,  and  bossed  on  its  surface.  Skin  :  deep  yellow,  strewed  with  numerous  dots  and 
patches  of  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  set  in  a  pretty  deep  and  narrow  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an 
inch  long,  very  stout  and  fleshy  at  the  base,  and  set  on  a  level  with  the  surface.  Flesh  :  white, 
very  juicy  and  melting,  with  a  fine,  brisk,  vinous  flavour  and  pleasant  aroma. 

An  excellent  early  Pear,  in  season  the  latter  end  of  August  and  through  September. 

The  tree  grows  well  and  bears  freely.  It  forms  a  neat  pyramid  on  the  quince. 


PLATE  XL 


[Syn  :  Colmar  doree  ;  D  Audi ;  Bergamotte  tardive  ;  De  Maune.~\ 

This  valuable  old  Pear  seems  to  have  appeared  much  about  the  same  time  as  the  Chaumontel , 
for  Merlet  (1690)  says  of  it,  “  It  has  not  been  long  about  Paris,  and  is  yet  pretty  rare  ;  but  so  good 
a  fruit  cannot  be  long  in  few  hands.”  La  Ouintinye,  also  writing  in  1690,  states  that  he  received  it 
from  a  connoisseur  at  Guyenne. 

Description. — floruit :  above  medium  size,  obtuse,  pyriform.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  green, 
changing  to  yellowish  green,  and  strewed  with  grey  russety  dots.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  long 
segments,  and  set  in  a  rather  deep  depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  stout, 
curved,  and  inserted  obliquely  in  an  uneven  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  buttery,  melting, 
tender,  and  with  a  rich  sugary  flavour. 

An  old  and  highly  esteemed  dessert  pear.  It  ripens  in  succession  from  November  to 
February  or  March. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  vigorous,  but  in  England  it  should  be  grown  against  a  wall,  or  the 
fruit  will  become  shrivelled  and  insipid. 


PLATE  XL. 


6.  DOYENNE  D’ALENCON. 

> 

fa  V 

[Syn  :  Doyenne  d' Hirer  d'A  len$on ;  Doyenne  d'Hiver  Nouveau ;  Doyenne  Gris  d'  Hirer 
Nouveau ;  St.  Michel  d'Hiver  ;  Doyenne  Marbrei\ 

The  history  of  the  origin  of  this  Pear  seems  lost.  It  resembles  somewhat  the  Easter 
Bcurrt  in  appearance,  and  has  been  considered  synonymous  with  it,  but  the  tree  is  very  different  in 
growth,  and  the  flavour  of  the  fruit  is  also  quite  distinct,  and  much  superior  to  it. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three-quarters  long  and  two  inches  and 
a  half  wide  ;  oval,  narrowing  with  an  abrupt  concave  curve  towards  the  eye,  so  as  to  form  a  sort  of 
snout  of  the  apex.  Skin  :  pea  green,  or  greenish  yellow  when  ripe,  thickly  dotted  all  over  with 
large  dots,  which  are  sometimes  grey  and  sometimes  green,  not  unlike  the  colouring  of  Easter 
Beurre.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  short  ovate  segments,  which  are  incurved  and  set  in  a  narrow 
depression.  Stalk  :  very  short  and  generally  stout,  inserted  in  a  small  round  cavity.  Flesh  : 
yellowish,  tender,  buttery  and  melting,  slightly  gritty  at  the  core,  but  sweet,  rich,  and  highly 
flavoured. 

A  very  excellent  late  Pear,  in  season  from  December  to  February,  or  even  March. 


The  tree  grows  vigorously,  bears  abundantly,  and  forms  a  handsome  pyramid.  The  young 
shoots  are  quite  distinct  in  growth  from  the  Easter  Beurrl ,  for  the  buds  instead  of  being  slender, 
conical,  and  pressed  to  the  shoot,  are  plump,  oval,  and  spreading. 


PLATE  XL. 


7.  BESI  DE  OUESSOY. 

[Syn  :  De  Quessoy ;  Besi  de  Caissoy  ;  Poire  de  Caissoy ;  Petit  Beurri  d' Hiver ;  Rousseite 
d' Anjou;  Nutmeg;  Small  Winter  Beurre  ;  Winter  Poplind\ 

The  original  tree  was  found  growing  in  the  forest  of  Quessoy,  in  Brittany.  It  is  a  very  old 
variety,  and  is  mentioned  by  Merlet,  (1690). 

Description . — Fruit  :  produced  in  clusters  ;  small,  roundish  and  flattened  at  the  apex.  Skin  : 
rough,  with  a  yellowish  green  ground,  but  so  covered  with  brown  russet  as  almost  completely  to 
hide  the  ground.  Eye  :  open,  set  almost  even  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  stout 
and  thick,  inserted  in  a  pretty  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  delicate,  tender  and  buttery,  with  a  rich 
aromatic  and  sugary  flavour. 

A  small  dessert  pear,  ripening  in  succession  from  November  to  March. 

The  tree  is  spreading  in  growth  and  attains  a  good  size.  It  is  hardy,  and  bears  abundantly 
as  a  standard  on  the  pear  stock  ;  but  does  not  succeed  wrell  on  the  quince. 


PLATE  XL. 


8.  OLIVIER  DE  SERRES. 

This  valuable  fruit  was  raised  by  M.  Boisbunel,  of  Rouen.  The  tree  first  bore  fruit  in  1864  ; 
and  was  named  in  honour  of  Olivier  de  Serres,  author  of  “  Le  Theatre  d' Agriculture  at  Mesnage 
des  Champs a  work  published  in  Paris  so  long  ago  as  1600. 

Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size,  two  inches  and  three-quarters  wide,  and  two  inches 
and  a  half  high  ;  round,  flattened,  or  Bergamotte  shaped,  sometimes  irregular  in  its  outline.  Skin  : 
entirely  covered  with  cinnamon-coloured  russet.  Eye  :  large  and  closed,  set  in  a  pretty  deep  basin. 
Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  very  stout,  and  thickest  at  the  end.  Flesh  :  half  buttery, 
sweet,  with  a  brisk,  vinous  flavour  and  a  strong  musky  aroma. 

One  of  the  very  best  late  Pears,  in  season  from  February  to  March. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  grows  vigorously,  and  makes  strong  standards 
and  handsome  pyramids  either  on  the  pear  or  quince. 


PLATE  XLI. 


£. SCARLET  NONPAREIL. 

This  beautiful  Apple  was  discovered  growing  in  the  garden  of  a  publican  'at  Esher,  in 
Surrey  (c.  1770.)  It  was  first  cultivated  and  distributed  by  Mr.  Grimwood,  of  the  Kensington 
Nursery. 

This  Apple  is  well  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  87  ;  and  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xxxiv.,  fig.  1  ;  and  also 
by  Hooker  in  the  “  Pomona  Londinensis .” 

Description . — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  globular,  narrowing  towards  the  apex,  regularly  and 
handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  yellowish  on  the  shaded  side,  but  is  almost  covered  with  red,  which  is 
streaked  with  deeper  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  and  covered  with  patches  of  russet  and  large 
russety  specks.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  shallow  and  even  basin.  Stalk  :  straight,  an  inch  or  more  in 
length,  inserted  in  a  small  round  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  scales  of  silvery  russet.  Flesh  : 
yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy,  rich  and  sugary. 

A  very  excellent  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality.  “It  deserves,”  said  Lindley,  “to  be 
placed  near  the  summit  of  the  list  of  garden  fruits.”  It  is  in  season  from  January  to  March,  when 
its  great  beauty  commands  for  it  a  ready  sale  in  the  market. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  but  slender  in  habit,  after  the  manner  of  its  tribe.  It  grows  well  and 
bears  freely. 


Plate  XLI. 


let  Nonpareil 


#  v  *  , 

V '  ,  -• >  :  . 


3.  Margil. 


4.  Cor  ms  3  Aromatic. 


o  r  •  -  i  n  -  i  v  n 

o.  Cornish.  Gillif lower. 


U  Severeyns,  Chromolith.  Brussels. 


Alice  B.Ellis  &  Edith  E .Bull, dal. 
for  The  Woolhope  Club. 


. 


PLATE  XLI. 


i.  BARCELONA  PE  ARM  AIN. 

[Syn  :  Polinia  Pearmain ;  Speckled  Pearmain ;  Speckled  Golden  Reinette  d\ 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  nowhere  given,  though  its  name  may  possibly  indicate  the  locality 
it  came  from.  In  the  3rd  edition  of  the  Horticultural  Society’s  Catalogue,  it  is  said  to  be  the  same 
fruit  as  “  Reinette  Rouged  It  is  not  the  “  Reinette  Rouge ”  of  Duhamel,  which  has  very  different 
characters,  but  it  is  doubtless  the  “  Reinette  Rousse  ”  of  this  author,  which  is  described  at  page  302, 
Vol.  I.,  as  a  variety  of  “  Reinette  Franched  It  is  there  described  as  of  an  elongated  shape,  skin 
marked  with  a  great  number  of  russety  spots,  the  most  part  of  which  are  of  a  longish  figure,  so 
much  so,  that,  when  it  is  ripe,  it  appears  as  if  variegated  with  yellow  and  red  ;  a  description  in 
every  way  applicable  to  Barcelona  Pcrmain.  The  variety  has  been  known  for  many  years  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  London,  and  is  not  uncommon  on  the  Continent. 

It  is  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  85  ;  and  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xxi.,  fig.  4. 

Description. — Fruit :  of  medium  size,  oval.  Skin  :  clear  pale  yellow,  mottled  with  red  in  the 
shade,  but  dark  red  next  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  being  covered  with  numerous  star-like  russety 
specks,  those  on  the  shaded  side  being  brownish,  and  those  next  the  sun  yellow.  Eye  :  small  and 
open,  with  erect,  accuminate  segments,  and  set  in  a  round,  even  and  pretty  deep  basin.  Stalk  : 
about  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  rather  shallow  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  : 
yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  very  juicy,  with  a  rich,  vinous  and  highly  aromatic  flavour. 

“  Barcelona  Per  main'  is  one  of  the  best  late  dessert  apples,  and  is  also  valuable  for  culinary 
purposes.  It  is  in  season  from  November  to  March,  or  even  later  if  well  kept.  It  is  always  a 
favourite  fruit  in  the  market. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  but  does  not  attain  a  large  size.  It  is  very  hardy,  a  good  bearer,  and 
succeeds  well  as  a  standard,  or  as  an  espalier. 


PLATE  XLI. 


3.  M  ARGIL. 

[Syn  :  Margill ;  Herefordshire  M argil ;  Small  Rib ston  ;  Never  Fail;  Munches  P ippinl\ 

There  seems  no  record  of  this  variety  before  the  publication  of  the  “  Pomona  Londmensis ,” 
although  it  was  known  for  many  years  previously.  Rogers  says  he  saw  a  tree  of  this  variety  growing 
as  an  Espalier  in  the  garden  at  Sheen,  which  was  planted  by  Sir  Wm.  Temple.  It  was  cultivated 
to  a  considerable  extent  in  the  Brompton  Park  Nursery  so  early  as  1750  ;  it  must  therefore  have 
been  well  known  at  that  period.  There  is  no  record  of  its  exact  origin  to  be  found.  It  may  have 
been  introduced  from  the  Continent  by  George  London,  who  was  for  some  years  in  the  garden  at 
Versailles  under  De  Ouintinye,  and  afterwards  in  partnership  with  Henry  Wise  as  proprietor  of  the 
Brompton  Park  Nursery.  The  name  seems  rather  to  indicate  a  French  than  an  English  origin. 

It  is  well  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  36  ;  and  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xii.,  fig  4,  and  also  by  Hooker  in 
the  “  Pomona  LondinensisP 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  two  inches  and  an  eighth  wide,  and  the  same  in  height,  conical, 
and  distinctly  five  sided,  with  acute  angles  on  the  side,  and  which  terminate  at  the  crown  in  five 
prominent  ridges.  Skin  :  orange,  streaked  with  deep  red,  and  covered  on  one  side  with  patches  of 
russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  compressed  as  it  were  between  the  angles  of  the  basin.  Stalk  : 
half-an-inch  long,  slender  and  rather  deeply  inserted  in  a  round  and  russety  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow, 
firm,  juicy,  rich  and  sugary,  with  a  powerful  and  delicious  aromatic  flavour. 

This  little  apple  is  a  rival  of  the  Ribston  Pippin  which  it  excels  in  juiciness  and  the  size  best 
adopted  for  dessert  fruit.  It  is  one  of  the  best  dessert  apples,  and  when  properly  kept  remains  in 
season  from  November  to  February.  It  requires  however  to  be  recognised  by  a  connoiseur,  for  it 
is  in  itself  scarcely  handsome  enough  for  the  market. 

The  tree  is  of  a  small  and  slender  habit  of  growth.  It  is  quite  hardy,  and  except  in  seasons 
when  the  blossom  is  injured  by  frost,  it  bears  abundantly.  It  succeeds  well  on  the  paradise  stock 
as  a  dwarf  standard,  or  as  an  espalier,  and  no  garden  should  be  without  it. 


PLATE  XLI. 


4.  Cornish  Aromatic.  5.  Cornish  Gilliflower. 

4.  CORNISH  AROMATIC. 

The  origin  of  this  excellent  variety  is  nowhere  given,  and  its  name  alone  affords  any 
indication  of  the  locality  in  which  it  was  produced.  It  was  first  brought  into  public  notice  by  Sir 
Christopher  Hawkins  in  1813,  and  he  then  described  it  as  having  been  known  in  Cornwall  for 
many  years. 

It  is  well  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  58  ;  and  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xix.,  fig.  3. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  three  inches  wide  and  two  and  three-quarters 
high  ;  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  and  narrowing  towards  the  eye.  Skin  :  yellow  on  the  shaded 
side  and  covered  with  large  patches  of  pale  brown  russet,  which  extend  all  over  the  base,  and 
sprinkled  with  green  and  russety  dots  ;  but  of  a  beautiful  bright  red,  which  is  streaked  with  deeper 
red,  and  strewed  with  patches  and  dots  of  russet  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and 
closed,  with  long  flat  segments  which  are  reflexed  at  the  tips,  and  set  in  an  irregular  basin.  Stalk  : 
short,  inserted  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cavity  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm, 
crisp,  juicy,  rich  and  highly  aromatic. 

A  valuable  dessert  apple  of  the  best  quality,  in  season  from  October  to  Christmas. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  but  in  many  localities  it  is  subject  to  canker.  It  bears  well,  though 
usually  only  on  alternate  years. 

[5.  Cornish  Gilliflower. 


PLATE  XLI. 


5.  CORNISH  GILLIFLOWER. 

[Syn  :  Calville  d ' Angleterre.~\ 

This  distinct  and  valuable  Apple  was  discovered  about  the  beginning  of  the  present  century 
(1800)  growing  in  a  cottage  garden,  near. Truro,  in  Cornwall.  It  was  first  brought  into  notice  by 
Sir  Christopher  Hawkins,  who  sent  it  in  1813  to  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  and  was 
awarded  a  silver  medal  for  it. 


The  name  “  Gilli flower”  is  derived  from  the  French  word  “girofle,”  signifying  a  clove, 
and  hence  the  flower  which  has  the  scent  of  that  spice  is  called  “  Gir 0 flier f  and  this  has  been 
transformed  to  “  Gillijlower.  In  Chaucer’s  “  Romaunt  of  the  Rose  ”  he  writes  it  “  Gylofre  ”  / 


“There  was  eke  wexyng  many  a  spice, 
As  Clowe  Gylofre  and  liquorice.” 


Turner  writes  it  “  Gelower  ”  and  “  Gely floured  The  proper  name  therefore  is  “  Gilliflowerf  and 
not  fuly  flower ,”  as  if  it  had  any  reference  to  the  month  of  July. 

It  is  well  figured  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xix.,  fig,  4. 

Description . — Fruit  :  large,  ovate  and  angular  on  the  sides  and  ribbed  round  the  eye, 
somewhat  like  a  Quoining.  Skin  :  dull  green  on  the  shaded  side,  and  brownish  red  streaked  with 
brighter  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  some  parts  of  the  surface  marked  with  thin  russet.  Eye  : 
large  and  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  and  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted 
in  a  rather  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  rich  and  aromatic. 


This  is  one  of  the  best  dessert  apples,  remarkable  for  its  rich  and  aromatic  llavour.  “  The 
best  apple  that  is  known,”  says  Lindley,  “if  high  flavour  combined  with  rich,  subacid,  saccharine 
juice,  be  the  qualities  we  most  desire  in  fruit.” 


The  tree  is  hardy  and  a  free  grower.  Its  shoots  are  apt  to  be  slender  and  irregular,  and  its 
leaves  are  remarkably  long  and  narrow.  It  is  in  season  from  December  to  May.  It  bears  shyly 
and  produces  its  fruit  chiefly  at  the  extremities  of  the  last  year’s  wood.  Care  must  therefore 
be  taken  in  pruning  to  preserve  the  bearing  shoots.  It  is  better  grown  as  a  standard,  though  on 
the  paradise  stock  it  succeeds  as  an  espalier  or  dwarf  standard.  As  a  standard  it  often  forms  a  very 
beautiful  weeping  head,  resembling  sometimes  a  weeping  willow  in  growth,  rather  than  an  apple 
tree. 


Plate  .XL II 


4  Fi^ue  d'Alencon!  5.  Marechal  dele  C our. 

O  .  5  .«  - 


U.  bevereyns,  CLromolith.  Brussels. 


Alice  B. BIHs  b  'Edith  E .Bull, del . 
for  The  Woolhope  Club. 


PLATE  XLII. 


i.  COMTE  DE  FLANDRE. 

[Syn  :  St.  Jean  Baptiste .] 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons,  which  first  fruited  at  Louvain  in  1843. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  large,  pyriform.  Skin  :  almost  entirely  covered  with  large 
freckles  of  cinnamon-coloured  russet.  Eye  :  open,  and  rather  large,  with  very  short,  deciduous 
segments.  Core  :  usually  without  seeds,  as  M.  Decaisne  observed.  Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  long,  slender.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  melting,  juicy  and  sugary,  with  a  rich  and  agreeably 
perfumed  juice. 

An  excellent  Pear  of  the  highest  merit ;  in  season  in  November  and  December. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  makes  a  fine  pyramid  either  on  the  pear  or  quince  stock.  It  bears 


well. 


PLATE  XU I. 


2.  BISHOP’S  THUMB. 

[Syn  :  Bishop's  Pear ;  Bishop's  Thimble .] 

The  origin  of  this  favorite  old  Pear  is  not  known.  It  is  thought  to  be  of  Dutch  origin,  and 
on  the  continent  it  takes  a  much  higher  colour,  than  the  sombre  tints  it  presents  in  England,  as  is 
shown  in  the  excellent  representation  of  it  in  “  Le  Jardin  Fruitier  de  MusSum.”  It  is  well  figured 
in  Brookshaw’s  “ Pomona  Britannica'd  PL  lxxix. 

Description. — Fruit :  above  middle  size  and  oblong.  Skin  :  yellowish  green,  covered  with 
numerous  large  russety  dots,  and  with  a  russety  red  colour  on  one  side.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with 
long  reflexed  segments.  Stalk  :  one  inch  long,  fleshy  at  the  base  and  obliquely  inserted  ;  the  flesh 
of  the  pear  often  runs  up  one  side  of  the  stalk  from  a  quarter  to  half  an  inch  high.  Flesh :  greenish 
yellow,  melting  and  juicy  ;  with  a  rich,  sugary,  and  vinous  flavour. 

An  old  fashioned  dessert  pear,  in  season  in  October  and  November,  but  it  is  often  bought 
in  the  Bath  Market  as  late  as  February.  It  is  very  much  cultivated  near  London,  and  is  a 
favourite  pear  in  Somersetshire  and  the  West  of  England. 

Tree  very  hardy,  and  bears  abundantly  as  an  ordinary  standard  ;  or  as  a  pyramid  on  the 
Ouince. 


PLATE  XLII. 


3.  DOYENNE  BOUSSOCH. 

[Syn  :  Nouvelle  Boussoch  ;  Albertine ;  B curve  dc  M erode ;  B curve  de  Wester loo ;  Double 
Philippe .] 

The  history  of  this  Pear  is  nowhere  given. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  large,  three  and  a  half  inches  high  and  the  same  wide  ;  roundish- 
obovate,  or  Doyenni  shaped.  Skin  :  lemon-coloured,  covered  with  large,  rough,  russety  dots,  and 
often  taking  a  beautiful  rose  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Eye  :  open,  placed  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  :  stout  and  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  tender,  very  melting 
and  juicy,  with  a  fine,  brisk,  vinous  flavour  and  a  delicate  agreeable  perfume. 

This  is  a  handsome  Pear,  and  of  good  quality  if  eaten  at  the  right  moment,  just  as  it  ripens 
or  rather  before  it  is  ripe  ;  but  it  so  quickly  becomes  mealy  that  its  place  in  the  garden  is  generally 
soon  supplied  by  other  October  pears,  whose  virtues  are  not  quite  so  evanescent. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  bears  well,  and  makes  a  good  pyramid. 


PLATE  XLII. 


4.  FIGUE  D’ALENCON. 


Sari  he. 


Syn  :  Figue  (of  Decaisne)  ;  Figue  d Hiver ;  Gros  Figue;  Bonnissime  ;  Bonnissime  de  la 

The  origin  of  this  Pear  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  leading  pomological  works. 


Description. — Fruit  :  large,  four  inches  to  four  and  a  quarter  long,  and  two  inches  and  a 
half  wide  ;  long  pyriform  or  pyramidal,  terminating  in  a  knob,  or  fleshy  folds  which  envelope  the 
stalk,  uneven  in  its  outline  and  twisted  in  its  axis.  Skin  :  like  that  of  a  Marie  Louise ,  of  an  uniform 
yellow  ground  colour,  and  speckled  with  patches  of  cinnamon  russet,  particularly  round  the  eye, 
where  it  is  entirely  covered  with  it.  Eye  :  open,  with  erect,  narrow  stout  segments,  set  in  a 
shallow  undulating  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  fleshy  throughout  nearly  the  whole  of  its  length, 
and  united  to  the  other  fruit  with  fleshy  folds.  Flesh  :  close-grained,  tender  and  melting,  very 
juicy,  sweet,  richly  flavoured  and  with  a  fine  aroma. 


A  Pear  of  variable  merit  in  England,  where  it  only  ripens  well  in  an  orchard  house,  or  on  a 
warm  wall  in  favourable  seasons.  In  cold  seasons  it  is  hard  and  worthless. 


The  tree  grows  freely,  but  should  only  be  grown  on  a  south  wall  in  a  warm  soil  and  situation. 


PLATE  XLII. 


#  [Syn  :  136  de  la  Cour ;  Beau  de  la  Cour ;  Conseilleur  de  la  Cour ;  Marechal  D Scour s ; 
Due  d’ Orleans  ;  Grosse  Marie.'] 

A  seedling  of  Dr.  Van  Mons,  who  sent  grafts  from  it  to  M.  Bivort  in  April,  1842,  with  the 
name  “  Marechal  de  Cour ,  gain  de  1841,1a  meillure  existante.”  Notwithstanding  this  M.  Bivort 
distributed  it  under  the  name  Conseiller  de  la  Cour ,  and  in  1847  it  was  sent  to  Dr.  Hogg  by  M. 
Papeleu  under  the  same  name.  Dr.  Hogg  restored  its  original  name. 

Description . — Fruit :  large,  sometimes  very  large,  nearly  four  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  three 
inches  and  three-quarters  wide  ;  oblong,  pyriform  but  slightly  undulating,  pretty  even  in  its  outline. 
Skin  :  thickly  covered  with  cinnamon-coloured  russet,  so  much  so  as  to  be  encrusted  with  it,  and 
permitting  only  very  little  of  the  pale  yellow  ground  to  show  through  it.  Eye  :  large  and  open, 
with  long,  stout  and  somewhat  woody  segments  set  in  a  moderate  depression.  Stalk  :  from  an 
inch  to  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  inserted  on  the  wide,  blunt  apex  of  the  fruit  without  depression. 
Flesh  :  yellowish,  very  tender,  melting  and  buttery,  with  an  abundant  richly  flavoured  juice,  which 
is  sweet,  sprightly,  and  with  a  fine  perfume. 

One  of  the  finest  Pears  in  cultivation,  in  season  about  the  end  of  October  and  beginning  of 
November. 

The  tree  is  remarkably  robust  and  not  inclined  to  canker.  It  forms  fine  pyramids  or 
standards,  and  bears  abundantly.  Some  think  the  flavour  of  its  fruit  improved  when  grown  on  the 
quince  stock. 


) 


PLATE  XLIII. 


i.  HOARY  MORNING. 

[Syn  :  Dainty  Apple  ;  Downy  ;  Sam  Rawlings  ;  New  M argil .] 

This  handsome  Apple  is  supposed  to  have  had  its  origin  in  Somersetshire,  though  its  actual 
history  is  lost.  It  was  first  communicated  to  the  London  Horticultural  Society  by  Charles 
Worthington,  Esq.,  and  has  since  this  time  been  generally  cultivated  in  England. 

Ronalds  gives  a  good  figure  of  it,  PI.  xxvii.,  fig.  i. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  two  inches  and  three-quarters 
high  ;  roundish,  somewhat  flattened  and  angular.  Skin  :  yellowish,  marked  with  broad  pale  red 
stripes  on  the  shaded  side,  and  broad  broken  stripes  of  bright  crimson  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  the 
whole  surface  entirely  covered  with  a  thick  bloom,  like  thin  hoar  frost.  Eye  :  very  small,  set  in 
a  shallow  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  wide  and  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish 
white,  tinged  with  red  at  the  surface  under  the  skin,  brisk,  juicy,  rich  and  slightly  acid. 

A  large  and  handsome  culinary  apple,  but  not  of  first  quality.  It  is  in  season  from  October 
to  December. 

The  tree  has  a  low  spreading  growth,  and  bears  abundantly. 


Plate  XLIII 


1.  Hoary .  Morning. 


3  Lemon  Pippin.  4.  Winter  Coleman 


Z  Northern  Greening 


d  Yorknmre'  Greening 


G-.Sewereyns,  Cliromolith.  Brussels. 


•  Alice  B.Ellis  &  Edith  E.Bull.del 
for  The  Wool  hope- Club. 


■ 


* 


St 


■-V 


/ 


' 


■ 


■ 


' 


PLATE  XLII1. 


tr 


2.  GOOSEBERRY  APPLE. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  leading  pomological  works.  It  is  not  the 
Gooseberry  Apple  of  Ronalds,  which  is  a  small  dessert  apple. 

Description. — Fruit :  above  medium  size,  sometimes  large,  three  and  a  half  inches  wide,  and 
two  inches  and  three-quarters  high  ;  roundish,  sometimes  quite  flattened,  with  obtuse  ribs  on  the 
sides  which  extend  to  the  crown,  where  they  form  flat  ridges.  Skin  :  deep,  lively  green,  with  a 
tinge  of  brownish  red  next  the  sun,  and  strewed  with  large  grey  dots.  Eye  :  half  open,  not  deeply 
sunk.  Stalk  :  short,  sometimes  a  mere  knob.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  very  tender,  juicy  and  with 
a  fine  agreeable  and  subdued  acidity. 

A  very  valuable  late  keeping  culinary  apple,  which  comes  into  use  in  November,  and 
continues  with  common  care  “  till  apples  come  again.” 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  prolific.  It  is  a  very  valuable  apple  for  the  Orchardist  on  account  of 
its  long  keeping  property.  It  is  extensively  cultivated  in  Kent  and  Sussex,  and  especially  about 
Faversham  and  Sittingbourne,  for  the  supply  of  the  London  market. 


PLATE  XLII1. 


« 


3.  LEMON  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Kirke  s  Lemon  Pippin  ;  Quince  ;  Englischer  Winte rqtiittcmap fel. ] 

It  is  uncertain  at  what  period  this  Apple  was  first  brought  into  notice.  Rogers  calls  it  the 
Quince  Apple ,  and  if  it  is  what  has  always  been  known  under  this  name,  it  must  be  of  considerable 
antiquity,  since  Rea,  Worlidge,  Ray,  and  almost  all  the  early  writers  mention  it ;  but  the  first 
instance  wherein  it  is  called  Lemon  Pippin  is  in  Ellis’  “  Modern  HusbandmanQ  1744.  tie  says, 
“  It  is  esteemed  so  good  an  apple  for  all  uses,  that  many  plant  this  tree  preferable  to  all  others.” 
It  is  supposed  to  have  been  introduced  into  England  from  the  continent.  It  was  grown  very  much 
in  Normandy  at  the  end  of  last  century,  and  still  maintains  its  place  there. 

Its  characteristic  figure  is  well  given  by  Lindley,  PI.  37  ;  and  by  Ronalds,  PI.  x.,  fig.  4. 

Description. — Fruit:  medium  sized  ;  oval,  with  a  large  fleshy  elongation  covering  the  stalk, 
which  gives  it  the  form  of  a  lemon.  Skin  :  pale  yellow  tinged  with  green,  changing  to  a  lemon 
yellow  as  it  attains  maturity,  strewed  with  russety  freckles  and  patches  of  thin  delicate  russet.  Eye  : 
small  and  partially  open,  with  short  segments,  and  set  in  an  irregular  basin,  which  is  frequently 
higher  on  one  side  than  the  other.  Stalk :  short,  entirely  covered  with  the  fleshy  elongation  of  the 
fruit.  Flesh  :  firm,  crisp,  and  briskly  flavoured. 

A  very  good  Apple  for  culinary  or  dessert  use,  and  Forsyth  says,  “  It  is  excellent  for  drying.” 
It  is  in  season  from  October  to  April.  It  is  perhaps  the  most  characteristic  apple  we  have,  being 
so  much  like  a  lemon  at  first  sight  as  to  be  taken  for  that  fruit. 

The  tree  does  not  attain  a  large  size,  but  it  is  healthy,  hardy,  and  a  good  bearer. 


PLATE  XLIII. 


4.  WINTER  COLMAN. 

[Syn  :  Norfolk  Colmau  ;  Norfolk  Bearer ;  Norfolk  Storing. ] 

There  is  no  history  given  of  the  origin  of  this  Apple. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  sized,  roundish  and  flattened.  Skin  ;  pale  yellow, 
mottled  with  red  on  the  shaded  side,  but  deep  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a 
rather  shallow  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  thick,  and  deeply  inserted.  Flesh  :  firm,  crisp  and 
briskly  acid. 

A  culinary  apple  of  first-rate  quality,  in  season  from  September  to  February. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  and  vigorous  grower,  so  much  so  that  when  young  it  is  a  long  time 
coming  into  bearing.  When  grafted  on  the  paradise  stock  it  grows  less  freely  and  produces 
abundantly. 


PLATE  XLIII. 


5.  GREEN  WOODCOCK. 

[Syn  :  Woodcocki] 

Its  origin  is  nowhere,  given. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  round  and  somewhat  flattened.  Skin  :  green  changing 
to  yellow,  with  a  blush  of  red,  which  is  striped  with  broad  broken  streaks  of  dark  red  on  the  side 
next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open  with  long  pointed  segments,  deeply  set  in  an  angular  basin.  Stalk  : 
short,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity,  lined  with  rough  russet,  which  extends  over  the  base.  Flesh  : 
white  tinged  with  green,  tender,  juicy  and  briskly  flavoured. 

A  good  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  October  till  Christmas. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  is  much  grown  about  Heathfield  and  Hailsham,  in 

Sussex. 


PLATE  XLIII. 


6.  STRIPED  MONSTROUS  REINETTE. 

The  origin  of  this  Apple  is  not  given.  It  is  figured  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xxxvi.,  fig.  i. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  broad,  and  three  inches  high  ;  roundish 
and  a  little  flattened,  irregular  in  its  outline,  having  prominent  angles  on  the  sides,  which  extend 
from  the  base  to  the  apex.  Skin  :  smooth,  of  a  deep  yellow  ground  colour,  which  is  almost  entirely 
covered  with  pale  red,  and  streaked  with  broad  stripes  of  dark  crimson.  Eye  :  closed,  with  long 
acuminate  segments,  set  in  a  narrow  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  slender,  deeply  inserted 
in  a  round  and  russety  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  juicy,  and  pleasantly  flavoured. 

A  large  handsome  Apple,  but  its  culinary  properties  are  only  second  rate.  It  is  in  season 
during  November  and  December. 

The  tree  is  large,  grows  freely,  and  bears  well. 


PLATE  XLIII. 


7.  NORTHERN  GREENING. 

[Syn  :  Walmer  Court ;  John  Apple 

The  origin  of  this  valuable  Apple  is  not  given  by  any  of  the  leading  pomologists. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three-quarters  broad,  and  about  three 
inches  high  ;  roundish,  inclining  to  ovate,  being  narrowed  towards  the  eye.  Skin  :  smooth  and 
tender,  of  a  beautiful  grassy  green  in  the  shade,  and  dullish  brown  red,  marked  with  a  few  broken 
stripes  of  a  darker  colour,  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  long 
segments,  set  in  a  narrow,  round,  deep,  and  even  basin.  Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
inserted  in  a  narrow  and  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  tender,  crisp  and  very  juicy,  with  a 
brisk  and  somewhat  vinous  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  Apple  of  first  quality,  in  season  from  November  to  April,  “  keeping 
well  until  the  rhubarb  comes  into  season.” 

The  tree  is  very  strong  and  vigorous.  It  attains  a  large  size  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  XLIII. 


8.'  YORKSHIRE  GREENING. 

[Syn  :  Yorkshire  Goose  Sauce ;  Coates's.'] 

The  name  of  this  Apple  gives  the  only  clue  to  be  gained  of  its  origin.  It  is  well  figured  by 
Ronalds,  PI.  xi.,  fig.  2. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  and  a  half  inches  wide  and  two  and  a  half  inches  high  ; 
oblate  and  slightly  angular  at  the  sides.  Skin  :  very  dark  green,  but  where  exposed  to  the  sun, 
tinged  with  dull  red,  which  is  striped  with  broken  stripes  of  deeper  red,  very  much  speckled  all  over 
with  rather  bold,  grey,  russet  specks,  and  over  the  base  with  traces  of  greyish  brown  russet.  Eye  : 
closed,  set  in  a  shallow,  irregular  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  stout  and  fleshy,  covered  with 
grey  down,  inserted  in  a  wide  and  rather  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  firm,  crisp  and 
very  juicy,  with  a  brisk  but  very  pleasant  acidity. 

A  culinary  Apple  of  excellent  quality,  in  season  from  October  to  January. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  and  a  good  bearer. 


PLATE  XLIV. 


i.  CITRON  DES  CARMES. 

[Syn  :  Madeleine  ;  Gros  St.  Jean  ;  Early  Rose  Angle .] 

This  Pear  takes  its  name  “  Citron  des  Cannes  ”  from  its  being  first  seen  in  the  garden  of 

the  Carmelites  at  Paris  ;  and  it  has  received  its  name  “  Madeleine  ”  from  the  fact  of  its 

ripening  about  St.  Magdelene’s  day,  July  22nd. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  :  smooth  and  thin,  at  first  bright 
green  but  changing  to  yellowish  green,  and  with  a  faint  tinge  of  brownish  red  next  the  sun,  strewed 
with  grey  dots.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  half  to 
two  inches  long,  inserted  without  depression  by  the  side  of  a  fleshy  prominence.  Flesh  :  pale 
yellowish  white,  delicate,  very  juicy  and  melting,  with  a  sweet,  pleasant,  refreshing  flavour. 

An  excellent  early  Pear;  ripe  in  July  and  August.  It  should  be  gathered  before  it  is  ripe, 
as  it  then  keeps  better.  On  the  tree  it  soon  becomes  mealy. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  bears  abundantly  ;  but  its  fruit  is  liable  to  crack  on  the  surface. 

It  succeeds  well  as  a  standard  on  the  pear  stock,  for  the  orchard;  but  for  the  garden,  it  should  be 

grown  on  the  quince  stock. 


Edith  E. Bull. del 

for  The  Wool  bo  oe  Club 

j 


des  Cannes. 


oevereyns  Giromolith  Bnssels. 


Plate 


3.  Colmar 


d 


Ete 


4  Fondante 
de  Crier  ne 


. 


PLATE  XLIV. 


2.  BEURRE  CAPIAUMONT. 

[Syn  :  De  Capiaumont  ;  Aurore  ;  Beurri  Aur ore  ;  Cctoebasse  Vassei] 

The  variety  was  raised  from  seed  by  M.  Capiaumont,  a  druggist  of  Mons,  in  1 747>  and 
it  appears  as  No.  315  in  Van  Mon’s  Catalogue,  “  Capiaumont :  par  son  patron.”  It  was  first  sent 
to  the  London  Horticultural  Society  in  1820  by  M.  Parmentier,  of  Enghein,  and  M.  Dumortier- 
Rutteau,  of  Tournay  ;  and  since  that  time  has  been  much  cultivated  as  an  orchard  tree  in  England. 

It  is  well  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  59. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  obtuse  pyriform.  Skin  :  pale  yellow  in  the  shade, 
almost  entirely  covered  with  fine  cinnamon  coloured  russet,  strewed  with  numerous  grey  specks  and 
with  reddish  orange  shining  out  through  the  russet  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  large  and  open, 
with  short,  erect  stiff  segments,  set  almost  even  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  fleshy  at 
the  base,  and  inserted  at  the  extremity  without  depression.  Flesh  :  pure  white,  delicate,  fine, 
buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  rich  vinous  and  sugary  flavour. 

A  dessert  Pear  of  good  quality ;  in  season  during  October  and  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  and  an  abundant  bearer.  It  succeeds  well  as  an  orchard  tree,  or 
as  a  dwarf  standard  on  the  quince,  for  gardens.  It  is  an  excellent  and  profitable  market  variety. 


PLATE  XLIV. 


3.  COLMAR  D’ETE. 

This  Pear  is  a  seedling  of  Van  Mons,  and  was  raised  in  1820. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  roundish-obovate,  two  inches  and  three-quarters  long 
and  two  and  a  quarter  wide.  Skin  :  smooth  and  rather  shining  of  a  pale  greenish  yellow  colour, 
becoming  yellow  when  quite  ripe  ;  on  the  side  next  the  sun  it  is  mottled  with  dull  freckles  over  the 
whole  exposed  side,  covered  with  russet  dots.  Eye  :  rather  large  and  open,  with  short  erect 
segments,  and  nearly  level  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  upwards  of  an  inch  long,  rather  woody,  of  a 
hazel  brown  colour,  thick  and  rather  fleshy  at  its  insertion,  which  is  placed  in  a  narrow,  even  and 
round  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  half  melting,  and  in  warm  seasons  quite  melting  ;  with  a  juice  of 
honey-like  sweetness  and  a  rich  flavour,  with  a  noyeau  aroma. 

A  remarkably  fine  Pear,  ripe  the  beginning  of  September.  It  should  be  eaten  before  it 
becomes  yellow,  or  it  loses  flavour. 

The  tree  is  very  vigorous  and  hardy,  and  bears  well.  It  may  be  grown  either  on  the  pear,  or 
the  quince,  as  it  may  be  wanted  for  the  orchard  or  garden.  It  forms  a  handsome  pyramid. 


PLATE  XLIV. 


4.  BEURR£  DE  L’ASSOMPTION. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  M.  Rouille  de  Beauchamp,  of  Goupillere,  near  Nantes,  and  it  first 
fruited  in  1863.  It  was  introduced  to  the  public  by  M.  Michelin,  who  sent  it  to  Dr.  Hogg  in  1864. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  large,  four  inches  long,  and  three  and  a  quarter  wide,  pyramidal, 
undulating  and  bossed  on  its  surface.  Skin  :  lemon  yellow,  covered  with  patches  and  mottles  of 
fawn-coloured  russet,  interspersed  with  numerous  dots  of  the  same.  Eye  :  large,  open,  and  set 
almost  even  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  short  and  stout,  obliquely  inserted  in  a  round  cavity.  Flesh  : 
white,  buttery,  tender  and  melting,  juicy,  rich,  vinous  and  perfumed. 

An  early  Pear  of  the  greatest  excellence.  It  ripens  in  the  second  or  third  week  of  August. 
It  is  earlier  than  Williams’  Bon  ChrUien,  and  much  larger. 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  bears  abundantly.  It  grows  well  on  the  pear  stock,  and  forms  a 
handsome  pyramid  on  the  quince. 


PLATE  XLIV. 


5.  FONDANTE  DE  CUERNE. 

The  history  of  this  variety  is  not  given  in  the  ordinary  pomological  works. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  obovate.  Skin  :  pale  yellowish  green,  having  the 
appearance  of  being  blanched  like  the  White  Doyenne ;  it  is  smooth  and  strewn  with  very  minute 
brown  dots,  so  small  as  to  be  hardly  visible,  and  sometimes  with  a  patch  of  cinnamon-coloured 
russet  on  the  surface.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  :  about  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  long,  very  stout  and  fleshy,  and  inserted  in  a  shallow  depression.  Flesh  :  perfectly 
white,  half  melting,  juicy  and  sweet,  with  a  pleasant  flavour  and  aroma. 

% 

One  of  the  best  early  Pears,  superior  in  flavour  and  size  to  Beurvi  Giffard.  It  ripens  at  the 
same  time,  about  the  third  week  in  August,  but  it  should  be  gathered  before  it  is  ripe,  or  it  quickly 
becomes  mealy  on  the  tree. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  well  on  the  quince  stock,  and  bears  well. 


t 


I 


XT 


i-j-VT 


4.  Royal  Wild  mg 


Wilding 


bittersweet 


G.  Severeyns,  Ghromolith.  Brussels. 


Edith  E. Bull, del 
for  The  Woolhops  Chib. 


PLATE  XLV. 


i.  JOEBY  CRAB. 

[Syn  :  Jo  by  Crab.'] 

A  very  old  variety  in  Herefordshire,  but  without  any  known  history.  Its  name  is  supposed 
to  be  a  corruption  of  “jovial,”  a  tribute  to  the  strength  of  the  cider  made  from  it.  When  a 
labourer  becomes  merry  from  too  much  cider,  its  a  rural  pleasantry  to  say  to  him,  “  Ah  !  you’ve 
been  in  the  sun,  you  be  soon  got  joby.” 

Description. — Fruit :  small  and  round,  evenly  shaped.  Skin  :  almost  entirely  covered  with 
deep  bright  crimson  except  where  shaded,  and  then  it  is  deep  greenish  yellow  with  a  few  stains  of 
pale  crimson  and  broken  streaks  of  the  same  colour  towards  the  exposed  side.  Eye  :  very  small 
and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  sometimes  a  mere  knob  and  sometimes  slender, 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  long,  and  rather  deeply  inserted.  Flesh  :  white  and  firm.  Juice  :  plentiful 
and  thin,  of  a  pale  pink  colour,  with  a  very  acid  and  astringent  taste. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  Joeby  Crab  (season  1 88 1)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S., 
F.C.S.,  gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ....  ...  ...  ...  1*050 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*055 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  afforded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  io-300 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  4*411 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  85’289 

The  Joeby  Crab  is  very  highly  esteemed  in  many  orchards  in  Herefordshire,  and  this 
analysis  proves  its  value,  by  showing  the  very  large  proportion  of  Tannin,  Mucilage,  and  Salts 
which  it  contains.  It  is  a  very  late  fruit,  and  is  scarcely  fit  for  use  before  Candlemas.  It  makes  a 
very  strong  cider,  which  it  is  often  difficult  to  get  bright.  Being  so  late  it  is  frequently  made  alone 
for  home  use  on  the  farm.  It  is  used  however  more  frequently  to  mix  with  other  late  apples  to 
give  the  cider  better  keeping  qualities  ;  and  it  is  added  to  late  pears  to  give  flavour  and  strength 
to  the  perry. 

The  Joeby  Crab  is  to  be  found  in  most  large  orchards  in  Herefordshire,  but  the  trees  are 
usually  old  and  cankered.  Of  late  years  it  has  not  been  much  cultivated,  though  some  of  its 
admirers  continue  to  propagate  it. 


PLATE  XLV. 


2.  CUMMY. 


[Syn  :  Cummy  Norman .] 

This  variety  has  no  published  history.  It  is  believed  by  some  growers  to  have  been  raised 
at  Cummy,  in  Radnorshire.  This  may  very  possibly  have  been  the  case,  for  the  addition 
“  Norman,”  so  commonly  given  to  it,  by  no  means  proves  it  to  have  been  introduced  from 
Normandy  ;  and  it  is  not  represented  in  the  coloured  plates  of  the  Norman  cider  apples  published 
by  the  French  Commission. 

Description. — Fruit  :  conical,  even  and  regular,  except  when  it  has  occasionally  one  or  two 
rather  prominent  angles  on  the  sides  ;  wide  at  the  base  and  very  narrow  at  the  apex.  Skin  : 
greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  and  with  a  thin  red  cheek,  which  is  speckled  with  deep  crimson 
on  the  side  next  the  sun,  sprinkled  over  the  surface  with  minute  russet  dots.  Eye  :  prominent, 
closed,  and  set  in  a  narrow  plaited  basin  ;  segments  broad  and  leaf-like.  Stalk  :  a  quarter  to  an 
inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  close,  deep,  irregular  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  : 
very  tender,  juicy,  and  with  a  slight  aromatic,  bitter-sweet  flavour,  without  astringency.  The  juice 
is  of  a  deep  amber  colour. 

The  analysis  of  the  Cummy  Apple  (season  1 88 1 )  Mr.  With  found  to  give  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  .  .  ...  .  .  ...  1*033 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*040 

And  one  hundred  parts  by  weight  of  the  juice  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  14*000 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  *060 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  85*940 

The  abundance  of  saccharine  matter  contained  in  this  fruit  justifies  the  general  esteem  in 
which  it  is  held.  It  does  not  make  cider  of  the  first  quality  when  used  alone,  but  it  gives  body 
and  strength  to  other  varieties,  and  they  must  supply  flavour,  and  good  keeping  properties. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  profusely,  year  after  year,  in  almost  all 
situations. 


PLATE  XLV. 


3.  KINGSTON  BLACK. 


[Syn  :  Black  Kingston;  Taynton  Black  ;  Taunton  Black  '.  ] 


This  valuable  variety  is  believed  to  be  a  Somersetshire  Apple,  and  is  said  by  tradition  to 
have  been  raised  at  Kingston,  near  Taunton.  There  is,  however,  no  authentic  record  of  its  origin. 


Description. — Fruit  :  of  medium  size,  somewhat  irregular  in  shape,  two  and  a  quarter  inches 
broad,  by  two  inches  high,  forming  a  short  cone,  broad  and  flat  at  the  base  ;  obscurely  angular,  and 
generally  higher  on  one  side  of  the  apex  than  the  other.  Skin  :  of  a  dark  mahogany  or  deep 
crimson  colour,  which  extends  over  nearly  the  whole  surface  ;  where  the  colour  is  paler  it  is  splashed 
with  broken  streaks  of  dark  crimson,  and  where  shaded  from  the  sun,  the  ground  colour  is  deep 
yellow  approaching  orange,  and  this  is  also  marked  with  crimson  streaks  ;  the  whole  surface  is 
strewed  with  fine  cinnamon  russet  dots  and  the  base  is  generally  covered  with  ashy  grey  russet, 
which  often  runs  in  streaks  up  the  sides  of  the  fruit.  Eye  :  rather  small  with  erect  segments,  which 
are  reflexed  at  the  tips  ;  stamens  median  ;  tube  funnel-shaped.  Stalk  :  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
long,  inserted  in  a  deep  russety  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  with  a  pink  tint  near  the  skin,  and  fine¬ 
grained.  Juice  :  plentiful,  of  a  rich  tawny  red  colour,  agreeable  in  flavour,  moderately  sweet,  and 
pleasantly  acid,  with  an  astringent  after-taste. 


Mr.  With’s  analysis  of  the  Kingston  Black  Apple  (season  1881)  gives  the  following  results  : — 


Density  of  fresh  juice  ... 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 
S  ugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

Water 


1*052 

!'055 

10*028 

6*792 

83*180 


PLATE  XLV. 


4.  ROYAL  WILDING. 

[Syn  :  The  Cadbury .] 

There  is  no  published  account  of  the  origin  of  this  variety.  It  is  not  mentioned  by  any  of 
the  cider  authorities  of  the  last  century,  and  nothing  is  known  of  its  history.  There  are,  however, 
many  large  and  old  trees  scattered  through  the  county,  which  prove  that  it  must  have  been  in 
existence  earlier  than  the  present  century — though  not  mentioned  in  any  of  the  authorities  on  cider 
fruits — (1750  or  1780).  In  Somersetshire  this  Apple  is  called  “  The  Cadbury 

Description. — Fruit  :  of  medium  size,  conical,  contracted  around  the  upper  third  with  obtuse 
ribs  on  the  sides  which  extend  to  the  crown  and  form  ridges  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow 
on  the  shaded  side  and  brownish  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  sometimes  the  skin  is  entirely 
greenish  yellow  with  an  orange  tinge  next  the  sun.  The  whole  surface  is  often  covered  with  very 
small  specks  of  a  green  tint  on  the  shaded  side,  and  red  where  coloured.  Eye  :  small,  set  in  a 
narrow  and  puckered  basin,  and  with  convergent  segments.  Stalk  :  short,  or  a  mere  knob  deeply 
inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity,  often  lined  with  thin  pale  rus:et.  Flesh  :  woolly  and  tough,  not  very 


PLATE  XLV. 


juicy.  The  juice  has  a  vapid  bitter-sweet  flavour  with  but  little  acidity,  and  is  remarkably  dark 
in  colour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  of  the  Royal  Wilding  (season  1880)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With, 
F.R.A.S.,  F.C.S.,  gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*037 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’ exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*039 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ..  ...  ...  ...  ...  10*712 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  t  ..  4-688 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  84*600 

The  specific  gravity  of  the  fresh  juice  of  this  variety  from  fruit  grown  in  1876  was  ro66  ; 
in  1878,  1-056  ;  and  1881,  was  1-047—49  ;  all  very  considerably  higher  than  that  for  the  year  1880  : 
a  fact  which  shows  the  great  influence  of  sunshine  in  the  production  of  sugar. 

The  Royal  Wilding  is  a  late  fruit,  and  holds  a  high  place  in  general  esteem,  as  one  of  the 
most  useful  varieties.  It  is  deficient  in  flavour  by  itself,  and  is  therefore  seldom  used  alone  ;  but 
its  value  is  derived  from  the  body  and  strength  it  gives  to  the  cider  when  mixed  with  other 
varieties,  whose  juices  supply  a  higher  flavour. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  very  full  of  leaves,  and  forms  a  widespreading  handsome  head,  but  is 
generally  thought  to  be  a  shy  bearer.  “  When  the  Royal  Wilding  bears  well,  it  is  always  a  good 
cider  year,”  is  a  proverb,  in  the  Herefordshire  orchards,  meant  not  so  much  in  compliment  to  the 
fruit  itself,  as  to  show  that  the  variety  requires  a  favourable  season  to  bear  well. 


PLATE  XLV. 


5.  WILDING  BITTER-SWEET. 

A  Wilding  that  has  made  its  way  by  its  own  merit  ;  a  variety  without  any  definite  history. 

Description. — Fruit  :  roundish  ovate,  often  conical  and  ribbed,  exactly  of  the  shape  and  very 
similar  to  the  Keswick  Codlin.  Skin  :  pale  yellow,  tinged  with  green,  strewed  with  russet  dots, 
which  have  sometimes  a  greenish  tinge  surrounding  them.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  converging 
segments  and  set  in  a  narrow,  ribbed  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  obliquely  by  the  side  of  a 
prominent  lip,  in  a  narrow  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  white  and  tender.  Juice  :  moderate  in  quantity, 
of  a  deep  amber  colour  and  of  a  vapid  bitter-sweet  flavour. 

The  chemical  analysis  (season  1881)  by  Mr.  With  gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*038 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*040 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  10*420 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  1*580 

Water  ..,  ...  ...  ...  ...  88*ooo 

The  Wilding  Bitter-sweet  makes  a  high  coloured  sweet  cider,  and  is  now  being  propagated 
to  some  extent  in  the  valley  of  the  Frome. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  freely,  and  bears  well. 


PLATE  XLV. 


6.  GREEN  WILDING. 

This  variety  is  without  history,  and  is  probably  a  seedling  from  some  small  orchard  nursery. 
From  the  age  of  the  tree  it  must  be  as  old  as  the  century  (c.  1800). 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  short  conical,  obscurely  ribbed,  narrowing  towards  the 
eye,  where  it  is  somewhat  puckered.  Skin  :  yellowish  green,  strewed  with  numerous  large  russety 
dots  and  a  few  lines  of  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  puckered  basin.  Stalk  : 
very  short,  completely  embedded  in  a  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  sweet,  and  with  a 
mawkish  flavour,  but  without  bitterness,  marked  astringency,  or  much  acidity. 

The  chemical  analysis  (season  1881)  by  Mr.  With  gave  these  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*044 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’ exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*046 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  afforded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  10*530 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  3T70 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  86*300 

The  Green  Wilding  is  much  esteemed  in  the  Valley  of  the  Frome.  It  makes  a  good,  sound, 
deep-coloured  cider,  with  a  sweet  and  pleasant  flavour ;  but  it  is  generally  mixed  with  other 
varieties.  The  analysis  proves  it  to  be  a  valuable  fruit. 

The  tree  is  upright  in  growth,  very  hardy  and  a  good  bearer.  It  is  grown  chiefly  about 
Eggleton,  Homend,  and  in  the  orchards  of  that  district,  where  there  are  many  large  trees  to  be 
found.  It  is  still  being  propagated  on  that  side  of  the  county. 


PLATE  XLVI. 


i.  BUTT  PEAR. 

The  origin  of  the  Pear  is  nowhere  given.  It  is  very  much  grown  in  Gloucestershire  on  the 
Cheltenham  side,  and  is  spreading  fast  into  Herefordshire  and  Worcestershire.  Many  of  the  trees 
are  getting  old,  and  the  variety  must  therefore  date  from  the  last  century,  though  it  is  not 
mentioned  in  the  works  of  any  of  the  orchard  authorities. 

Description . — Fruit :  small  and  pyriform,  elongated  towards  the  stalk  ;  skin  of  an  uniform 
pale  green  colour.  Eye  :  on  the  surface,  with  small  erect  segments  without  much  substance. 
Stalk  :  very  slender,  an  inch  long,  inserted  even  without  depression  on  the  narrow  end  of  the  fruit. 
Flesh  :  white  and  juicy.  Juice  :  of  full  amber  colour,  not  particularly  sweet,  and  with  a  slight  bitter 
taste,  and  so  much  astringency  as  to  roughen  the  palate  very  decidedly. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  from  the  Butt  Pear  (season  1 88 1 )  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With, 
F.R.A.S.,  F.C.S.,  gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*042 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*044 

And  one  hundred  parts  by  weight  of  the  juice  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  10*700 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  3*300 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  86*000 

This  Pear  is  becoming  a  great  favourite  in  the  orchards.  It  is  in  season  very  late,  and  is 
therefore  the  more  useful  and  the  more  easily  managed.  It  makes  a  rough,  strong  perry,  which  is 
at  the  same  time  sweet  and  good.  It  is  often  used  to  mix  with  other  varieties  to  give  strength  to 
their  perry,  whilst  its  own  gains  in  softness. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  grows  freely.  '  It  blossoms  late  and  rarely  fails  to  bear 
abundantly. 


Plate  XLVI 


G.  Severeyns,  CKrom.oli.th.  Brass 


Edith  E. Bull. del. 


for  The  Woolhope  Club. 


PLATE  XLVL 


2.  NEW  MEADOW 

The  origin  of  this  Pear  is  not  known,  and  its  name  gives  no  clue  to  assist  in  the  discovery. 

Description. — Fruit :  small  and  pyriform  ;  almost  entirely  covered  with  a  very  thin  russet 
interspersed  with  many  small  white  spots  ;  this  gives  it  a  light  brownish  green  colour,  and  it  has  a 
tint  of  reddish  orange  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small,  with  upright  segments,  placed  in  a  slightly 
depressed  and  puckered  cavity.  Stalk  :  slender,  an  inch  long,  red,  with  white  spots  on  it,  inserted 
on  the  surface.  Flesh  :  white.  Juice  :  of  a  pale  pink  colour,  very  sweet,  with  a  pleasant  taste  and 
an  aromatic  flavour  recalling  the  dessert  table,  followed  however  by  an  after  sensation  of  astringency. 

The  chemical  analysis  by  Mr.  With  (season  i88i)gave  these  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*046 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*048 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  afforded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  12*000 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  & c.  ...  ...  ...  3*290 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  84*710 

The  New  Meadow  Pear  is  late  in  blossom  and  in  fruit,  and  therefore  has  the  merit  of  being 
a  great  bearer.  It  is  much  grown  around  Ledbury,  but  is  not  in  great  favour  since  its  juice  is 
often  troublesome  to  carry  well  through  fermentation.  Its  perry  also  is  very  peculiar  in  flavour 
and  not  appreciated  by  everybody.  It  is  not  considered  so  good  as  that  from  many  other 
varieties,  but  as  draught  perry  from  the  cask,  it  is  useful  for  home  consumption. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  upright  and  spiry  in  growth,  and  does  not  therefore  waste  much  ground 
by  its  shade. 


PLATE  XLVI. 


3.  PARSONAGE. 

The  particular  parsonage  this  Pear  comes  from  is  lost  to  history,  and  the  origin  of  this 
variety  unknown. 

Description. — Fruit  :  small  and  round,  slightly  running  up  the  stalk  ;  skin  of  a  yellowish 
green  colour,  tinted  with  orange  on  the  sunny  side,  and  thickly  strewn  with  very  small  russet  dots. 
Eye  :  open,  with  erect  segments,  and  placed  on  the  surface  without  depression.  Stalk  :  slender, 
an  inch  long,  enlarged  at  both  ends,  and  set  obliquely  in  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  white,  with  a  sweet 
astringent  taste  and  slight  Jargonelle  flavour.  Juice  :  plentiful,  of  a  pale  straw  colour,  deepening  to 
amber  after  exposure  to  air. 

The  chemical  analysis  (season  1881)  by  Mr.  With  gave  these  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  i‘c>46 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1.052 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  afforded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  •••  ...  9-6oo 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  .Salts,  & c.  ...  ...  ...  4^890 

W  ater  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  8  ^  ^  1  o 

The  Parsonage  Pear  is  very  early,  but  it  decays  too  quickly  to  gain  much  esteem.  Its 
perry  is  neither  strong,  nor  sweet,  and  it  is  apt  quickly  to  become  ropy. 

The  trees  are  exceedingly  large  and  upright,  much  resembling  the  Barland  in  growth. 
They  bear  well.  This  variety  has  not  been  propagated  of  late  years. 


PLATE  XLVI. 


4.  AYLTON  RED. 

[Syn  :  Sack  Pear ;  Black  Horse  Peark\ 

This  Pear  seems  to  have  originated  at  the  hamlet  of  Aylton  about  three  miles  west  of 
Ledbury.  It  dates  probably  at  the  beginning  of  the  present  century  (c.  1800),  as  none  of  the  trees 
are  old. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  size,  roundish  turbinate,  unequal  in  shape,  being  somewhat 
larger  on  one  side  than  the  other,  with  obtuse  angles  on  the  sides.  Skin  :  pale  green,  red  on  the 
sunny  side,  with  patches  of  deep  crimson  ;  its  whole  surface  being  strewn  with  russet  dots,  and  with 
patches  of  thin  russet.  Eye  :  small,  with  thin  reflexed  segments  and  sunk  in  a  narrow  puckered 
cavity.  Stalk  :  short,  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout,  enlarged  at  both  ends,  and 
inserted  in  a  narrow  and  shallow  depression.  Flesh  :  white.  Juice  :  very  plentiful,  thin,  of  a  pale 
amber  colour,  with  a  sweet  taste  and  an  agreeable  flavour,  without  much  astringency. 

The  chemical  analysis  (season  1881)  by  Mr.  With  gave  these  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ..  ...  ...  ...  i,036 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*039 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..  9*200 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  4*000 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  86*8oo 

The  Aylton  Red  Pear  is  late  in  season,  and  therefore  very  useful  and  convenient.  It  makes 
a  rough  strong  Perry,  but  without  sufficient  delicacy  or  richness  of  flavour  to  give  it  a  high 
character 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  is  very  hardy.  Its  foliage  is  small,  and  when  loaded  with  clusters 
of  its  rosy  red  fruit,  as  is  commonly  the  case,  it  makes  an  attractive  object  in  the  orchard. 


PLATE  XLVI. 


5.  PINT  PEAR. 

Nothing  is  known  of  the  origin  of  this  Pear.  It  may  be  inferred  that  its  very  juicy  nature 
suggested  its  name.  It  is  grown  very  much  around  Ledbury  and  in  Worcestershire. 

Description. — Fruit:  of  full  medium  size,  with  a  regular  and  rather  round  pyriform  shape, 
tapering  gradually  towards  the  eye.  Skin  :  of  a  pale  green  colour,  with  a  slight  tinge  of  orange  on 
the  side  next  the  sun,  and  its  surface  everywhere  covered  with  very  minute  dots  thickly  placed. 
A  thin  cinnamon  russet  surrounds  the  eye  and  the  insertion  of  the  stalk,  and  is  often  seen  in 
patches  on  the  body  of  the  fruit.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  erect  segments  almost  level  with  the 
surface.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  on  the  tapering  end  of  the  fruit  without 
depression,  but  often  with  a  fold  of  the  fruit  on  one  side.  Flesh  :  white  and  very  juicy,  subacid, 
with  a  sweet,  sharp,  and  rather  astringent  taste,  though  without  any  distinctive  flavour.  The  juice 
is  very  pale  in  colour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  Pint  Pear  (season  1880)  Mr.  With  gives  as  follows  : 

Density  of  the  fresh  juice  ...  ..,  ...  1*039 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*042 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juce  by  weight  yielded  of— 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  1 1 ‘33 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  1*37 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  87*30 

The  Pint  Pear  is  an  early  variety,  and  from  the  abundance  of  its  juice  and  the  strength  of  the 
perry  made  from  it,  has  gained  considerable  favour.  “It  runs  a  lot  of  liquor,”  “  fills  the  measure 
well,”  are  generally  the  first  observations  made  about  it.  It  is  apt  to  fret  and  be  troublesome  in 
making,  which  is  partly  due  perhaps  to  its  being  ripe  so  early  in  the  autumn.  Its  perry  is  pale  in 
colour,  rough  and  strong,  and  should  be  drunk  from  the  cask  from  Christmas  to  March.  In  this 
way  it  is  considered  one  of  the  most  useful  kinds  of  perry  for  home  consumption.  It  is  of  no  use  for 
bottling,  and  thus  does  not  take  rank  with  the  first  order  of  perry  pears. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  upright,  and  very  free  in  growth,  seldom  failing  to  give  a  crop  of  fruit. 


PLATE  XLVL 


6.  PINE  PEAR. 

The  origin  of  this  small  Pear  is  unknown.  It  takes  its  name  from  its  aromatic  pine-apple 
flavour.  The  trees  are  old  and  large. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  of  a  flat  pyriform  shape,  broad  below,  and  narrowing  quickly 
towards  the  stalk,  its  sides  being  often  unequal.  Skin  :  green,  with  numerous  very  small  spots  on 
the  surface,  clustering  together  round  the  eye.  Eye  :  open  and  shallow,  with  upright  segments,  and 
set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  very  long,  and  very  irregular  in  shape.  Flesh  :  white,  with  a 
plentiful,  thin,  sweet  juice,  of  a  pale  amber  colour,  and  vinous  pine-apple  flavour. 

The  chemical  analysis  (season  1 88 1 )  by  Mr.  With  afford  these  results  : 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*035 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*040 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  9'3°° 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ..  ...  ...  4*100 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  86*6oo 

The  Pine  Pear  is  generally  confused  with  the  last  variety,  the  Pint  Pear ,  but  they  are  as 
distinct  in  character  as  in  appearance.  This  variety  is  a  late  pear,  and  is  generally  used  to  give 
flavour  to  the  juice  from  other  pears.  In  a  good  year,  when  used  alone,  it  makes  perry  of  a  delicious 
flavour,  and  bottles  well.  It  is  similar  to  the  Oldfield  perry  in  flavour,  character,  and  in  its  period  of 
maturity. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  to  a  large  size,  and  bears  well  ;  but  it  is  not  much  grown, 
though  it  is  still  being  propagated  by  those  who  know  its  value. 


PLATE  XLVI. 


7.  ARLINGHAM  SQUASH. 

[  S  vn  :  Green  Squash  of  Evelyn .] 

This  Pear  is  undoutedly  a  very  old  variety,  and  probably  originated  and  took  its  name  from 
the  village  of  Arlingham,  in  Gloucestershire.  This  parish  is  formed  by  a  nook  of  land  surrounded 
on  three  sides  by  the  river  Severn,  opposite  Newnham.  It  has  a  rich  alluvial  soil,  and  many  very 
old  and  large  trees  of  the  Arlingham  Squash  Pear  formerly  grew  there.  Some  few  of  them  are  still 
remaining,  “all  grafted,”  says  Mr.  Sayer,  “by  a  single  scion,  and  about  the  years  1700  to  1750;” 
this  gentleman  believes  it  to  be  the  same  as  the  Green  Squash  Pear  mentioned  by  Evelyn. 

Description. — Fruit  :  a  full  medium  size,  roundish,  almost  Bergamotte  shaped,  but  more 
irregular  and  lumpy.  Skin  :  of  a  deep  green  colour,  with  a  tinge  of  faint  light  red  on  the  sunny  side  ; 
the  surface  strewed  all  over  with  small  brown  spots  ot  russet,  and  with  patches  of  deep  brown  russet 
round  the  eye,  the  insertion  of  the  stalk,  and  here  and  there  about  the  body  of  the  pear.  Eye  :  an 
open  ring,  with  traces  of  erect  segments.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  very  thick  and  enlarged  at  the 
base.  Flesh  :  coarse  and  gritty,  with  an  abundant  juice  of  a  deep  amber  colour,  with  a  delicate 


PLATE  XLVL 


subacid  flavour  and  sweet  taste,  but  followed  by  astringent  after-taste. 

Mr.  With’s  analysis  of  the  Arlingham  Squash  juice  (season  1 88 1 )  gave  these 

results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*039 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  1*039 

And  one  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  afforded  of — 

Sugar  ..  ...  ...  ...  ...  10*700 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  .....  1*800 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  87*500 

This  rough-looking,  ugly  Pear  is  much  esteemed  by  some  growers.  It  is  in  season  in  early 
autumn,  and  requires  peculiar  treatment.  It  is  not  fit  to  grind  until  the  inside  is  apparently  rotten 
to  within  half  an  inch  of  the  rind,  when  it  “  squashes  ”  readily  under  the  foot.  The  perry  is  sweet 
and  good  in  flavour,  but  is  only  fit  for  immediate  consumption.  Wasps  and  bees  are  very  fond  of 
the  decaying  fruit,  thus  affording  practical  testimony  to  its  aroma  and  sweetness. 

The  tree  grows  large  and  fine,  and  bears  well.  It  is  only  grown  in  certain  localities.  A 
young  and  flourishing  orchard  of  half-grown  trees  of  this  variety  exists  at  this  time  at  Bartestree, 
and  other  trees  have  been  grafted  from  these,  some  fifteen  or  sixteen  years  since  (1866-7)  at 
Brockhampton. 


PLATE  XLVII. 


t.  BENONI  APPLE. 

This  Apple  is  a  native  of  the  United  States,  where  it  is  said  by  Downing  to  have  originated 
on  the  farm  of  Mr.  Mason  Richards,  at  Dedham,  in  Massachusets,  some  30  or  40  years  ago 
(1830-40).  It  was  introduced  into  England  by  Mr.  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  oblato-cylindrical,  even  and  regular  in  outline 
except  at  the  crown,  where  it  is  somewhat  undulating,  and  generally  higher  on  one  side  than  the 
other.  Skin  :  when  fully  ripe,  of  a  rich  yellow  colour,  with  a  crimson  cheek  where  exposed  to  the 
sun,  and  marked  with  short  broken  streaks  of  darker  crimson,  with  here  and  there  patches  of  thin 
russet,  especially  towards  the  apex.  Eye  :  closed  with  flat  segments,  which  overflap  each  other, 
and  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  irregular  cavity.  Tube  :  long  and  funnel-shaped.  Stamens  :  median. 
Stalk  :  very  slender,  from  a  quarter  to  half  an  inch  long,  and  deeply  inserted  in  a  round  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellow,  very  tender  and  delicate  in  tissue,  sweet  and  briskly  flavoured,  and  with  a  remarkably 
high  perfume  like  that  of  pine-apple,  which  is  very  characteristic  of  this  Apple  when  highly  ripened. 
Cells  of  the  core  closed. 

Downing,  in  his  Fruits  and  Fruit  Trees  of  America,  pronounces  this  fruit  to  be  “  Very  good 
or  best,  a  valuable  variety  for  market  or  table  use,”  and  Mr.  Rivers  confirms  this  favourable  opinion. 
It  ripens  in  September. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  forms  excellent  pyramids,  and  bears  well.  Mr.  Rivers  says,  “  I  have 
little  pyramids  covered  with  fruit,  which  bad  as  the  season  was  last  year  (1879)  ripened  before  this 
time  (September  16th).” 


Plate  .XLVir 


- 


C*  TVrv  '  01  "P->  v 


pm:.  ■  mm  V'  ; 


o 


0  '  r-p 

o.  -j  ruin  pin; 


i.  Benoni 


G.  Severeyns,  Cnromolith.  Brussels. 


Alice  B.EIlis  X  pdith  E.Butl.del. 
for  7Tne  Woolfcope  Club. 


* 


* 


1 


4 


*  3 


. 


? 


PLATE  XLVII. 


2.  FEARN’S  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Ferris  Pippin ;  Clifton  Nonsuch. ] 

This  Apple  is  without  history,  and  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  old  lists.  It  is  generally 
cultivated  near  London,  where  it  is  highly  esteemed.  It  dates  probably  from  the  end  of  the  last 
century.  It  is  figured  by  Lindley,  PI.  67  ;  in  the  “  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural 
Society,”  Vol.  I.  ;  in  Hooker’s  u  Pomona  Londinensis ,”  PI.  43  ;  and  in  Ronalds,  PI.  xii. ,  fig.  2. 

Description . — Fruit  :  medium  size,  roundish  and  flattened  above  and  below.  Skin  :  pale 
greenish  yellow,  streaked  with  dull  red  on  the  shaded  side,  and  bright  dark  crimson,  strewed  with 
grey  dots  and  small  patches  of  russet  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  extending  almost  over  the  whole 
surface.  Eye  :  large,  partially  open,  with  broad,  connivent  segments,  which  are  reflexed  at  the 
tips,  and  set  in  a  shallow  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  a  quarter  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  wide 
and  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  wdiite,  firm,  crisp,  sugary,  briskly  and  pleasantly  flavoured. 

An  excellent  Apple  for  dessert  or  culinary  purposes.  It  has  something  of  the  flavour  of  the 
old  Golden  Reinettc ,  and  rivals  Court  Pendu  Plat  in  appearance,  in  its  season  of  maturity  and  in 
flavour  ;  if  it  is  less  rich,  the  tree  is  more  hardy.  It  is  in  season  from  November  to  February. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  a  great  bearer.  It  is  grown  extensively  by  the  market  gardeners 
for  the  supply  of  Covent  Garden  market,  London. 


PLATE  XLVII. 


3.  TRUMPINGTON. 

[Syn  :  Delaware  ;  supposed  by  Downing-  to  be  the  same  as  Rambo7\ 

The  origin  of  this  fruit  is  not  given  anywhere.  Its  name  and  synonyms  denote  it  to  be  an 
American  fruit.  It  is  figured  by  Ronalds,  PL  xxxviii.,  fig.  2. 

Description. — Fruit  :  small,  two  inches  and  three-eighths  wide,  and  one  inch  and  five-eighths 
high  ;  oblate,  even  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  of  a  fine  deep  golden  yellow,  tinged  and 
mottled  with  pale  red  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  fine  bright  red,  which  extends  over  a  greater 
part  of  its  surface,  when  exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  large  and  closed,  with  broad  flat  ovate 
segments,  set  in  a  wide  and  somewhat  undulating  basin.  Stalk  :  a  quarter  of  an  inch  long,  inserted 
in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity,  which  is  tinged  with  green  and  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  white,  firm 
and  pleasantly  flavoured. 

A  very  pretty  dessert  apple  and  very  distinct  in  character.  It  is  in  season  from  September  to 
Christmas.  It  has  not  brought  to  England  all  the  good  qualities  which  the  Americans  attribute  to 
it,  for  here  it  must  be  placed  in  the  second  rank. 


PLATE  XLVII 


4.  PEARSON’S  PLATE. 

The  authorities  do  not  give  any  account  of  the  origin  of  this  Apple. 

Description . — Fruit  :  small,  two  inches  and  a  quarter  broad,  and  the  same  in  height ; 
roundish  inclining  to  oblate  ;  higher  on  one  side  of  the  apex  than  the  other ;  regularly  and 
handsomely  formed.  Skin  :  smooth,  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  but  washed  and  mottled  with 
red,  and  streaked  with  deeper  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  being  much  covered 
with  a  very  fine,  thin  and  smooth  pale-brown  russet,  and  dotted  with  dark  dots.  (Sometimes  there 
is  no  red  colour,  but  the  fruit  is  altogether  green  and  covered  with  thin  brown  russet.)  Eye  :  open, 
with  short  segments,  set  in  a  shallow  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk :  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a 
round  and  rather  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  firm,  crisp  and  juicy,  with  a  rich  and 
brisk  sugary  flavour,  somewhat  resembling  the  Old  Nonpareil. 

A  delicious  little  dessert  Apple  ;  in  season  from  December  to  March. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  with  fine  wood,  and  bears  well.  It  makes  excellent  espaliers,  or  bushes. 


PLATE  XLVII. 


5.  ORD’S  APPLE. 

[Syn  :  Simpsons  Pippin. ~\ 

This  excellent  variety  originated  in  1797  at  Purser’s  Cross,  near  Fulham,  Middlesex.  It 
was  raised  in  the  garden  of  John  Ord,  Esq.,  by  his  sister-in-law,  Mrs.  Anne  Simpson,  from  a  seed 
of  a  Newtown  Pippin  imported  in  1777,  and  grown  from  its  fruit  in  1797.  It  has  been  well  figured 
in  the  “  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society l'  Vol.  II.,  PI.  xix.,  and  the  full  details  of 
its  production  are  given  there. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  conical  or  oblong,  very  irregular  in  its  outline,  caused 
by  prominent  and  unequal  ribs  on  the  sides,  which  extend  to  and  terminate  in  ridges  round  the  eye. 
Skin  :  smooth  and  shining,  deep  grassy  green,  strewed  with  imbedded  grey  specks,  and  dotted  with 
brown  russety  dots  on  the  shaded  side,  but  washed  with  thin  brownish  red,  and  this  is  marked  with 
spots,  or  patches,  of  darker  and  livelier  red,  and  strewed  with  star-like  freckles  of  russet  on  the  side 
exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  placed  in  a  deep  and  angular  basin,  which  is  lined 
with  linear  marks  of  rough  russet.  Stalk  :  about  half  an  inch  long,  somewhat  obliquely  inserted  by 
the  side  of  a  fleshy  swelling,  which  is  more  or  less  prominent.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  tender, 
crisp  and  brittle,  abounding  in  a  profusion  of  rich,  brisk,  sugary  and  vinous  juice,  with  a  finely 
perfumed  and  refreshing  flavour. 

An  Apple  of  first-rate  quality  and  deserving  of  a  wider  cultivation.  It  keeps  well,  and  is  in 
season  from  January  to  May. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  of  horizontal  spreading  growth,  but  not  large,  and  it  bears  well. 


PLATE  XLVII. 


6.  LUCOMBE’S  PINE. 

[Syn  :  Pine  Apple  ;  Pine  Apple  Pipping 

This  excellent  Apple  was  raised  in  the  nursery  of  Messrs.  Lucombe,  Pince  and  Co.,  of 
Exeter,  about  the  beginning  of  the  present  century  (c.  1800). 

Description. — Fruit:  rather  below  medium  size;  ovate  or  conical,  slightly  and  obscurely 
ribbed  about  the  eye.  Skin  :  of  an  uniform  clear  pale  yellow,  but  with  an  orange  tint  on  the  side 
next  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  being  thinly  strewed  with  pale,  brown,  russety  dots.  Eye  :  small 
and^closed,  with  somewhat  ovate  segments,  set  in  a  narrow,  shallow  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  : 
stout,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  and  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish 
white,  tender  and  delicate,  juicy  and  sugary,  with  a  rich  aromatic  flavour,  resembling  that  of  a 
pine-apple. 

A  dessert  Apple  of  first-rate  quality,  well  worthy  of  general  cultivation.  It  is  in  season  from 
October  to  Christmas. 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  makes  an  excellent  bush,  or  espalier, 


PLATE  XLVIII. 


i.  URBANISTE. 

[Syn  :  Beui're  Dr apiez ;  Beurre  Gens  ;  Beurre  Picquery  ;  Picquery ;  Louis  Dupont ;  Louise 
L  Orleans  ;  St.  Marc  ;  Virgalieu  Musqutiei] 

This  excellent  Pear  seems  to  have  originated  in  the  garden  of  the  nunnery,  “  Les  Urbanistes,” 
at  Malines.  Nothing  more  is  known  of  its  origin,  but  Van  Mons  states  it  to  have  been  in  existence 
prior  to  1 786. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized  ;  obovate,  or  oblong-obovate.  Skin  :  smooth  and  thin, 
pale  yellow,  covered  with  grey  dots  and  slight  markings  of  russet,  and  mottled  with  reddish  brown. 
Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  deep  narrow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  wide  and 
rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  very  tender,  melting  and  juicy,  rich  sugary  and  slightly  perfumed. 

.  A  delicious  Pear,  in  season  in  October,  and  when  in  perfection  one  of  the  best  Pears  grown. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  freely.  It  forms  a  handsome  pyramid  either  on  the  pear,  or 
quince  stock. 


Plat 


XLvm. 


4.  Belle  Julie.  5.  Jewess 


G.  Severeyns,  Chromolith.  Brussels. 

Edith  E. Bull, del. 
for  The  Woolhope  Club 


.9 


PLATE  XLVIII. 


2.  DEUX  SCEURS. 

The  original  tree  of  this  variety  sprung  up  in  the  garden  of  two  sisters,  Knoop,  at  Malines, 
and  hence  the  Pear  received  its  name.  The  date  of  its  origin  is  not  given  anywhere. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  and  a  half  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  wide  ; 
oblong,  ribbed  and  undulating  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  smooth,  greenish  yellow,  sometimes  entirely 
covered  with  a  thin  crust  of  pale  brown  russet,  but  always  more  or  less  mottled  and  dotted  with 
russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  set  in  a  very  narrow  and  shallow  depression.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch 
to  three-quarters  long,  inserted  obliquely  in  a  narrow  cavity  by  the  side  of  a  fleshy  protuberance. 
Flesh  :  white,  buttery,  melting  and  very  juicy,  with  a  sweet,  sprightly  juice  and  a  rich  flavour  not 
unlike  Marie  Louise ,  but  quite  distinct  from  it. 

A  remarkably  fine  Pear,  ripe  by  the  end  of  October. 

The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower  and  a  good  bearer.  It  forms  excellent  pyramids.either  on  the 
pear,  or  the  quince. 


PLATE  XLVIII. 


[Syn  :  Maraisei] 

This  fine  Pear  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  Van  Mons,  but  its  precise  origin  is  not  given 
by  any  pomological  authority.  It  was  sent  to  Dr.  Hogg  in  1844  by  M.  Papeleu,  of  Wetteren,  and 
proved  itself  to  deserve  a  place  amongst  the  best  Autumn  pears.  A  coloured  illustration  appears 
in  the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist  ”  for  September,  1863. 

Description . — Fruit  :  medium  size,  two  and  a  half  inches  long  and  the  same  wide  ;  abruptly 
obovate,  even,  very  handsome  and  regularly  formed,  not  unlike  a  small  Beurre  Sterckmans  in  shape. 
Skin  :  smooth,  with  a  very  fine  aurora  glow  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  dotted  with  large  russet 
freckles.  Eye  :  very  small  and  open,  set  in  a  shallow  and  narrow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long, 
slender  and  inserted  by  the  side  of  a  fleshy  lip,  in  a  small  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender, 
melting  and  very  juicy,  rich  and  with  honey  sweetness,  and  a  powerful  aroma. 

A  beautiful  and  delicious  Pear,  in  season  the  end  of  October  and  beginning  of  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  and  very  fertile.  It  is  a  variety  that  well  deserves  extensive 
cultivation. 


PLATE  XLVIII. 


4.  BELLE  JULIE. 

[Syn  :  Alexandine  Helied\ 

Th  is  Pear  is  one  of  the  many  excellent  pears  raised  by  Van  Mons.  The  tree  first  bore  fruit 
in  1842,  and  was  named  “  Belle  Julie  ”  in  honour  of  his  grand-daughter,  the  daughter  of  General 
Van  Mons.  A  coloured  illustration  of  the  Pear  is  given  in  the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist  ”  for 
September,  1863. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized  ;  long  obovate,  even  and  regularly  shaped.  Skin  : 
rather  rough  to  the  feel  from  the  large  russety  specks  with  which  it  is  covered.  The  colour  is  dull 
or  hazel  brown,  somewhat  like  that  of  the  Brown  Beurre ;  and  on  the  side  next  the  sun  it  has  a 
warm  reddish  brown  glow,  like  a. gipsy  blush.  On  the  shaded  side,  where  the  skin  is  not  covered 
with  russet,  the  green  ground  colour  shows  through.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  brown  and  woody, 
inserted  on  one  side  of  the  fruit  under  a  fleshy  lip.  Eye  :  clove-like,  wide  open,  with  long  segments 
and  set  almost  on  a  level  with  the  surface  of  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender,  buttery,  melting, 
and  very  juicy.  Juice  :  rich,  sugary  and  vinous,  with  a  fine  perfume. 

A  delicious  Pear,  ripe  in  October  and  November.  “  It  is  one  of  the  most  serviceable  in 
cultivation,”  says  Mr.  Barron,  from  his  experience  of  its  growth  in  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society’s 
garden  at  Chiswick. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  grows  well  as  a  pyramid,  and  is  a  great  and  certain  bearer. 


PLATE  XLVIII. 


w,; 


[Syn  :  La  JuiveP\ 

This  excellent  Pear  was  raised  as  a  seedling  by  Major  Esperen,  of  Malines,  and  the  tree 
first  bore  fruit  in  1843.  It  received  its  name  from  growing  against  a  wall,  which  bounded  the  street 
called  “  Rue  des  Juifs.” 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  and  a  half  inches  wide  and  three  inches  long  ; 
pyramidal,  or  roundish  obovate.  Skin  :  of  an  uniform  clear  pale  yellow  colour,  mottled  with  pale 
brown  russet,  thickly  covered  with  small  russet  dots.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  short  erect 
segments,  even  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  about  an  inch  long,  stout,  and  tapering  into  the  fruit,  or 
obliquely  inserted.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  buttery  and  melting,  very  juicy,  sugary  and  rich. 

A  very  delicious  Pear  ;  in  season  the  end  of  November  and  during  December. 

The  tree  makes  a  good  pyramid  on  the  quince  stock,  but  it  requires  and  deserves  a  warm 
soil  and  situation. 


% 


/ 


J  -  . 

t 


. 


. 


BE8.S  6  v 
tmm*  J 


XL  IX 


for  The  Woolhope  Club 


wwr-  I 


!  ?  '  ■  ‘i-f 

L  M 

tf:'-’  U  -isi|,V'^X:  '  '  '':  .' J-  &  ,1X ,  Sjii 

2k...  kitmM  m  A 


mm 

XCXL.  -  ifvM 


isMiy 


-t  < 


-■v-jsaBB— 

:  ■.  ^  c?  _ 

Xr  •  i  ••  '  ■ 

do e  k  N 0  I* u  other.  , 


o  Uelner’s  Golden  Heine  tit 


G.  Severeyns,  Chrcmolith  .  Brussels 


*»H_ _ 

Court  Pendu-Plat 


Golden  Russet 


r\ 

La 


'olden.  Winter  Pearmam 


Alice  B.  Ellis  del 


Golden  Rernette. 


2 


Land'sberqer  Remette 


->’i 


W* 

X- 


m 


PLATE  XLIX 


i.  COURT-PENDU-PLAT. 

[Syn  :  Garnons  Pippin;  Court-pendu,;  Court-pendu  Plat  Rougedtre ;  Court-pendu  Rond 
Gros;  Court-pendu  Rond  ires  Gros ;  Court-pendu  Rond  Rougeatre;  Court-pendu  Rosat ;  Court-pendu 
rosaar ;  Court-pendu  M usque ;  Court-pendu  Rouge ;  Court-pendu  Rouge  Musque  ;  Court-pendu 
Vermeil;  Reinette  Court-pendu  Rouge ;  Corianda  Rose;  Princesse  Noble  Zoete ;  Kurtzstiel ; 
Woollaton  Pippin  ;  Wise  Apple\. 

The  origin  of  this  valuable  Apple  is  nowhere  given.  It  takes  its  name  clearly  from  its  flat, 
compressed  shape  and  its  short  stalk,  which  is  so  marked  that  the  apple  sits  as  it  were  upon  the 
branch,  and  since  this  is  expressed  in  French,  Court-pendu- Plat,  it  is  thought  that  the  variety  was 
introduced  from  the  continent ; — and  this  is  the  more  probable,  since  it  is  very  extensively  grown 
throughout  France  and  Germany.  Its  local  name  in  Herefordshire,  Garnons  Pippin ,  is  derived 
from  “Garnons,”  the  seat  of  the  late  Sir  John  Cotterell,  Bart.,  who  probably  introduced  it  into  the 
County. 

Dr.  Hogg  in  the  “  Fruit  Manual ”  ;  gives  this  learned  commentary  upon  it.  “  This  is  not 
the  Capendu  of  Duhamel  as  quoted  by  Lindley  and  Downing  ;  neither  is  it  the  Court-pendu  of 
Forsyth,  and  De  Quintinye,  that  variety  being  the  Fenouillet  rouge ,  of  Duhamel.  The  Courpendu, 
of  Miller,  is  also  a  different  apple  from  any  of  those  just  mentioned.  This  variety  derives  its  name 
from  Corps-pendu ,  which  may  be  translated  “  Hanging  body,”  and  it  is  distinguished  by  having  a 
long  and  slender  stalk,  so  that  the  fruit  is  alway  hanging  downwards.  The  name  Capendu  or 
Capendtta  is  mentioned  by  the  earlier  authors,  but  applied  to  different  varieties  of  apples.  It  is  met 


PLATE  XLIX. 


with  in  Ruellius,  Tragus,  Curtius,  and  Dalechamp,  the  last  author  considering  it  the  Cestiana  of 
Pliny.  Curtius  applies  the  name  to  a  yellow  apple,  and  so  also  does  Ruellius  ;  but  Tragus  considers 
it  one  of  the  varieties  of  Passe-pomme.  He  says  “ Capendua  magna  sunt  alba  et  dulcia ,  in  quorum 
utero  semina  per  maturitatem  sonant,  Rue/ Ho  “  Passipoma  ”  apellanlur .”  They  are  also  mentioned 
by  J.  Bauhin  thus  :  “  Celeberrimum  hoc  point  genus  est  tctius  Europce,  sic  dicta ,  quod  ex  curto  ad 
modum  pendeant  pediculol  ’ 

This  fruit  is  well  represented  by  Lindley,  Plate  66,  and  there  is  also  a  good  figure  of  it  in 
Ronalds’  Plate  xii.,  fig.  i. 

Description.  Fruit  :  medium-sized,  oblate,  regularly  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  bright 
green  at  first  on  the  shaded  side,  but  changing  as  it  ripens  to  clear  yellow,  marked  with  traces  of 
russet  and  russety  dots  ;  but  entirely  covered  with  rich  deep  red  next  the  sun.  Stalk  :  short  and 
deeply  inserted.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  short  segments  reflexed  at  the  tips,  set  in  a  wide  and 
rather  deep  basin.  Flesh  :  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  very  juicy,  and  richly  flavoured. 

This  is  a  dessert  apple  of  the  very  first  quality,  and  should  take  its  place  in  every  garden.  Its 
season  lasts  from  December  to  May  ;  and  during  all  this  time  it  is  as  ornamental  on  the  table  as  it  is 
good  on  the  plate  at  dessert.  It  is  one  of  the  very  best  late  keeping  varieties.  It  resembles 
Fearns  Pippin ,  but  is  more  regular  in  shape,  has  yellow  flesh  and  a  higher  flavour. 

The  tree  is  small  of  growth,  very  hardy  and  bears  regularly  and  abundantly.  It  blossoms 
very  late  in  the  spring,  and  is  thus  less  liable  to  be  injured  by  frost ;  and  hence  it  has  derived 
its  name  of  Wise  Apple.  Grafted  on  the  Paradise  stock  it  makes  an  excellent  espalier  or  pyramid, 
which  may  be  kept  as  small  as  a  gooseberry  bush.  The  tree  is  very  fruitful,  and  thus  this  excellent 
variety  is  admirably  adapted  for  the  smallest  garden.  On  the  crab  stocks,  as  an  orchard  tree,  it  is 
equally  productive,  and  is  certainly  one  of  the  most  valuable  varieties  for  the  market. 


PLATE  XL IX. 


2.  LANDSBERGER  REINETTE. 

This  variety  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  Councillor  Burchardt,  at  Landsberg,  on  the  Wartha, 
about  the  beginning  of  the  present  century 

Description.  Fruit  :  above  the  medium  size,  somewhat  conical,  slightly  ribbed  near  the  eye. 
Skin  :  pale  yellow,  very  clear  and  shining,  having  a  tinge  of  crimson  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  : 
open  ;  segments  of  the  calyx,  long,  reflexed  and  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  long,  slender  and 
deeply  inserted.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  delicate,  melting  and  sweet. 

An  excellent  apple,  fit  for  either  dessert  or  culinary  purposes.  It  is  in  season  from  October  to 
Christmas. 

The  tree  is  small,  but  hardy  and  bears  freely — succeeds  well  as  an  espalier,  or  dwarf  standard 
when  grown  on  the  Paradise  stock. 


PLATE  XLIX. 


3.  GOLDEN  RUSSET. 

This  is  one  of  our  old  English  apples  whose  history  is  lost.  Worlidge  calls  it  the  Aromatic, 
or  Golden  Russeting,  and  says,  “  It  hath  no  compear,  it  being  of  a  gold  colour  coat,  under  a  russet 
hair,  with  some  warts  on  it.  It  lies  over  the  winter,  and  is,  without  dispute,  the  most  pleasant  apple 
that  grows,  having  a  most  delicate  aromatic  hautgust,  and  melting  in  the  mouth.” 

Description.  Fruit  :  ovate,  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  two  inches 
and  a  quarter  high.  Skin  :  thick,  covered  with  a  dingy  yellow  russet,  which  is  sometimes  rough  and 
thick  on  the  shaded  side  and  round  the  base,  and  sometimes  with  a  little  bright  red  on  the  side  next 
the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  prominently  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  very  short,  inserted  in 
an  uneven  cavity  and  not  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Flesh  :  pale  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  sugary  and 
aromatic  ;  but  not  abounding  in  juice. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality.  Its  season  lasts  from  December  to  March. 

The  tree  is  healthy,  and  an  excellent  bearer,  but  requires  a  warm  soil  and  situation  to  perfect 
its  fruit. 


PLATE  XLIX. 


v 


4.  GOLDEN  REINETTE. 


“  When  a  Pepin  is  planted  on  a  Pepin  Stock,  the 
fruit  growing  thence  is  called  a  Renate ,  a  most  delicious 
fruit,  as  both  by  sire  and  dam  are  well  descended.” 

Literally,  Reinette,  means  a  little  queen. 


Drayton :  Polyolbion- Fuller. 


[Syn  :  Golden  Renet ;  Golden  Rennet ;  Kirk s  Golden  Reinette  ;  Dundee ;  Wyker  Pippin  ; 
Wygers ;  Yellow  German  Reinette ;  Megginch  Favorite;  Aurore ;  Elizabeth;  Princesse  Noble; 
P online  Madame  ;  Englise  Pippin;  Reinette  d'  Aix ;  Reinette  Gielen  ;  Court-pendu  dor6eh\ 

The  origin  of  this  variety  is  lost  in  antiquity.  The  great  number  of  its  synonymes  proves 
that  it  has  obtained  a  very  extensive  cultivation.  It  has  long  been  known  in  this  country,  and 
esteemed  as  one  of  the  finest  apples.  Worlidge  (1676)  says,  “  It  is  to  be  preferred  in  our  plantations 
for  all  occasions.”  Ellis  in  his  “  Modern  Husbandman ”  (1744)  says,  “  The  Golden  Rennet ,  when  of 
the  largest  sort,  may  be  truly  said  to  be  the  farmer’s  greatest  favorite  apple,  because  when  all  others 
miss  bearing,  this  generally  stands  his  friend,  and  bears  him  large  quantities  on  one  tree.”  It  has 
existed  in  Holland  for  more  than  a  century  under  the  name  of  Wyker  Pippin. 

This  fruit  is  well  represented  by  Lindley,  Plate  69,  and  by  Ronalds,  Plate  xii.,  fig.  6. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  roundish  and  a  little  flattened.  Skin  :  a  fine  deep  yellow, 
which  towards  the  sun  is  tinged  with  red,  streaked  with  deeper  and  livelier  red,  and  dotted  all  over 
with  russety  dots.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  short  dry  segments,  and  set  in  a  wide  and  even 
basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  and  deeply  inserted  in  a  round  and  even  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow, 
crisp,  brisk,  juicy,  rich  and  sugary. 

A  fine  old  dessert  apple  of  first  rate  quality.  It  is  in  season  from  November  to  April,  and 
always  commands  a  high  price  in  the  market.  It  is  held  in  the  highest  esteem,  for  perhaps  in  no 
other  apple  is  there  so  much  beauty  and  excellence  to  be  found  combined.  For  this  reason  it  is 
grown  in  large  quantities  in  the  counties  round  London. 

The  tree  is  healthy  and  vigorous  in  congenial  soils,  but  it  is  apt  to  canker  if  the  drainage  is 
defective.  It  bears  abundantly,  and  is  well  adapted  for  dwarf  training  when  worked  on  the  Paradise 
stock,  but  it  requires  a  light  warm  soil  and  sheltered  situation. 


PLATE  XLIX. 


5.  SEEK  NO  FURTHER. 

A  well  known  old  English  variety,  whose  origin  and  history  are  lost.  It  abounds  in  the 
orchards  and  cottage  gardens  of  Herefordshire,  where  many  very  old  trees  are  to  be  found,  and 
where  it  has  long  been  a  very  favorite  apple. 

This  fruit  is  represented  by  Ronalds,  Plate  xxiii.,  fig.  3,  and  by  Lindley,  Plate  117,  under 
the  name  of  King  of  Pippins. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  conical  or  pearmain  shaped.  Skin  :  yellowish  green, 
streaked  with  broken  patches  of  crimson  on  the  shaded  side,  and  strewed  with  grey  russety  dots,  but 
covered  with  a  light  red,  which  is  marked  with  crimson  streaks,  and  covered  with  patches  of  fine 
delicate  russet,  and  numerous,  large,  square,  and  stelloid  russety  specks,  like  scales  on  the  side 
exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  broad  flat  segments,  the  edges  of  which  fit  neatly 
to  each  other,  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  about  half  an  inch  long,  stout.,  and 
inserted  in  a  deep,  round,  and  regular  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  crisp,  juicy,  rich,  sugary  and 
vinous,  charged  with  a  pleasant  aromatic  flavour. 

This  apple  acquires  a  very  beautiful  colour  when  in  season,  which  lasts  from  November  to 
January  or  even  February.  It  forms  a  very  attractive  dish  on  the  table,  and  is  an  excellent  dessert 
apple.  This  apple  is  very  distinct  from  the  King  of  the  Pippins ,  or  Golden  Winter  Pearmain. 
It  is  more  pearmain  shaped,  more  bossed  round  the  eye,  has  a  different  flavour,  firmer  substance, 
and  keeps  much  longer. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  bears  freely  as  an  orchard  standard,  as  it  is  usually  grown. 


PLATE  XLIX. 


6.  UELLNER’S  GOLD  REINETTE. 

The  origin  of  this  variety  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  pomological  works. 

Description. — Fruit :  below  medium-size,  two  inches  and  a  quarter  broad  by  two  inches  and 
an  eighth  high  ;  ovate,  regularly  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  of  a  fine  clear  lemon  yellow, 
sprinkled  with  a  little  russet  on  the  shaded  side,  but  entirely  covered  on  the  side  next  the  sun  with 
beautiful  vermilion,  which  is  strewed  with  cinnamon  coloured  russet.  Eye  :  open,  with  short 
segments,  set  in  a  rather  wide,  round,  even  and  moderately  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  slender,  half  an 
inch  long,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  firm,  very 
juicy,  rich  and  sugary,  and  with  a  fine  aromatic  flavour. 

A  delicious  dessert  apple  of  the  very  first  quality,  “  small,  but  handsome  and  rich.’’  It  is  in 
season  from  January  to  May. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  is  very  hardy  and  a  great  bearer.  It  grows  well  on  the  Paradise 
stock,  and  forms  a  very  productive  bush  or  espalier. 


PLATE  XLIX. 


;.  GOLDEN  WINTER  PEARMAIN. 

[Syn  :  King  of  the  Pippins  ;  Prince  of  Pippins  ;  Hampshire  Yellow ;  Jones  Southampton 
Yellow]. 

The  origin  of  this  well-known  variety  is  nowhere  stated.  It  is  generally  known  throughout 
Herefordshire  as  the  King  of  the  Pippins. 

Description. — Fruit:  medium-sized,  abrupt  pearmain-shaped,  broadest  at  the  base,  regularly 
and  handsomely  formed.  Skin  :  smooth,  of  a  deep,  rich,  golden  yellow,  which  is  paler  on  the  shaded 
side  than  on  that  exposed  to  the  sun,  where  it  is  of  a  deep  orange,  marked  with  streaks  and  mottles 
of  crimson,  and  strewed  with  russety  dots.  Eye  :  large  and  open  with  long,  acuminate  and  reflexed 
segments  ;  placed  in  a  round,  even  and  rather  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
stout,  and  inserted  in  a  rather  shallow  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  thin  pale  brown  russet  mixed  with 
a  tinge  of  green.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  firm,  breaking,  juicy  and  sweet,  with  a  pleasant  and 
somewhat  aromatic  flavour. 

This  is  a  very  beautiful  apple  and  hence  a  very  great  favourite.  It  is  suitable  for  dessert,  or 
for  culinary  purposes,  and  is  often  used  for  cider  making.  As  a  dessert  fruit,  except  when  fresh 
and  well  kept,  its  greatest  merit  is  its  beauty,  and  on  this  account  it  sells  well  in  the  market.  It  is  in 
season  from  October  to  the  end  of  December. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  vigorous  grower.  It  attains  a  large  size  in  the  orchard,  and  bears 
abundantly,  rarely  failing  to  yield  a  crop  in  almost  any  soil  or  situation. 


■ 


Plate.  L 


2 .  Herefordshire 


Costard 


Costard 


Gloucestershire 


Catshead 


G.  Severeyns,  Cbromolith. .  Brussels 


Alice  B. Ellis  a  Edith  E. Bull. del 
for  The'  Whoolhope  Club. 


PLATE  L. 


\ 


THE  COSTARD  APPLE. 

“The  Wilding  Costard,  then  the  well-known  Pomwater.” 

Drayton :  Polyolbion ,  S.  18. 

The  Costard  is  one  of  our  oldest  English  apples.  It  is  mentioned  under  the  name  of  “  Poma 
Costard”  in  the  fruiterers’  bills  of  Edward  the  First,  in  1292,  at  which  time  it  was  sold  for  a  shilling 
a  hundred.  The  true  Costard  is  now  rarely  to  be  met  with,  but  at  an  earlier  period  it  must  have 
been  very  extensively  grown,  for  the  retailers  of  it  were  called  “  Costard-mongers,”  an  appellation 
now  transformed  into  “  Costermongers.”  It  is  mentioned  by  William  Lawson  in  1597,  who  in  his 
quaint  style  says  :  “  Of  your  apple-trees  you  shall  finde  difference  in  growth.  A  good  pipping  will 
grow  large,  and  a  Costard  tree  :  stead  them  on  the  north  side  of  your  other  apples,  thus  being  placed, 
the  least  will  give  sunne  to  the  rest,  and  the  greatest  will  shroud  their  fellowes.” 

Modern  authors  make  the  Costard  synonymous  with  the  Cat' s-head,  chiefly  on  the  authority 
of  Mr.  George  Lindley,  who  has  it  so  in  his  “Guide  to  the  Orchard,”  but  this  is  evidently  an  error. 
All  the  early  authors  who  mention  both  varieties  regard  them  as  distinct  as  they  are  shown  to  be  in 
these  illustrations.  Parkinson  describes  two  varieties,  the  “Gray”  and  the  “  Greene.”  Of  the 
former  he  says  :  “  It  is  a  good  great  apple  somewhat  whitish  on  the  outside,  and  abideth  not  the 
winter.  The  Greene  Costard  is  like  the  other,  but  greener  on  the  outside  continually.”  Ray  describes 
both  the  Costard  and  Cat' s-head  as  distinct  ;  and  Leonard  Meager  enumerates  three  varieties  of 
Costard  in  his  list,  “  white,  grey,  and  red,”  but  it  is  difficult  now  to  determine  these  varieties. 


PLATE  L. 


Some  etymologists,  Dr.  Johnson  among  the  number,  consider  this  name  to  be  derived  from 
“  Coster,”  a  head, 

“  Take  him  over  the  costard  with  the  hilt  of  thy  sword.” 

Shakespeare  :  Richard  III,  I.,  4. 

but  what  connexion  there  is  between  either  the  shape  or  appearance  of  this  particular  apple 
and  a  head,  more  than  such  as  may  belong  to  any  other  variety,  must  puzzle  any  one  to  discover. 
It  is  much  more  probable  that  the  derivation  of  the  name  is  from  the  old  English  word  “Cost,”  a 
rib  or  side,  on  account  of  the  prominent  ribs  or  angles  presented  on  the  sides  of  the  fruit. 

“  Betwixt  the  costs  of  a  ship  ” 

says  Johnson  in  his  “  Staple  of  News,”  and  similar  instances  of  its  use  might  be  given. 


1.  GLOUCESTERSHIRE  COSTARD. 

This  variety  is  still  much  esteemed  in  some  parts  of  Gloucestershire,  and  it  is  always 
represented  at  the  apple  shows  at  Gloucester. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  large,  conical,  or  pearmain  shaped,  being  broad  at  the  base  and 
with  a  waist  towards  the  apex,  and  larger  on  one  side  of  the  axis  than  on  the  other  ;  it  is  prominently 
ribbed,  undulating  in  its  outline,  and  terminates  with  prominent  ridges  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  a  fine 
deep  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  and  bright  red  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  where  it  is  streaked 
with  red  and  orange.  Eye  :  small,  set  in  a  deep  narrow  basin,  with  divergent  and  rather  erect 
segments.  Stalk  :  about  half  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  in  a  very  deep  and  prominently  ribbed 
cavity,  sometimes  with  a  prominent  lip  on  one  side  of  it,  which  gives  it  an  oblique  direction.  Flesh  : 
white,  very  tender,  with  a  mild  subacid  flavour. 

A  very  handsome  apple  ;  excellent  for  all  culinary  purposes.  In  season  during  the  Autumn, 
in  October  and  November. 


2.  HEREFORDSHIRE  COSTARD. 

This  variety  is  now  only  to  be  found  in  a  few  farm-house  gardens  in  Herefordshire.  The 
trees  are  old  and  rugged  in  appearance,  but  they  bear  well  in  favourable  seasons,  and  are  valued 
for  their  culinary  merits,  and  perhaps  also  for  old  associations. 

Description. — Fruit:  large,  somewhat  oblong  in  shape,  prominently  ribbed  on  the  sides. 
Skin  :  almost  entirely  covered  with  crimson  streaks  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  mottled  with  the 


PLATE  L. 


yellow  ground  colour  which  shows  itself  between  the  streaks  ;  on  the  side  which  is  shaded  there  is 
less  crimson  but  more  of  the  rich  deep  yellow  ground  ;  the  whole  surface  is  strewed  with  minute 
dots.  Eye:  closed  with  long .  segments,  set  in  a  narrow  pretty  deep  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk: 
half  an  inch  long,  short  and  deeply  inserted  in  an  irregularly  furrowed  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow, 
tender,  sweet,  and  of  good  flavour. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  apple,  and  of  such  good  flavour  that  it  may  be  used  as  a  dessert 

apple. 

Both  these  varieties  of  Costard  are  good  to  eat  when  gathered  ripe  from  the  tree,  but  both 
are  chiefly  used  as  culinary  apples,  and  have  an  excellent  flavour  in  pudding  or  pie.  The  trees 
are  generally  old  and  rugged,  for  the  variety  has  not  been  propagated  of  late  years. 


Scattered  through  the  farm-house  gardens  of  Herefordshire  several  varieties  of  apples  are  to  be 
found,  which  seem  to  owe  their  origin  to  the  old  Costard.  They  are  all  large,  ribbed,  and  with  prominent 
angles  round  the  eye,  and  more  or  less  conical  in  shape.  They  vary  very  much  in  colour,  from  the 
clear  rosy  tint  of  the  fruits  here  represented,  to  the  light  dull  red  of  the  Red  Dick  of  North 
Herefordshire,  or  the  deep  purplish  red  of  the  Five  Fingers  with  its  swollen  base  and  its  five  sharply 
projecting  angles  round  the  eye  Then  comes  the  large  pale  green  Goose  Apple ,  which  possibly 
takes  its  name  from  its  more  narrow  elongated  shape,  and  its  two  marked  angles  at  the  eye,  giving 
a  rough  resemblance  to  a  goose’s  head.  There  are  some  other  local  green  varieties,  passing  gradually 
in  shape  and  appearance  towards  the  Cat’s-head,  but  none  of  them  have  been  much  propagated  of 
late  years.  They  are  doubtful  bearers,  and  with  all  of  them,  the  size  and  weight  of  the  fruit  they 
produce,  render  storms  of  wind  and  rain  very  destructive  to  the  crop.  The  Cat' s-head  is  supplanting 
them  all. 


PLATE  L. 


3.  CATSHEAD. 

- “  Why  should  we  sing  the  Thrift, 

Codling,  or  Pomroy,  or  of  pimpled  coat 
The  Russet,  or  the  Cat' s-head' s  weighty  orb, 

Enormous  in  its  growth,  for  various  uses, 

Tho’  these  are  meet,  tho’  after  full  repast, 

Are  oft  required  and  crown  the  rich  dessert.” 

Phillips'  “  Cyder." 

The  Cat' s-head  apple  is  one  of  our  oldest  varieties,  and  was  always  highly  esteemed  for  its 
great  size  and  its  excellent  qualities.  Its  origin  is  uncertain,  but  some  pomologists  consider  it  a 
seedling  from  the  old  Costard  apple. 

Description . — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  broad  and  the  same  in  height  ; 
oblong,  but  nearly  as  broad  at  the  crown  as  at  the  base,  with  prominent  ribs  on  the  sides,  which 
Qxtend  into  the  basin  of  the  eye,  where  they  terminate  in  several  knobs.  Skin  :  smooth  and 
unctuous,  pale  green  with  a  brownish  tinge  next  the  sun,  and  strewed  with  minute  russety  dots. 
Eye  :  large  and  open,  set  in  an  angular  and  rather  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  and  slender  for  the 
size  of  the  fruit,  inserted  in  a  shallow  and  angular  cavity.  Flesh  :  tender,  juicy,  and  sweet,  with  a 
pleasant,  acid  and  slightly  perfumed  flavour. 

I  he  Cat' s-head  is  one  of  the  oldest  and  best  culinary  apples.  It  is  in  season  from  October 
to  January,  and  even  to  February  and  March  with  careful  hoarding.  In  Ellis’  “  Modern 
Husbandman”  he  says  “the  Cat' s-head  is  a  very  useful  apple  to  the  farmer,  because  one  of  them 


PLATE  L. 


pared  and  wrapped  up  in  dough  serves  with  little  trouble  for  making  an  apple  dumpling  so  much 
in  request  with  the  Kentish  farmer,  for  being  part  of  a  ready  meal,  that  in  the  cheapest 
manner  satiates  the  keen  appetite  of  the  hungry  ploughman,  both  at  home  and  in  the  field  ; 
and  therefore  has  now  got  into  such  reputation  in  Hertfordshire  and  some  other  counties,  that 
it  has  become  the  most  common  food  with  a  piece  of  bacon  or  pickled  pork  for  families.”  In 
Herefordshire  it  is  certainly  the  favourite  apple  for  domestic  use  with  the  labouring  classes  ;  and 
many  a  good  housewife  who  rejoices  in  the  possession  of  a  Blenheim  Orange  tree,  always  a  favorite  in 
the  market,  looks  with  still  greater  satisfaction  on  the  Cat' s-head  trees,  whose  fruit  she  carefully 
hoards  for  the  delectation  of  her  family. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  and  vigorous  grower  and  attains  a  very  large  size.  It  does  not  bear 
abundantly  when  young  from  its  freedom  of  growth,  but  when  it  attains  maturity  it  is  very  hardy 
and  productive. 


PLATE  LI. 


A  Plate  of  Seedling  Pears  Produced  from  Hybridisation  by  Thos.  Andrew  Knight. 

i.  MONARCH. 

The  true  representation  of  this  celebrated  pear  is  given  by  this  section  and  coloured  drawing. 
Its  history  and  description  are  fully  given  at  page  43  of  the  introduction  of  this  work,  and  ( with  a 
false  representation  of  it)  on  Plate  iv.  In  consequence  of  this  error,  the  Woolhope  Club  would 
gladly  suppress  Plate  iv.  altogether,  but  since  in  these  days  it  is  impossible  to  suppress  anything 
that  has  once  been  published,  it  is  thought  better  to  correct  the  mistake  by  giving  the  true  figure. 
The  error  arose  from  Mr.  Knight’s  gardener  accidentally  sending  wrong  grafts  under  the  name  of 
Monarch  to  the  “  London  Horticultural  Society.”  These  were  distributed  over  the  country  and 
propagated  by  nurserymen  for  some  years  before  the  error  was  discovered,  and  thus  was  created  a 
confusion,  which  has  lasted  half  a  century.  It  is  only  fair  to  say  that  the  mistake  on  Plate  iv.  of 
this  book  was  due  to  the  false  figure  given  in  the  “  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural 
Society,”  when  Mr.  Knight  himself  was  the  President  of  the  Society  ;  and  it  was  never  afterwards 
corrected  there.  (See  introduction  p.  43  ;  and  Plate  iv.  for  the  letterpress  description.) 

It  may  be  as  well  to  add  here  that  young  trees  of  the  true  variety  often  have  thorns.  The 
bark  has  a  yellowish  tinge,  and  the  buds  when  they  begin  to  push  exhibit  a  fawn  coloured  down  on 
the  scales.  Whereas  in  trees  of  the  spurious  variety,  the  shoots  and  the  curved  prickles  are  of  a 
dark  violet  colour  and  the  buds  are  glossy. 


Plate  LI 


Monarch 


1 1  button 


Rouse  Lencli 


\ 

- 


•;  rr^  -■  -1 

0.  rvyev/ood 


5.  Broorrlpark 


G  Severeyns ,  Chromolith .  Brussels 


Edith  E  Bull  del 
for  The  Who ol hope  Club 


' 


•u 


PLATE  LI. 


2.  ROUSE  LENCH. 

This  fine  Pear  was  raised  by  Mr.  Knight  and  first  fruited  (c.  1820).  It  was  named  from  an 
estate  near  Evesham,  Worcestershire,  called  “  Rouse  Lench,”  which  belonged  to  his  son-in-law, 
Sir  William  Rouse  Boughton,  Bart.  A  coloured  figure  is  given  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London 
Horticultural  Society ,  Vol.  I.  (2nd  series),  Plate  2,  fig.  3. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half 
wide  ;  oblong  oval,  or  pyriform,  uneven  and  undulating  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  pale  green  changing 
to  lemon  yellow,  with  a  slight  russety  covering.  Eye  :  large  and  open  like  that  of  a  Jargonelle. 
Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  inserted  without  depression.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  buttery,  juicy, 
sugary  and  well  flavoured. 

An  excellent  well-flavoured  pear,  whose  season  may  be  prolonged  by  good  management 
from  December  to  January  or  February. 

The  tree  is  vigorous  in  growth  and  of  a  drooping  habit.  Its  long  boughs  droop  all  the 
more  from  the  large  crops  of  fruit  which  they  seldom  fail  to  bear.  It  is  a  very  hardy  profitable 
variety,  and  Mr.  Knight  thought  it  the  best  pear  for  the  market  that  he  had  produced.  The  fruit 
often  weighs  between  nine  and  ten  ounces  each,  and  unlike  the  Monarch  fruit,  it  adheres  so  firmly 
to  the  tree  that  it  is  never  blown  off  by  the  wind.  Mr.  Knight  thought  it  would  be  more  valuable 
if  it  were  less  productive,  for  the  tree  often  bears  more  than  it  can  properly  nourish,  and  thus  the 
pears  are  too  small  and  of  little  value. 


PLATE  LI. 


3.  TILLINGTON. 

A  seedling  variety  of  Mr.  Thos.  x^ndrew  Knight’s  (c.  1810 — 20),  and  named  by  him  after 
the  village  of  Tillington,  in  Herefordshire.  Mr.  Knight  had  a  small  estate  there,  and  planted  an 
orchard  of  this  variety,  which  is  now  (1883)  in  full  luxuriance. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  size,  short  pyriform,  uneven  in  outline.  Skin  :  smooth  greenish 
yellow,  covered  with  a  number  of  light  brown  russet  dots,  and  reddish  brown  on  the  side  next  the 
sun.  Eye :  open,  scarcely  at  all  depressed.  Stalk  :  short  fleshy,  and  warted  at  its  insertion. 
Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender,  buttery,  melting,  not  very  juicy  but  brisk  and  vinous,  with  a  peculiar  and 
fine  aroma. 

An  excellent  pear,  in  season  from  the  end  of  October  to  the  end  of  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  wTell  when  it  has  attained  its  full  size. 


PLATE  LI. 


4.  DUNMORE. 

Mr.  Knight  named  this  seedling  pear  (c.  1820—30)  from  Dunmore,  near  Stirling,  the  seat 
of  Lord  Dunmore. 

Description. — Fruit :  above  medium  size,  oblong,  obovate.  Skin  :  greenish,  marked  with 
numerous  dots  and  patches  of  brown  russet,  and  with  a  brownish-red  tinge  next  the  sun.  Eye  : 
small  and  open,  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  narrow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  half  long.  Flesh  : 
yellowish  white,  buttery  and  melting,  with  a  rich  and  sugary  flavour. 

A  pear  of  excellent  quality,  ripe  in  September  and  October.  Mr.  Knight  thought  it  as  large 
and  as  good  as  a  Brown  Beurr£.  “  When  allowed  to  ripen  and  grow  mellow  on  the  tree,  I  have 
thought  it,”  said  he,  “the  most  melting  and  best  pear  of  its  season.”  The  birds  think  well  of  it 
too,  for  they  are  very  apt  to  attack  the  fruit  prematurely.  It  should  be  gathered  at  successive 
intervals,  before  it  is  ripe,  for  it  decays  at  the  centre  without  shewing  it  outwardly. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  rapid  in  growth,  and  bears  abundantly,  often  producing  fruit  on  the 
new  wood.  It  is  an  excellent  variety  for  cold  and  doubtful  situations. 


PLATE  LI. 


5.  BROOM  PARK. 

This  seedling  first  bore  fruit  in  1830.  Mr  Knight  named  it  from  Broom  Park,  near 
Canterbury,  the  seat  of  Sir  Henry  Oxenden,  Bart.,  whose  son  was  the  companion  and  friend  of 
Mr.  Knight’s  only  son. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  :  yellow,  sprinkled  with 
cinnamon-coloured  russet.  Eye  :  small,  dry  and  horny,  set  in  a  slight  depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch 
long,  curved  and  inserted  in  a  slight  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  melting,  juicy  and  sugary,  with  a 
rich  musky  flavour. 

An  excellent  pear,  with  a  peculiar  flavour,  which  Mr.  Thompson,  at  Chiswick,  thought  to 
partake  somewhat  of  the  melon  and  pine  apple  flavour.  It  is  in  season  in  January. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  vigorous.  It  succeeds  well  on  the  pear  or  quince  stock,  and 
bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  LI. 


/ 

This  seedling  pear  was  first  produced  in  1831  and  received  its  name  from  Eyewood,  near 
Kington,  Herefordshire,  the  seat  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a  quarter  wide  and  two  inches 
high  ;  bergamot-shaped.  Skin  :  very  thick,  green  on  the  shaded  side,  becoming  greenish  yellow, 
tinged  with  brown  next  the  sun,  and  very  much  covered  with  pale  brown  russet,  and  large  russet 
dots.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  small 
cavity.  Flesh:  yellowish,  exceedingly  tender  and  melting,  very  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  vinous  flavour 
and  a  fine  aroma. 

A  very  excellent  pear  ripe  in  October  and  November.  “In  a  good  season”  said  Mr.  Knight, 
“  it  is  doubtful  if  it  would  be  exceeded  in  flavour  by  Ganset's  Bergamot .” 

The  tree  is  very  robust  in  growth  and  thorny  when  young.  It  bears  well  and  is  so  hardy 
that  it  will  succeed  well  in  bad  seasons,  when  other  varieties  are  so  apt  to  fail,  and  it  has  moreover 
so  sound  a  constitution  that  it  will  do  well  in  almost  any  soil  and  situation. 


PLATE  LII. 


i.  DUMELOW’S  SEEDLING. 

[Syn  :  Dumelow  s  Crab ;  Dumeller s  Crab;  Normanton  Wonder;  Wellington?^ 

This  excellent  Apple  was  raised  by  Mr.  Dumeller  (pronounced  commonly  “  Dumelow  ”),  a 
farmer  at  Shakerstone,  a  village  in  Leicestershire,  six  miles  from  Ashby-de-la-Zouch.  He  died  in 
1812  or  1813.  It  is  extensively  cultivated  in  that  and  the  adjoining  counties  under  the  name  of 
Dumelow s  Crab.  It  was  first  introduced  into  the  neighbourhood  of  London  by  Mr.  Richard 
Williams,  of  the  Turnham  Green  Nursery,  who  received  it  from  Gopsal  Hall,  the  seat  of  Earl  Howe, 
under  the  name  of  the  Wellington  Apple.  He  presented  specimens  of  the  fruit  to  the  Horticultural 
Society  in  1820.  It  was  wdth  him  that  the  name  of  “  Wellington  ”  originated,  and  by  this  name 
only  it  is  now  known  in  the  London  markets.  This  variety  has  been  supposed  to  have  been  raised 
from  a  seed  of  the  Northern  Greening ,  in  consequence  of  the  resemblance  of  their  growth  and  the 
appearance  in  both  of  the  numerous  white  spots  on  the  wood  of  the  young  shoots. 

Ronalds,  PI.  xix.,  gives  a  good  representation  of  this  apple. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  roundish  and  flattened.  Skin  :  pale  yellow,  strewed  with  large 
russet  points,  with  a  tinge  of  pale  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  where  indeed  it  is  sometimes  almost 
entirely  covered  with  a  bright  red  cheek.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  broad,  reflexed,  acuminate 
segments,  set  in  an  irregular,  uneven  and  rather  deep  basin.  Stalk :  half  an  inch  long  deeply  inserted 
in  a  narrow  and  funnel-shaped  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh :  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp, 
brisk  and  very  juicy,  with  a  slight  aromatic  flavour. 

One  of  the  most  valuable  culinary  apples,  and  keeps  well  without  shrivelling.  In  shape  it 
somewhat  resembles  the  Nonesuch  but  has  firmer  flesh  and  a  higher  flavour.  It  is  in  season  from 
November  to  March,  but  with  care  will  keep  still  longer.  It  is  one  of  the  best  late  apples  and  a 
great  favourite  in  Covent  Garden  Market.  The  fruit,  when  well  ripened,  has  a  semi-transparent 
appearance  almost  like  china  ware. 

The  tree  is  of  spreading  growth  and  one  of  the  strongest  and  most  vigorous  in  habit.  It  is 
very  hardy  and  bears  abundantly.  The  wood  of  the  young  shoots,  which  are  stout  and  long,  is  of 
a  dark  brown  colour  thickly  covered  with  large  grayish  white  dots,  which  readily  distinguish  this 
from  almost  every  other  variety. 


G.Severeyns,  Chromolitb. .  Brussels  . 


Plate  LTI 


l.  Annie-  Elizabeth 


3.  Prince'  Albert 


Alice  B  Ellis  .  del 
for  The  Woolhope  Club 


-reavA 


■  O' 

o 


rpp 


in 


PLATE  LII. 


2.  ANNIE  ELIZABETH. 

This  seedling  was  raised  by  Messrs.  Harrison  &  Son,  of  Leicester,  and  the  fruit  received  a 
first-class  certificate  on  Oct.  6th,  1868,  from  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society.  Its  pedigree  is 
not  exactly  known,  but  it  is  believed  to  have  been  obtained  from  the  Bess  Pool.  < 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  round,  widest  at  the  base,  and  prominently  ribbed  or  angular. 
Skin  :  pale  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  but  streaked  and  spotted  with  bright  crimson  on  the  side 
next  the  sun.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  deeply  set  in  an  irregular  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  deeply 
inserted.  Flesh  :  white  and  of  a  firm  yet  crisp  and  tender  texture,  with  a  fine,  brisk,  sprightly 
flavour. 

An  excellent  late  kitchen  apple,  in  season  through  the  winter  months,  and  very  good  for 
dessert  if  kept  until  the  spring.  When  well  kept  it  lasts  from  December  to  June,  or  even  until 
apples  come  again. 

The  tree  is  of  upright  growth,  sturdy  and  compact  in  habit,  making  an  excellent  pyramid. 
The  leaves  are  very  large,  and  so  too  is  the  fruit,  which  it  bears  in  good  quantity. 


PLATE  LI I. 


3.  PRINCE  ALBERT. 

[Syn  :  Lane  s  Prince  Alberth\ 

This  handsome  apple  was  raised  by  Mr.  John  Lane,  of  Berkhampstead,  from  the  Russet 
Nonpareil  fertilised  by  Dumelow s  Seedling.  It  received  its  name  on  the  occasion  of  the  visit  of 
Her  Majesty  and  Prince  Albert  to  Berkhampstead.  A  coloured  illustration  is  given  in  the  “  Florist 
and  Pomologist  ”  for  1875. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  short  conical,  or  ovate,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline,  with  broad 
ribs  round  the  crown.  Skin  :  smooth,  bright  grass  green  at  first,  but  changing  as  it  ripens  to  clear 
pale  yellow.  Eye  :  rather  small,  closed  with  erect  pointed  segments,  which  are  reflexed  at  the  tips, 
and  set  in  a  deep  and  rather  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  over  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  deep  funnel 
shaped  cavity.  Flesh  :  very  tender,  juicy,  briskly  acid,  and  with  an  agreeable  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple,  large  and  handsome,  in  season  from  November  to  January,  or 
even  to  February  or  March  if  well  kept. 

The  tree  grows  vigorously,  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  forms  handsome  pyramids  on 
the  crab  stock  and  comes  quickly  into  bearing. 

N.B. — The  apple  called  Smart's  Prince  Albert  is  a  different  variety  altogether.  It  is  a 
dessert  apple  grown  in  Kent,  and  a  very  good  one.  It  bears  some  resemblance  to  the  Cornish 
Gillijlower  and  keeps  well  until  March  or  April. 


PLATE  LII. 


4.  COCKPIT. 

A  favourite  Yorkshire  apple  whose  history  cannot  be  found.  Ronalds,  PI.  xxxvii.,  gives  a 
good  figure  of  it. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  size,  obtuse  ovate  and  somewhat  angular  on  the  sides. 
Skin  :  green,  changing  as  it  ripens  to  greenish  yellow,  with  a  faint  orange  tint  next  the  sun  ; 
covered  all  over  with  small  russety  dots  and  some  lines  of  russet.  Eye  :  closed  with  converging 
segments,  placed  in  a  rather  shallow  puckered  basin.  Stalk  :  about  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in 
an  abrupt  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  tender,  juicy,  and  with  a 
pleasant  brisk  acidity. 

A  culinary  apple  of  excellent  quality.  In  season  during  November  and  December. 

The  tree  is  of  moderate  size,  very  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  is  a  favourite  apple  in  the  North 
of  England  and  is  well  adapted  for  northern  latitudes. 


PLATE  LII. 


5.  GREAVES’  PIPPIN. 

The  origin  of  this  excellent  apple  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  leading  pomological  works,  so 
who  Mr.  Greaves  was,  where  he  lived,  and  when  he  raised  this  apple,  are  facts  lost  to  history, 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  roundish  and  depressed,  very  uneven  and  angular, 
terminating  at  the  crown  in  prominent  ridges.  Skin  :  grass  green,  becoming  yellowish  green  as  it 
ripens,  with  a  tinge  of  brownish  red  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  intermixed  with  some  broken  streaks 
of  crimson  ;  the  surface  is  considerably  covered  with  large  masses  of  smooth  ashy  grey  russet  and 
sprinkled  with  large  russet  dots.  Eye  :  closed  with  erect  connivent  segments,  set  in  a  deep  and 
angular  basin.  Stalk  :  short  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  deep  russet-lined  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish, 
firm,  juicy  and  agreeably  flavoured. 

A  good  culinary  apple  which,  if  well  grown,  will  keep  till  apples  come  again. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  grows  strongly.  It  bears  freely  either  as  a  dwarf  or  standard. 


■ 


s 


■ 


* 


- 


Plate  L III 


1 


.3.  Gan s el's  Bergam 


v  -Mm 


.  ■ 


4tm 


.  -.oV’ 


v  v  '••  -  ••? 

L«U  »3(» 


i|&S| 


#5 
■V-  ‘im 


'■.o'. 


•;  ;  v  • 

:  v  *0  v v  W; ;' :.#•  :’.h •; ;*' C.  jSfct 


Smss- 


5.  Autumn  BeiAamot 


6.  Bergamotte  Dietrich 


G.  Severeyas ,  Chromoliti  Brussels 


Alice  B .Ellis  &  Edith  E. Bull. del 


for  The  Whoolhope  Club. 


PLATE  LI  1 1. 


BERGAMOT  PEARS. 

The  family  of  Bergamot  Pears  has  been  recognised  from  a  remote  antiquity.  The  name, 
says  Manger,  is  not  derived  from  Bergamo  in  Italy,  as  many  have  supposed,  but  from  the  Turkish 
•  words  beg ,  or  bey,  a  prince,  and  Armoud,  a  pear.  He  also  shows  that  this  Prince  among  Pears  was 
formerly  written  Begarmoud ,  and  not  Bergamotte ,  by  referring  to  Groen’s  “  Niederlandisken  and 
since  its  name  is  Turkish,  he  infers  that  the  first  variety  came  from  Turkey.  The  varieties  are 
now  very  numerous. 


i.  RIVERS’  SEEDLING  BERGAMOT. 

One  of  the  many  Seedlings  raised  by  Mr.  Rivers  at  Sawbridgeworth,  (c.  i860). 

Description. — Fruit  :  small,  two  inches  and  a  quarter  broad  and  two  inches  high  ;  round,  but 
rising  unequally  at  the  insertion  of  the  stalk.  Skin  :  green,  changing  to  yellowish  green  as  it 
becomes  mature,  with  small  patches  of  brown  russet  particularly  around  the  stalk.  Eye  :  small,  and 
but  very  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  :  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout  and  irregular  in  shape 
with  level  insertion,  or  in  a  very  slight  and  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  very  juicy,  melting, 
sweet,  and  with  a  pleasant  perfumed  flavour. 

A  very  pleasant  pear  in  season  in  September  and  October. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  and  when  full  grown  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  LI  1 1. 


2.  BERGAMOTTE  CADETTE. 

[_Syn  :  Cadette ;  De  Cadet;  Cadet  de  Bordeaux  ;  Biemont ;  Milan;  Milan  de  Bordeaux ; 

Voye  aux  Prestres. ] 

The  origin  of  this  pear  is  not  stated  in  any  of  the  leading  authorities.  In  the  Horticultural 
Society’s  Catalogue  it  is  made  synonymous  with  Beurri  Beauchamps ,  but  as  it  is  quite  distinct  from 
the  Beurr6  Beauchamps  of  Van  Mons,  as  sent  to  Dr.  Hogg  from  Belgium,  the  synonyme  is  omitted. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  a  half  high  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
wide  ;  roundish  obovate,  generally  smaller  on  one  side  the  axis  than  the  other.  Skin  :  yellowish 
green,  changing  to  a  pale  yellow,  with  a  dull  brownish  red  blush  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  It  is 
covered  with  a  thin  pale  brown  russet  and  large  dots,  which  are  brown  on  the  shaded  side  and  grey 
next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  with  long  acuminate  spreading  segments,  set  in  a  wide  rather  deep,  but 
sometimes  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  : 
white,  tender,  melting  and  very  juicy,  with  a  rich,  sugary  and  musky  flavour. 

A  very  good  dessert  pear  which  ripens  in  October,  and  continues  in  season,  ripening 
successively  in  January,  February  and  March. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  and  an  excellent  bearer.  It  succeeds  well  as  an  open  standard. 
It  wejl  deserves  cultivation,  for  though  not  equal  to  Winter  Nelis  and  some  other  of  the  best  sorts, 
it  will  often  be  found  to  afford  supply,  in  the  intervals  of  ripening  of  other  pears. 


PLATE  LIII. 


3.  GANSEL’S  BERGAMOT. 

[Syn  :  Bonne  Rouge  ;  Brocas  Bergamot ;  Diamant  ;  Gurles  Beurre  ;  Ives  Bergamot ;  StauntonI\ 

It  is  generally  believed  that  this  variety  was  raised  from  a  seed  of  the  Autumn  Bergamot ,  by 
Lieut.  General  Gansel,  at  his  seat  Donneland  Park,  near  Colchester,  in  1768  ;  and  this  account  rests 
upon  a  communication  to  that  effect  from  David  Jebb,  Esq.,  of  Worcester,  a  nephew  of  General 
Gansel,  to  Mr.  Williams  of  Pitmaston.  Mr.  Lindley  however  says — the  Bonne  Rouge  of  the  French 
is  evidently  the  same  sort,  and  the  English  name  must  have  been  given  after  it  had  been  received 
from  that  country.”  In  the  manuscript  Catalogue  of  the  Brompton  Park  Nursery  it  appears 
that  both  the  Bonne  Rouge  and  Brocas  Bergamot ,  were  cultivated  there  in  1753,  and  it  had  probably 
been  grown  there  at  a  much  earlier  period  under  both  these  names,  so  that  it  is  exceedingly 
doubtful  whether  General  Gansel  had  anything  to  do  with  its  origin,  and  it  is  most  probable  that 
he  had  not.  A  good  figure  of  it  is  given  by  Lindley,  PI.  35. 

Description. — Fruit :  full  medium  size  three  inches  wide,  and  two  and  a  half  to  three  inches 
long  ;  roundish,  inclining  to  obovate,  and  flattened  at  the  apex.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow  on  the 
shaded  side,  and  reddish  brown  next  the  sun  ;  the  whole  thickly  strewed  with  russety  dots  and 
specks.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  broad  ovate  reflexed  segment,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  : 
short  and  fleshy,  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  round  very  shallow  cavity,  frequently  between  two 


PLATE  LI  1 1. 


bosses,  or  there  is  at  least  one.  Flesh  :  white,  buttery,  melting  but  gritty,  very  juicy,  rich,  sugary, 
aromatic  and  having  a  strong  musky  flavour. 

This  is  a  dessert  pear  of  the  highest  merit  when  well  ripened.  Lindley  says — “  Among 
our  native  English  Autumnal  Pears,  this  perhaps,  holds  the  highest  rank,  whether  we  consider  its 
beauty,  its  excellence,  or  its  prolific  nature.”  This  gives  it  too  high  a  character,  and  has  often  lead 
to  great  disappointment,  for,  to  have  it  in  perfection,  when  it  is  really  delicious,  it  is  necessary  that  the 
tree  should  be  planted  against  a  South  East  wall.  If  not  well  ripened,  it  is  worthless,  and  it  is  not 
every  soil  and  situation  that  will  suit  it. 

The  tree  is  a  shy  bearer  when  young,  but  when  mature  and  as  it  becomes  aged,  it  produces 
a  great  abundance  of  fruit  though  of  smaller  size.  With  a  view  of  increasing  its  fruitfulness,  it  has 
been  recommended  to  impregnate  the  flowers  with  the  pollen  of  the  Autumn  Bergamot ,  or  some 
other  hardy  variety. 


PLATE  LI  1 1. 


4.  BERGAMOTTE  SUISSE. 

[Syn  :  Bergamotte  Suisse  Ronde ;  Bergamotte  Panachee ;  Bergamotte  Marbree ;  Bonte 
Bergamotte  ;  Bergamotte  Rayie  ;  Schweizerbergamotte ,  Swiss  Bergamot.'] 

An  old  French  dessert  pear  whose  early  history  is  lost. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  roundish  and  flattened,  somewhat  inclining  to  turbinate. 
Skin  :  smooth  and  beautifully  striped  with  green  and  yellow,  and  faintly  tinged  with  red  when  it  is 
exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  placed  in  a  round  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  melting  and  buttery,  with  a  sugary  and 
perfumed  flavour. 

It  is  a  very  pretty  variety  on  the  table,  but  is  only  of  second  quality.  It  is  in  season  in 
October. 

The  tree  in  rich  soil  is  a  vigorous  grower,  and  an  excellent  bearer ;  but  unless  grown  in  a 
favourable  situation  it  is  liable  to  canker.  It  succeeds  well  either  on  the  pear  or  quince,  but  requires 
a  wall  in  this  climate  to  bring  the  fruit  to  perfection.  Poiteau  considers  this  pear  a  variegated 
variety  of  Bergamotte  D’Automne  which  in  all  probability  it  is. 


PLATE  LI II. 


5.  AUTUMN  BERGAMOT. 

[Syn  :  Common  Bergamot ;  Bergamot  ;  English  Bergamot ;  York  Bergamot 7\ 

It  has  been  stated  by  Switzer,  and  by  some  subsequent  writer  evidently  on  his  authority, 
that  the  Autumn  Bergamot  “has  been  an  inhabitant  of  our  island  ever  since  the  time  that  Julius 
Caesar  conquered  it.  Possibly  it  was  the  Assyrian  Pear  of  Virgil — quod  a  Syria  translata  ftiisset — 
say  some  commentators,  and  was  as  may  be  deduced  from  them,  part  of  the  furniture  of  the  once 
famous  and  celebrated  Gardens  of  Alcinous.”  This  can  only  be  conjecture  unsupported  by  any  well 
founded  evidence,  and  is  therefore  extremely  improbable.  It  is  rather  singular,  however,  that 
Switzer  is  the  first  English  author  who  mentions  it.  It  is  not  noticed  in  the  lists  of  Rea,  Worledge 
or  Evelyn,  nor  yet  in  the  very  comprehensive  list  of  Leonard  Meager,  of  the  fruits  which  were 
cultivated  in  the  London  Nurseries  in  1688.  Nor  is  it  even  mentioned  by  Ralph  Austin, 
Parkinson,  nor  William  Lawson,  nor  indeed  by  any  author  prior  to  Switzer  himself.  Parkinson 
speaks  of  the  Winter  Bergamot  as  one  “  of  two  or  three  sorts,  being  all  of  them  small  fruits, 
somewhat  greener  on  the  outside  than  the  summer  kinds  ;  all  of  them  very  delicate  and  good  in 
their  due  time  ;  so  some  will  not  be  fit  to  be  eaten  when  others  are  well  nigh  spent,  many  of  them 
outlasting  another  by  a  month  or  more.”  Of  the  Autumn  Bergamot,  however,  there  is  no  record. 

Lindley  figures  this  well-known  pear  in  Plate  120. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  the  same  in  depth  ;  roundish 
and  somewhat  depressed.  Skin  :  yellowish  green,  with  dull  brown  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and 
covered  all  over  with  rough  grey  russety  specks.  Eye :  small  and  open,  set  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  in  a  wide,  round,  and  even  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white 
slightly  gritty  at  the  core,  but  otherwise  tender,  melting,  juicy,  and  richly  flavoured. 

An  old  dessert  pear  of  the  first  quality,  ripe  in  October. 

The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower  and  hardy.  It  forms  a  handsome  standard,  and  bears 
abundantly.  It  succeeds  well  either  on  the  pear  or  quince  stock. 


PLATE  LI  1 1. 


6.  BERGAMOTTE  HERTRICH. 

This  pear  was  raised  by  one  Herr  Hertrich,  near  Bollwyler,  in  Alsace,  and  was  brought  into 
notice  by  Messrs.  Baumann,  the  celebrated  Nurserymen  of  Bollwyler,  in  whose  catalogue  it  appeared 
in  1863. 

Description. — Fruit  :  Bergamot-shaped,  inclining  to  roundish  obovate,  even  in  its  outline 
except  round  the  stalk  where  it  is  furrowed.  Skin  :  very  much  covered  with  ashy  grey  russet, 
through  which  the  grass  green  ground  may  be  seen.  On  the  side  next  the  sun  it  has  a  brownish 
tinge,  and  there  is  a  patch  of  thin  pale  brown  russet  surrounding  the  stalk  and  the  eye.  Eye  : 
with  narrow  incurved  segments,  set  in  a  shallow  and  furrowed  basin.  Stalk  ;  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  with  a  greenish  tinge  under  the  skin, 
melting  and  juicy,  with  a  rich  flavour  somewhat  resembling  the  Swans  Egg ,  and  a  fine  aroma. 

A  delicious  pear  ;  in  season  from  January  to  May,  or  June. 

Sir  Henry  Scudamore  Stanhope,  Bart.,  of  Holme  Lacy,  introduced  this  pear  in  1865.  He 
says  of  it — “  I  have  only  grown  it  as  a  cordon,  but  have  found  it  a  strong  grower  and  good  bearer. 
The  flavour  is  good,  but  it  has  not  been  so  melting  some  years  as  others.  It  is  an  excellent  keeping 
pear,  indeed  this  is  one  of  its  valuable  qualities  ;  at  the  same  time  it  is  easily  brought  forward  in  a 
warm  room.  I  do  not  rank  it  so  high  as  Glon  Morceau. ,  or  Winter  JVelis,  as  a  January  pear,  but  it 
keeps  much  longer  than  either.”  All  agree  in  calling  it  a  hardy  grower  and  a  great  bearer. 


PLATE  LIV. 


i.  WYKEN  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Warwickshire  Pippin;  Arley ;  Girkin  PippinP 

This  well  known  variety  is  said  to  have  originated  from  seed,  saved  from  an  apple  which 
Lord  Craven  had  eaten  on  his  travels  from  France  to  Holland,  and  which  was  planted  at  Wyken, 
about  two  miles  from  Coventry  (c.  1700).  According  to  Mr.  Lindley,  the  original  tree  was  in 
existence  in  1827.  It  was  then  very  old,  and  presented  the  appearance  of  an  old  trunk,  with  a 
strong  sucker  growing  from  its  roots. 

Ronalds  gives  a  figure  of  this  apple,  Plate  xli.,  fig.  1. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  two  and  a  half  inches  broad  and  two  inches  high  ; 
oblate,  even  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale,  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  but  with 
a  dull  orange  blush  next  the  sun,  and  sprinkled  all  over  with  russety  dots  and  patches  of  delicate 
russet,  particularly  at  the  base.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  set  in  a  wide,  shallow  and  plaited  basin. 
Stalk  :  very  short,  imbedded  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow,  tinged  with  green,  tender,  very 
juicy,  sweet  and  richly  flavoured. 

A  valuable  and  delicious  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality.  It  is  in  season  from  December 
to  April. 

The  tree  is  healthy,  a  good  growler,  and  an  excellent  bearer.  It  is  a  very  favourite  variety 
in  Warwickshire  and  the  adjoining  counties. 


Plate  LIV 


3  Goqar  Pippin. 

JL 


.  Ashmead' s  Kernel 


6  Brow nle e  •' s  Ru «  c  ^ 


. 

jjWEmg; 


7  Arornatic 


missel 


Severe y ns ,  Chromolith..  Brussels 


Alice  B. Ellis  &  Edith  E.Bull  del 
fo.t  The  Whoolhope  Club.  ■ 


* 


PLATE  LIV. 


2.  AMERICAN  MOTHER. 

[Syn  :  Mother  Apple;  Queen  Anne;  Gardeners  Apple .] 

This  American  apple  originated  at  Bolton,  Massachusets,  about  the  beginning  of  the  present 
century,  and  was  introduced  by  Mr.  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  conical,  uneven  and  undulating  on  its  surface,  and 
generally  higher  on  one  side  of  the  crown  than  the  other.  Skin  :  golden  yellow,  covered  with 
patches  and  streaks  of  crimson  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  strewed  with  russet  dots.  Eye  :  small, 
closed  and  tapering,  set  in  an  open  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  very  slender  and  inserted  in  a 
deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  remarkably  tender,  crisp  and  breaking,  very  juicy,  sweet 
and  with  a  balsamic  aroma. 

One  of  the  best  dessert  apples  in  October. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  grows  well.  It  is  one  of  the  few  American  apples  that  will  ripen 
their  fruit  well  in  this  country. 


PLATE  LIV. 


3.  GOGAR  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Stone  Pipping 

This  variety  is  said  to  have  originated  at  Gogar,  near  Edinburgh,  and  hence  to  have 
derived  its  name. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  roundish,  obscurely  angled  and  slightly  flattened.  Skin  : 
pale  green,  thick  and  membranous,  strewed  all  over  with  small  russety  dots,  and  faintly  mottled 
with  a  tinge  of  brownish  red  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  narrow,  shallow  and 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  very  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  tender, 
juicy,  sugary  and  brisk. 

Along  keeping  dessert  apple,  in  season  from  January  to  March,  or  even  May;  it  is  this 
property  which  gives  it  its  chief  merit. 

The  tree  is  of  upright  growth,  so  hardy  and  prolific  that  it  seems  almost  indifferent  as  to 
situation. 


PLATE  LIV. 


4.  COCKLE’S  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Nutmeg  Pippin ;  Nutmeg  Cockle ;  Brown  Cockle  ;  White  Cock  lei] 

This  variety  was  raised  by  a  person  of  the  name  of  Cockle,  near  Godstone,  in  Surrey.  The 
date  of  its  origin  is  not  given,  but  it  was  probably  towards  the  commencement  of  the  present  century. 
Lindley  gives  a  characteristic  figure  of  it,  PI.  136. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  conical  or  ovate,  and  slightly  angular  on  the  sides. 
Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  changing  as  it  ripens  to  deeper  yellow,  dotted  with  small  grey  dots,  and 
covered  all  over  the  base  with  delicate  pale  brown  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  slightly  closed,  set  in  an 
irregular  and  somewhat  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  and  obliquely  inserted 
in  a  round  and  deep  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  tender,  crisp,  juicy 
and  sugary,  with  a  pleasant  aromatic  flavour. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  of  the  finest  quality,  in  season  from  January  to  April.  It  is  much 
valued  in  the  London  market  from  its  good  keeping  qualities. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well,  but  is  rather  apt  to  canker.  It  is  grown  abundantly  in 
Sussex  and  the  adjoining  counties.  It  succeeds  well  upon  the  Paradise  stock  in  a  sheltered  place, 
but  is  best  grown  as  a  standard  on  the  Crabstock. 


PLATE  LIV. 


5.  ASHMEAD’S  KERNEL. 

This  excellent  variety  was  raised  in  the  city  of  Gloucester,  in  the  garden  of  Dr.  Ashmead, 
an  eminent  physician  there,  at  the  beginning  of  last  century  (c.  1700).  The  original  tree  existed 
until  within  the  last  few  years,  when  the  ground  on  which  it  stood  was  sold  to  build  the  houses 
which  now  form  Clarence  Street.  It  had  obtained  very  considerable  celebrity  in  the  locality  by  the 
middle  of  the  century,  but  like  the  Ribston  Pippin ,  it  was  a  long  time  before  it  became  generally 
appreciated.  It  was  cultivated  in  the  Brompton  Park  Nursery,  in  1780,  at  which  time  it  had  been 
received  from  Mr.  Wheeler,  the  Nurseryman  at  Gloucester;  but  it  is  not  mentioned  in  the 
catalogue  of  the  extensive  collection  of  apples  cultivated,  by  Miller  and  Sweet,  of  Bristol,  in  1790. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  round  and  flattened,  but  sometimes  considerably 
elongated.  Skin  :  light  greenish  yellow ;  covered  with  yellowish  brown  russet,  and  with  a  tinge  of 
brown  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  partially  open,  placed  in  a  moderately  deep  basin.  Stalk  : 
short,  inserted  in  a  round  and  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  sugary,  rich  and 
highly  aromatic. 

Ashmead s  Kernel  is  a  dessert  apple  of  the  very  first  quality.  It  has  all  the  richness  of  the 
Nonpareil ,  but  it  is  more  sweet  and  juicy.  It  is  in  season  from  November  until  May. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  is  so  similar  in  its  mode  of  growth,  its  shoots  and 
leaves  to  the  Nonpareil ,  that  Dr.  Lindley  believed  himself  justified  in  considering  it  a  seedling  from 
that  variety.  It  is,  however,  more  hardy,  and  will  succeed  in  situations  unfavourable  to  the 
Nonpareil.  It  should  be  found  in  every  good  garden. 


PLATE  LIV. 


6.  Brownlees’  Russet. 


7.  Aromatic  Russet. 


6.  BROWNLEES’  RUSSET. 


This  variety  was  introduced,  about  the  year  1848,  by  Mr.  Wm.  Brownlees,  a  Nurseryman  at 
Hemel  Hempstead,  Hertfordshire. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  roundish  ovate,  and  rather  flattened.  Skin  :  green  and  russety, 
with  brownish  red  next  the  sun.  Eye:  closed.  Stalk:  short,  deeply  inserted.  Flesh:  greenish 
white,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  briskly  flavoured  and  aromatic. 

An  excellent  late  apple,  suitable  either  for  dessert  or  culinary  purposes. 

The  tree  is  a  vigorous  grower.  It  is  hardy  and  bears  well  as  a  standard,  for  which  it  is 
best  adapted. 


7.  AROMATIC  RUSSET. 

The  origin  of  this  tree  is  nowhere  given.  It  is  often  confounded  with  the  Golden  Russet ,  but 
is  not  the  same  variety. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  about  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  high  ;  roundish  ovate,  flattened  above  and  below.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  almost  entirely 
covered  with  brownish  grey  russet,  strewed  with  brownish  scales  on  the  shaded  side,  and  slightly 
tinged  with  brownish  red,  strewed  with  silvery  scales  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  small 
and  open,  with  broad  re-curved  segments,  and  set  in  a  rather  shallow  basin.  Stalk :  short,  inserted  in 
a  deep  and  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  brisk,  sugary  and  richly  aromatic. 

A  highly  flavoured  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  December  to  February. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  an  abundant  bearer. 


PLATE  LIV. 


8.  BOSTON  RUSSET. 

[Syn  :  Roxbury  Russet ;  Shippens  Russet ;  Putmans  Russet. ] 

This  is  an  old  American  variety.  There  is  no  knowledge  as  to  its  origin,  except  such  as  may 
be  drawn  by  inference  from  its  name.  It  is  extensively  grown  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Boston, 
U.S.,  both  for  home  consumption  and  for  exportation  to  England. 

•  Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  wide,  and  two  inches  and  a 
half  high  ;  roundish,  and  somewhat  flattened,  narrowing  towards  the  apex  and  slightly  angular. 
Skin  :  covered  entirely  with  brownish  yellow  russet  intermixed  with  green,  and  sometimes  with  a 
faint  tinge  of  reddish  brown  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  closed,  set  in  a  round  and  rather  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  :  long,  slender,  and  inserted  in  a  moderately  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  juicy, 
sugary,  brisk  and  richly  flavoured. 

A  very  valuable  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  January  to  April,  May,  or 
even  until  June.  It  partakes  somewhat  of  the  flavour  of  the  Ribston  Pippin ,  or  rather  is  between 
that  and  the  Nonpareil.  As  a  late  winter  dessert  apple  it  is  not  to  be  surpassed.  It  sells  well  and 
is  therefore  very  profitable  to  grow. 

The  tree  is  of  spreading  growth,  not  large,  but  healthy,  very  hardy  and  an  immense  bearer. 
When  grafted  on  the  paradise  stock,  it  is  well  suited  for  being  grown  as  a  dwarf,  or  espalier.  It  is 
one  of  the  few  introduced  American  varieties  that  attain  perfection  in  this  country. 


PLATE  LIV. 


9.  WANSTALL. 

This  excellent  apple  was  raised  at  Green  Street,  near  Sittingbourne,  in  Kent,  by  a  tailor  of 
the  name  of  Wanstall,  about  the  beginning  of  the  present  century  (c.  1800). 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
high  ;  roundish,  but  narrowing  a  little  towards  the  eye,  with  five  prominent  angles  on  the  sides, 
which  terminate  in  ridges  round  the  apex,  thus  rendering  the  shape  distinctly  five  sided.  Skin  : 
deep  golden  yellow  on  the  shaded  size,  but  red,  which  is  striped  and  mottled  with  darker  red,  on  the 
side  next  the  sun  ;  marked  with  patches  and  veins  of  thin  grey  russet,  and  strewed  all  over  with 
russety  dots.  Eye  :  half  open,  with  broad,  flat  segments,  set  in  an  angular  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  : 
half  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted  in  a  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  rich,  sugary, 
and  highly  flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple  of  the  very  first  quality,  equal  in  flavour  to  the  Ribston  Pippin  ;  it  will 
keep  until  May  or  June. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well. 


PLATE  LV. 


i.  GLOU  MORCEAU 

[Syn  :  Beurre  d’ Hardenpont ;  Roi  de  Wurtemburg  ;  Hardenpont  d'  Hiver ;  Beurre  de 
Cambron  ;  De  Cambron ;  Glou  Morpeau  de  Cambron  ;  Got  Luc  de  Cambron  ;  Goulu  Morpeau  ; 
BeurrS  de  Kent ;  Beurre  Lombard ;  Colmar  d'Hiver  ;  Linden  d' Automnei] 

The  Abbe  Nicolas  Hardenpont  who  raised  this  valuable  pear  was  born  at  Mons,  in  Hainault, 
in  1705.  He  studied  at  the  Louvain  University,  entered  the  Church  and  became  a  secular  priest 
in  his  native  town.  He  had  a  garden  at  the  foot  of  Mont  Panisel,  in  which  he  carried  on  his  efforts 
to  obtain  new  varieties  of  fruit,  with  great  perseverance  and  with  wonderful  success.  He  continued 
his  sowings  about  the  year  1 730,  and  awaited  the  results  during  a  space  of  30  years.  An  old 
indication  assigns  the  date  of  1758  to  his  obtaining  the  Passe  Colmar ,  that  of  1759  to  that  of  the 
Beurre  d*  Hardenpont  (or  Glou  Morpeau),  and  that  of  1762  to  that  of  the  Beurre  Ranee;  whilst 
his  varieties,  the  D6lices  dHardenpont ,  and  the  Fondante  Panisel  were  obtained  still  later.”  M.  Du 
Mortier,  a  very  distinguished  Belgian  botanist,  from  whose  work  the  “  Pomone  Tournaisienne  ” 
these  facts  are  taken,  thinks  the  Abbe  must  have  had  recourse  to  artificial  cross  fecundation  in  order 
to  obtain  such  fortunate  results,  for  the  sexes  of  plants  had  been  plainly  indicated  by  Cameraring 
since  1649,  and  he  may  even  have  met  the  immortal  Linnaeus  himself.  M.  Du  Mortier 
believes,  the  Beurri  H Hardenpont  (or  Glou  Morpeau)  to  be  “a  cross  between  the  Besi  de 
Chaumontel  and  the  Doyenni ,  since  it  has  the  tortuous  wood,  the  undulated  leaves,  and  the  shape  of 
fruit  of  the  former,  with  the  delicate  melting  flesh  and  the  golden  skin  of  the  latter.”  If  this 
supposition  is  true,  Nicolas  Hardenpont  was  the  first  to  produce  new  varieties  of  fruit  by  cross 


Plate  LV 


Jersey  Gratioli 


3  .Mane  Louise  d’Uccla 


4.  Mane  Louise 


5.  Nouveau  Poiteau  . 


G  Severeyns ,  Chromolith .  Brussels 


Alice  B. Ellis  &  E.dith  E. Bull  del 
for  The  Whoolhope  Club. 


/ 


PLATE  LV. 


fertilization,  and  it  must  also  be  added  that  he  kept  his  secret  so  effectually,  that  it  remained  for 
Thomas  Andrew  Knight  to  introduce  the  practice  generally,  some  70  or  80  years  afterwards. 

Van  Mons  afterwards  named  this  pear  Roi  de  Wurtemberg ,  and  received  a  handsome  snuff¬ 
box  as  an  acknowledgment  of  the  compliment  from  the  King  of  Wurtemberg,  but  this  was  an  error 
that  was  only  temporarily  successful. 

In  the  environs  of  Mons,  where  the  pear  originated,  the  BeurrS  d' Hardenpont  was  much 
oftener  called  the  Glou  Morpectu,  converted  afterwards  by  the  French,  when  M.  Noisette  brought 
it  from  Belgium  in  1806,  into  Goulu  Morgeau.  The  word  “glout”  in  Walloon  signifies  dainty  or 
delicate  and  thus  “glou  morceau”  means  daintyb  it  :  “goulu,”  on  the  contrary,  signifies  greedy,  or 
great  eater  ;  so  the  BeurrS  d' Hardenpont  has  become,  through  this  strange  alteration  in  name 
by  the  French,  a  gluttonous  eater,  instead  of  a  fruit  worthy  of  being  eaten. 

Description. — Fruit:  above  medium  size,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  two  and 
three-quarters  wide ;  obovate,  narrowing  obtusely  from  the  bulge  to  the  eye  and  the  stalk.  Skin  : 
smooth,  pale  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  greenish  grey  russet  dots,  and  slight  markings  of  russet. 
Eye  :  open,  with  long,  flat,  leafy  segments  set  in  a  rather  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  half 
long,  rather  slender,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  smooth  and  buttery,  of  a  rich 
and  sugary  flavour. 

A  dessert  fruit  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  December  to  January. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  not  disposed  to  canker,  and  bears  well.  It  forms  a  handsome  pyramid 
in  the  open  ground,  but  requires  a  wall  in  Herefordshire.  In  warm  situations  it  succeeds  well  as 
a  standard  on  the  pear  stock.  It  ought  to  take  its  place  in  every  garden. 

A  coloured  figure  is  given  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  Vol. 
VII.,  PI.  4,  P.  148. 


PLATE  LV. 


2.  JERSEY  GRATIOLI. 

[Syn  :  Gratioli ;  Bedminster  Gratioli ;  Norris  Peard\ 

This  pear  is  known  in  Jersey  as  “  Gratioli,”  and  under  this  name  it  had  for  some  years  been 
extensively  cultivated  by  Mr.  Norris,  of  Sion  Hill,  Isleworth  ;  but  as  “Gratioli”  is  the  Italian 
name  of  Bon  Chretien  d' EtS,  to  prevent  confusion  Mr.  Robert  Thompson  named  the  present  variety 
Jersey  Gratioli.  It  must  have  been  in  this  country  a  considerable  time,  as  there  is  a  tree  growing 
in  the  garden  of  H.  M.  Bucknall,  Esq.,  of  Bedminster  Lodge,  near  Bristol,  which  he  considered  in 
1856  to  be  fifty  years  old. 

Description. — Fruit:  medium  size,  roundish  obovate.  Skin:  greenish  yellow,  covered  with 
large  round  russet  spots,  and  tinged  with  pale  brown  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  an  even 
shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  very 
melting,  rich,  sugary,  and  with  a  fine,  sprightly,  vinous  flavour. 

A  dessert  pear  of  the  highest  excellence.  It  is  ripe  in  October,  and  lasts  but  a  short  time 
in  perfection. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  vigorous  in  growth,  with  erect  dark  brown  shoots  and  obtuse  hoary 
buds.  It  is  very  fruitful  and  bears  freely  as  a  standard.  It  is  a  good  and  valuable  pear,  suited  to 
our  climate,  and  well  worthy  of  more  extensive  cultivation. 


PLATE  LV. 


3.  MARIE  LOUISE  D’UCCLE. 

A  seedling  from  Marie  Louise ,  and  so  named  from  the  village  of  Uccle,  near  Brussels.  It 
was  raised  by  Mr.  Gambier,  of  Uccle  (c.  1840),  and  takes  very  much  the  character  of  its  parent. 
It  was  introduced  into  England  in  1855. 

Description. — Fruit :  rather  large,  pyriform.  Skin  :  marked  with  pale  cinnamon  coloured 
russet,  much  in  the  way  of  Marie  Louise.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  long  leafy  segments  set  in  a 
considerable  depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  curved,  stout  and  obliquely  inserted  on  the  end  of 
the  fruit  by  the  side  of  a  fleshy  lip.  Flesh  :  fine  grained,  buttery  and  melting,  very  juicy  and  richly 
flavoured. 

A  pear  of  the  highest  quality,  ripe  from  the  middle  of  October  to  the  beginning  of 
November.  It  differs  from  Marie  Louise  in  having  a  peculiar  and  fine  aroma,  resembling 
somewhat  that  of  Garnet's  Bergamot. 

The  tree  grows  freely  when  grafted  on  the  genuine  stock,  on  which  it  soon  forms  a  robust 
and  prolific  pyramid,  which  the  Marie  Lotiise  does  not.  It  is  a  fine  variety  and  worthy  of 
extensive  cultivation. 


PLATE  LV. 


[Syn  :  Marie  Louise  Delcourt ;  Marie  Louise  Nova ;  Forme  de  Marie  Louise ;  Marie 
Chretienne ;  Princesse  de  Panne  ;  Braddick' s  Field  Standard;  Doncklelaar .] 

The  Abbe  Duquesne  raised  this  well-known  variety  in  1809  and  named  it  in  honour  of 
Marie  Louise,  the  Consort  of  Napoleon.  It  was  sent  into  this  Country  in  1816  by  Dr.  Van  Mons 
of  Louvain,  to  Mr.  Braddick  of  Thames  Ditton,  without  a  name.  He  planted  it  in  a  field  as  an 
open  standard,  where  it  succeeded  so  well  and  produced  fruit  so  different  in  appearance,  that  is,  so 
much  more  russety  than  that  growing  against  a  wall,  that  it  was  at  first  consided  a  distinct  variety 
and  was  named  Braddick' s  Field  Standard. 

An  excellent  coloured  figure  of  this  Pear  is  given  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London 
Horticultural  Society,  Vol.  iv.,  pi.  20,  p.  159. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  oblong,  or  pyriform.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  green,  changing  to 
yellow  as  it  ripens,  and  marked  with  tracings  of  thin  brown  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  set  in 
a  narrow  and  rather  deep  and  uneven  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted  without 
depression  on  one  side  of  the  apex,  which  is  generally  higher  on  one  side  than  the  other.  Flesh  : 
white,  delicate,  very  juicy  and  melting  with  an  exceedingly  rich,  sweet  and  vinous  flavour. 

A  dessert  pear  of  the  highest  merit,  in  season  in  October  and  November.  In  flavour  and 
beauty,  says  Lindley,  it  has  scarcely  a  superior. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  vigorous.  It  succeeds  best  against  a  wall,  though  if  grown  as  a 
pyramid  or  standard,  the  fruit  is  smaller  but  richer  in  flavour.  It  is  rather  an  uncertain  bearer,  and 
it  has  been  recommended  to  thin  out  the  blossoms,  leaving  only  two  or  three  on  a  spray.  It  does 
not  grow  well  on  a  Quince  stock.  It  should  have  a  place  in  every  garden. 


PLATE  LV. 


5.  NOUVEAU  POITEAU. 

[Syn  :  Tombe  de  /’ Amateur. 

A  seedling  of  Van  Mons,  which  first  fruited  in  1843,  and  was  named  in  honour  of  M.  Poiteau 
of  Paris,  director  of  the  Royal  Gardens,  who  was  also  an  eminent  pomologist. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  irregular  in  shape,  obtuse  oval,  or  pyramidal.  Skin  :  pale  or 
greenish  yellow,  mottled  and  streaked  with  pale  brown  russet,  and  of  a  dull  reddish  brown  on  the 
side  towards  the  sun.  Eye  :  closed,  placed  in  a  slight  depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch,  to  an  inch  and 
a  quarter  long,  obliquely  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  :  fine-grained,  buttery,  melting,  and 
very  juicy,  rich,  sugary,  and  highly  perfumed. 

A  first-rate  pear  ;  ripens  in  November,  but  without  any  change  of  colour.  It  requires 
watching  therefore,  for  when  ripe  it  keeps  but  a  very  short  time.  When  fully  ripe  the  skin  becomes 
a  little  wrinkled  near  the  stalk,  and  yields  then  to  slight  pressure. 

The  tree  has  a  robust  upward  growth,  and  forms  a  handsome  pyramid  on  the  quince.  It  is 
very  hardy,  and  has  the  great  merit  of  often  bearing  well  when  other  varieties  fail. 


PLATE  LVI. 


i.  KENTISH  FILL-BASKET. 

[Syn  :  Lady  de  Grey  s ;  Potter  s  Largei] 

The  history  of  the  precise  origin  of  this  fruit  has  been  lost.  It  is  not  the  fruit  described  as 
Kentish  Fill-basket  by  Miller,  Forsyth,  nor  yet  of  Rogers,  which  was  evidently  the  Kentish  Codlin. 
Ronalds  figures  this  apple  on  PI.  ix.,  fig.  i. 

Description. — Fruit :  very  large,  four  inches  wide  and  three  inches  and  a  quarter  high  ; 
roundish,  irregular  and  slightly  ribbed.  Skin  :  smooth,  yellowish  green  in  the  shade,  and  pale 
yellow  with  a  reddish  brown  blush,  streaked  with  deeper  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  large, 
set  in  a  wide  irregular  basin.  Flesh  :  tender  and  juicy,  with  a  brisk  and  pleasant  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple  of  first-rate  quality,  in  season  from  November  to  January. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  and  vigorous  grower.  It  attains  a  large  size,  and  is  much  better 
adapted  for  standards,  than  for  espaliers  or  pyramids.  It  is  very  hardy  and  bears  abundantly.  Its 
fruit  is  very  variable  in  shape  and  size. 


Plate  LVI 


PLATE  LVI. 


2.  CALVILLE  MALINGRE. 

[Syn  :  Malingre  ct’ Angle terre^\ 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  leading  works.  It  has  a  French  name, 
but  according  to  the  French  pomologists  it  has  some  connection  with  this  country,  though  there 
is  no  evidence  that  it  was  ever  grown  to  any  extent  in  England.  The  name  “  malingre”  has  been 
supposed  by  some  to  apply  to  the  variety,  as  liable  to  become  mealy  or  unsound,  but  this  is  not  so. 
In  the  Chatreux  Catalogue  this  apple  is  spoken  of  as  bonne  cuite  pour  les  malades,  and  thus  the 
derivation  of  the  name  is  probably  due  to  its  usefulness  in  the  sick  chamber. 

Description. — Fruit :  very  large,  elongated  and  distinctly  ribbed.  Skin  :  a  little  yellow  in 
the  deepest  shade,  but  of  a  beautiful  deep  chocolate  red  next  the  sun  marked  with  stripes  of  darker 
red,  the  whole  surface  being  strewed  with  minute  dots.  Eye  :  small,  set  in  a  broad,  deep  and 
angular  basin,  which  is  surrounded  with  prominent  knobs.  Stalk  :  slender,  deeply  inserted  in  an 
angular  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  delicate,  very  juicy  and  charged  with  an  agreeable  acid. 

A  culinary  apple  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  January  to  April. 

The  tree  is  very  vigorous  and  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  is  better  adapted  for  cultivation  as 
a  dwarf,  or  small  standard,  than  as  an  espalier. 


f 


PLATE  LVI. 


3.  CALVILLE  BLANCHE  D’HIVER. 

[Syn  :  Calville  blanche  ;  White  Winter  Calville ;  Bonnet  Carre. ] 

The  history  and  date  of  the  origin  of  this  apple  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  leading  pomological 
works.  It  is  probably  of  French  origin  as  its  name  implies,  and  is  certainly  the  favorite  apple  for 
culinary  purposes  on  the  Continent.  It  is  figured  by  Ronalds,  PI.  xxvii.,  fig.  4. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide  and  three  inches  and  a  quarter  high  ; 
roundish  and  flattened,  with  broad  uneven  and  unequal  ribs,  extending  the  whole  length  of  the  fruit 
and  terminating  at  the  apex  in  prominent  unequal  ridges.  Skin  :  delicate,  pale  yellow  tinged  with 
green,  becoming  bright  golden  yellow  at  maturity  ;  washed  with  deep  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun, 
and  strewed  with  brown  dots  and  a  few  markings  of  greenish  white  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed 
with  stout  and  pointed  segments,  set  in  a  deep  irregular  five-ribbed  basin,  which  is  surrounded  with 
knobs.  Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender  and  inserted  the  whole  of  its  length  in  a  deep 
and  angular  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  delicate  and  juicy,  with  a 
rich,  lively  and  agreeable  aromatic  flavour. 

A  valuable  winter  apple  adapted  to  all  culinary  purposes,  and  good  also  for  dessert  when 
apples  are  scarce.  It  is  in  season  from  January  to  April.  It  is  considered  on  the  Continent  to  be 
the  finest  of  all  apples  for  kitchen  use,  and  it  probably  is  so  in  warmer  climates  than  our  own. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well,  but  is  apt  to  canker  in  wet  ground.  It  is  best  grown  as 
a  dwarf  standard  or  cordon  on  the  paradise  stock,  when  the  appearance  of  the  fruit  is  much 
improved.  This  variety  will  repay  the  trouble  of  orchard-house  treatment,  when  the  fruit  is  much 
larger  and  its  flavour  much  improved. 


PLATE  LVI. 


4.  CALVILLE  ROUGE  D’AUTOMNE. 

[Syn  :  Autumn  Calville ;  Autumn  Red  Calvilled\ 

This  French  apple  has  no  history  given  to  it  in  the  pomological  works.  Ronalds  gives  a 
figure  of  it,  PI.  viii. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  three  and  a  quarter  high  ;  not 
so  much  flattened  as  the  other  Calvilles.  Skin  :  pale  red  with  a  trace  of  yellow  on  the  shaded  side, 
but  of  a  beautiful  deep  crimson  next  the  sun.  On  the  shaded  side  it  is  also  marked  with  dots  of  a 
yellow  colour.  Eye  :  half  open,  set  in  a  rather  shallow  ribbed  basin,  which  is  lined  with  fine 
down.  Stalk  :  rather  short,  inserted  in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  : 
white,  tinged  with  red  under  the  skin,  and  very  much  so  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun  ;  it  is 
tender,  delicate  and  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  vinous  and  violet  scented  flavour. 

An  apple  very  highly  esteemed  on  the  continent  both  as  a  culinary  and  dessert  fruit,  but  it 
requires  a  favourable  season  in  this  country  to  maintain  its  best  qualities.  It  is  in  season  during 
October  and  November. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  vigorous  grower  and  attains  a  very  large  size.  It  bears  abundantly  when 
full  grown.  It  is  best  grown  here  on  the  paradise  stock  as  an  open  dwarf,  and  should  not  be  closely 
pruned. 


PLATE  LVII. 


REDSTREAK  APPLES. 

The  number  and  variety  of  Redstreak  Apples  is  infinite.  They  abound  in  the  orchards  of 
Herefordshire,  as  they  doubtless  do  elsewhere.  The  “  Redstreak  ”  is  the  most  frequent  form  of 
coloration  in  the  apple  ;  and  thus,  when  the  seedling  tree  first  bears  fruit,  or  when  an  apple  has  no 
other  recognised  name,  if  the  sun  paints  on  it  freely  the  bright  streaks  of  crimson  which  are  so 
attractive,  it  naturally  takes  the  name  of  “  Redstreak,”  with  any  other  epithet,  that  may  serve  to 
distinguish  it.  Those  “  Redstreaks  ”  only,  which  have  obtained  a  character  in  the  orchards  from 
the  virtue  of  their  juices,  will  be  noticed  here.  The  renowned  “  Redstreak  ”  of  Lord  Scudamore 
is  no  longer  grown  (see  Plate  xi.,  3).  It  has  long  since  been  surpassed  by  superior  varieties. 


1.  SPREADING  REDSTREAK. 

A  variety  so  named  from  the  spreading  growth  of  the  tree  and  the  colour  of  its  fruit.  It 
has  no  known  history. 

Description. — Fruit:  full  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  and  regular  in  shape.  Skin:  greenish 
yellow  with  a  deep  blush  next  the  sun,  and  streaked  there  with  darker  crimson.  Eye  :  open,  in  a 
wide,  shallow  cavity  ;  calyx  segments,  short  and  reflexed  ;  anthers  projecting  from  the  centre. 
Stalk  :  slender,  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  and  regular  cavity.  Flesh  :  soft  and  sweet, 
with  a  rough  acidulated  taste.  Juice  very  pale  straw  colour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (season  1881),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  F.C.S., 


gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*049 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  ...  1*053 

One  hundred  parts  were  found  to  contain,  of 

Sugar  ...  ..  ...  ...  ...  11-600 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  3'4°° 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  85*000 


This  analysis  proves  its  value  as  a  cider  fruit,  not  only  from  the  quantity  of  its  sugar,  but  also 
from  the  amount  of  Tannin,  Mucilage,  and  Salts,  which  ensure  its  good  qualities. 

The  tree  grows  to  a  large  size,  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  is  much  grown  in  the 
valley  of  the  river  Froome,  where  the  trees  are  many  of  them  nearly  a  century  old. 


Plate  LVII 


6.  South  Quimnh 


G  Severeyns,  Chromolith  .  Brussels 


Alice  B  Ellis  a  Edith  E. Bull. del 
for  The  Whoolhope  Club 


. 


♦ 


PLATE  LVI I. 


2.  YELLOW  REDSTREAK. 

I  his  variety  is  named  from  the  colour  of  its  fruit,  a  pale  yellow  ground-colour  with  thin 
crimson  streaks. 

Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size,  often  irregular  in  shape.  Skin  :  yellow,  with 
faint  streaks  of  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  set  in  a  narrow  plaited 
cavity,  segments  slightly  converging  and  then  reflexed ;  anthers  projecting.  Stalk :  slender, 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  and  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  tender,  sweet 
and  pleasant  flavoured,  with  some  astringency.  Juice  :  very  pale  in  colour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  of  the  Yellow  Redstreak  (Season  1 88 1 ),  by  Mr.  G. 


H.  With,  gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  i'05o 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  ...  i’053 

One  hundred  parts  (by  weight)  of  the  juice  contained,  of 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  1 2 ‘380 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ..  ...  ...  1*650 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  85 ’970 


IOO’OOO 


The  large  amount  of  sugar  contained  in  this  fruit  renders  it  valuable  to  mix  with  other 
varieties,  which  possess  a  greater  amount  of  Tannin,  Mucilage,  and  Salts. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  to  a  good  size,  and  bears  freely. 


PLATE  LVII. 


3.  UPRIGHT  REDSTREAK. 


The  upright  habit  of  growth  of  the  tree,  gives  this  variety  its  distinctive  name. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  regular  in  shape  but  often  fuller  on 
one  side.  Skin  :  yellowish  green,  having  a  pink  blush  next  the  sun,  with  streaks  and  splashes 
of  a  deeper  colour.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  small  and  shallow  cavity.  Stalk  :  slender, 
half-an-inch  long,  inserted  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cavity.  Flesh :  tender  and  juicy,  with  a 
sweet  acidulated  taste  and  some  astringency,  Juice  :  plentiful,  of  a  pale  straw  colour. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  of  the  Upright  Redstreak  (season 
H.  With,  gave  the  following  results  : — 


1881),  by  Mr.  G. 


Density  of  fresh  juice 
Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  contained,  of 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

Water 


1-050 

1-050 

12-280 

2*320 

85-400 

IOO’OOO 


This  analysis  proves  it  to  be  a  valuable  apple,  which  will  make  cider  of  excellent  quality 
without  mixture  with  other  varieties,  though  it  is  seldom  used  alone. 

There  are  many  trees  from  80  to  100  years  old  scattered  through  the  orchards  in  the  valley 
of  the  river  Froome,  and  it  is  still  propagated. 


PLATE  LVII. 


4.  COWARN  E  RED. 

This  fruit  takes  its  name  from  the  parish  of  Much  Cowarne,  Herefordshire,  where  it  was 
raised  about  the  beginning  of  the  last  century  (c.  1720).  This  apple  is  well  represented  in 
the  “  Pomona  Herefordiensis,”  Plate  xxviii. 


Description. — P'ruit  :  above  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  narrowing  towards  the  crown, 
where  it  has  a  few  obtuse  plates  more  or  less  defined.  Skin  :  golden  yellow  on  the  shaded  side 
with  numerous  streaks  of  red,  a  bright  red  almost  all  over  the  surface,  and  where  fully  exposed  to 
the  sun,  becoming  of  a  deep  purplish  crimson.  Eye  :  Small  and  closed  and  set  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Stalk:  half  an  inch  long,  stiff  and  straight,  deeply  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity  which  is  lined  with  very 
thin  russet.  Flesh  :  crisp  and  pleasant  to  taste,  tinted  with  crimson  beneath  the  skin  and  slightly 
marking  the  fibre  of  the  core.  Juice  :  very  thin  and  plentiful,  of  a  ruddy  amber  colour,  and  very 
slightly  astringent. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 


Density  of  fresh  juice 
Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  & c. 

Water 


1  '047 
1-047 

1 1  -900 
1  400 
86-700 


100-000 


Mr.  Knight  makes  the  specific  gravity  of  this  apple  as  high  as  1069. 

The  Cowarne  red  is  a  favorite  variety  in  the  orchard.  It  is  a  good  apple,  but  its  bright 
colour  and  its  free  bearing  habit  has  certainly  helped  its  popularity. 

The  tree  grows  to  a  large  size,  is  very  hardy,  and  is  often  to  be  seen  in  extreme  old  age. 


PLATE  LVI I. 


5.  CHERRY  PE  ARM  AIN. 

This  variety  is  an  old  one,  and  widely  spread  through  the  orchards  of  Herefordshire.  It 
is  without  any  known  history. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  handsome  in  colour,  and  regular  in  shape,  round  oblong,  above 
medium  size.  Skin :  yellow,  but  very  much  covered  as  It  were  with  the  small  particles  of  broken-up 
streaks  of  crimson,  which  run  together  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  where  they  are  traversed  by 
streaks  of  deeper  crimson.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch 
long,  almost  hidden  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cavity  which  is  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  soft  and 
reddish  pink  in  patches  beneath  the  skin  and  outside  the  core  fibres  ;  sweet  and  pleasant  to  taste 
with  a  slight  after  roughness.  Juice  :  plentiful,  of  a  rich  pink  colour  changing  to  a  deep  rosy  red. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  yielded  the  following 


results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ....  1*047 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  ...  i'050 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  12700 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  2*000 

Water  ..  ...  ...  ...  ...  85*300 


IOO’OOO 


A  very  favorite  apple  in  the  orchard.  It  is  handsome  in  shape  and  colour.  It  is  very 
good  eaten  fresh  from  the  tree;  will  make  a  pudding  ;  or  mix  well  with  other  varieties  in  the  cider  vat. 

The  tree  is  of  good  size,  and  generally  hardy,  but  in  some  localities  it  is  apt  to  canker.  It 
bears  freely. 

There  is  a  red  variety  of  Cherry  Permain  which  differs  but  little  from  this  one,  except  in  its 
deeper  colour. 


PLATE  LVII. 


6.  SOUTH  QUEENING. 


A  favorite  apple  in  the  Herefordshire  orchards,  but  it  is  without  any  history.  A  “Queening,” 
doubtless  from  its  irregular  and  often  angular  shape,  from  “  coin,”  or  “coign,”  an  angle. 


Description. — Fruit  :  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblong,  but  of  irregular  shape.  Skin  : 
yellowish  green,  covered  more  or  less  by  a  blush  of  crimson,  with  streaks  and  marks  of  deeper 
colour.  Eye  :  large,  and  closed,  with  thick,  green,  inverted  segments,  and  seated  in  a  narrow, 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  three-quarters  of  inch  long,  inserted  apparently  on  the  surface,  but  really 
inclosed  by  the  flesh  of  the  apple.  Flesh  :  white  and  soft,  with  a  sweet  acid  taste  and  some 
astringency.  Juice  :  fairly  plentiful,  of  a  full  amber  colour,  sweet  and  rather  astringent. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 


Density  of  fresh  juice 
Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

W  ater 


1*050 

i’054 

i3‘6oo 

1 733 
S4'667 


1 00 '000 


As  a  cider  fruit  it  is  very  useful  when  mixed  with  varieties  of  rougher  character  and  better 
keeping'qualities.  It  is  a  grand  fruit  for  cooking,  and  makes  excellent  sauce. 

The  tree  grows  well  and  in  good  form.  It  is  very  hardy  and  a  good  bearer. 


PLATE  LVII. 


7.  KNOTTED  KERNEL. 

This  variety  seems  to  have  taken  its  name  from  the  small  nobs,  or  projections,  round 
the  eye. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  round,  but  obscurely  ribbed  above,  and  having 
several  small  projections  or  knobs,  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  red  throughout,  getting  much  deeper  and 
almost  purple  in  colour  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  scattered  with  small  distant  specks  of  russet. 
Eye  :  closed,  irregular  in  shape,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  :  slender,  half  an  inch  long,  and  nearly 
concealed  in  a  deep  narrow  cavity  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  firm,  slightly  coloured  beneath  the  skin 
and  along  the  core  fibres.  Juice:  of  a  rich  pink  colour,  becoming  of  a  deep  ruddy  brown  on 
standing,  sweet,  sub-acid  and  slightly  astringent. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  gave  the  following 


results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1-047 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  ...  1-051 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 

Sugar  ..  ...  ...  ...  ....  1  \  -700 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  3-200 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  85-100 


ioo-ooo 


This  is  a  valuable  apple  as  shown  by  the  analysis. 


The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well,  and  the  deep  colour  of  its  fruit  also  makes  it  popular. 


" 


■ 


' 


Plate  LVTII 


for  The  Whoolhope1  Club- 


PLATE  LVIII. 


i.  ROCK  PEAR. 


The  original  tree  of  this  variety  is  still  living  at  Cromer  Pit  Farm,  Pendock,  Worcestershire. 
It  was  raised  in  a  little  garden,  enclosed  from  the  waste,  by  an  army  pensioner  named  William 
Tuffley,  who  attained  the  age  of  nearly  ioo  years,  and  the  tree  itself  is  now  rapidly  approaching 
that  age. 


Description . — Fruit  :  small  and  hard,  irregular  in  size  and  shape,  but  usually  roundish 
turbinate,  flattened  towards  the  eye  and  larger  on  one  side  than  the  other.  Skin  :  hard,  of  a  dark 
green  colour,  with  a  reddish  brown  tint  towards  the  sun,  and  spotted  all  over  with  minute  spots  of 
russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  :  stout,  half  an  inch  long,  and  inserted 
into  an  irregular  cavity.  Flesh  :  hard,  rough,  acid  and  astringent  in  taste,  neither  juicy,  nor  very 
sweet.  Juice  :  full  flavoured  of  deep  amber  colour,  viscid  and  very  astringent. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  of  the  Rock  Pear  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With 
F.R.A.S.,  F.C.S.,  gave  the  following  results  : — 


Density  of  the  fresh  juice  ... 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  by  weight  of  the  juice,  yielded 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

Water 


1*075 
1 ‘084 

17-600 

4-150 

78-250 


This  analysis  proves  the  very  great  value  of  this  fruit.  “  It  is  a  Foxwhelp  amongst  pears  ” 
said  the  analyst,  without  knowing  anything  of  its  character  in  the  orchard. 

The  perry  made  from  the  Rock  Pear  has  a  rich,  full  and  rough  flavour,  of  so  much  strength 
that  it  is  said,  “A  man  cannot  drink  enough  of  it  to  quench  thirst  without  incurring  the  risk  of 
intoxication.”  Thirty-five  or  forty,  three  peck  kipes  of  fruit,  or  in  less  local  words,  from  twenty-six 
to  thirty-two  bushels,  would  be  required  to  make  a  hogshead  of  clean  perry.  In  consequence  of  its 
great  strength  it  is  very  rarely  used  alone,  but  it  is  a  very  valuable  variety  to  mix  with  free 
running  pears  of  inferior  quality. 

The  trees  are  hardy,  of  good  habit,  and  with  well  shaped  heads  of  upright  growth.  The 
blossom  is  late,  and  a  good  crop  of  fruit  may  be  looked  for  every  other  year  with  tolerable  certainty. 
It  is  a  very  late  pear,  and  the  fruit  will  hang  on  the  trees  until  all  the  leaves  are  down,  if  allowed  to 
do  so. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


2.  COPPY  PEAR. 

[Syn  :  Coppice  P\ 

The  origin  of  this  pear  is  not  known.  There  are  many  very  large  trees  in  Worcestershire, 
which  proves  the  variety  to  be  of  great  age. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  small,  growing  in  clusters,  of  a  narrow  ovate  shape,  with  one  side 
usually  running  up  the  stalk.  Skin  :  yellow,  and  almost  covered  with  small  yellow  russet  spots. 
Eye  :  prominent,  on  a  small  ridge,  with  the  projecting  segments  of  the  calyx  closed.  Stalk  : 
slender,  an  inch  or  more  long.  Flesh  :  dry  and  pleasant  to  taste,  sweet  and  rich,  with  a  great 
astringency.  Juice  :  small  in  quantity,  bright  straw  colour,  becoming  very  dark  on  exposure  to  air, 
and  somewhat  viscid. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  F.C.S., 
gave  the  following  results  : — 


Density  of  fresh  juice 
Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  were  found  to  contain,  of 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

Water 


1-057 

1-063 

12-620 

4-380 

83-000 


IOO’OOO 


This  analysis  proves  the  pear  to  be  more  valuable  than  is  generally  thought,  since  it  is  now 
no  longer  propagated.  The  more  succulent  varieties  have  taken  its  place  in  general  estimation. 

The  trees  are  very  large  and  spreading,  with  weeping  slender  boughs,  very  hardy,  and  so 
productive  that  the  pears  hang  in  bunches,  and  are  therefore  very  small.  There  is  a  large  orchard 
in  the  parish  of  Birtsmorton,  Worcestershire. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


3.  STONY  WAY  PEAR. 

“  Stony  Ways  ”  are  not  uncommon.  This  pear  however  is  said  to  have  originated  at  the 
Stony  Way,  near  “The  Winnings,”  at  Colwall.  It  has  only  been  brought  into  notice  during  the  last 
twenty  years. 

Description. — Fruit:  below  medium  size,  of  an  irregular  oval  shape  elongated  towards  the 
stalk,  and  usually  bulging  out  on  one  side.  Skin :  greenish  yellow,  slightly  tinted  with  brownish  red 
towards  the  sun,  and  covered  freely  with  minute  spots  of  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  in  a  small 
and  shallow  cavity.  Stalk  :  slender,  an  inch  long,  inserted  without  depression.  Flesh  :  firm  and 
juicy,  with  a  rather  vapid  taste,  very  slightly  bitter,  but  without  astringency.  Juice  :  plentiful,  of  a 
pale  straw  colour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  of  the  Stony  Way  Pear  (Season  1882),  by  Mr.  G. 


H.  With,  gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*040 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  ...  1*042 

One  hundred  parts  (by  weight)  of  the  juice  contained,  of 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  8*360 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ..  ...  ...  3 '890 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  87*750 


100*000 


The  perry  is  strong  and  of  good  quality,  though  wanting  in  sweetness.  It  is  therefore 
seldom  to  be  met  with  unmixed,  and  indeed,  it  may  be  said,  that  it  is  never  made  alone. 

The  trees  are  not  large,  of  round  or  spreading  growth,  but  are  said  to  be  uncertain  in 
bearing. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


4.  CHEAT  BOY. 

The  history  of  this  pear  is  not  known.  Its  name  indicates  that  its  beauty  is  sometimes 
deceptive,  and  that  the  boys  who  purchase  it  are  not  to  be  congratulated  on  their  bargain. 

Description . — Fruit  :  pyriform,  of  medium  size,  tapering  towards  the  stalk.  Skin  :  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  bright  rosy  colour  on  the  sunny  side,  it  has  thin  patches  of  russet  round  the  stalk 
and  eye,  and  in  spots  over  the  whole  surface.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  level  with  the  surface,  calyx 
segments  upright,  anthers  projecting.  Stalk:  slender,  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted 
obliquely.  Flesh  :  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  slightly  bitter  after  taste,  with  but  little  astringency. 
Juice  :  plentiful,  of  a  pale  amber  colour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  of  the  Cheat  Boy  Pear  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G. 


H.  With,  gave  the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*052 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ...  ...  1*052 

One  hundred  parts  contained,  of 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  12700 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  1*220 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  86*080 


IOO’OOO 


An  early  variety,  very  pretty  to  look  at,  but  of  deceptive  sweetness,  with  an  unpleasant  after 

taste. 

The  trees  are  small,  but  bear  very  freely.  It  is  a  good  pear,  but  not  much  propagated  now. 
Trees  of  considerable  age  are  to  be  found  at  Pendock,  Berrow,  Birtsmorton,  &c.,  Worcestershire. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


5.  THORN  PEAR. 


An  old  variety  without  any  known  history. 

Description. — Fruit :  of  full  medium  size  or  rather  above  it,  of  a  blunt,  pyriform  shape. 
Skin  :  of  a  light  orange  colour,  with  a  crimson  tint  on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered  with  thin  russet 
specks  over  the  surface.  Eye  :  open,  and  scarcely  depressed,  calyx  segments,  incurved  anther 
stiles,  very  long  and  erect.  Stalk  :  short,  stout,  and  irregular,  inserted  rather  obliquely,  without 
depression.  Flesh  :  firm,  crisp  and  juicy,  with  an  astringent  after  taste.  Juice  :  plentiful,  deep 
straw  colour. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (season  1882),  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  yielded  the  following 

results 


Density  of  fresh  juice 
Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

Water 


1  ’046 
1*048 

11-500 

1-400 

87-100 


The  juice  of  the  Thorn  Pear  makes  a  strong,  second-class  perry— or  cider  as  the  season 
may  require.  “  A  good  useful  liquor  for  home  consumption,”  but  it  seems  to  require  also  a  good 
country  constitution  to  bear  it,  for  “  when  fresh,”  the  same  informant  added,  “  it  will  rout  a  body  out 
well.”  It  is  a  very  early  variety  and  ripens  all  at  once.  As  soon  as  a  single  pear  falls  to  the  ground, 
the  fruit  should  be  gathered  and  crushed.  It  is  a  very  favourite  pear  in  cottage  gardens,  for  it 
stews  well,  and  makes  excellent  pies  and  puddings. 

The  trees  are  small  in  size,  and  bushy,  with  stiff  branches  and  large  leaves.  They  bear  too 
freely  to  make  much  wood.  The  trees  bear  so  well,  and  the  fruit  “runs  so  much  liquor,”  that 
its  popularity  in  the  gardens  around  Ledbury,  and  in  Worcestershire,  is  very  great. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


6.  WINNALL’S  LONGLAND. 

This  pear  was  raised  by  the  late  Mr  Winnall,  of  Woodfield,  in  the  parish  of  Weston-under- 
Penyard,  near  Ross,  towards  the  close  of  the  last  century  (c.  1790)  The  first  orchard  planted  with 
it,  was  the  one  called  “  Noaks  Style”  on  that  estate,  from  whence  his  friends  in  Herefordshire  and 
Worcestershire  were  supplied  with  grafts. 

Description. — Fruit  :  handsome,  rather  above  medium  size,  of  long  pyriform  shape,  tapering 
very  much  towards  the  stalk,  but  often  fuller  on  one  side  than  the  other.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow, 
with  a  beautiful  red  tint,  softened  with  bloom  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  the  whole  surface 
sprinkled  with  small  spots,  which  become  larger  towards  the  stalk.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  set  in  a 
slight  depression.  Stalk  :  slender,  nearly  an  inch  long,  often  inserted  obliquely.  Flesh  :  soft,  juicy 
and  sweet,  with  a  slightly  bitter  after  taste  and  without  astringency.  Juice  :  straw  colour,  very 
sweet,  with  a  slight  Jargonelle  flavour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  by  Mr.  With  (season  1882),  is  as  follows: — 


Density  of  fresh  juice  ..  ...  ...  ...  i'045 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ..  ..  ...  i'05o 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 

Sugar  ...  . .  ...  ...  1 1  ‘goo 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  1  780 

Water  ...  ...  ...  .  ...  86-320 


The  perry  is  more  luscious  than  that  from  the  ordinary  Longland  pear,  and  very  strong.  It 
is  rough  in  flavour,  and  not  fit  for  bottling,  but  it  is  very  saleable  for  ordinary  purposes.  With  a  little 
colouring  from  burnt  sugar,  it  cannot  readily  be  distinguished  from  cider,  for  which  it  is  not 
unfrequently  sold.  It  is  difficult  to  make  well,  and  in  some  districts  is  apt  to  get  a  smoky  flavour. 

The  tree  is  very  handsome  in  shape  and  park-like,  of  great  size,  and  very  vigorous.  It  bears 
profusely.  Mr.  Chas.  Blandford,  of  Merrables,  Dymock,  said  in  1880,  “  There  are  seven  trees  on 
my  farm,  with  fruit  enough  on  them  to  make  14  hogsheads  of  perry.  During  the  five  years  I  have 
been  here,  these  seven  trees  have  averaged  12  hogsheads  of  perry  annually.”  It  is  also  widely 
grown  around  Ledbury  and  in  Worcestershire,  about  Eldersfield,  Birtsmorton,  and  other  parishes  in 
the  valley  of  the  lower  Severn.  It  is  still  propagated  extensively  in  these  districts. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


7.  NEWBRIDGE  PEAR. 


A  Worcestershire  variety  of  considerable  age,  but  though  the  trees  are  large  and  handsome 
and  the  variety  popular,  its  history  is  unknown,  and  it  is  now  described  for  the  first  time. 

Description. — Fruit  :  full  medium  size,  roundish  oval,  tapering  a  little  towards  the  stalk. 
Skin  :  green,  with  a  touch  of  orange  brown  on  the  side  towards  the  sun,  covered  with  minute  russet 
spots,  often  large  towards  the  eye,  with  a  patch  of  thin  russet  round  the  stalk  and  eye.  Eye  : 
large,  inserted  on  a  level,  with  short  upright  calyx  segments.  Stalk  :  slender,  nearly  an  inch  long, 
inserted  without  depression.  Flesh  :  very  juicy,  and  sweet,  with  an  astringent  after  taste.  Juice  : 
plentiful  of  a  deep  amber  colour. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  by  Mr.  With  (season  1882),  is  as  follows  : — 


Density  of  the  fresh  juice  ... 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

Water 


1-049 

1- 049 

10-030 

2- 670 
87-300 


This  is  an  early  variety,  and  its  perry  should  be  made  in  October,  as  soon  as  the  first  pear 
falls  to  the  ground.  The  fruit  is  so  very  juicy,  that  but  little  refuse  is  left  in  the  hairs.  Twenty 
kipes  of  fruit  will  make  a  hogshead  of  clean  drink.  The  perry  is  very  luscious  and  pleasant 
flavoured,  of  light  colour,  strong  and  clear. 


The  trees  are  very  large  and  robust.  The  trunks  are  covered  with  bark  as  rugged  and 
picturesque  as  the  Spanish  Chestnut,  and  the  timber  is  well  carried  up  into  the  branches.  It  is 
very  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  is  a  very  old  and  favourite  sort.  Some  very  fine  trees  are  to  be 
seen  at  Rye  Court,  Berrow,  and  in  other  Worcestershire  orchards. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


8.  YOLKING  HOUSE. 


Another  Worcestershire  pear  of  unknown  history. 


Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size,  turbinate.  Skin  :  of  a  greenish  yellow,  scattered 
with  russet,  particularly  around  the  eye  and  stalk.  Eye  :  prominent,  with  long  projecting  calyx 
segments,  long  anthers  and  pistils.  Stalk  :  short  and  stout,  about  half-an-inch  long,  straight  or 
slightly  oblique,  with  level  insertion.  Flesh:  very  sweet  and  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  aromatic  taste, 
rich  flavour,  and  very  little  astringency.  Juice  :  of  a  pale  straw  colour. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  by  Mr.  With  (season  1882),  is  as  follows  : — 


Density  of  fresh  juice 
Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air 
One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  contained,  of 
Sugar 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c. 

W  ater 


1  ’060 
1-065 

13*700 

2*300 

84-000 


IOO'OOO 


The  perry  is  pale  or  white  in  colour,  sweet  and  good,  but  not  strong.  It  is  used  to  mix  with 
other  varieties. 

The  trees  are  of  middle  size,  woody  and  rather  stiff  in  growth,  with  branches  inclined  to 
spread,  rather  resembling  the  growth  of  the  Alder  tree.  Several  trees  are  to  be  seen  at  Rye  Court, 
Berrow,  of  a  considerable  size. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


9.  BLAKENEY  RED. 


There  is  no  published  history  of  this  fruit.  It  may  possibly  derive  its  name  and  origin  from 
the  parish  of  Blakeney  in  the  Forest  of  Dean. 


Description. — Fruit:  above  medium  size,  of  a  regular  pyriform  shape.  Skin:  smooth, 
yellowish  green  on  the  shaded  side,  and  a  bright  crimson  on  the  side  towards  the  sun,  covered  more 
or  less  with  a  very  thin  russet,  and  numerous  very  small  spots.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  upright 
calyx  segments,  set  in  a  depression.  Stalk :  slender,  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  set  in  a  narrow 
cavity.  Flesh  :  soft,  moderately  juicy,  and  very  sweet,  with  slight  Jargonelle  flavour,  with  very  little 
astringency,  but  with  a  slightly  bitter  after  taste. 


The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  of  the  Blakeney  Red  Pear,  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  gave 
the  following  results  : — 

Density  of  fresh  juice  ...  ...  ...  ...  1*033 

Ditto  after  24  hours  exposure  to  air  ...  ..  ...  1*034 

One  hundred  parts  contained,  of 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  9'68o 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  3*160 

Water  ...  •••  ...  ...  ...  87*160 


This  coarse  showy  pear,  has  perhaps  for  these  reasons,  become  lately  very  popular.  It  is 
saleable  as  a  pot  fruit  for  the  manufacturing  districts,  but  it  is  really  a  very  worthless  variety  in  the 
orchard,  and  the  sooner  the  large  number  of  young  trees  planted  within  the  last  ten  years,  are 
grafted  with  varieties  of  higher  merit,  the  better.  The  perry  made  from  its  juice  is  rough  and 
coarse  in  flavour,  “  abominable  trash,”  and  fit  only  for  the  most  ordinary  purposes,  when  nothing 
better  can  be  got. 


PLATE  LVIII. 


LOCAL  PERRY  PEARS. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  Perry  Pears  scattered  through  the  orchards  as  single  trees,  or  a 
very  few  together,  which  for  the  most  part  are  very  coarse  in  their  juices.  They  all  bear  well,  and 
are  allowed  to  remain  because  they  are  there,  and  are  useful  in  filling  the  vats  for  home  consumption. 
These  varieties  however  have  sometimes  much  local  esteem,  and  it  must  be  remembered  that 
it  is  from  them  that  experience  points  out  the  best  varieties.  The  following  names  and  brief 
remarks  from  the  note  book,  are  the  results  of  many  visits  to  the  orchards  : — 

Tump  Pear. — An  early  variety,  ‘'too  early  to  be  of  much  use.”  It  makes  a  strong  rough 
sweet  perry,  of  inferior  flavour,  which  turns  of  a  blackish  colour  on  exposure  to  air. 

Forest  Pear. — Early,  soft  and  juicy,  used  with  other  fruit.  Tree  large  and  well  grown,  like 

an  oak. 

Long  Stalk.' — Makes  excellent  perry,  as  pleasant  as  sherry.  Trees  large,  with  fine  limbs,  as 
large  as  Moorcroft.  Will  grow  60  kipes  (30  bushels)  of  fruit  to  a  tree. 

Dymock  Red,  and  Turner’s  Barn  Pear. — Two  local  varieties  in  much  repute  near  Ross. 

Gin  Pear. — Very  like  Bar  land,  supposed  to  be  equally  good  for  gravel,  and  hence  perhaps 
its  name. 

Lumberskull. — A  great  bearer.  Makes  a  strong,  rough  perry,  which  turns  dark  coloured 
on  exposure  to  air. 

Sow  Pear. — A  very  late  Worcestershire  pear.  Makes  a  rich  strong  perry,  but  not  of 
agreeable  flavour.  A  very  old  variety. 

Black  Horse  Pear  and  White  Horse  Pear. — Makes  a  rough  coarse  perry,  turning 
black  on  exposure  to  air. 

Vintage  Favorite;  White  Moorcroft;  Sack  Pear;  Mill  Pear;  Norton  Butt,  &c., 
&c.,  &c.,  are  other  varities,  only  known  in  their  localities. 


LIX 


1 .  Newland 


2 .  Mmier’s 
Dumpling  ,  k 


. 

1  .  j 

T f  i B  h.  R  e i n  e.  1 1  e . 


HP 

•  EE 

UU  -  -E  ■  •  V:  ■  .  : 


5  Roy  a  1  Somerset. 


G  Sev-ereyns,  Chromolith  Brussels 


■Edith 'EM.  del. 
for  The  Woolhope  Club. 


PLATE  LIX. 


i.  NEWLAND  SACK. 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  uncertain.  It  is  supposed  to  have  sprung  from  a  pip  in  the 
refuse  heap  of  the  cider  mill  at  Newland  Court,  near  Great  Malvern,  towards  the  end  of  last 
century.  The  farm  was  at  that  time  occupied  by  Mr.  Creswell,  who  discovered  its  merit,  and 
grafted  it  freely. 

Description. — Fruit :  above  medium  size,  somewhat  oval  in  shape,  obtusely  ribbed  and 
uneven  about  the  stalk  and  the  eye.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  when  ripe  ;  slightly 
marked  with  russet,  and  with  a  more  or  less  deep  blush  of  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  the  whole 
surface  strewed  with  dark  russet  dots.  Eye  :  closed,  set  in  an  irregular  basin.  Tube  :  long, 
funnel-shaped  ;  stamens  marginal.  Stalk  :  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted  in 
an  uneven  cavity.  Flesh  :  tender,  sweet,  and  of  good  flavour.  Cells  :  wide  open  ;  cell  walls, 
oblong,  obovate  or  elliptical. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  throughout  the  winter,  and  keeps  well  until  May, 
without  any  tendency  to  decay,  even  when  bruised.  “  It  is  the  best  family  apple  known,”  says  Mr. 
Baron  Webster.  The  smaller  apples  are  sold  as  dessert  fruit,  and  as  they  grow  yellow  in  spring, 
are  good  eating  apples.  They  are  very  attractive  in  appearance  from  their  irregular  shape  and 
russety  character. 

The  tree  is  large  and  spreading.  It  is  very  hardy  and  crops  well. 

The  Newland  Sack  apple  is  much  grown  at  Newland  and  in  the  adjoining  parishes.  It  is 
the  mainstay  of  Mr.  Baron  Webster’s  fruit  farm  at  Newland.  He  wishes  “  that  all  his  trees 
were  of  this  variety,  and  buys  all  the  fruit  he  can  get,  for  it  always  gives  satisfaction.” 


PLATE  LIX. 


2.  MINIER’S  DUMPLING. 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  not  given  by  any  of  the  leading  pomological  authorities  ;  and 
thus  the  name  of  the  Minier,  who  first  made  dumplings  with  it,  lives  only  in  that  of  the  apple. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  from  three  to  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  nearly  the  same 
in  height ;  roundish,  but  somewhat  flattened  and  angular  on  the  sides.  Skin  :  dark  green,  striped 
with  darker  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but  covered  with  dark  red  where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Stalk  : 
an  inch  long,  rather  thick,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  firm,  juicy,  subacid  and 
pleasantly  flavoured. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple  of  first-rate  quality,  in  season  from  December  to  May.  “  Most 
valuable  for  boiling  or  baking.”  Transactions  of  London  Horticultural  Society,  Vol.  I.,  p.  70. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well. 


PLATE  LIX. 


3.  ALFRISTON. 

[Syn  :  Shepherd' s  Seedling ;  Shepherd' s  Pippin ;  Lord  Gwydyr's  Newtown  Pippin  ; 
Oldaker  s  New. ] 

This  valuable  apple  was  raised  at  Uckfield  in  Sussex,  by  a  person  of  the  name  of  Shepherd, 
and  for  many  years  has  been  extensively  cultivated  in  that  county  under  the  name  of  Shepherds 
Seedling ,  or  Shepherd's  Pippin.  Some  years  ago  a  Mr.  Brooker,  of  Alfriston,  near  Hailsham,  sent 
specimens  of  the  fruit  to  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  and  not  being  known  there,  it  was 
called  the  Alfriston ,  which  name  it  has  retained. 

Description. — Fruit  :  of  the  largest  size,  generally  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  from 
two  and  three  quarters  to  three  inches  high  ;  roundish  and  angular  on  the  sides.  Skin  :  greenish 
yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  and  tinged  with  orange  next  the  sun  ;  covered  all  over  with  veins  or 
reticulations  of  russet.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  deep  and  uneven  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a 
deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  crisp,  juicy,  sugary  and  briskly  flavoured. 

This  is  one  of  the  largest  and  best  culinary  apples.  It  is  in  season  from  the  beginning  of 
November  until  April  or  May. 

The  tree  is  a  strong,  vigorous  grower,  very  hardy  and  not  liable  to  canker.  It  bears 
abundantly.  It  succeeds  best  as  a  standard,  and  its  fruit  is  so  firmly  fixed  to  the  spurs,  that  it  is  not 
so  liable  as  that  of  many  other  kinds  to  be  blown  off  during  autumn  gales. 


PLATE  LIX. 


4.  IRISH  REINETTE. 

This  apple  is  much  cultivated  about  Lancaster  and  in  the  county  of  Westmoreland,  where  it 
is  highly  esteemed.  Its  history  seems  lost. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  by  two  inches  and 
a  half  high  ;  oblong,  somewhat  five-sided,  with  five  ribs  which  extend  from  the  base  to  the  apex, 
when  they  run  into  the  eye,  forming  five  prominent  ridges.  Skin  :  yellowish  green,  strewed  with 
minute  russety  dots  on  the  shaded  side,  but  dull  brownish  red  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  and 
almost  entirely  covered  with  large  patches  of  dull  leaden-coloured  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed, 
placed  in  a  ribbed  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  round,  deep  and  even  cavity. 
Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  firm,  crisp  and  very  juicy,  with  a  brisk  and  poignant  acid  flavour. 

A  valuable  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  November  to  February,  and  even  longer  if  well 

kept. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  vigorous,  and  bears  fairly  well. 


PLATE  LIX. 


5.  ROYAL  SOMERSET. 

The  history  of  the  origin  of  this  apple  is  lost.  Its  name  indicates  it  to  be  a  Somersetshire 
apple.  The  Royal  Somerset  of  the  Horticultural  Society’s  Catalogue  is  London  Pippin.  This 
variety  is  a  distinct  fruit,  and  has  more  the  resemblance  of  a  medium  sized  Blenheim  Pippin ,  as 
well  in  its  shape  as  in  its  colour,  and  the  formation  of  the  eye.  Dr.  Hogg  first  obtained  it  in  1847 
for  Mr.  James  Lake,  nurseryman,  of  Bridgewater. 

Description. — Fruit  :  rather  above  medium  size,  three  inches  wide  and  rather  more  than 
two  and  a  quarter  high  ;  roundish  ovate,  generally  higher  on  one  side  than  the  other,  handsome 
and  regularly  shaped.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but 
brighter  yellow,  marked  with  faint  broken  streaks  and  mottles  of  crimson  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ; 
the  whole  surface  strewed  with  russety  dots,  which  are  most  numerous  in  the  basin  of  the  eye. 
Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  very  short  stunted  segments,  which  are  reflexed  and  placed  in  a  round, 
even  and  pretty  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  upwards  of  half  an  inch  long,  slender  and  inserted  almost 
the  whole  of  its  length  in  a  deep,  round,  smooth  and  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  very 
tender  and  juicy,  with  a  pleasant,  delicate,  subacid  but  not  brisk  flavour. 

A  very  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  November  to  March.  This  apple  is 
translucent  round  the  eye  like  Dumelow  s  Seedling. 

The  tree  is  very  vigorous  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  LX. 


i.  LEON  LECLERE  DE  LAVAL. 
[Syn  :  Lion  Leclere  ;  Best  de  Caen.] 


This  variety  is  one  of  the  many  fine  pears  raised  by  Van  Mons  (c.  1820 — 30.) 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  sometimes  very  large,  long,  obovate  and  rounding  towards  the 
eye.  Skin  :  smooth  and  shining,  yellow,  strewed  with  brown  dots,  and  marked  with  tracings  of 
russet.  Eye  :  large,  with  long,  straight,  narrow  segments,  and  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  an 
inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted  without  depression  by  the  side  of  a  fleshy  lip.  Flesh  :  white,  half 
melting  or  crisp,  juicy,  sweet  and  perfumed. 

An  excellent  stewing  pear.  It  is  in  season  from  January  until  May  or  June. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  and  when  full  grown  bears  well.  It  is  best  grown  on  the  pear  stock 
on  an  extensive  wall,  but  may  be  grown  as  a  dwarf  standard  on  the  quince. 


Plate  LX 


4.  Winter  Thorn 


.  V-4  .^-:s  .•*►■  + 


.4.  ••;•••  •  *  v  . '  ■  '.■ 

5t  Black  Pear  of  Worcester 


G  Severeyns,  Chromolith  .  Brussels  - 


Alice  B. Ellis  &  Edith  E.Bu|l. del. 
for  The  Whoolhope  Club. 


PLATE  LX. 


[Syn  :  Gil-6-gile  ;  Gilogilles ;  Gilles  ;  Gilles-o-gilles ;  Gilot ;  Gros  Gilot ,  Gobert ;  Gros 
Gobet ;  Bellegarde  ;  Bergamotte  Geerard ;  Beurre  Geerard ;  Ciree  d' Hiver ;  Garde  Ecosse  ;  Teton 
de  Venus.'] 

There  is  no  history  given  of  the  origin  of  this  pear  in  any  of  the  pomological  authorities. 
It  is  probably  of  French  origin,  and  is  abundantly  cultivated  for  the  Paris  market  at  Noisy-le-Roi, 
Seine  et  Oise,  under  the  name  of  Poire  Gille. 

Description.- — Fruit :  very  large,  roundish  turbinate.  Skin  :  yellowish  in  the  shade  and 
brownish  next  the  sun,  entirely  covered  with  thin  brown  russet,  so  much  so  as  to  leave  scarcely  any 
of  the  ground  colour  visible.  Eye  :  large,  set  in  a  deep  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long, 
deeply  inserted  in  a  two-lipped  cavity.  Flesh  :  firm,  crisp,  sweet  and  juicy. 

A  stewing  pear  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  November  to  February,  or  March.  It  is 
a  very  handsome  fruit  and  sells  well  in  the  market.  In  Paris  it  is  in  great  demand  for  making 
compotes  of  a  very  agreeable  perfume,  superior  to  that  which  can  be  obtained  from  any  other  kind 
of  pear. 

The  tree  grows  vigorously,  with  strong  brown  shoots  sprinkled  with  oblong  specks.  It  is 
very  hardy,  and  bears  so  well  that  it  is  apt  to  overbear  itself.  It  succeeds  admirably  and  bears 
abundantly  as  a  standard  ;  but  it  also  grows  and  bears  well  as  a  dwarf  standard  on  the  quince  stock. 


PLATE  LX. 


3.  COLMAR  VAN  MONS. 

[Syn  :  Colmar  des  Invalides  ;  Invalides  ;  Beurre  de  Printemps.  ] 

This  pear  was  raised  by  M.  Duquesne,  at  Enghein,  in  1880,  and  was  named  by  him  Colmar 
Van  Mons.  It  appears  under  this  name  in  Van  Mons  Catalogue,  2nd  series,  No.  52,  “  par  M. 
Duquesne.” 

Description. — Fruit :  above  medium  size,  pyramidal,  irregular  and  uneven  on  its  surface. 
Skin  :  thick  dark  green,  changing  to  yellowish  green  as  it  ripens,  but  so  much  covered  with  brown 
russet  that  none  of  the  ground  colour  is  visible,  except  a  little  on  the  shaded  side,  which  is  also 
speckled  with  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  full  of  stamens,  with  short,  erect,  dry,  rigid  segments, 
and  set  in  a  small  round  cavity.  Stalk  :  Three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  on  the  one  side  of 
the  summit  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  with  a  watery  juice. 

This  is  an  excellent  pear  for  culinary  purposes,  and  is  in  season  from  November  to  January. 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  bears  well  as  an  orchard  tree  on  the  pear,  or  a  dwarf  standard 
on  the  quince  stock. 


PLATE  LX. 


4.  WINTER  THORN. 

[Syn  :  Epine  d' Hiver  ;  Epine  Rose  d' Hiver  ;  Epine  ovale. ] 

A  very  old  variety  whose  history  has  been  lost. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  :  smooth,  of  a  fine  green  colour,  becoming 
yellowish  as  it  attains  maturity,  and  irregularly  covered  with  grayish  brown  dots.  Eye  :  small  and 
open,  set  in  an  even  and  considerable  depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  fleshy  at  the  base,  inserted 
without  depression.  Flesh  :  whitish,  firm,  sometimes  gritty,  but  with  a  sweet  and  pleasant  juice ; 
when  grown  on  the  quince  stock,  on  a  dry  soil  and  warm  situation,  it  becomes  tender,  melting  and 
buttery,  with  an  agreeable  musky  flavour. 

An  excellent  stewing  pear,  in  season  from  November  to  January.  It  becomes  edible  in 
favourable  situations,  but  is  not  to  be  depended  upon  as  a  dessert  pear. 

The  tree  is  healthy,  but  not  vigorous  in  growth.  It  succeeds  well  on  either  the  pear  or 
quince  stock,  but  should  be  grown  only  on  the  pear  stock  for  culinary  purposes. 


PLATE  LX. 


5.  BLACK  WORCESTER. 

[Syn  :  Parkinson  s  Warden  ;  Pound  Pear.'\ 

The  pear  tree  is  so  characteristic  of  the  County  of  Worcester,  that  Drayton  in  his  poetical 
marshalling  of  the  troops  of  Henry  V.,  at  the  Battle  of  Agincourt,  thus  describes  the  standard  of  the 
Worcestershire  men  : — 

“  Worcester,  a  pear  tree,  laden  with  its  fruit.” 

An  escutcheon  on  the  Army  of  the  City  of  Worcester,  shows  “  a  fess  between  three  pears 
sable,  on  a  field  argent."  The  story  goes,  that  when  Queen  Elizabeth  visited  the  City  of  Worcester, 
in  August,  1575,  the  City  Authorities  caused  a  pear  tree  of  this  variety,  heavily  laden  with  fruit,  to 
be  taken  from  a  garden,  and  planted  at  the  gate  by  which  her  Majesty  was  to  enter  the  city.  The 
Queen  it  is  said  noticed  the  tree  with  admiration,  and  directed  three  pears  to  be  added  to  the  Arms 
of  the  City.  This  pear,  though  dark  coloured,  is  not  black,  and  it  is  probable,  therefore,  that  it  has 
since  acquired  this  epithet  from  the  sable  of  the  escutcheon.  The  exact  date  when  the  pears  were 
first  emblazoned  on  the  Arms  of  the  City  of  Worcester  is  not  known,  nor  is  there  a  record  of  any 
such  grant  from  Queen  Elizabeth,  in  the  Heralds  Office  :  so  that  it  is  quite  possible  that  they  may 


PLATE  LX. 


have  been  adopted  at  some  earlier  period.  The  synonyms  which  appear  in  the  best  pomological 
works,  are  objected  to  by  local  authorities. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  and  obovate,  four  inches  long  by  three  and  a  half  wide.  Skin  : 
green,  entirely  covered  with  rather  rough  dark  brown  russet,  with  a  dull  red  tinge  next  the  sun. 
Eye  :  small,  set  in  a  wide,  pretty  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  about  an  inch  long,  inserted  without 
depression.  Flesh  :  hard,  crisp,  coarse  grained  and  gritty. 

An  excellent  stewing  pear,  in  season  from  November  to  February  or  March,  or  even  until 
April.  This  pear  forms  the  type  of  the  pears  called  “  Wardens,”  which,  Loudon  erroneously  says, 
are  thus  named  from  their  property  of  keeping  long  ;  whereas  the  fact  is,  they  constituted  the  famous 
Warden  pies  of  the  ancient  Abbey  of  Warden,  in  Bedfordshire.  Its  size  might  well  suggest  its 
selection  for  emblazonry  on  a  shield. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  but  not  vigorous  in  growth.  In  favourable  soils  it  bears  well  as  a 
standard.  It  should  always  be  grafted  on  the  pear  stock,  and  if  trained  to  cover  the  south  side  of 
a  cottage,  when  full  grown,  will  prove  a  small  fortune  to  the  owner,  by  producing  an  abundance  of 
fine  fruit  very  valuable  in  the  market  in  the  early  months  of  the  year,  at  a  time,  when  a  little 
addition  to  the  income  is  most  valuable. 


PLATE  LX I. 


i.  WELFORD  PARK  NONESUCH. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  Mr.  Charles  Ross,  gardener,  at  Welford  Park,  near  Newbury. 
It  was  produced  from  a  pip  of  Golden  Hervey,  which  it  was  supposed  had  been  fertilized  by  Lamb 
Abbey  Pearmain,  since  the  fruit  from  which  the  seed  was  taken,  grew  on  a  tree,  half  Golden  Harvey , 
and  half  Lamb  Abbey  Pearmain.  The  seed  was  sown  in  1864,  and  in  1865  grafts  were  put  on  a 
Blenheim  Pippin  tree,  which  fruited  for  the  first  time  in  1871.  It  was  awarded  a  first-class  certificate 
by  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society,  on  November  7th,  1872. 

Description. — Fruit :  large  and  handsome,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  wide,  and  two  inches 
and  a  half  high  ;  roundish  and  oblate,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  fine  lemon  yellow  on 
the  shaded  side,  and  on  the  side  next  the  sun  it  is  quite  overspread  with  bright  crimson,  mottled 
and  streaked  with  darker  crimson,  the  colour  gradually  becoming  paler  as  it  extends  to  the  shaded 
side.  Eye  :  open,  with  short  rudimentary  segments,  set  in  a  saucer-like  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  or 
more  long,  slender,  and  deeply  inserted  in  a  wide  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  very  tender,  as  much  so  as 
that  of  an  American  Newtown  Pippin  ;  with  an  excellent  flavour  and  fine  aroma. 

A  fine  showy  apple  for  culinary  or  dessert  use,  during  October  and  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well. 


Plate  LX  I 


■  W  .  *  ' 

•  '  i  *  * 

<*'  s#  V  .  W, 

/tfV  A  -■ 


3.  Mabbot's  Pearmam. 


6.  Ru  snook.  Pearmam. 


G  Severeyns ;  ChromolitK .  Br>u= 


8.  Peasgooci  s  Nonesuch 


seli 


Alice  B  Ellis  a  Edith  E. Bull. del. 
for  The  Whooihope  Club 


PLATE  LXI. 


2.  ROUND  WINTER  NONESUCH. 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  leading  pomological  works. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  over  three  inches  wide,  and  two  and  half  high  ;  roundish  and 
very  considerably  flattened,  or  somewhat  oblate  ;  its  outline  is  uneven,  which  is  caused  by  several 
obtuse  and  unequal,  though  not  prominent  ribs  on  the  sides.  Skin  :  thick  and  membranous, 
smooth,  pale  yellow,  slightly  tinged  with  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but  on  the  side  exposed  to  the 
sun,  it  is  marked  with  broken  stripes  and  spots  of  a  beautiful  deep  crimson,  thinly  sprinkled  all  over 
with  a  few  russety  dots.  Eye  :  large  and  closed,  so  prominently  set  and  raised  above  the  surface 
as  to  appear  puffed  up  and  set  on  bosses.  Stalk  :  very  short,  inserted  in  a  round,  funnel-shaped 
cavity,  and  not  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  tender,  sweet,  juicy  and 
pleasantly  flavoured. 

A  culinary  apple  of  a  very  attractive  appearance,  and  of  excellent  quality.  It  keeps  well, 
and  is  in  season  from  November  to  March. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  is  becoming  very  generally 
cultivated  by  the  orchardist  and  market  gardener,  and  deserves  it,  since  its  fruit  is  not  only  good  in 
colour  and  size,  but  its  quality  is  excellent  and  it  keeps  well  through  the  winter. 


PLATE  LXI. 


3.  MABBOTT’S  PEARMAIN. 

The  history  of  this  fruit  could  not  be  obtained. 

Description. — Fruit  :  round,  bluntly  angular.  Skin  :  bright  yellow,  tinged  with  thin  red  on 
the  shaded  side,  and  bright  red  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  is  thickly  strewed 
with  grey  russet  dots,  like  freckles.  Eye  :  closed,  with  broad  connivent  segments,  set  in  a  shallow 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  very  slender,  inserted  in  a  deep  russety  cavity.  Tube  :  funnel-shaped  ; 
stamens  marginal.  Flesh:  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet  and  highly  flavoured.  Cells:  open,  cell 
walls  obovate. 

A  valuable  dessert  apple  in  season  up  to  Christmas. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  but  not  free  in  growth.  It  bears  well. 


PLATE  LXI. 


4.  MOSS’S  INCOMPARABLE. 

Who  the  Mr.  Moss  was,  who  produced  this  fruit,  and  where  he  grew  it,  has  not  been 
ascertained. 

Description. — PTuit  :  medium  sized,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblate,  with  prominent  knobs 
round  the  crown,  where  the  ribs  terminate.  Skin  :  entirely  covered  with  streaks  of  bright  deep 
crimson  on  a  deep  yellow  ground.  Eye  :  small,  and  closed  with  short  erect  segments  set  in  a  deep 
angular  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  very  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  russet-lined  cavity.  Flesh  : 
yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  sweet  and  of  good  flavour. 

A  good  dessert  apple  which  keeps  till  April  or  May. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  vigorously  and  forms  a  handsome  pyramid. 


6.  RUSHOCK  PEARMAIN. 

This  excellent  apple  was  raised  by  Charles  Taylor,  a  blacksmith,  at  Rushock,  in 
Worcestershire,  about  the  year  1821  ;  and  from  him  it  is  sometimes  locally  called  Charles 
Pearmain. 

Description. — Fruit  :  rather  below  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  the  same  in 
height ;  conical,  even  and  handsomely  formed.  Skin  :  of  a  fine  deep  yellow  colour,  almost  entirely 
covered  with  cinnamon  coloured  russet,  with  a  brownish  tinge  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye: 
large  and  open,  with  broad  flat  segments,  which  generally  fall  off  as  the  fruit  ripens.  Stalk  :  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  long,  stout  and  inserted  in  a  pretty  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  crisp 
and  juicy,  with  a  brisk,  subacid,  and  sugary  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  of  high  merit.  It  is  in  season  from  Christmas  to  April. 

The  tree  is  small  but  hardy,  and  bears  well.  It  is  much  grown  for  the  Birmingham  market. 


g  PLATE  LX I. 


An  American  variety,  produced  in  the  State  of  New  York,  at  a  place  called  East  Bloomfield 
(c.  1820). 

Description . — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  two  inches  and 
a  half  high  ;  roundish,  but  narrowing  a  little  towards  the  crown,  and  somewhat  bluntly  angular  on 
the  sides.  Skin  :  smooth,  lemon  yellow  tinged  with  green,  veined  with  a  very  delicate  pale  brown 
russet  on  the  shaded  side  ;  on  the  side  next  the  sun  it  is  a  pale  bright  crimson,  with  patches  and 
veins  of  very  thin,  smooth,  pale  brown  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  half  open,  placed  in  a  narrow  and 
sometimes  slightly  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  very  slender,  straight  and  woody  ; 
inserted  in  an  even  funnel-shaped  and  rather  deep  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  brown  russet.  Flesh : 
yellowish  white,  very  tender  and  crisp,  juicy,  sweet  and  vinous,  with  a  delicate  and  very  agreeable 
perfume. 

A  dessert  apple  of  great  excellence,  in  season  in  December. 

The  trees  blossom  freely,  but  require  a  sheltered  situation  to  bear  well. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  vigorously  and  forms  a  handsome  pyramid. 


PLATE  LXI. 


7.  MERE  DE  MENAGE. 

[Syn  :  Lord  Combermere  ;  Combermere  Apple  ;  Flanders  PippinP\ 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  ordinary  pomological  Works.  Its  French 
name  seems  to  indicate  its  foreign  origin,  and  the  synonyms  lead  to  the  inference  that  Lord 
Combermere  introduced  it,  or  that  his  gardener  did  so  for  him. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  large,  ovate  or  conical,  ribbed  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  red, 
streaked  with  darker  red  all  over,  except  a  little  on  the  shaded  side  where  it  is  yellow.  Eye  :  set 
in  an  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  very  stout,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity,  so  much  so  as  to  be  scarcely 
visible.  Flesh  :  firm,  crisp,  brisk  and  juicy. 

A  beautiful  and  valuable  culinary  apple  of  first  rate  quality,  in  season  from  October  to 
January. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  grows  vigorously,  but  it  does  not  always  bear  freely. 


PLATE  LXI. 


8.  PEASGOOD’S  NONESUCH. 

/ 

This  very  handsome  apple  was  raised  by  Mr.  Peasgood,  of  Stamford,  from  a  pip  sown  in  a 
garden  pot  by  his  wife,  when  a  child.  It  was  first  presented  before  the  Fruit  Committee  of  the 
Royal  Horticultural  Society  on  September  18th,  1878,  when  it  was  awarded  a  first  class  certificate. 
It  also  gained  a  similar  distinction  at  the  Crystal  Palace  Show  in  September,  1874.  A  coloured 
illustration  of  this  variety  appears  in  the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist  ”  for  1876. 

Description. — Fruit  :  like  a  very  large  Nonesuch ,  and  not  unlike  the  Blenheim  Pippin  when 
well  grown.  It  is  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  three  inches  high,  roundish,  somewhat 
oblate,  and  very  handsome.  Skin  :  yellow,  overspread  on  the  sunny  side  with  red,  and  copiously 
streaked  with  bright,  darker  crimson  streaks.  Eye  :  very  large  and  open,  set  in  a  deep,  round  and 
even  basin,  and  with  a  short,  stunted  calyx.  Stalk  :  short,  deeply  inserted.  Flesh  :  yellowish, 
tender,  very  juicy,  with  an  agreeable  acid  flavour. 

A  very  handsome  highly  coloured  apple,  whose  beauty  gives  it  a  place  on  the  dessert  table, 
though  its  best  virtues  are  culinary. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  but  is  said  not  to  bear  well,  until  it  has  attained  its  full  growth. 


CJ 


\ 


Plate  LXII 


G  Severeyns,  Chromolith.  Brussels  . 


Edith  E. Bull. del 

for  The  Whoollrope  Club. 


PLATE  LXIL 


I.  BEURR6  precoce. 

This  pear  was  raised  by  M.  Goubault,  a  nurseryman  at  Mille-Pieds,  Route  de  Saumur, 
Angers  (c.  1840). 

Description. — Fruit:  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  three  inches  high; 
obovate,  blunt  at  the  stalk,  even  and  regularly  shaped.  Skin  :  green,  becoming  yellowish  green  as 
it  ripens,  strewed  with  large  russet  specks,  and  tinged  with  reddish  brown  next  the  sun  ;  a  broad 
zone  of  rather  rough  russet  encircles  the  fruit  about  an  inch  distant  from  the  eye.  Eye  :  rather 
open,  with  short  segments,  set  in  a  round  saucer-like  basin.  Stalk  :  nearly  two  inches  long,  slender, 
set  in  a  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  crisp,  very  juicy,  brisk,  and  refreshing,  sometimes  with  a  slight 
astringency. 

A  good  early  pear,  ripe  about  the  middle  of  August. 

The  tree  is  an  early  and  abundant  bearer,  and  forms  a  handsome  pyramid  on  the  pear  stock. 


PLATE  LXII. 


2.  SUMMER  FRANC  REAL. 

[Syn  :  Franc  Real  F Iite ;  Beurre  d'Ete  ;  Bergamotte  cl Ete  ;  Bergamotte  de  la  Benvrier  ; 
Fin  oi' d'  Ete  ;  Gros  Micet  d' Fte;  Coule  Soif ;  Great  Mouthwater ;  Grosse  Mouille  Bonche;  Hdtiveau 
Blanc  ;  Milan  Blanc  ;  Milan  de  la  Beuvriere ;  Roy  ale;  Fondante ,  or  Frame  Caneel  Pear  of  Knoop.] 

The  history  of  this  pear  is  lost.  It  was  at  one  time  much  grown  in  this  country,  but  is  now 
rarely  met  with.  Miller,  Forsyth,  and  Lindley,  are  all  wrong  in  making  the  Summer  Bergamot  of 
English  gardens  synonymous  with  this.  The  name  “ Franc  Reald  Mayer  thinks,  means 
Royal  Pear  ;  but  Diel  derives  the  name  from  the  Spanish  gold  coin  “  real,”  which  the  pear  resembles 
somewhat  in  colour. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  about  the  same  in 
height,  and  turbinate.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale,  yellowish  green,  strewed  with  numerous  brown  and 
green  dots,  and  tinged  with  brownish  red  next  the  sun.  Eye :  small  and  open,  set  in  a  small 
undulating  basin.  Stalk  :  short  and  thick,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white, 
fine  grained,  buttery  and  melting,  rich  and  sugary. 

An  excellent  early  pear,  ripe  in  September.  It  is  very  useful  in  filling  up  the  vacancy  of 
supply  in  the  interval  between  the  ripening  of  the  Jargonelle ,  and  that  of  the  other  early  autumn 
varieties. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  free  growing,  and  healthy.  It  bears  well,  and  succeeds  best  as  a  standard 
on  the  pear  stock.  A  single  tree  will  afford  a  sufficient  supply  in  most  cases,  during  the  very  short 
time  the  fruit  remains  in  perfection. 


PLATE  LXIL 


[Syn  :  Peche .] 

One  of  the  pears  raised  by  Major  Esperen,  of  Malines,  in  1845.  A  coloured  figure  of  it  is 
given  in  the  Florist  and  Pomologist ,  1867. 

Description. — Fruit:  medium  size  or  larger,  roundish  or  irregularly  oval.  Skin  :  smooth, 
greenish  yellow  with  a  blush  of  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  covered  with  patches  and  dots  of 
russet.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  shallow,  bossed  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  or  more  long,  not  depressed. 
Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  fine-grained  and  very  melting,  very  juicy,  sweet,  vinous,  and  with  a 
delicious  perfume. 

An  excellent  early  pear,  in  season  from  the  middle  to  the  end  of  August. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  bears  freely.  It  makes  a  good  pyramid,  and  is  best  grown  in  this  way. 


PLATE  LX  1 1. 


4.  WHITE  DOYENNE. 

[Syn  :  Doyenne  Blanc  ;  Beurre  Blanc  ;  Doyenne  Picte  ;  Citron  de  Septembre  ;  Bonne  Ente  ; 
Neige ;  St.  Michel;  Seigneur;  Deans;  Pine;  Snow ;  Warwick  Bergamot ;  White  Beurre ;  White 
Autumn  Beurrel\ 

The  history  of  this  well  known  pear  seems  lost.  It  is  a  very  old  variety,  very  widely  grown 
and  very  generally  esteemed,  as  the  number  of  its  synonyms  indicates.  It  is  a  very  favorite  pear 
in  France  and  Germany.  It  is  figured  by  Lindley  in  the  P ontological  Magazine ,  PI.  60. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  obovate,  handsome  and  regularly  formed.  Skin  : 
smooth  and  shining,  pale  bright  green  at  first,  and  changing  as  it  attains  maturity  to  pale  yellow, 
and  when  well  exposed  it  has  sometimes  a  fine  red  colour  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  very  small 
and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  and  slightly  plaited  basin.  'Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout, 
fleshy,  and  set  in  a  small  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  buttery  and  melting  ;  and  of  a  rich,  sugary, 
delicately  perfumed,  and  somewhat  vinous  flavour. 

An  excellent  autumn  dessert  pear,  ripe  in  September  and  October.  It  is  a  very  handsome 
fruit,  but  it  must  be  eaten  at  the  time  it  is  ripe,  since  it  quickly  becomes  mealy.  When  in  perfection 
it  yields  to  none  in  excellence. 

The  tree  is  healthy,  vigorous,  and  an  abundant  bearer.  It  succeeds  well  as  a  standard  either 
on  the  pear,  or  quince  stock.  The  fruit  is  best  flavoured  from  a  standard  tree,  but  if  grown  on  the 
quince  stock  against  a  wall,  or  on  an  espalier,  it  grows  to  a  larger  size,  and  is  often  beautifully 
coloured. 


PLATE  LXII. 


5.  RED  DOYENNE. 

[Syn:  Doyenne  Rouge;  Doyenne  Roux  ;  Doyenne  Gris;  Doyennd  Jaime;  Doyenne  d 5  Automne  ; 
Doyennd  Crottd ;  Doyennd  Galleux ;  Neige  Grise ;  St.  Michel  Done;  St.  Michel  Gris;  Grey 
DoyenndJ 

This  variety  is  thought  to  have  first  emanated  from  the  garden  of  the  Chartreux  at  Paris, 
about  the  middle  of  the  last  century  (c.  1750).  Some  suppose,  however,  that  it  has  been  for  some 
two  centuries  in  England.  Mr.  R.  A.  Salisbury  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural 
Society  (Vol.  1,  p.  230),  mentions  a  tree  taken  down  at  Shawhill,  near  Halifax,  in  1779,  with  eighty 
annual  rings  of  wood.  He  thinks  this  pear  is  mentioned  by  Worlidge  in  1676.  A  coloured  figure 
is  given  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  (Vol.  I.,  Plate  xiii.,  and  also  in 
Vol.  V.,  Plate  ii.,  figure  1.)  It  is  also  figured  by  Lindley  in  the  Pomological  Magazine ,  Plate  lxxiv. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  obovate,  very  much  resembling  in  shape  the  White 
Doyennd.  Skin  :  yellowish  green,  but  entirely  covered  with  thin  cinnamon-coloured  russet,  so  that 
none  of  the  ground  colour  is  visible,  and  sometimes  it  has  a  tinge  of  brownish  red  next  the  sun. 
Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  curved 
and  inserted  in  a  narrow  rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  melting  and  buttery,  of  a 
refreshing,  rich,  and  delicious  flavour. 

An  excellent  dessert  pear,  in  season  in  October  and  November.  It  keeps  much  better  than 
the  White  Doyenndi  which  it  succeeds  on  the  dessert  table. 

The  tree  is  not  a  very  strong  grower,  but  it  is  healthy,  and  bears  well,  either  on  the  pear  or 
quince  stock,  even  in  unfavourable  seasons.  The  fruit  is  larger  from  a  wall,  but  better  in  flavour 
from  a  standard.  It  should  be  gathered  before  it  is  ripe,  when  it  keeps  much  longer.  This  variety, 
from  its  great  fertility,  makes  an  excellent  cottage  garden  pear. 


PLATE  LXII 


6.  BEURRE  STERCKMANS. 

[Syn  :  Calabasse  Sterckmans  ;  Doyennd  Esterkman  ;  Belle  Alliance .] 

This  variety  was  raised  at  Louvain  by  M.  Sterckmans,  and  was  first  brought  into  notice  by 
Dr.  Van  Mons  (c.  1830). 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  two  inches  and 
a  half  high,  turbinate,  handsome  and  even  in  outline.  Skin  :  smooth,  of  a  fine  bright  grass  green 
colour  on  the  shaded  side,  and  dull  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  marked  with  traces  of  russet. 
Eye  :  open,  with  short,  erect,  rigid  segments,  set  in  a  wide  and  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  small  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  with  a  greenish  tinge,  very  melting, 
buttery  and  juicy,  rich,  sugary  and  vinous,  with  a  fine  aroma. 

A  dessert  pear  of  great  excellence,  in  season  during  January  and  February. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  abundantly.  It  succeeds  admirably  on  the  quince  stock,  and 
forms  a  handsome  pyramid. 


/ 


2.  Early  Jnlien 


1.  Coe's  Golden  Drop 


Harvest 


Gladstone 


Alice  B.  Ellis  &  Edith  E. Bull. del 
for  The  Who ol hope  Club. 


G  Severeyns,  Chromolitb..  Brussels 


Plate  LXI1I. 


PLATE  LXIII. 


i.  COE’S  GOLDEN  DROP. 

It  has  been  said  that  this  variety  is  a  very  old  apple,  which  has  existed  for  very  many  years 
in  some  Essex  orchards.  It  was  introduced  to  notice  by  one  Gervase  Coe,  a  market  gardener,  at 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  towards  the  close  of  the  last  century  (c.  1790).  Mr.  Coe  was  the  man  who 
raised  the  Golden  Drop  Plum ,  and  he  is  said  to  have  propagated  this  apple  as  a  seedling  of  his  own, 
and  given  it  the  corresponding  name. 

Description. — Fruit  :  small  and  conical ;  even  and  regular  in  shape.  Skin  :  yellow  with  a 
few  crimson  spots  next  the  sun,  and  marked  with  small  patches  of  thin  delicate  russet.  Eye  :  small 
and  open,  even  with  the  surface,  and  surrounded  with  a  few  shallow  plaits.  Stalk  :  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  and  shallow  depression,  which,  together  with  the  base,  is  entirely 
covered  with  russet.  Flesh  :  greenish  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  and  very  juicy,  brisk,  sweet,  and  vinous. 

A  delicious  little  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  November  to  May. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  a  free  and  upright  grower,  and  bears  well.  It  does  well  on  the  paradise 
stock,  for  dwarf  and  espalier  trees,  but  for  market  purposes,  should  be  grown  as  an  orchard  tree  on 
the  crab  stock. 


PLATE  LXIII. 


2.  EARLY  JULIAN. 

[Syn  :  Tom  Montgomery .] 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  lost.  It  is  supposed  to  be  a  Scotch  apple. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  high  ;  roundish,  slightly  flattened,  and  prominently  ribbed  from  the  eye  downwards  to  the 
base.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  yellow,  with  an  orange  tint  next  the  sun,  strewed  all  over  with  minute 
dots  and  a  few  whitish  specks.  Eye  :  closed,  with  broad  segments,  and  set  in  a  deep,  irregular  and 
angular  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  not  extending  beyond  the  base,  and  inserted  in  a  deep  and  angular 
cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  crisp,  very  juicy,  and  with  a  brisk,  pleasant,  and  balsamic  flavour. 

An  excellent  early  culinary  apple  of  first  rate  quality,  ripe  the  second  week  in  August. 
It  might  be  called  the  Slimmer  Hawthorden ,  since  it  equals  that  esteemed  old  variety  in  all 
its  good  properties.  Mr.  Lewis  A.  Killick  says,  “  If  limited  to  one  tree  I  should  select  Early  Julian. 
You  may  begin  to  use  them  when  they  are  the  size  of  walnuts,  and  having  been  twice  over  the 
trees  for  culinary  purposes,  you  can  leave  some  good  yellow  fruit,  with  a  brisk  pleasant  flavour,  for 
dessert.” 

The  tree  is  healthy  and  hardy,  but  does  not  grow  strongly.  It  is  a  good  bearer,  and  well 
adapted  for  growing  in  small  gardens  as  a  bush  tree.  Asa  standard,  its  tendency  to  bear  very  heavy 
crops  is  against  it. 


PLATE  LXIII. 


3.  FORGE. 

'Phis  apple  is  said  to  have  originated  near  one  of  the  old  forges  in  the  iron  districts  of  Sussex, 
near  Crawley,  and  thus  to  have  acquired  its  name. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  roundish  and  obscurely  ribbed.  Skin  :  of  a  golden 
yellow  colour,  mottled  with  crimson  on  the  shaded  side,  and  dark  red,  covered  with  crimson  streaks, 
on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed.  Stalk  :  very  short.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white, 
tender,  juicy,  sweet  and  finely  perfumed. 

This  is  the  favourite  cottager’s  apple  in  Sussex,  especially  in-  the  parts  adjoining  the  counties 
of  Surrey  and  Kent.  It  is  a  useful  apple  for  all  purposes. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  noted  for  being  very  prolific  ;  indeed  it  is  a  great  and  constant 


bearer. 


PL  ATE  LX  1 1 1. 


4.  EARLY  HARVEST. 

[Syn  :  Yellow  Harvest ;  Prince  s  Harvest  ;  Prince  s  Early  Harvest  ;  Prince  s  Yellow 
Harvest;  Large  White  J uneating ;  July  Pippin  ;  July  Early  Pippin  ;  Tart  Bough  ;  Early  French 
Reinette  ;  Pomme  d  ’  Etc  of  Canada. ] 

An  American  apple,  dating  probably  from  the  commencement  of  the  present  century.  It 
is  found  to  succeed  perfectly  in  this  climate. 

Description. — Fruit:  round,  of  medium  size,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  two 
inches  and  a  quarter  high.  Skin  :  smooth  and  shining,  pale  yellowish  green  at  first,  but  changing  to 
clear,  pale,  waxen  yellow,  as  it  ripens,  with  a  faint  blush  of  red  next  the  sun,  with  embedded 
whitq  specks,  particularly  round  the  eye.  Eye  :  small  and  slightly  closed,  set  in  a  round  and  shallow 
basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  rather  shallow,  somewhat  rusetty,  cavity.  Flesh  : 
white,  tender,  crisp  and  juicy,  with  a  sprightly  and  pleasant  subacid  flavour. 

An  excellent  and  refreshing  early  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality.  It  ripens  at  the  end  of 
July  or  the  beginning  of  August.  Its  clear  yellow  colour  makes  it  contrast  well  with  the  red  colour 
of  most  early  apples.  It  must  be  eaten  soon  after  gathering  to  have  it  in  perfection. 

The  tree  is  healthy,  a  free,  but  not  a  vigorous  grower.  It  is  not  liable  to  canker,  and  bears 
abundantly.  It  is  well  adapted  for  dwarf  or  espalier  training,  when  grown  on  the  paradise  stock, 
and  should  have  a  place  in  every  garden.  It  also  succeeds  well  as  a  standard  on  the  crab  stock, 
which  is  the  most  profitable  form  of  growing  it  for  market  purposes. 


PLATE  LX  1 1 1. 


5.  MR.  GLADSTONE. 

[Syn  :  Scarlet  Pippin  ;  Jackson  s  Seedling .] 

This  variety  is  said  to  have  been  a  chance  Worcestershire  Seedling.  It  was  introduced  to 
the  public  in  1868  by  Mr.  Jackson,  of  Blakedown  Nursery,  near  Kidderminster.  The  original  tree, 
which  grows  near  there,  is  said  to  be  about  a  hundred  years  old  (1782)  at  this  time,  and  in  full 
luxuriance. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  round,  inclining  to  be  conical,  and  somewhat  angular 
towards  the  eye.  Skin  :  mottled,  red  and  yellow,  but  often  altogether  of  a  bright  red  colour,  with 
a  bloom  like  a  plum,  or  the  Red  Astrachan  apple,  which  it  rivals.  Eye  :  partially  closed,  with  erect 
connivent  segments,  in  a  rather  shallow  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  one  inch  long,  rather  slender,  and 
inserted  in  a  moderately  deep  cavity.  When  ripe  the  aroma  is  so  powerful,  that  it  can  be  detected 
at  a  considerable  distance.  It  has  a  pleasant,  rich,  and  vinous  flavour. 

This  is  the  largest  early  summer  apple  known.  It  becomes  ripe  the  third  week  in  July, 
when  its  brilliant  colour,  and  its  excellent  flavour,  make  it  a  very  popular  variety  in  the  market. 
This  fruit  received  a  first-class  certificate  from  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society,  August,  1883. 

The  tree  is  hardy  but  rather  weak  in  growth,  and  is  very  prolific.  It  is  best  grown  as  a 
standard,  but  makes  a  good  bush,  which  will  bear  so  freely  as  to  afford  a  sufficient  crop  for  private 
use.  It  makes  an  excellent  pyramid  on  the  paradise  stock,  and  is  quite  at  home  on  the  crab. 


PLATE  LX IV. 


i.  VINEUSE. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  Major  Esperen,  of  Malines,  in  1840. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  obovate.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  straw  colour,  with  slight 
markings  of  very  thin  brown  russet,  interspersed  with  minute  green  dots.  Eye  :  open,  frequently 
abortive,  set  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stalk  :  short  and  fleshy,  inserted  in  a  deep,  narrow  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  exceedingly  tender,  melting,  and  very  juicy,  of  a  honied  sweetness  and  fine 
delicate  perfume. 

A  delicious  and  richly  flavoured  pear  ;  ripe  in  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  October. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  freely.  It  makes  an  excellent  pyramid  on  the  quince.  The 
merit  of  its  fruit  will  soon  cause  this  pear  to  be  very  widely  grown. 


Plate  LXIV 


5.  Fondante  de  Malmes. 


2.  Autocrat.  • 


1 .  Vmeuse. 


4.  Princess  (River5 


C  Severeyns,  Chromohth  .Brussels 


Alice  B  Ellis  6  Edith  E  Bull  del 
for  The  Whoolhope  Club 


PLATE  LXI V. 


2.  AUTOCRAT. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Mr.  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth  (c.  1875),  from  Beurri  Capiaumont, 
but  it  is  as  distinct  from  its  parent  in  the  character  of  its  fruit,  as  it  is  also  in  the  growth  of  the  tree. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  by  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
broad,  pyriform,  tapering  towards  the  stalk.  .  Skin  :  yellow,  covered  with  patches  of  light  russet, 
taking  a  warm  reddish  brown  tint  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  with  connivent  segments 
on  a  level  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  stout,  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  slightly  on 
one  side,  without  depression.  Flesh  :  of  a  yellow  tint,  tender,  melting,  sweet,  very  juicy.  It  has  a 
delicate  flavour  of  rose  water. 

v 

A  very  fine  pear,  in  season  during  the  month  of  October. 

The  tree  is  compact  in  growth,  and  the  wood  remarkably  short  jointed.  It  forms  a  natural 
pyramid,  and  is  best  adapted  for  this  mode  of  growth. 


PLATE  LXIV. 


3.  FERTILITY. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Mr.  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth,  from  a  pip  of  Betirrd  Goubault  (c.  1875). 

Description. — Fruit :  even  and  regular  in  shape,  obovate  and  terminating  abruptly  towards 
the  eye,  near  which  it  has  a  suddenly  contracted  waist.  Skin  :  entirely  covered  with  a  bright 
cinnamon  coat  of  russet,  which  has  an  orange  tinge  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye :  open, 
with  short  incurved  segments,  and  set  even  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
stout,  and  inserted  obliquely  to  the  axis  of  the  fruit  without  depression.  Flesh  :  half  melting,  or 
crackling,  very  juicy,  sweet,  and  with  a  rich  and  highly  perfumed  flavour  similar  to  that  of  Williams' 
Bon  Chretien ,  much  subdued. 

A  handsome,  beautiful,  and  very  excellent  pear.  It  is  in  season  in  September  and  October. 

The  tree  is  very  productive  as  its  name  implies.  It  has  great  power  to  resist  frost,  thus  it 
bears  regularly,  and  sometimes  seems  to  carry  more  fruit  than  leaves.  An  excellent  market  variety 
for  the  great  abundance  of  fruit  it  produces. 


PLATE  LXIV 


4.  THE  PRINCESS. 

This  pear  was  raised  by  Mr.  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgeworth  (c.  1875),  and  was  a  seedling  from 
Louise  Bonne  of  Jersey. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  and  handsome,  four  inches  long  by  three  inches  broad,  pyriform, 
regularly  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  smooth,  greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  but  taking 
often  a  bright  red  colour  next  the  sun,  and  more  or  less  covered  with  thin  russet.  Eye  :  open,  with 
erect  short  segments,  almost  on  a  level  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  strong,  and  fleshy,  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  long,  inserted  obliquely  on  one  side,  sometimes  almost  at  right  angles  with  the  axis  of  the 
fruit.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender  and  melting,  with  a  rich  vinous  and  sugary  flavour,  thought 
sometimes  to  represent  that  of  its  parent  Louise  Bonne  of  fersey ,  but  it  has  often  a  perfume  like 
vanilla. 

A  large  and  excellent  pear,  in  season  from  the  end  of  November  to  Christmas  time,  perhaps 
the  most  desirable  of  all  periods,  for  dessert  fruit. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  very  compact  in  growth,  and  bears  abundantly.  It  grows  equally  well  on 
the  pear,  or  the  quince  stock ;  but  is  better  adapted  for  a  pyramid,  an  espalier,  or  a  wall,  than  for 
an  orchard. 


PLATE  LX IV. 


5.  FONDANTE  DE  MALINES. 

This  variety  was  raised  by  Major  Esperen,  at  Malines,  and  first  fruited  in  1842. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  even  and  handsomely  shaped  ;  obtusely  obovate,  blunt  at  the 
stalk.  Skin  :  smooth,  of  a  uniform,  deep,  golden  yellow  colour,  mottled  all  over  with  cinnamon 
coloured  russet  ;  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  it  is  of  a  deeper  yellow,  and  spotted  with  crimson  dots. 
Eye  :  clove-like,  set  in  a  pretty  deep  depression.  Stalk  :  about  an  inch  long,  fleshy  at  the  base,  and 
inserted  in  a  narrow  round  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  buttery  and  melting,  juicy,  sweet,  and  with  a  fine 
perfume. 

A  good  dessert  pear  ;  ripe  in  November,  and  continuing  till  December.  It  must,  however, 
be  watched  with  care,  for  it  is  apt  to  decay  treacherously  in  the  centre. 

1  he  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  vigorous  in  growth.  It  bears  abundantly  as  a  pyramid,  or  bush, 
when  grafted  on  the  quince  stock. 


' 


Plate  LXV. 


8  .  Remette  de.  Canada; 


G.  Severeyns,  Chromolith. .  Brussels  . 


Alice  B  Ellis-  cel 

for  The  Woolhope  Club 


PLATE  LXV. 


i.  SCARLET  CROFTON. 

[Syn  :  Saul  Applel\ 

An  apple  of  Irish  origin,  but  without  any  known  history.  It  is  a  very  old  variety. 

Description.  —  Fruit:  medium  sized;  oblate,  slightly  angular  on  the  sides.  Skin:  covered 
with  yellow  russet,  except  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  where  it  is  bright  red  with  a  mixture  of  russet. 
Eye  :  set  in  a  wide  and  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  moderately  deep  cavity.  Flesh  : 
firm,  crisp,  juicy,  sugary  and  richly  flavoured. 

A  delicious  dessert  apple  of  first-rate  quality.  It  is  in  season  from  October  to  December,  or 
even  in  January,  and  does  not  become  mealy. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  freely.  It  makes  a  good  orchard  tree,  and  its  fruit  sells  well  in 
the  market.  It  forms  a  flat-headed  tree,  with  long  slender  and  pendulous  shoots,  at  the  extremities 
of  which  the  fruit  is  chiefly  produced. 


PLATE  LXV. 


2.  REINETTE  BAUMANN. 

This  was  raised  by  Messrs.  Aug.  and  Nap.  Baumann,  of  Bolwyller,  in  Alsace. 

Description. — Fruit  :  of  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  with  blunt  angles  at  the  sides,  which 
extend  to  the  apex,  and  form  ridges  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  smooth  bright  yellow,  tinged  with  bright 
red,  on  the  shaded  side,  with  a  brilliant  red  cheek  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  the  whole  surface  being 
strewed  with  embedded  pearly  specks.  There  is  a  patch  of  russet  radiating  over  the  base,  from  the 
stalk  cavity.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  erect,  pointed  segments,  set  in  a  narrow,  rather  deep,  and 
ribbed  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  : 
white,  crisp,  juicy,  and  with  a  pleasant  aroma. 

A  good,  but  not  high  classed  dessert  apple,  which  holds  its  place  chiefly  by  its  great  beauty. 
It  is  in  season  from  December,  to  February  or  March. 

The  tree  grows  freely  as  a  bush,  or  standard  on  the  crab,  and  usually  bears  well. 


PLATE  LXV. 


3.  LORD  BURGHLEY. 

This  apple  was  raised  as  a  seedling  in  the  gardens  of  the  Marquis  of  Exeter,  at  Burghley 
Park,  near  Stamford.  It  first  bore  fruit  about  the  year  1834,  and  was  introduced  to  general  notice 
by  Mr.  Matheson,  the  gardener,  in  1865.  The  original  tree  is  still  in  existence. 

Description. —  Fruit:  medium  sized,  roundish  and  slightly  flattened,  ribbed  at  the  apex  and 
angular  on  the  sides.  Skin  :  deep  golden  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  and  deep  clear  crimson  on  the 
side  next  the  sun  ;  dotted  all  over  with  russet  specks.  Eye  :  rather  closed.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  to 
three  quarters  long,  frequently  a  mere  knob.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  very  tender  and  juicy,  sweet  and 
with  a  fine  flavour. 

An  excellent  winter  dessert  apple,  in  season  from  Christmas  until  May.  Its  fine  colour 
renders  it  attractive  on  the  dessert  table. 

The  tree  grows  as  a  bush,  but  as  it  is  a  very  shy  bearer,  it  requires  a  sheltered  position  ; 
otherwise  it  will  lose  the  favour  its  merits  as  a  dessert  fruit  should  ensure  for  it. 


PLATE  LXV. 


4.  ISLE  OF  WIGHT  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Isle  of  Wight  Orange  ;  Orange  Pippin;  P online  d Orange  ;  Engelse  Oranje  Appel .] 

This  is  a  very  old  variety,  and  no  doubt  the  Orange  Apple  of  Ray  and  Worlidge.  It  is 
supposed  by  some  to  have  been  introduced  from  Normandy  to  the  Isle  of  Wight,  where  it  was  first 
planted  in  the  garden  at  Wrexall  Cottage,  near  the  Undercliff,  and  it  was  growing  there  in  1817. 
There  are  several  other  varieties  of  apples  known  by  the  name  of  “  Orange  ”  and  “  Orange  Pippin 
but  they  are  all  inferior  to  this. 

Description. — Fruit:  small,  two  inches  wide,  by  an  inch  and  a  half  deep ;  globular.  Eye: 
slightly  sunk,  with  broad,  acute  segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  :  very  short.  Skin  :  yellowish,  golden 
grey,  with  a  russety  epidermis,  highly  coloured  with  orange  and  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  :  firm  and 
juicy,  with  a  rich  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  of  first-rate  quality,  in  season  from  September  to  January.  “  It  is  also 
valuable,”  says  Mr.  Knight,  “  as  a  cider  apple,  and  its  juice  has  the  high  specific  gravity  of  1074.” 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  healthy,  but  does  not  attain  a  large  size.  It  succeeds  well  on  the 
paradise  stock,  and  is  best  grown  as  an  open  dwarf,  or  espalier.  It  bears  well  under  all  circumstances. 


PLATE  LXV. 


5.  SEIGENDE  REINETTE. 

The  history  of  this  Apple  is  not  given  by  any  of  the  pomological  authorities.  It  was  sent 
to  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society  about  i860  by  Superintendent  Oberdieck,  of  Hanover. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  roundish,  pearmain-shaped.  Skin  :  rich  yellow,  tinged 
and  streaked  with  red  next  the  sun,  and  a  patch  of  russet  round  the  stalk.  Eye  :  fair  sized,  closed, 
the  segments  of  the  calyx  reflexed,  set  in  a  shallow  and  somewhat  irregular  basin.  Stalk  :  about 
half  an  inch  long,  slender,  pretty  deeply  inserted.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  juicy  and  sweet.  In 
many  respects  this  apple  comes  near  the  King  of  the  Pippins ,  but  is,  however,  quite  distinct,  and 
of  a  superior  quality. 

A  good  dessert  apple,  in  season  from  October  to  January. 

The  tree  is  healthy  and  strong  and  a  great  bearer. 


PLATE  LXV. 


6.  REINETTE  VAN  MONS. 

The  name  of  this  variety  implies  its  producer,  and  its  foreign  origin,  but  the  details  of  its 
history  are  wanting. 

Description. — Fruit :  rather  below  medium  size,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  two  and  a 
quarter  high  ;  flattened  and  almost  oblate,  having  five  rather  obscure  ribs,  which  terminate  in  distinct 
ridges  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  but  with  a  dull,  brownish  orange  tinge 
next  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  has  a  thin  coating  of  brown  russet.  Eye  :  closed,  set  in  a  rather 
deep  depression.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender,  crisp,  juicy,  sugary,  and 
aromatic. 

A  dessert  apple  of  first-rate  quality,  in  season  from  December  to  May. 

The  tree  does  not  grow  robustly,  but  it  is  hardy,  and  bears  well. 


PLATE  LXV. 


7.  REINETTE  GRISE. 

A  fine  old  French  variety,  whose  history  is  lost. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  three  inches  broad,  and  two  and  a  half  inches  high  ; 
roundish,  flattened  on  both  sides,  rather  broadest  at  the  base,  and  generally  with  five  obscure  angles 
on  the  sides.  Skin  :  dull,  yellowish  green  in  the  shade,  and  with  a  patch  of  thin,  dull,  brownish  red 
on  the  side  next  the  sun;  which  is  so  entirely  covered  with  brown  russet  that  little  colour  is  visible ; 
the  shaded  side  is  marked  with  large  linear  patches  of  rough  brown  russet.  Eye  :  closed,  with  broad 
flat  segments,  and  set  in  a  deep  and  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  very  short,  imbedded  in  a  deep 
and  angular  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  rich  and  sugary,  with  a  brisk  and  excellent 
flavour. 

A  very  fine  dessert  apple  of  the  best  quality  ;  “  amongst  the  very  best  of  the  French  apples.” 
It  is  in  season  from  November  to  May. 

The  tree  is  healthy  and  grows  vigorously.  It  bears  very  well. 


PLATE  LXV. 


8.  REINETTE  DE  CANADA. 

[Syn  :  Canada  Reinette ;  Portugal ;  St.  Helena  Russet.  ] 

There  is  no  further  history  of  this  variety  than  such  as  may  be  assumed  from  its  name  and 
synonyms.  It  is  much  better  known  on  the  Continent  than  in  England.  It  is  figured  by  Lindley, 
Plate  77,  who  suggests  the  possibility  of  its  having  been  the  parent  of  the  Ribston  Pippin. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  three  inches  deep ;  oblato- 
conical,  with  prominent  ribs,  originating  at  the  eye,  and  diminishing  as  they  extend  downwards 
towards  the  stalk.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  brown  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  covered 
with  numerous,  brown,  russety  dots,  and  reticulations  of  russet.  Eye  :  large,  partially  closed,  with 
short  segments,  and  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  about  an  inch  long,  slender, 
inserted  in  a  deep,  wide,  and  generally  smooth  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy,  briskly, 
and  highly  flavoured. 

An  apple  of  excellent  quality,  either  for  culinary  or  dessert  use.  It  is  in  season  from 
November  to  April. 

The  tree  is  strong  and  vigorous.  It  attains  a  large  size,  and  is  also  an  excellent  bearer.  The 
finest  fruit,  however,  as  is  often  the  case,  is  produced  from  dwarf  trees. 


PLATE  LXV. 


9.  SELWOOD’S  REINETTE. 

This  variety  is  a  different  apple  from  the  Selwood s  Reinette  of  the  Horticultural  Society’s 
Catalogue,  which  is  described  as  being  small,  pearmain-shaped,  greenish  yellow,  and  moreover 
a  dessert  apple.  It  is,  however,  identical  with  Selwood s  Reinette  of  Rogers,  who,  as  we  are 
informed  in  his  “  Fruit  Cultivator”  secured  it  upwards  of  eighty  years  ago,  from  Messrs.  Hewitt 
and  Co.,  of  Brompton.  It  is  therefore  probably  above  a  century  old. 

Description. —  Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  wide,  and  about  two  inches  and  a  half  high  ;  round 
and  flattened,  angular  on  the  sides,  and  with  five  prominent  plaits  round  the  eye.  Eye  :  small, 
open,  and  not  at  all  depressed,  but  rather  elevated  on  the  surface.  Skin  :  pale  green,  almost  entirely 
covered  with  red,  which  is  marked  with  broken  stripes  of  darker  red,  those  on  the  shaded  side 
being  paler,  and  not  so  numerous,  as  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  Stalk  :  about  half  an  inch 
long,  very  stout,  and  inserted  the  whole  of  its  length  in  a  russety  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white, 
tender,  brisk,  and  pleasantly  flavoured. 

A  culinary  apple  of  good  but  not  first-rate  quality.  It  keeps  well,  being  in  season  from 
December  to  March. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  and  healthy  grower,  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  LXVI. 


i.  LOUISE  D'ORLIiANS. 

* 

This  variety  was  first  received  in  England  by  Dr.  Hogg,  in  1847,  when  it  was  sent  by 
M.  Papeleu,  of  Wetteren.  It  is  made  synonymous  with  Urbaniste  on  the  Continent,  because  this 
pear  has  also  been  called  Louise  d'  Orleans,  but  it  is  a  perfectly  distinct  fruit. 

Description. — Fruit :  rather  large,  long  obovate,  inclining  to  pyriform,  even  in  its  outline, 
terminating  at  the  apex  with  an  abrupt  concave  curve,  which  gives  it  the  appearance  of  a  snout. 
Skin  :  smooth,  greenish  yellow,  almost  entirely  covered  with  large  mottles  of  grey  russet.  Eye  : 
small  and  open,  set  on  one  side  of  the  axis,  and  generally  on  the  end  opposite  to  that  on  which  the 
stalk  is  inclined.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout,  and  inserted  in  a  small  round  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender,  buttery,  melting  and  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  brisk  flavour,  and  a  fine  rose  water 
perfume. 

A  good  pear  if  taken  at  the  right  time,  towards  the  end  of  October,  but  it  requires  watching, 
for  it  rots  quickly  at  the  core. 

The  tree  is  hardy.  It  makes  a  good  pyramid  on  the  quince  stock  and  bears  very  freely. 


Plate  LX VI 


. 

. •  V  .  ■*'-»  t  .  •' .  Jif  tO.v. 


■  V 

•  ■  1  ‘  ' 


G-.-Severeyns,  Chromolith .  Brussels  . 


Alice  B. Ellis  &  Edith  E. Bull. del 

for  The  Whoolhope  Club. 


- 


. 


.  ' 


PLATE  LX VI 


[Syn  :  Belle  et  Bonne  d' Ezde ;  Bonne  de  Zdes ;  Bonne  de  Hales ;  Brockworth  Park ; 
Belle  Excellente  ;  Charles  FrdddricC\ 

This  pear  was  discovered  as  a  wilding  at  Ezee,  near  Louches,  in  the  Touraine  in  1788,  and 
was  first  brought  into  notice  by  M.  Dupuy,  a  nurseryman,  at  Louches.  It  was  re-discovered  in 
1838  at  Ezee,  by  M.  Dupuy  Jamain,  a  Parisian  nurseryman.  It  was  again  brought  into  notice  for 
the  third  time  by  Mr.  Wheeler,  of  Gloucester,  who  found  it  growing  against  a  wall  at  Brockworth 
Park,  near  Gloucester,  without  any  name.  He  supposed  it  to  be  a  seedling,  and  obtained  for  it  a 
first-class  certificate  from  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society,  in  1871,  under  the  name  of  Brockworth 
Park. 

It  is  figured  in  the  “Florist  and  Pomologist”  for  January,  1871,  as  the  new  Brockworth  Park 
pear,  as  it  was  then  thought  to  be. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  ;  three  inches  wide,  and  four  inches  and  a  half  long  ;  oblong, 
obovate.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  yellow,  slightly  flushed  and  streaked  with  crimson  on  the  side  exposed 
to  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed  with  pointed  segments,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  about 
an  inch  long,  stout,  and  obliquely  inserted.  Flesh  :  tender,  white,  delicate,  buttery  and  melting, 
very  juicy,  rich  and  vinous. 

This  is  an  excellent  pear  when  well  cultivated,  but  it  is  apt  to  lose  quality  in  an  unfavourable 
soil,  or  situation.  It  is  ripe  in  October. 

The  tree  forms  an  excellent  pyramid  on  the  quince,  and  bears  profusely.  It  is  moreover 
hardy  and  sets  its  fruit  well.  A  young  tree  often  bears  from  one  to  two  dozen  pears  of  good  size. 


PLATE  LXVI. 


3.  VICAR  OF  WINKFIELD. 

[Syn  :  Belle  Andrienne ;  Belle  de  Berry  ;  Belle  Hdloise  ;  Bon  Papa;  Cornice  de  Toulon  ; 
Curd;  Monsieur  le  Cure ;  Curette ;  Monsieur  de  Clion ;  Cueillette  d' Hirer  ;  Grosse  A llongde  ; 
Paternoster  ;  Pradel.\ 

This  pear  takes  its  English  name  from  the  fact  of  its  having  been  introduced  into  England  by 
the  Rev.  W.  L.  Rham,  of  Winkfield,  in  Berkshire.  An  excellent  coloured  illustration  is  given  of  it  in 
the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist  ”  for  1864,  with  the  following  account  of  its  early  history,  extracted  from 
the  Transactions  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  Berry.  “  Towards  1760,  M.  Leroy,  cure  of  Villiers, 
in  Brennes,  a  parish  situated  eight  kilometres  from  Clion,  in  the  department  of  Indre,  met  with  it  in 
the  wood  of  Fromenteau,  a  quarter  of  a  league  from  the  chateau  of  that  name,  as  a  wild  pear,  the 
fruit  of  which  appeared  to  him  sufficiently  remarkable,  to  induce  him  to  propagate  it.  He  grafted 
it  in  a  vineyard  adjoining  his  garden,  and  from  thence  have  come  the  innumerable  trees  to  be  found 
in  the  neighbourhood.” 

Description.— Fruit  :  very  large  ;  slender  pyriform,  frequently  one-sided.  Skin  :  smooth, 
greenish  yellow,  with  a  faint  tinge  of  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  shallow 
basin,  and  placed  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  axis  of  the  stalk.  Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a  half  long, 
slender,  obliquely  inserted,  without  depression.  Flesh  :  white,  fine  grained,  half  melting,  juicy  and 
sweet,  with  a  musky  aroma. 

A  handsome  pear,  which  in  warm  seasons  is  melting  and  good.  It  is  in  -season  from 
November  till  January.  It  is  also  used  for  stewing. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  grows  well.  It  requires  a  sheltered  situation,  or  should  be  grown 
against  a  wall 


PLATE  LXVI. 


4.  DUCHESSE  D’ANGOULEME. 

[Syn  :  Eparonnais  ;  Duchesse  ;  De  P Ednas. \ 

The  original  tree  of  this  pear  was  observed  by  M.  Anne- Pierre  Andusson,  nurseryman  at 
Angers,  growing  in  the  garden  of  the  farm  of  Eparonnais,  near  Champigne,  in  Anjou,  and  having 
procured  grafts  from  it,  he  sold  the  trees,  in  1812,  under  the  name  of  “  Poire  des  Eparonnais.”  In 
1820,  he  sent  a  basket  of  the  fruit  to  the  Duchesse  d’Angouleme,  with  a  request  to  be  permitted  to 
name  the  pear  in  honour  of  her.  The  request  was  granted,  and  the  pear  has  since  borne  its  present 
name. 

A  coloured  drawing  is  given  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society ,  Vol. 
VII.,  Plate  4,  and  in  the  P ontological  Magazine ,  Plate  76. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  often  very  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  three  inches 
and  three  quarters  high,  but  generally  smaller  ;  roundish  obovate,  but  very  uneven  and  bossed  in  its 
outline.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  changing  to  pale  dull  yellow,  covered  with  veins  and  freckles  of 
pale  brown  russet,  and  when  grown  against  a  south  wall  it  acquires  a  brownish  cheek.  Eye  :  open, 
with  erect,  dry  segments,  set  in  a  deep,  irregular  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  deep, 
irregular  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  buttery  and  melting,  with  a  rich  flavour  when  well  ripened  ;  but 
generally  from  bad  situations  it  is  coarse-grained  and  half  melting:  It  is  always  juicy  and  sweet. 

A  dessert  pear  sometimes  of  great  excellence,  ripe  during  October  and  November. 

The  tree  grows  vigorously  and  well.  It  bears  abundantly,  and  succeeds  either  on  the  pear 
or  quince  stock,  forming  handsome  pyramids,  but  is  better  on  the  quince.  Grown  against  a  wall, 
when  the  fruit  is  well  thinned,  it  sometimes  attains  an  enormous  size. 


PLATE  LXVI. 


5.  BEURRE  DIEL. 

[Syn  :  Beurrd  des  Trots  Tours;  Beurre  Magnifique ;  Beurrd  Royal;  Beurrd  Lombard; 
Beurrd  Incomparable  ;  Beurre  de  Gelle  ;  Beurre  vert ;  Dorothde  Roy  ale;  Grosse  Dorothde  ;  Dillen  ; 
Grosse  Dillen  ;  Melon  ;  Gratioli  d*  Hirer ;  Guillaume  de  Nassau. ] 

This  noble  pear  was  discovered,  at  the  end  of  the  last  century,  at  the  ancient  castle  of  the 
celebrated  painter,  David  Teniers,  at  Perck,  near  Vilvorde,  which  castle  in  our  days  has  become 
the  farm,  or  manor,  of  Trois  Tours.  It  was  called  the  Beurrd  des  Trois  Tours.  Dr.  Van  Mons 
obtained  some  grafts,  and  believing  the  variety  to  be  unnamed,  he  dedicated  it  to  his  friend  Dr.  Aug. 
Friedr.  Adrien  Diel,  of  Dietz,  in  the  Duchy  of  Nassau.  It  has  since  retained  the  name  of  Beurrd 
Diel ,  under  which  he  described  it  in  1819,  though  in  Brabant,  it  is  still  always  called  Beurrd  des 
Trois  Tours.  In  commerce,  it  has  received  the  name  of  Beurrd  Magnifique,  from  the  great  size 
and  weight  it  so  often  attains. 

This  pear  is  figured  by  Lindley,  P ontological  Magazine,  Plate  131. 

Description. — Fruit:  obovate,  of  the  largest  size  when  grown  against  a  wall,  or  as  an  espalier, 
and  of  medium  size  from  a  standard.  Skin  :  pale  green,  at  first  changing  to  yellow,  covered  with 


plate  lx vi. 


numerous  large  russety  dots,  and  some  markings  of  brown  russet.  Eye  :  with  short  stout  segments, 
set  in  an  uneven  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  stout  and  curved,  inserted  in  an  open  uneven  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  tender,  very  buttery  and  melting,  with  a  rich,  sugary,  and  delicious  flavour. 

A  dessert  pear,  of  the  highest  merit  in  good  seasons,  when  grown  in  a  favourable  situation  ; 
but  apt  to  remain  hard  and  unmelting  under  less  favourable  circumstances. 

It  is  in  season  from  the  end  of  October  to  the  beginning  of  December,  succeeding  Marie 
Louise ,  and  preceding  Glou  Mor$eau.  Immense  quantities  of  very  large  size,  are  sent  from  Jersey, 
and  the  Continent,  to  the  English  market  under  the  name  of  Beurri  Magnifique .  It  is  often  from 
14  oz.  to  18  oz.  in  weight. 

The  tree  grows  very  strongly,  and  bears  most  abundantly.  Its  branches  require  to  be  well 
thinned  to  admit  sufficient  air  amongst  its  large  foliage. 


PLATE  LXVII. 


i.  BARCHARD’S  SEEDLING. 

This  apple  was  raised  by  Mr.  M.  Higgs,  gardener  to  J.  H.  Barchard,  Esq.,  Putney  Heath, 
Surrey  (c.  1830) ;  and  a  first-class  certificate  was  awarded  to  it  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in 
October,  1873. 

A  woodcut  drawing  of  this  apple  is  given  in  the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist,”  for  1874. 

Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size,  roundish  ovate,  with  broad  obtuse  angles  on  the 
sides,  terminating  in  knobs  round  the  crown.  Skin  :  lemon  yellow,  striped  with  crimson  on  the  side 
next  the  sun.  Eye  :  open.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  slender.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp, 
sweet,  with  a  fine  brisk  subacid  flavour  like  that  of  Manx  Codlin. 

A  culinary  or  dessert  apple,  ripe  in  October.  The  brilliant  colour  of  the  fruit  renders  it  very 
attractive  in  the  market,  and  on  the  dessert  table,  but  it  is  most  esteemed  as  a  culinary  fruit. 

The  trees,  as  standards,  assume  naturally  without  pruning,  a  neat  roundheaded  form.  The 
stems  and  shoots  are  remarkably  smooth.  They  make  excellent  orchard  trees,  and  are  even  very 
ornamental  on  lawns,  from  the  deep  red  colour  of  the  blossom,  and  the  brilliant  fruit.  It  is  growing 
much  into  favour  with  market  gardeners. 


Plate  LXVII 


■;m&0 


1 .  BarcLard ’s  Seedling. 


m  l  s^gg.  '  • ' 

. ~ 

2 .  London  Pippin . 


.  Lady  HenniLer. 


G.  Severeyns ,  Chromolith .  Brussels  . 


Alice  B. Ellis  &  Edith.  E. Bull. del. 
for  The  Whooihope  Club. 


- 


( 


> 


•v 


/ 


PLATE  LXVII. 


2.  LONDON  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Five-crowned  Pippin  ;  New  London  Pippin i\ 

This  very  old  English  apple  seems  to  have  escaped  the  notice  of  all  pomological  authors 
before  Mr.  Lindley.  In  an  ancient  note  book  of  the  Trevelyans,  of  Nettlecombe,  Somersetshire,  so 
early  as  1580,  this  “ Lounden  Peppen  ”  is  mentioned  among  the  “names  of  apples  which  I  had  their 
graffes  from  Brentmarch,  from  one  Mr.  Pace.” 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  broad,  and  two  inches  and 
a  quarter  high  ;  roundish  and  flattened,  with  a  few  ribs  on  the  sides,  which  increase  in  size  towards 
the  crown,  where  they  terminate  in  five  prominent  equal  ridges.  Skin  :  at  first  pale  yellowish 
green,  changing  to  pale  yellow,  or  lemon  colour,  with  brownish  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  : 
small  and  closed,  set  in  a  rather  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  and  deeply 
inserted.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp,  tender  and  juicy,  with  a  brisk  pleasant  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  November  to  April,  when  it  still  keeps  sound 

% 

and  free  from  shrivelling.  It  is  also  useful  for  the  dessert  table. 

The  tree  is  not  a  strong  grower,  but  attains  about  the  middle  size.  It  is  however  quite 
hardy,  and  bears  freely. 


PLATE  LXVII. 


3.  LADY  HENNIKER. 

This  apple  was  raised  at  Thornham  Hall,  near  Eye,  in  Suffolk,  and  Mr.  John  Perkins,  the 
gardener  there,  gave  the  following  account  of  it : — 

“  Between  the  years  1840 — 50  the  late  Lord  Henniker  had  great  quantities  of  cider  made,  to 
give  away  in  the  summer  months.  Several  bushels  of  apple  pips  were  sown  in  beds,  from  which 
the  most  promising  seedlings  were  selected  and  planted ;  and  these  were  reduced  every  few  years.” 
The  tree  which  produced  this  variety  became  the  favorite,  and  was  carefully  preserved. 

A  coloured  illustration  of  this  fruit  appeared  in  the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist,”  in  1875. 

Description . — Fruit:  large,  roundish,  narrowing  a  little  towards  the  apex,  and  with  blunt 
angles  on  the  sides,  terminating  in  prominent  ridges  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  yellow  on  the  shaded 
side,  with  a  faint  blush  of  red,  which  is  covered  with  broken  streaks  of  crimson  on  the  side  next  the 
sun.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  short  segments,  and  set  in  a  very  deep  and  angular  basin.  Stalk  : 
very  short,  set  in  a  deep,  wide,  russety  cavity.  Flesh  :  very  tender  in  the  grain,  well  flavoured,  and 
with  a  pleasant  perfume. 

A  first  rate  apple  for  culinary  purposes,  in  season  from  October  to  February.  It  makes  also 
a  handsome  dish  on  the  dessert  table,  “  when  its  appearance  by  lamplight  is  most  telling.” 

(The  colour  as  now  represented  on  the  plate,  is  deeper  and  more  extensive  than  usual). 

The  tree  is  very  healthy,  grows  freely,  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  LXVII. 


4.  BETTY  GEESON. 

It  is  said  to  have  been  raised  from  the  pip,  by  Betty  Geeson,  an  old  woman  who  lived  in 
a  village  near  Belvoir. 

Description. — Fruit:  quite  flat,  with  obtuse  ribs  on  the  sides.  Skin  :  smooth  and  shining, 
of  a  fine,  bright,  yellow  colour,  with  a  deep  blush  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  large,  open,  and 
set  in  a  deep,  wide  and  irregular  basin.  Stalk  :  over  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  deeply  set  in  a  wide 
cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  sweet,  and  with  a  brisk  acidity. 

A  valuable  late-keeping  kitchen  apple,  which  continues  in  season  until  April  or  May. 

The  tree  is  small  in  growth,  and  thus  is  well  adapted  for  bush  culture.  It  bears  profusely, 
and  the  late-keeping  quality  of  its  fruit,  renders  it  a  very  profitable  one  for  cultivation. 


PLATE  LXVII. 


A  well-known  German  apple,  introduced  by  the  late  Mr.  Rivers,  of  Sawbridgworth  (c.  1870). 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  round,  and  somewhat  depressed,  with  obtuse  ribs  on  the  sides, 
extending  to  the  apex,  round  which  they  form  prominent  ridges.  Skin  :  smooth  and  shining,  of  a 
clear  greenish,  lemon  yellow  colour,  except  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  which  has  a  faint  blush 
of  thin  red.  Eye  :  generally  closed,  but  sometimes  open,  with  erect,  slightly  spreading  segments, 
which  are  long.  Stalk  :  very  short,  quite  embedded  in  the  cavity.  Flesh  :  very  tender,  juicy,  and 
pleasantly  subacid. 

A  handsome  and  very  excellent  kitchen  apple,  in  season  during  November  and  December. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  vigorously,  and  usually  bears  well. 


PLATE  LXVII. 


6.  BELLE  BONNE. 

[Syn  :  Winter  Belle  Bonne  ;  Rolland. ] 

This  is  a  very  old  English  variety,  notwithstanding  its  French  name.  It  was  known  to 
Parkinson  so  early  as  1629,  and  also  to  Worlidge  and  Ray  ;  but  it  is  not  noticed  by  any  subsequent 
author,  nor  is  it  enumerated  in  any  of  the  nursery  catalogues  of  the  last  century.  It  was  “however 
recently  found  by  George  Lindley,  growing  in  a  garden  at  Gatton,  near  Norwich,  and  was 
published  by  him  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  Vol.  IV.,  p.  58.  He 
seems  to  be  uncertain  whether  it  is  the  Summer,  or  Winter  Belle  Bonne  of  these  early  authors,  but 
Worlidge’s  description  leaves  no  doubt  as  to  its  identity.  He  says  “  the  Slimmer  Belle  and  Bonne 
is  a  good  bearer,  but  the  fruit  is  not  long  lasting.  The  Winter  Belle  and  Bonne  is  much  to  be 
preferred  to  the  Summer  in  every  respect.”  Dr.  Hogg  has  no  doubt  therefore  that  the  latter  is 
the  Belle  Bonne  of  Lindley.  Parkinson  says  “  they  are  both  fair  fruit  to  look  on,  being  yellow,  and 
of  a  meane  (medium)  bignesse.” 

Description . — Fruit :  above  medium  size,  three  inches  wide,  and  three  and  a  quarter  high  ; 
ovate,  conical.  Skin  :  thick,  pale  greenish  yellow,  and  marked  with  a  few  reddish  streaks  on  the 
side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  obliquely  inserted  under  a 
fleshy  lip.  Flesh  :  firm,  juicy,  and  well  flavoured. 

A  valuable  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  October  to  January. 

The  tree  grows  strongly  and  vigorously.  It  is  very  hardy  and  bears  well. 


PLATE  LXVII. 


7.  HOLLANDBURY. 

[Syn  :  Horsley  Pippin;  Kirke s  Admirable ;  Hawberry  Pippinl\ 

The  pomological  authorities  do  not  give  any  history  of  this  variety. 

Description. — Fruit:  very  large,  three  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  three  inches  high  ; 
roundish  and  flattened,  with  irregular  and  prominent  angles,  or  ribs,  extending  from  the  base  to  the 
apex.  Skin  :  deep  yellow,  tinged  with  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but  bright  deep  scarlet  where 
exposed  to  the  sun,  and  generally  extending  over  the  whole  surface.  Eye  :  closed,  with  long 
pointed  segments,  and  set  in  a  wide  and  deep  basin.  Stalk  :  short  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  deep 
funnel-shaped  cavity,  which  is  generally  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  white,  with  a  slight  tinge  of 
green,  delicate,  tender,  and  juicy,  with  a  brisk  and  pleasant  flavour. 

A  beautiful  and  showy  apple  for  culinary  purposes.  It  is  in  season  from  October  to  Christmas. 

The  tree  is  a  strong  and  vigorous  grower,  but  does  not  bear  abundantly.  It  succeeds  well 
on  the  paradise  stock,  when  the  fruit  is  less  liable  to  be  blown  off  by  winds. 


■4' 


./■  • 


Plate  LX VIII 


3.  Prince  Consort 


tt'vV 


feci 

vcvill 


I  :;f 


HR>.sn 


V  ,!& 


P7.  Van  Mo  ns, 
Leon  Leclerc. 


6.  Benrre  Ranee 


5.  Mane  Benoist 


4.  N  e  plus  Means. 


1 .  Pnnc  e  of  Wal  e  s . 


2.  Victoria. 


G.  Severeyns,  Chromolxth .  Brussels  . 


Edith  E.BuJl.del. 

for  The  Whoolhope  Club. 


PLATE  LXVIII. 


i.  PRINCE  OF  WALES. 

[Syn  :  Huy  she  s  Bergamot. ] 

The  Rev.  John  Huyshe,  of  Clyst-Hydon,  Devon,  was  an  enthusiastic  pomologist.  He  began 
the  practice  of  hybridizing  pears  about  the  year  1834.  Writing  in  1864,  Mr.  Huyshe  says,  “From 
Marie  Louise ,  hybridized  by  Garnet's  Bergamot ,  I  obtained  three  pips  from  one  fruit,  and  the 
produce  of  these  three  pips  were  respectively  the  pears  now  known  as  Victoria ,  Prince  of  Wales ,  and 
Princess  of  Wales."  The  Prince  of  Wales  first  bore  fruit,  and  was  called  originally  Huyshe  s 
Bergamot  from  the  bergamot  flavour  it  derived  from  its  male  parent.  These  varieties,  with  another, 
the  Prince  Consort ,  were  called  by  Dr.  Hogg  the  Royal  Pears. 

This  variety  is  figured  in  the  Florist  and  Pomologist  for  1867. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  roundish  oval,  even  in  the  outline.  Skin  :  much  covered  with 
cinnamon-coloured  russet,  finely  reticulated  on  a  lemon  yellow  ground.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with 
erect,  toothlike  segments,  like  that  of  Easter  Beurri,  and  set  in  a  considerable  basin.  Stalk  :  an 
inch  long,  stout  and  woody,  somewhat  obliquely  inserted  in  a  round  and  rather  open  cavity.  Flesh  : 
yellowish  white,  tender,  melting  and  juicy,  richly  flavoured,  with  a  bergamot  aroma.  The  melting 
flesh  of  the  Marie  Louise ,  with  something  of  the  high  flavour  of  Gansel's  Bergamot. 

An  excellent  pear,  in  season  from  the  end  of  November  to  the  beginning  of  January. 

The  tree  makes  an  excellent  pyramid  on  the  quince  stock,  and  bears  fruit  weighing  from 
7,  to  8,  or  10  oz.  when  well  grown.  It  is  not  however  a  very  free  bearing  tree,  which  probably 
means  that  it  requires  more  protection  than  is  generally  given  to  it. 


The  Princess  of  Wales  is  a  pear  of  high  excellence  in  flesh  and  flavour,  but  the  tree  is  much 
more  delicate  in  constitution,  and  it  is  not  therefore  profitable  for  ordinary  cultivation. 


PLATE  LXVIII. 


2.  VICTORIA. 

A  seedling  from  Marie  Louise ,  fertilized  by  Ganseli s  Bergamot ,  raised  by  the  Rev.  John 
Huyshe,  of  Clyst-Hydon,  near  Exeter.  Mr.  Huyshe  was  a  Freemason  of  high  degree,  and  a 
devoted  loyalist,  and  rejoiced  to  name  his  fruits  after  the  Royal  family. 

This  variety  was  figured  in  the  Pomologist  for  1867. 

Description. — P'ruit  :  medium  sized,  oval  or  almost  cylindrical,  slightly  flattened  at  the  end. 
Skin  :  yellowish,  freckled  and  lined  with  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  set  in  a  shallow  depression. 
Stalk  :  very  short  and  thick,  inserted  without  depression  on  the  end  of  the  fruit,  and  sometimes 
obliquely  inserted  as  in  Betirrb  di Aremberg.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  melting,  rather  gritty  at  the  core, 
juicy,  rich,  sugary  and  vinous. 

An  excellent  pear  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  the  end  of  November  to  the  middle  of 
December.  The  fruit,  when  well  grown,  should  weigh  from  to  5  ounces. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  prolific,  and  is  perhaps  most  useful  when  grown  as  a  pyramid. 
In  Devonshire  this  variety  is  grown  very  successfully.  Its  blossoms  resist  the  frost,  and  it  is  almost 
as  free  a  bearer  as  Beurre  Capiaumout.  On  the  pear  stock  it  also  grows  freely,  without  liability  to 
canker. 


PLATE  LXVIII. 


3.  HUYSHE’S  PRINCE  CONSORT. 

The  Rev.  John  Huyshe,  of  Clyst-Hydon,  near  Exeter,  raised  this  variety  also  from  a  seed 
from  Beiirrti  cT Aremberg  fertilized  by  Passe  Colmar ,  and  the  tree  first  bore  fruit  in  the  year  1864. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  oblong,  but  uneven  and  irregular  in  outline.  Skin  :  grass  green, 
a  colour  it  frequently  retains  when  ripe,  but  it  usually  becomes  yellowish  green.  It  is  thickly  covered 
with  large  russet  dots,  which  round  the  stalk  are  so  dense  as  to  form  a  russet  patch.  Eye  :  rather 
small  and  open,  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  uneven  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  stout  and  woody, 
inserted  in  a  small  cavity,  on  a  line  with  the  axis  of  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  with  a  greenish 
tinge,  melting  but  not  buttery,  being  rather  crisp,  very  juicy,  sweet  and  vinous,  with  a  powerful  and 
peculiar  flavour  unlike  any  other  pear. 

A  delicious  pear  of  first  rate  quality,  which  ripens  in  the  end  of  November  or  the  beginning 
of  December. 

This  tree  was  presented  to  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1867,  and  distributed  afterwards  to 
the  members.  It  is  hardy,  but  rather  shy  in  bearing. 


PLATE  LXVIII. 


4.  NE  PLUS  MEURIS. 

[Syn  :  Nec  Phis  Ultra;  Nec  Plus  Meuns. ] 

This  pear  is  a  seedling  of  Dr.  Van  Mons.  It  was  raised  in  his  garden  “  La  Fidelite,” 
at  Brussels,  and  was  named  as  a  compliment  after  his  gardener,  Pierre  Meuris,  of  whom  Van  Mons 
said  “  Meuris  est  ne  avec  la  genie  de  Pomonomie.”  The  curious  name  is  said  to  have  been  derived 
in  this  way,  Van  Mons  wrote  only  nec  plus,  adding  afterwards  his  gardener’s  name. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  the  same  high  ; 
roundish  turbinate,  very  uneven  and  bossed  on  the  surface.  Skin  :  rough,  dull  yellow,  very  much 
covered  with  dark  brown  russet.  Eye  :  half  open,  generally  prominent.  Stalk  :  very  short,  not  at 
all  depressed,  frequently  appearing  as  a  mere  knob  on  the  end  of  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  yellowish 
white,  buttery  and  melting,  with  a  rich,  sugary,  and  vinous  flavour. 

A  first  rate  pear,  in  season  from  January  till  March.  It  has  a  rough,  ungainly  exterior,  but 
its  keeping  qualities  and  its  flavour,  when  pears  are  scarce,  make  it  a  favourite. 

The  tree  is  of  upright  habit  of  growth,  and  is  not  subject  to  canker.  It  succeeds  well  as 
a  pyramid,  but  in  this  climate,  is  best  on  a  wall.  The  tree  is  so  prolific,  that  to  have  the  fruit 
in  perfection,  the  clusters  should  be  freely  thinned. 


PLATE  LXVIII. 


5.  MARIE  BENOIST. 

This  pear  was  raised  by  M.  Anguste  Benoist,  a  nurseryman  at  Brissac,  not  far  from  Angers, 
(c,  1850)  and  named  after  his  daughter  Marie. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  irregularly  turbinate,  and  more  swollen  one  side  than  the  other. 
Skin  :  bright  green,  dotted  and  lined  with  russet,  and  covered  with  patches  of  fawn  coloured  russet. 
Eye  :  small,  open,  and  deeply  set.  Stalk  :  very  short  and  thick,  obliquely  inserted,  with  a  large 
swelling  on  one  side  of  it.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  very  melting  and  slightly  gritty,  very  juicy, 
sweet,  and  delicately  perfumed. 

An  excellent  dessert  pear,  ripe  during  January  and  February,  a  very  valuable  addition  to 
late  pears. 

The  tree  makes  a  good  pyramid  on  the  quince  stock,  grows  well  and  bears  freely. 


PLATE  LXVIII. 


6.  BEURRE  RANCE. 

[Syn  :  Beurre  de  Bans  ;  Beurrd  du  Rhin  ;  Bon  Chretien  de  Rans  ;  Beurrd  de  Noir  Chair  ; 
Beurrd  de  Noir  Chain  ;  Beurre  Hardenpont  du  Printenps  ;  Beurrd  d hirer ;  Beurre  de  Flandres  ; 
Beurre  Epine .] 

The  pear  was  found  growing  in  the  village  of  Ranee,  in  Hainault,  in  1762,  by  M.  Hardenpont, 
of  Mons.  It  was  introduced  into  England  by  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  in  1820,  when  it 
was  received  from  M.  Parmentier,  of  Enghien.  M.  Du  Mortier  in  the  “Pomona  Tournaisienne,” 
states  that  this  pear  was  produced  by  M.  l’Abbe  Nicolas  d’Hardenpont,  at  Mons,  in  the  year  1762. 
He  believes  that  this  pear  is  due  to  a  Bon  ChrStien ,  fertilized  by  a  Colmar ,  since  it  has  the  wood, 
leaf,  flower,  form  of  fruit,  and  peduncle  of  the  former,  with  the  succulence  and  flesh  of  the  latter. 

A  coloured  figure  is  given  in  the  Transactions  of  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society,  Vol.  V., 
Plate  2,  fig  4 ;  and  also  by  Lindley,  in  the  P ontological  Magazine ,  Plate  88. 

Description. —  Fruit:  varying  from  medium  size  to  large;  obtuse  pyriform,  blunt  and  rounded 
at  the  stalk.  Skin  :  dark  green,  and  covered  with  numerous  large,  dark  brown,  russety  spots.  Eye: 
small  and  open,  with  short,  acute  segments,  and  set  in  a  slight  depression.  Stalk  :  an  inch  and  a 
half  long,  slender,  and  generally  obliquely  inserted  in  a  wide,  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white, 
buttery,  melting  and  very  juicy,  with  a  rich  and  vinous  flavour. 

A  very  valuable  winter  dessert  pear,  in  season  from  January,  or  February,  to  May,  and 
therefore  at  maturity  when  most  other  varieties  are  over.  Van  Mons  calls  it  “  the  best  of  late  pears.” 

The  tree  is  hardy,  vigorous,  and  bears  abundantly.  In  warm  situations,  it  succeeds  as  a 
pyramid  on  the  pear  stock,  but  does  not  do  well  on  the  quince,  on  which  the  fruit  sometimes  acquires 
an  astringent  taste.  It  is  frequently  grown  on  a  wall,  when  the  fruit  is  larger,  but  in  sheltered 
situations,  it  may  be  grown  as  a  standard. 


PLATE  LXVIII. 


7.  VAN  MONS  LEON  LECLERC. 

This  pear  was  raised,  in  all  probability  from  a  pip  of  the  St.  Germain  pear,  by  M.  Leon 
Leclerc,  of  Laval,  who  was  formerly  Deputy  for  the  Department  of  Mayenne.  It  was  first  named  in 
honour  of  Dr.  Van  Mons,  but  this  gentleman  in  accepting  the  dedication,  politely  insisted  that 
M.  Leon  Leclerc’s  name  should  also  be  added.  The  tree  first  bore  fruit  in  1S28,  and  was 
introduced  into  this  country  about  1841. 

A  coloured  figure  of  it  is  given  in  the  “  Florist  and  Pomologist”  for  1866. 

Description . — Fruit :  large,  sometimes  very  large,  four  or  five  inches  long,  and  two  and  three 
quarters,  to  three  inches  wide  ;  oblong,  pyramidal,  undulating,  and  uneven  in  its  outline.  Skin  : 
green  at  first,  but  changing  into  a  dull  yellow,  covered  with  dots  and  tracings  of  russet.  Eye : 
open,  with  spreading  segments,  set  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch,  to  an  inch  and  a  half  long, 
curved,  and  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  fine-grained,  buttery,  and  melting, 
very  juicy  and  rich,  with  a  delicious,  sprightly,  vinous  flavour. 

A  very  fine  pear,  of  great  excellence,  and  often  of  large  size.  It  is  in  season  through 
November. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  an  excellent  bearer.  It  forms  a  handsome  pyramid  on  the  pear 
stock  ;  and  succeeds  well  as  a  standard  in  sheltered  situations.  It  does  not  succeed  well  on  the 
quince  stock.  When  grown  against  a  wall,  the  fruit  often  attains  from  14  to  16  ounces  in  weight. 


PLATE  LXIX. 


i.  RED  INGESTRIE. 

This  excellent  apple,  with  its  companion  the  Yellow  Ingestrie ,  was  raised  by  Mr.  Thomas 
Andrew  Knight,  from  the  seed  of  the  Orange  Pippin ,  impregnated  with  the  Golden  Pippin ,  about  the 
year  1800.  The  two  pips  were  taken  from  the  same  cell  of  the  core.  Mr.  Knight  named  them 
“Ingestrie”  from  the  residence  of  his  friend  Lord  Ingestrie.  The  original  trees  are  still  in 
existence  at  Wormsley  Grange,  Herefordshire.  It  was  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  London 
Horticultural  Society,  in  18  r  1. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  high  ; 
ovate,  regularly  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  clear  bright  yellow,  tinged  and  mottled  with  red 
on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  strewed  with  numerous  pearly  specks.  Eye  :  small,  set  in  a 
wide  and  even  basin.  Stalk  :  short  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  small  and  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  : 
yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  and  highly  flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple,  attractive  in  appearance,  and  excellent  in  quality.  It  is  very  similar  in 
colour  to  a  well-matured  Golden  Winter  Permain.  It  is  in  season  during  October  and  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  makes  an  excellent  bush  very  suitable  to  small 
gardens. 


Plate  LXIX 


6.  Dutch  Mignonne. 


7  Dutches’ s  Favorite 


8.  Pitmaston  Pine  Apple 


9  Gipsy  King. 


10. Grange  Apple. 


G.  Sever ey ns ,  Chromolith  Brussels 


Alice  B  Ellis  a  Edith  E. Bull. del 
Tot  The  Whoolhop?.  Club- 


PLATE  LXIX. 


2.  BRINGEWOOD  PIPPIN. 

This  variety  was  a  seedling  grown  by  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight.  He  obtained  it  by 
impregnating  the  stigmas  of  the  Golden  Pippin ,  with  pollen  from  the  anthers  of  the  Golden  Harvey . 

Description. — Fruit:  small,  little  more  than  two  inches  wide  and  an  inch  and  three  quarters 
high,  almost  round  and  something  like  a  flattened  Golden  Pippin.  Skin  :  of  a  firm  rich  yellow 
colour,  covered  with  greyish  dots,  russety  round  the  eye,  and  marked  with  a  few  russety  dots  on  the 
side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  reflexed  segments,  and  placed  in  a  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  :  short  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  moderately  deep  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  greenish  grey 
russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  crisp  and  sugary,  with  a  rich  and  perfumed  flavour. 

A  very  beautiful  little  dessert  apple.  It  is  very  like  the  Yellow  Ingestrie ,  but  is  far  more 
valuable,  as  it  keeps  sound  longer.  It  is  in  season  from  December  to  February  and  March. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  but  of  weak  and  slender  growth.  It  succeeds  well  on  the  paradise  stock, 
but  never  attains  a  large  size. 


PLATE  LX IX. 


3.  YELLOW  INGESTRIE. 

A  seedling  produced  from  hybridization  by  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight  from  the  Orange 
Pippin ,  fertilized  by  pollen  from  the  Golden  Pippin ,  a  fellow  pip,  and  from  the  same  cell  of  the 
core,  of  the  same  apple,  that  produced  the  Red  Ingestrie. 

Description. — Fruit:  small,  an  inch  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  an  inch  and  five  eighths 
high  ;  of  a  handsome  cylindrical  shape,  flattened  at  both  ends.  Skin  :  smooth,  of  a  fine  clear  yellow, 
tinged  with  deeper  yellow  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  marked  with  small  pinky  spots.  Eye  : 
small  and  partially  closed,  set  almost  even  with  the  surface,  but  sometimes  in  a  wide  and  shallow 
basin.  Stalk  :  from  half  an  inch  to  three  quarters  long,  set  in  a  rather  shallow  and  smooth  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellow,  firm,  crisp  and  delicate,  with  a  profusion  of  brisk  and  highly  flavoured  vinous  juice. 

A  beautiful  little  dessert  apple  of  excellent  quality,  and  very  attractive  in  appearance.  It 
bears  a  considerable  resemblance  to  the  Golden  Pippin.  It  is  in  season  during  September  and 
October,  and  a  great  favourite  in  the  London  market,  where  it  is  called  “  Summers.” 

The  tree  is  hardy,  large  and  spreading.  It  bears  abundantly  either  as  a  standard  in  the 
orchard,  or  as  a  bush  tree  in  the  garden. 


PLATE  LXIX. 


4.  ALLEN’S  EVERLASTING. 

This  apple  is  said  to  be  a  seedling  from  Sturmer  Pippin ,  which  it  often  resembles  very  much. 
Its  history  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  pomological  works.  It  is  thought  to  be  of  Irish  origin, 
though  its  name  does  not  indicate  this. 

Description. — Fruit  :  rather  below  medium  size,  oblate,  even  and  regular  in  outline.  Skin  : 
with  a  bright  crimson  cheek  next  the  sun,  which  often  extends  almost  all  over  the  shaded  side,  where 
it  is  paler.  It  is  also  marked  with  a  good  deal  of  rough  brown  russet.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  set 
in  a  wide  and  pretty  deep,  round  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  and  set  in  a  wide  deep 
cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender,  sweet,  crisp,  juicy,  and  richly  flavoured,  with  a  fine  bouquet. 

A  very  useful  apple,  either  for  dessert  or  kitchen  use,  and  as  its  name  implies  it  will  keep 
well  until  May,  or  even  until  apples  come  again. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  bears  well  as  a  standard,  or  as  a  bush  for  small  gardens. 


PLATE  LXIX. 


5.  DOWNTON  NONPAREIL. 

One  of  the  many  seedlings  of  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  and  named  from  the  village  of 
Downton,  where,  in  all  probability,  it  first  fruited. 

Description. — Fruit  :  small,  two  inches  and  a  quarter  wide,  and  an  inch  and  three  quarters 
high,  oblate,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  patches  of  russet, 
especially  over  the  crown  and  in  the  basin  of  the  eye.  Eye :  small,  with  erect,  convergent  segments, 
set  in  a  wide  and  shallow  depression.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  and  set  in  a  shallow  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellowish,  crisp,  juicy,  sweet,  and  briskly  flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple  of  the  first  quality,  in  season  from  December  to  April. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  but  not  free  in  growth,  and  it  has  the  thin  wood  and  small  foliage  of  its 


tribe. 


PLATE  LXIX. 


6.  DUTCH  MIGNONNE. 

[Syn  :  Christ' s  Golden  Reinette  ;  Copmanthorpe  Crab ;  Stettin  Pipping 

This  apple  was  imported  into  England  from  Holland,  by  a  gentleman  in  Yorkshire,  and  was 
made  known  to  English  Gardeners  by  Mr.  George  Lindley,  of  Catton,  near  Norwich  (1819). 

Description. — Fruit :  rather  above  middle  size,  roundish  and  handsome,  narrowing  a  little 
towards  the  eye,  where  it  is  sometimes  slightly  ribbed.  Skin  :  dull,  greenish  yellow,  marked  all 
over  with  broken  streaks  of  pale  red  and  crimson,  with  traces  of  russet,  and  numerous  russety  dots, 
which  are  thickest  round  the  eye.  Eye :  small  and  closed,  with  short  and  pointed  segments,  placed 
in  a  deep  and  narrow  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  round  and  deep  cavity,  which, 
with  a  portion  of  the  base  is  lined  with  rough  russet.  Flesh  :  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  very  juicy,  rich, 
sugary,  and  aromatic. 

A  very  valuable  and  delicious  dessert  apple,  in  season  from  December  to  April. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  vigorously,  and  bears  abundantly.  It  attains  a  middle  size  when 
full  grown.  It  is  well  adapted  for  dwarf  and  espalier  training,  and  for  these  purposes  succeeds 
well  on  the  paradise  stock. 


PLATE  LXIX. 


7.  DUCHESS’  FAVOURITE. 

[Syn  :  Duchess  of  York' s  Favourite  ;  Duchess  of  Gloucesterh\ 

This  beautiful  little  apple  was  raised  by  the  late  Mr.  Cree  (Cree  and  Co.),  of  Addlestone, 
and  was  named  after  the  Duchess  of  York,  who  then  resided  at  Oatlands  Park. 

Description. — PTuit  :  below  medium  size,  roundish,  and  bluntly  angular  undulating  round  the 
crown.  Skin  :  completely  covered  with  brilliant  red  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  extending 
almost  over  the  entire  surface,  but  yellow  where  closely  shaded.  Eye  :  open,  with  short  erect 
segments,  which  are  reflexed  at  the  tips,  and  set  in  a  wide  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long, 
slender,  inserted  in  a  moderately  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  highly 
flavoured,  frequently  tinged  with  red  like  that  of  Sops-in-Wine. 

A  very  handsome  little  apple,  which  when  ripe,  has  the  rich  bright  crimson  colour  of  the 
Quarrenden.  It  makes  a  very  striking  dish  on  the  dessert  table,  and  is  sold  rather  for  its  great 
beauty,  than  for  its  quality,  which  is  not  very  high.  It  is  in  season  during  November  and  up 
to  Christmas. 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  bears  abundantly,  so  the  growers  like  it,  and  its  colour  and  beauty 
are  very  attractive  in  the  market. 


PLATE  LXIX. 


8.  PITMASTON  PINE  APPLE. 

A  seedling  raised  by  Mr.  Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  near  Worcester  (c.  1825). 

Description. — Fruit  :  small  and  conical,  regularly  formed  but  frequently  more  enlarged  on 
one  side  than  the  other.  Skin  :  rough  to  the  touch,  being  almost  entirely  covered  with  a  coat  of 
pale  yellowish  brown  russet,  but  here  and  there  with  a  smooth  patch  of  the  ground  colour,  which  is 
yellowish.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow  saucer-like  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  slender, 
inserted  in  a  wide  and  rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  crisp  and  juicy  ;  rich,  and  with 
a  distinct  pine-apple  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  of  great  excellence,  in  season  during  December  and  January. 

The  tree  is  small  in  growth,  with  slender  wood  like  that  of  the  Golden  Pippin.  It  is  hardy 
and  bears  well. 


PLATE  LX IX. 


9.  GIPSY  KING. 

The  exact  origin  of  this  apple  is  not  known.  It  first  appeared  in  Mr.  Rivers’  catalogue,  in 

1876. 

Description. — F'ruit  :  small,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  an  inch  and  three  quarters  high, 
oblate,  even,  and  symmetrical.  Skin  :  dull  brownish  red,  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  greenish  yellow, 
with  a  few  pale  red  streaks  on  the  shaded  side  ;  the  surface  being  covered  with  patches  and  freckles 
of  ashy  grey  russet.  Eye  :  open,  with  divergent  segments,  set  in  a  round,  pretty  deep,  saucer-like 
basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  straight,  inserted  in  a  round,  wide,  and  rather  shallow  cavity. 
Flesh  :  yellowish,  tender,  juicy  and  sweet,  with  a  pleasant  acidity  and  aroma. 

A  pretty  dessert  apple,  in  season  from  October  to  December.  Its  attractive  appearance 
makes  it  a  favourite  in  the  market. 

The  tree  has  the  Nonpareil  form  of  growth,  with  small  foliage.  It  is  compact,  rather  upright, 
and  bears  profusely  in  bunches.  It  makes  a  good  orchard  tree,  and  can  be  well  grown  either  as  a 
bush,  or  pyramid  tree. 


PLATE  LX IX. 


io.  THE  GRANGE  APPLE. 

This  fruit  was  a  seedling  of  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight’s,  which  sprung  up  in  his  nursery 
at  Wormsley  Grange,  Herefordshire,  in  the  year  1792.  “  It  is  the  offspring  of  the  Orange  Pippin, 

and  the  produce  of  a  blossom,  which  was  deprived  of  its  stamens,  and  subsequently  fertilized  by  the 
pollen  from  the  Golden  Pippin .”  It  is  figured  in  the  “  Pomona  Herefordiensis,”  Plate  VII. 

Description. — Fruit  :  small,  roundish  oblate.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  becoming  of  a  golden 
orange  colour  at  maturity,  with  numerous  small  black  dots  on  the  surface,  with  not  unfrequently 
raised  russety  warts  here  and  there  upon  it.  Eye  :  open,  with  long  sepals  thrown  back  and  almost 
stellate  ;  on  a  level  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  : 
firm,  crisp,  sweet,  juicy,  and  with  a  pleasant  flavour. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple,  of  great  beauty  ;  in  season  during  October  and  November.  Its 
most  profitable  use  would  be  to  follow  the  Yellow  and  Red  Ingestrie  apples  in  the  fruit  market. 
Mr.  Knight  found  the  density  of  the  fresh  juice  to  be  no  less  than  1079,  and  he  accordingly 
recommended  it  so  highly  as  a  cider  fruit,  that  the  premium  given  by  the  Agricultural  Society  of 
Herefordshire  for  the  best  Cider  Apple  was  awarded  to  it  in  1802.  It  was  planted  extensively  in 
the  orchards,  but  has  not  been  found  to  maintain  its  character  as  a  vintage  fruit,  evidently  from  a 
deficiency  of  the  tannin  and  salts,  which  are  equally  requisite  with  sugar,  for  the  production  of 
cider  of  the  best  quality.  There  are  many  trees  still  existing  in  the  orchards,  and  the  fruit, 
which  should  be  sold  for  dessert,  goes  into  the  general  mixture  of  fruit  for  the  mill. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  grows  to  a  full  medium  size,  and  bears  with  much  constancy  and 
profusion. 


PLATE  LXX. 


i.  BEURRfi  D’AREMBERG. 

[Syn  :  L' Orpheline  ;  Beurrl  des  Orphelins  ;  Delices  des  Orphelins  ;  D  Orpheline  d Enghien  ; 
Due  d  Ar ember g  ;  D'  Ar ember g  Par  fait ;  Deschamps  ;  Benrre  Deschamps  ;  Colmar  Deschamps  ; 
Soldat  Laboureurl\ 

This  pear  was  raised  by  Abbe  Deschamps,  of  the  Hospice  des  Orphelins,  at  Enghien,  and 
hence  derived  its  original  names.  Dr.  Van  Mons  gave  it  the  name  of  Beurri  d A remberg,  which  it 
still  bears.  About  the  same  time  the  Glou  Morceau  was  sent  out  by  M.  Noisette,  of  Paris,  from 
the  gardens  of  the  Due  d’Aremberg,  under  the  name  of  Beurri  d Aremberg,  and  thus  two  very 
distinct  varieties  passed  under  the  same  name.  The  characters  of  the  two  are  however  perfectly 
distinct,  and  may  easily  be  distinguished  by  the  stalk  alone;  that  of  Beurri  d Aremberg  being  short, 
thick,  and  fleshy ;  whilst  that  of  Glou  Morceau  is  long,  straight,  and  woody,  and  inserted 
perpendicularly  with  the  axis  of  the  fruit.  The  confusion  however  has  passed  away  in  England. 

This  pear  is  figured  in  the  Transactions  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London,  Vol.  VII., 
Plate  4  ;  and  by  Lindley,  Plate  83. 

Description. — Fruit:  rather  above  medium  size,  obovate,  often  very  irregular  in  shape. 
Skin  :  yellowish  green  when  ripe,  quite  yellow,  when  fit  for  the  table,  and  considerably  covered  with 
patches,  veins  and  dots  of  cinnamon  coloured  russet.  Eye  :  small,  with  short  segments  that 
frequently  fall  off,  set  in  a  deep  hollow.  Stalk  :  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch  long,  obliquely  inserted 


Plate  LXX 


6.  Dana’s  Hovey 


PDucliesse  de  Mars. 


7.  G.ansel—Seokle 


8.  Comte  de  Larny. 


'G  Severeyas  ChromoUth .  Brussels  . 


Alice  B. Ellis  ft  Edith  E. Bull. del 
for  The  Whoolhope  Club 


■ 


l- 


. 


PLATE  LXX. 


on  the  surface  of  the  fruit.  Flesh  :  white,  melting,  tender,  buttery,  and  very  juicy,  with  a  rich, 
vinous,  and  perfumed  flavour. 

A  dessert  pear  of  the  first  merit,  in  season  during  December  and  January.  This  pear  turns 
yellow  shortly  before  it  is  fit  for  the  table,  and  if  tasted  then  has  something  of  the  flavour  of  a 
druggist’s  shop,  but  when  in  addition  to  its  yellow  colour  it  softens,  the  coarse  flavour  becomes  very 
rich  and  highly  aromatic.  In  the  “Horticultural  Transactions”  of  London,  it  is  said  that  “this 
pear  deserves  to  be  placed  at  the  head  of  all  the  pears  in  cultivation,”  Vol.  V.,  p.  406,  and  Vol.  VII., 
p.  178. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  bears  abundantly.  It  grows  freely  on  the  pear  and  the  quince 
stock,  and  succeeds  well  as  a  pyramid,  an  espalier,  or  as  a  standard. 


PLATE  LXX. 


2.  EASTER  BEURRE. 

[Syn  :  Beurre  de  la  Pentecote  ;  Beurrd  de  Pdques  ;  Beurrd  Anglaise  ;  Beurre  d' Hiver  de 
Bruxelles ;  Beurrd  Roupp ;  Beurrd  Roupe ;  Bergamotte  d' Hiver ;  Bergamotte  de  Pentecote ; 
Bergamotte  Tardive;  Canning;  Canning  d'  Hiver ;  Doyennd  d’ Hiver ;  Doyennd  de  Pdques; 
Doyennd  de  Printemps ;  Merveille  de  la  Nature ;  Pastorale  d' Hiver ;  Du  Patre ;  Phillipe  de 
Pdques  ;  Seigneur  d' Hiver  ;  Sylvange  d' Hiver .] 

This  valuable  pear  originated  in  the  garden  of  the  Monastry  of  the  Capucins,  at  Louvain, 
the  beginning  of  the  present  century,  and  was  first  distributed  by  Dr.  Van  Mons.  The  variety  of 
its  synonyms,  proves  the  esteem  in  which  it  is  held.  It  is  well  figured  by  Lindley,  Plate  78. 

Description. — Fruit:  large,  obovate.  Skin:  at  first  pale  green,  changing  as  it  attains  maturity 
to  yellowish  green,  thickly  strewed  with  russety  dots,  which  are  larger  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and 
a  few  patches  of  thin  brown  russet,  particularly  round  the  stalk  and  the  eye,  and  with  sometimes  a 
brownish  tinge  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small,  with  long,  narrow,  incurved  segments,  set  in  a  rather 
deep  and  uneven  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  in  a  narrow  and  pretty  deep  cavity. 
Flesh  :  white,  buttery,  and  melting,  very  juicy,  richly  and  highly  flavoured. 

A  dessert  pear  of  the  highest  merit,  in  season  from  January  to  March. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  abundantly.  It  succeeds  well  either  on  the  pear  or  quince 
stock.  In  Herefordshire  it  requires  a  wall,  and  a  favourable  season,  to  reach  perfection,  but  the  best 
flavoured  fruit  is  from  a  pyramid,  or  espalier  tree,  in  a  situation  sufficiently  warm  and  sheltered. 


PLATE  LXX. 


3.  DOYENNE  ROBIN. 

This  pear  is  said  to  have  been  raised  at  Angers,  by  M.  Robin,  and  to  have  first  borne  fruit 
in  1840. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  oblong  and  regular  in  shape.  Skin  :  yellow  when 
ripe,  and  covered  with  minute  spots  of  russet,  especially  round  the  stalk,  and  in  patches,  irregularly 
over  the  surface.  Eye  :  small,  with  segments  inverted,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk :  stout  and 
straight,  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small,  deep  cavity,  sometimes  irregular,  lined 
with  thin  russet.  Flesh  :  white  and  melting,  with  an  abundance  of  sweet  juice,  pleasantly  flavoured. 

This  excellent  pear  is  in  season  during  September  and  October. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  abundantly.  It  is  best  grown  as  a  pyramid  on  the  quince  stock. 
It  is  adapted  for  small  gardens,  and  well  deserves  a  place  there. 


PLATE  LXX. 


4.  BERGAMOTTE  ESPEREN. 

[Syn  :  Esperen7\ 

This  excellent  variety  was  raised  from  seed  about  the  year  1830,  by  Major  Esperen,  of 
Malines.  It  is  one  of  the  numerous  varieties  produced  by  this  excellent  fruit  grower,  and  has  been 
considered  by  some  pomologists  to  be  a  seedling  from  Easter  Beurre.  “  Pierre  Joseph  Esperen 
was  born  at  Ghent,  29th  January,  1780,  and  died  at  Malines,  13th  of  August,  1847.  He  entered 
the  public  service  in  1804  as  a  volunteer,  and  resigning  at  the  restoration,  he  was  free  to  indulge 
his  tastes  in  pomology.  His  temporary  return  to  the  service  in  1830,  gained  for  him  the  rank  of 
Major”  (Decaisne). 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  size,  frequently  larger,  varying  from  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  wide  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  high,  to  three  inches  and  a  half  wide  to  three  inches 
high.  It  is  in  the  smaller  fruit,  distinctly  Bergamot-shaped,  but  in  large  and  well  grown  specimens 
it  is  rather  turbinate,  narrowing  abruptly  to  the  stalk,  even  and  regular  in  its  outline.  Skin  :  coarse 
and  rough,  at  first  of  a  dark  green  colour,  covered  with  large,  brown,  russet  dots,  but  assuming  a  dull 
greenish  yellow  colour  on  attaining  maturity,  when  the  numerous  large  russet  dots  become  grey  ; 
sometimes  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun  it  assumes  a  faint  orange  tinge.  Eye  :  small  and  open, 
with  a  dry,  rigid,  bony  calyx  of  no  regular  form,  set  in  pretty  deep,  wide,  and  even  basin.  Stalk : 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout,  and  somewhat  fleshy  at  the  insertion,  and  placed  in  a  small 
narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  fine  grained,  quite  melting,  very  juicy  and  sugary,  with  a  pleasant 
aroma. 

A  most  delicious  late  pear,  in  season  from  February  to  April.  A  fit  successor  to  Winter 
Nelis  and  Knight' s  Monarch ,  and  higher  praise  could  scarcely  be  given  to  it. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  well.  It  is  so  valuable  a  variety,  that  it  should  be  grown 
wherever  pears  succeed. 


PLATE  LXX. 


5.  JOSEPHINE  DE  MALINES. 

This  excellent  pear  was  also  one  of  Major  Esperen’s  seedlings.  It  was  raised  about  1830, 
and  was  thus  named  in  compliment  to  his  wife. 

Description. — Fruit :  about  medium  size.  Skin  :  smooth,  yellow,  with  a  greenish  tint  on  the 
shaded  side,  and  with  a  tinge  of  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  strewed  with  large 
russet  spots.  Eye  :  open,  set  in  a  rather  shallow  depression.  Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
stout,  and  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  with  a  tinge  of  red  or  faint  rosy  tint 
around  the  core,  melting  and  very  juicy,  sugary,  vinous,  and  richly  flavoured,  with  a  high  rosewater 
aroma. 

A  delicious  pear,  in  season  from  February  to  May. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  an  excellent  bearer.  It  has  the  peculiarity  of  retaining  perfect  and 
abiding  health,  when  grafted  on  the  White  Thorn  ( Cratcegus  Oxycantha ),  and  hence  an  abundance 
of  this  valuable  fruit  may  be  obtained,  with  common  care,  from  a  whitethorn  hedge.  The  grafts 
grow  readily  and  form  healthy  trees  bearing  freely. 


PLATE  LXX. 


6.  DANA’S  HOVEY. 

An  American  variety,  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  from  the  Seckle  pear.  It  is  named  after 
Mr.  Hovey  (pronounced  “  Huvvy,”)  the  great  nurseryman  of  Boston,  Massachusets. 

Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size,  roundish  pyriform.  Skin  :  pale  green,  with  a  light 
russet,  more  marked  round  the  eye  and  stalk.  Eye :  small  and  open,  very  slightly  depressed. 
Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  obliquely  in  a  small  and  narrow  cavity  on  one  side  of  the  apex  of 
the  fruit.  Flesh  :  melting,  sweet,  and  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  aroma,  “a  veritable  bonne  bouche .” 

A  delicious  fruit,  in  season  in  November. 

Tree,  small  and  hardy.  It  makes  an  excellent  compact  pyramid  on  the  quince  stock.  It 
comes  early  into  bearing,  and  usually  bears  so  abundantly,  if  allowed  to  do  so,  as  to  check  its  growth. 


PLATE  LXX. 


7.  GANSEL’S  SECKLE. 

This  variety  was  obtained  by  Mr.  Williams,  of  Pitmaston,  Worcester,  by  hybridizing  the 
Seckle  with  Gansel’s  Bergamot  (c.  1820). 

Description. — Fruit  :  small,  not  unlike  the  Seckle ,  with  some  of  the  character  of 
Gansel’s  Bergamot  on  a  small  scale.  Skin  :  with  a  bright  crimson  cheek  next  the  sun, 
which  shades  off  to  yellow  on  the  opposite  side  ;  the  shaded  side  is  covered  with  a  thin 
smooth  crust  of  cinnamon-coloured  russet,  and  the  crimson  cheek  is  strewed  with  distinct  dots  of 
grey  russet.  Eye  :  small,  and  closed,  with  erect,  acute  segments,  set  in  a  narrow  and  considerable 
basin.  Stalk  :  generally  short  and  stout,  but  sometimes  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in 
a  narrow  and  rather  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  rather  coarse  grained,  and  gritty  on  some  soils, 
with  a  sweet  abundant,  and  very  richly  sugared  juice.  It  has  a  high  perfume  but  not  so  much  so  as 
the  Seckle. 

An  excellent  pear,  in  season  the  end  of  September  and  November. 

The  tree  makes  a  good  pyramid  on  the  quince.  It  bears  so  freely,  that  the  tree  is  apt  to  be 


small. 


PLATE  LXX. 


8.  COMTE  DE  LAMY. 

[Syn  :  Beurre  Curtet ;  Beurre  Quetelet ;  Dingier. \ 

This  variety  is  stated  to  have  been  raised  at  Jodoigne,  in  Belgium,  in  1882,  by  M.  Bouvier, 
and  originally  named  Beurri  Curtet ,  in  honour  of  his  friend  M.  Curtet. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  roundish  obovate.  Skin  :  yellowish  green,  with 
brownish  red  next  the  sun,  and  strewed  with  russety  dots.  Eye :  small,  set  in  a  slight  depression. 
Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  buttery,  melting,  sugary,  and 
richly  flavoured. 

A  small  but  delicious  pear,  ripe  in  October. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  a  good  bearer.  As  an  orchard  standard  on  the  crab  stock  it 
grows  healthily,  and  bears  an  abundance  of  fruit  of  the  first  quality.  The  young  trees  moreover 
come  very  early  into  bearing,  and  for  these  reasons  it  is  a  very  valuable  pear,  which  should  be 
grown  in  every  garden.  It  forms  an  excellent  bush,  or  pyramid,  on  the  quince  stock. 


PLATE  LXX. 


9.  DUCHESSE  DE  MARS. 

[Syn  :  Comtesse  de  Lunay. ] 

This  variety  is  said  to  be  a  seedling  from  the  Seckle  pear. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  size,  obovate.  Skin  :  yellow,  with  a  tinge  of  reddish  brown 
next  the  sun,  and  considerably  covered  with  brown  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  shallow 
depression.  Stalk:  an  inch  long,  inserted  on  the  surface  of  the  fruit.  Flesh:  buttery,  melting, 
juicy,  perfumed  and  well  flavoured. 

An  excellent  pear,  in  season  in  November. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  makes  an  excellent  pyramid  on  the  quince.  It  succeeds  well  also  as  a 
standard,  on  the  pear  stock,  and  in  all  forms,  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  LXXI. 


i.  QUEEN  OF  SAUCE. 

This  apple  is  occasionally  found  in  the  Herefordshire  orchards,  and  is  always  exhibited  at 
the  Hereford  Apple  Shows.  Its  origin  and  history  could  not  be  found. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  broad,  and  two  inches  and  a  half 
high,  obtuse,  ovate,  broad  and  flat  at  the  base,  narrowing  towards  the  crown,  and  angular  on  the 
sides.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  but  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun  it  is  flushed 
with  red,  which  is  marked  with  broken  streaks  of  deeper  red.  It  is  strewed  all  over  with  patches 
of  thin  delicate  russet,  aud  large  russety  specks,  those  round  the  eye  being  linear.  Eye  :  open,  set 
in  a  deep  and  angular  basin,  which  is  russety  at  the  base.  Stalk  :  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  long, 
deeply  inserted  in  a  round  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  coarse  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  crisp, 
juicy,  and  sugary,  with  a  brisk  and  pleasant  flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  of  the  best  quality,  in  season  from  November  to  January.  It  is  suitable 
also  for  the  dessert  in  December  and  January. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  bears  well.  It  should  be  grown  as  an  orchard  tree  on  the  crab  stock, 
when  it  will  prove  more  productive  than  when  its  growth  is  more  limited. 


Plate  LXXI 


'-P5X  •  X:.P-:^V-' 


;  :fy?.  .  ..hi mi w 


,  V.-:- 


- 

;  \  . 


G  Severeyns,  Chromohth  Brussels 


Edith  E. Bull. del 

for  The  Whoolhope  Cl-ab. 


c-' 


> 


> 


PLATE  LXXI. 


A  Nottinghamshire  apple.  Mr.  Pearson,  of  Chilwell,  writing  in  1869,  says,  “  My  father 
became  so  in  love  with  the  Bess  Pool  that  he  planted  it  largely.  He  used  to  tell  how  a  girl  named 
“  Bess  Pool  ”  found  in  a  wood  the  seedling  tree  full  of  ripe  fruit ;  how,  showing  the  apples  in  her 
father’s  house  (he  kept  the  village  Inn),  the  tree  became  known,  and  my  grandfather  procured 
grafts.  He  would  then  shew  the  seven  first  planted  trees  in  one  of  our  nurseries,  and  tell  how 
Loudon  had  been  to  see  them,  and  had  given  an  account  of  them  in  the  “  Gardener’s  Magazine 
make  his  visitors  try  to  clasp  round  their  body,  and  measure  the  space  covered  by  their  branches, 
He  would  then  boast  how  one  season,  when  apples  were  very  scarce,  the  fruit  of  these  trees  were 
sold  at  7s.  6d.  per  peck,  and  made  £jo — or  an  average  of  £10  a  tree.” 

Description . — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  nearly 
three  inches  high,  conical,  and  handsomely  shaped.  Skin  :  yellow,  with  a  few  markings  of  red  on 
the  shaded  side  ;  but  when  exposed  to  the  sun  it  is  almost  entirely  marked  and  striped  with 
fine  clear  red.  Eye  :  small  and  partially  open,  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  plaited  basin,  which  is 
surrounded  with  fine  prominent  knobs  or  ridges.  Stalk :  short  and  thick,  inserted  in  a  rather 
shallow  cavity,  with  generally  a  fleshy  protuberance  on  one  side  of  it,  and  surrounded  with  yellowish 
brown  russet,  which  extends  over  a  considerable  portion  of  the  base.  Flesh  :  white,  tender,  and 
juicy,  with  a  fine  sugary  and  vinous  flavour. 

A  handsome  and  excellent  apple,  either  for  culinary  or  dessert  purposes,  when  others  are 
gone  by.  It  is  in  season  from  November  to  March,  and  well  kept,  will  last  almost  until  May.  It 
sells  well  in  the  market.  “  Before  the  duty  on  foreign  apples  was  taken  off,”  says  Mr.  Pearson, 
“  it  would  fetch  5s.  a  peck,  now  (1869),  I  am  selling  it  at  is.  the  peck.” 

The  tree  grows  freely  and  to  a  large  size,  but  it  is  a  very  uncertain  bearer  until  it  is  old.  It 
blossoms  very  late,  and  the  blossoms  are  not  liable  to  be  injured  by  frost,  but  they  are  so  crowded 
in  clusters,  and  the  stalks  are  so  slender  and  weak,  that  they  are  very  liable  to  be  attacked  and 
destroyed  by  Aphis,  or  Honey  dew.  “  It  is  therefore,”  says  Mr.  Pearson,  “  anything  but  a 
profitable  tree  to  plant.” 


PLATE  LXXI. 


3.  NEW  BESS  POOL. 

This  variety  was  raised  in  the  North  of  England  at  the  beginning  of  this  century,  and 
is  supposed  to  be  a  seedling  from  the  original  Bess  Pool ,  (Ronalds). 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  round,  and  somewhat  angular,  three  inches  wide 
by  two  and  a  half  inches  high  ;  roundish  oblate,  even  and  regular  in  shape.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow 
red,  with  streaks  of  a  dull  and  deeper  red  colour,  almost  approaching  mahogany  colour  on  the  side 
next  the  sun,  growing  less  coloured  on  the  shaded  side  until  a  few  blotches  or  streaks  of  crimson 
only.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  small  and  deep  basin  which  is  slightly  irregular.  Stalk  : 
short  and  fleshy,  frequently  a  round  knob,  often  connected  by  a  fleshy  projection  to  the  base  of  the 
apple.  It  is  set  in  a  broad  and  shallow  cavity,  lined  with  russet,  which  radiates  by  streaks  over 
the  base  of  the  apple.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  sweet,  crisp,  juicy  and  of  good  flavour. 

An  excellent,  long  keeping,  culinary  apple,  firm  in  flesh,  and  in  season  from  January  to 
March,  or  April. 

The  tree  grows  to  a  large  size,  and  droops  its  boughs.  It  is  very  late  in  coming  into  blossom 
and  is  therefore  seldom  without  a  crop  of  fruit.  For  these  reasons,  and  its  handsome  appearance 
and  good  keeping  qualities,  it  is  a  profitable  market  apple. 


PLATE  LXXI. 


4.  MINCHALL  CRAB. 

[Syn  :  Minshull  Crab  ;  Minchains  Crab  ;  Minchin  Crab ;  Lancashire  Crab  ;  Lancaster  Crab.\ 

This  apple  received  its  name  from  the  village  of  Minchall  in  Cheshire,  where,  according  to 
Rogers,  the  original  tree  existed  in  1777.  It  is  figured  in  Brookshaw’s  “  Pomona  Britannica ,” 
Plate  XCIII. 

Description. — -Fruit :  above  medium  size,  three  inches  wide,  and  two  and  a  half  inches  high  ; 
roundish  and  considerably  flattened,  almost  oblate.  Not  unlike  the  Blenheim  Orange  in  shape,  but 
more  flat.  Skin  :  yellow,  covered  with  dark  dots,  and  a  few  veins  of  russet ;  russety  over  the  base, 
and  marked  with  broken  stripes  and  mottles  of  pale  crimson  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  large 
and  open,  with  short  and  rugged  segments,  set  in  a  wide,  shallow,  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  half 
an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  rather  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  firm,  crisp,  and  juicy,  with  a  rough 
and  sharp  acid  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  November  to  March.  “  One  of  the  best  sauce 
apples  that  grows,”  says  Brookshaw.  “It  has  a  brisk  tartness  of  taste,  that  gives  it  a  very  agreeable 
flavour  in  a  pie  ;  and  it  does  not  lose  its  substance  in  baking  or  boiling  so  much  as  many  others,  and 
will  keep  considerably  longer  than  most  baking  apples.” 

The  tree  is  very  robust  and  hardy,  not  subject  to  canker,  or  the  attacks  of  insects.  It  bears 
regularly  and  abundantly. 


PLATE  LXXI. 


5.  BRABANT  BELLEFLEUR. 

[Syn  :  Glory  of  Flanders  ;  Iron  Applel\ 

The  variety  was  forwarded  to  the  gardens  of  the  London  Horticultural  Society,  by  Messrs. 
Booth,  of  Hamburgh,  in  the  early  part  of  the  present  century. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  wide,  and  three  and  a  quarter  high  ; 
roundish  ovate,  inclining  to  oblong  or  conical,  ribbed  on  the  sides,  and  narrowing  towards  the  eye. 
Skin  :  greenish  yellow,  changing  to  lemon  yellow  as  it  attains  maturity,  and  striped  with  red  next 
the  sun.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  with  long,  broad  segments,  set  in  a  wide  and  angular  basin.  Stalk  : 
short,  inserted  in  a  deep  and  wide  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  brown  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white, 
firm,  crisp  and  juicy,  with  a  sugary,  aromatic,  and  pleasantly  subacid  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple  of  the  finest  quality.  It  is  in  season  from  November  to  April. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  though  not  strong,  is  a  healthy  grower.  It  attains  the  middle  size  and 
bears  well. 


PLATE  LXXI. 


6.  HAMBLEDON  DEUX  ANS. 

[Syn  :  Dusand  ;  Dew  sum  ;  few  sums 

This  variety  is  supposed  to  have  originated  about  the  middle  of  last  century  (c.  1750),  at 
Hambledon,  a  village  in  Hampshire,  where  there  are  several  trees  of  great  age  now  in  existence. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  wide,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  high  ;  roundish, 
rather  broadest  at  the  base.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  and  dull  red,  streaked  with  broad 
stripes  of  deeper  and  brighter  red,  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  rather 
shallow  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  firm,  crisp,  not 
very  juicy,  but  richly  and  briskly  flavoured. 

One  of  the  most  valuable  of  culinary  apples.  It  has  a  peculiar  and  distinct  flavour  not 
unworthy  of  the  dessert  table.  It  is  in  season  from  January,  to  May  or  June.  It  keeps  excellently, 
and  may  be  preserved  with  care  for  a  couple  of  years  as  its  name  denotes.  This  is  a  very 
favorite  apple  with  the  Sheffield  fruiterers,  who  purchase  it  readily  in  March,  or  April,  at  5s.  the 
14  lbs. 

The  tree  attains  above  the  medium  size.  It  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  well.  It  flourishes  in 
the  more  northerly  districts  of  England. 


PLATE  LXXI. 


The  origin  of  this  variety  is  not  given  in  the  leading  pomological  works.  It  is  thought  to 
be  a  Norfolk  apple,  and  in  that  county  it  is  commonly  grown  in  the  cottage  gardens. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  three  quarters  broad,  and  three  inches  high  ; 
roundish,  somewhat  oblate,  but  broadest  at  the  base,  and  considerably  flattened  at  the  ends.  Skin  : 
yellowish  green  in  the  shade,  but  tinged  with  red  next  the  sun,  interspersed  with  a  few  streaks  of 
red,  and  covered  in  some  places  with  patches  of  fine  russet.  Eye  :  large  and  open,  set  in  a  rather 
deep  and  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  firm, 
crisp,  rich,  and  juicy,  with  a  pleasant  sub- acid  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  during  November  and  December,  or  later  still. 

The  tree  is  a  strong,  healthy,  and  vigorous  grower,  and  an  excellent  bearer. 


Plate.  L  XX 1 1 


G.  Severeyns ,  Chromolith .  Brussels 


Edith  E. Bull. del 

for  The  Whoolhope  Club 


PLATE  LXXII. 


i.  CARRION  APPLE. 

[Syn  :  Kempley  Red.~\ 

This  variety  takes  its  name  in  the  Pyon  district  of  Herefordshire,  from  the  fact  of  one 
of  the  oldest  trees  being  used  to  hang  the  dogs  meat  on.  It  has  been  exhibited  in  the  Hereford 
Apple  Shows  under  the  name  of  Kempley  Red. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  oblong,  and  regular  in  shape.  Skin  :  with  a  yellowish  green 
coloured  ground  in  the  shade,  but  the  whole  surface  is  nearly  covered  with  crimson,  which  becomes 
very  dark  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  with  splashes  of  a  deeper  shade  all  over  the  fruit.  Eye  : 
small  and  closed,  level  with  the  surface.  Stalk  :  long  and  slender,  inserted  in  a  very  small  and 
narrow  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellow,  pink  tinted  near  the  skin.  Juice  :  small  in  quantity,  of  full  amber 
colour,  viscid,  sweet,  with  some  astringency. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (1883)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ...  ...  ...  1*050 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ...  ...  1*050 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  1 2 ’800 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  1*500 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  85700 

The  tree  grows  to  a  medium  size,  and  is  very  prolific. 


PLATE  LXXII. 


2.  RED  SPLASH. 

[Syn  :  Rolling  s  Kernel .] 

The  origin  of  this  pretty  variety  is  nowhere  given,  though  it  is  extensively  cultivated  in  some 
Worcestershire  orchards. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  roundish  oblate,  and  regularly  formed.  Skin  :  golden  yellow, 
with  a  few  streaks  of  crimson  on  the  shaded  side,  and  completely  covered  with  crimson  on  the  side 
exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  with  divergent  segments,  reflexed  at  the  top,  set  in  a  wide  and  saucer¬ 
like  basin.  Tube,  short,  funnel  shaped  ;  stamens  medium.  Stalk  :  a  quarter  to  half  an  inch  long, 
slender,  and  set  in  a  pretty  wide  cavity.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  juicy,  sweet,  and  agreeably  flavoured, 
but  with  considerable  astringency.  Cells  :  open,  cell  walls,  roundish,  inclining  to  obovate. 

This  small  apple  is  a  valuable  early  cider  fruit. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  ( 1 88 1 )  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ...  ...  ....  1*042 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ...  ...  1*043 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  9*600 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ....  ...  ...  4*790 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  85*610 

The  tree  makes  a  sturdy  standard  of  small  size.  It  is  very  hardy  and  prolific.  It  is  grown 
very  much  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  Malvern  Hills  ;  and  the  fruit  from  the  parish  of  Newland 
finds  a  ready  sale,  it  is  said,  for  the  manufacture  of  “  Real  Chutnee  Sauce.” 


PLATE  LXXII. 


3.  HAGLOE  CRAB. 

This  fruit  originated  at  Hagloe,  in  the  parish  of  Awre,  Gloucestershire,  and  was  first  brought 
into  notice  by  Mr.  Bellamy  who  lived  there.  Marshall  in  his  “  Rural  Economy  of  Gloucestershire,” 
states  that  it  was  raised  from  seed  about  the  year  1720,  but  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight  in  the 
“Pomona  Herefordiensis,”  1811,  thinks  that  the  excellence  of  the  apple  was  only  then  first 
discovered,  for  his  friends  had  sought  in  vain  many  years  before  for  the  original  tree  at  Awre.  A 
coloured  illustration  is  given  by  Mr.  Knight,  Plate  V.,  of  this  apple. 

Description. — Fruit :  small,  ovate,  narrowing  above  and  below,  but  very  irregular  in  shape, 
being  usually  much  more  full  on  one  side  than  the  other.  Skin  :  pale  yellow,  with  an  orange  tint 
on  the  side  next  the  sun,  with  distinct  crimson  spots  irregularly  placed,  and  with  occasional  cob-web 
streaks  of  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  reflexed  segments,  very  slightly  depressed,  and 
surrounded  with  five  or  more  small  distinct  tubercles.  Stalk  :  thin,  half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  very 
narrow  cavity,  lined  with  thin  pale  russet.  Flesh  :  white,  moderately  firm.  Juice  :  plentiful,  pale 
amber,  sweetish  and  subacid,  with  some  astringency. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (1882)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ...  ...  ....  i’057 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure...  ..  ...  i‘o57 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ....  ...  ...  10700 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ....  ....  ...  2'iio 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  .... 

The  Hagloe  Crab  seems  to  have  disappeared  from  Herefordshire,  for  it  has  never  once  been 
shown  at  any  of  the  apple  shows  of  the  last  five  years.  It  is  still  to  be  found  in  the  parishes  of 
Minsterworth,  Westbury-on-Severn,  Longney  and  Elmore,  in  Gloucestershire. 


PLATE  LXXII. 


4.  RED  BUD. 

Red  Bud  is  a  favourite  name  in  the  Herefordshire  orchards,  for  red  coloured,  and  otherwise 
unnamed  fruit.  At  every  apple  show,  three  and  sometimes  four  distinct  apples  have  been  shown 
under  this  name.  There  is  nothing  known  definitely  of  the  origin  of  any  of  them.  They  are 
probably  seedlings  from  the  orchard  nursery,  and  propagated  from  their  colour,  and  from  bearing 
virtues. 


Description. — Fruit :  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  with  obtuse  angles,  extending  nearly  to 
the  base.  Skin  :  smooth,  bright  red,  much  deeper  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  It  is,  however, 
puckered  in  lines  about  the  eye,  and  they  sometimes  run  down  the  ribs  to  the  base.  Eye  :  closed, 
with  reflex  segments,  slightly  depressed,  in  a  basin  puckered  with  folds  of  the  skin  as  well  as  slight 
fleshy  tubercles.  Stalk  :  thin,  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cavity,  lined  with  russet. 
Flesh  :  yellow,  tinged  with  red  for  some  distance  from  the  skin,  soft,  with  a  slightly  acidulated  taste. 
Juice  :  of  full  amber  colour,  viscid,  and  not  abundant,  sweet,  with  slight  astrigency. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (1883)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ...  ...  ...  1-058 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ...  ...  1*060 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  1 1 -120 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  2-080 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  86‘8oo 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  to  the  full  medium  size,  and  bears  profusely. 


PLATE  LXXII. 


5.  TANNER’S  RED. 

This  apple  is  without  any  known  history.  It  is  grown  very  much,  and  seems  to  have 
originated  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Canon  Pyon. 

Description. — Fruit  :  below  medium  size,  oblong.  Skin  :  more  or  less  red  on  the  whole 
surface,  but  much  more  deeply  so  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  everywhere  marked  with  thin 
stripes  of  a  deeper  colour.  Eye  :  closed,  set  in  a  small  and  very  puckered  basin.  Stalk  :  slender, 
half  an  inch  long,  and  set  in  a  narrow  cavity,  which  is  usually  lined  with  russet.  Juice  :  plentiful, 
rosy  amber,  subacid,  with  some  astringency. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (1883)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ...  ...  ...  1*060 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ...  ...  1*060 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  11-424 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  2*176 

Water  ....  ...  ...  ...  86*400 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  bears  an  abundance  of  late-keeping  fruit. 


\o 


PLATE  LXXII. 


6.  COCCAGEE. 

[Syn  :  Cocko  Gee  ;  Cockageei] 

A  very  old  variety,  believed  to  be  of  Irish  origin,  but  its- real  history  seems  lost.  It  is  said 
to  have  been  “  brought  into  Somersetshire  by  Counsellor  Pyne,  a  gentleman,  who  resided  near 
Exeter,  and  who  had  the  care  of  Mr.  William  Courtenay’s  Estates  in  Ireland.”  Treatise  on  Cyder 
Making ,  by  Hugh  Stafford,  of  Pynes  (1753). 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  size,  very  variable  in  shape,  but  usually  ovate.  Skin  :  yellow 
in  the  shade,  marked  with  green  specks,  with  a  deep  blush  of  red  next  the  sun.  A  reddish  tint  is 
often  spread  over  the  whole  fruit  and  not  unfrequently  patches  of  thin  russet.  Eye  :  small  and 
closed,  set  in  a  narrow  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow  but  rather  deep  cavity, 
frequently  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  firm  and  crisp.  Juice  :  moderately  plentiful, 
of  an  amber  colour,  and  a  harsh  austere  taste. 

A  very  old  and  highly  esteemed  variety  for  culinary  purposes,  and  especially  for  baking, 
when  it  possesses  a  peculiarly  rich  flavour.  “  This  apple  ”  says  Brookshaw,  “  triumphs  over  all  others 
in  sauce,  tarts  and  pies,  as  much  as  its  juice  does  in  cider.  No  cook  would  ever  make  use  of  any 
other  apple  if  he  could  get  this.  It  is  so  extremely  rough  and  tart  that  it  would  be  almost 
impossible  to  eat  one  raw.”  It  is  in  season  from  October,  to  February  and  March. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  juice  (1880)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ...  ...  ...  1*052 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ..  ..  1*058 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ....  ...  ...  ...  9*080 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  7*820 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  83*100 

As  a  cider  fruit,  it  has  long  possessed  the  highest  repute.  The  Coccagee  apple  was  the 


PLATE  LXXII. 


favourite  cider  apple  of  Devonshire  at  the  beginning  of  the  present  century.  There  was  a  celebrated 
orchard  at  Heathfield,  near  Milverton,  from  which  it  is  said  that  the  cider  was  supplied  by  a 
Rev.  Mr.  Cornish,  for  the  Queens  household,  at  £10  ios.  the  hogshead.  “I  find  nothing 
extraordinary  in  it”  says  Mr.  Stafford  in  his  book  on  Cyder  Making  (1753),  “  ’tis  true  it  has  a 
vinous  pipinary  golden  flavour,”  and  so  authorities  differ.  The  analysis,  however,  proves  its  merit. 

The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  well,  but  it  has  not  been  much  cultivated  of  late  years. 


PLATE  LXXII. 


7.  GARTER  APPLE. 

This  variety  is  spoken  of  by  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  at  the  beginning  of  the  century, 
as  a  comparatively  new  apple  “  much  cultivated  during  the  decay  of  the  older,  and  more  valuable 
varieties.”  It  is  figured  on  Plate  xxvi.,  in  the  “  Pomona  Herefordiensis.” 

Description. — Fruit:  full  medium  size,  two  and  a  half  inches  high,  and  the  same  measurement 
in  breadth,  smooth  and  evenly  shaped,  broad  at  the  base  and  tapering  towards  the  crown.  Skin  : 
smooth,  yellow  in  the  shade,  with  a  warm  crimson  blush  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  broken 
streaks  of  a  much  deeper  colour,  spotted  over  with  numerous  very  small  dark,  or  red  specks.  Eye  : 
small  and  open,  deeply  sunk  in  a  narrow  cavity,  which  is  lined  with  very  pale  russet.  Flesh  :  soft 
and  white.  Juice  :  moderate  in  quantity,  of  a  rich  amber  colour,  sweet,  subacid,  astringent,  and  rich 
in  flavour. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  fresh  juice  (1883)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.  A.S.,  gave  the 
following  results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  .  .  ...  ...  1*063 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ...  ....  1*064 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ..  ...  ...  ...  12*540 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  & c.  ...  ...  ...  2*260 

Water  ...  ....  ....  ..  ...  85*200 

A  favourite  fruit  in  the  Herefordshire  orchards.  Very  attractive  in  colour.  It  is  used  as  a 
dessert  as  well  as  a  cider  fruit.  Mr.  Knight  made  the  specific  gravity  of  the  juice  to  be  1*066  in  a 
favourable  season. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  abundantly. 


PLATE  LXXII. 


8.  FOREST  STYRE. 

[Syn  :  Stire ;  Stirom.~\ 

A  fine  old  Gloucestershire  cider  apple,  extensively  cultivated  on  the  thin  light  limestone  soil 
of  the  Forest  of  Dean.  Its  origin  is  lost.  It  is  mentioned  by  Philips  the  cider  poet. 

“  Stirom  firmest  Fruit, 

Embottled  (long  as  Priameian  Troy 
Withstood  the  Greeks )  endures,  e’er  justly  mild. 

Softened  by  age,  it  youthful  Vigour  gains, 

Fallacious  drink  !  Ye  honest  men  beware  !” 

Philips  “  Cyder” 

Description. — Fruit:  below  medium  size,  roundish,  inclining  to  oblate,  regularly  and  handsomely 
shaped.  Skin  :  pale  yellow,  with  a  blush  of  orange  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  numerous 
small  russet  spots,  scattered  over  the  surface.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  short  obtuse  segments, 
and  set  in  a  narrow  basin,  more  or  less  plaited.  Stalk  :  short,  in  a  narrow  deep  cavity,  lined  with 
russet  throughout,  and  which  spreads  from  it  over  the  base  of  the  apple.  Flesh  :  yellow,  dry  and 
harsh.  Juice  :  small  in  quantity,  pale  straw  colour,  changing  to  deep  amber,  with  a  remarkably 
sweet  luscious  flavour  and  some  astringency. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  fresh  juice  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the  following 
results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ...  ....  ....  1*073 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ...  ...  1*074 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ....  i4,ooo 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  3*300 

Water  ...  ...  ...  ....  82700 

“  The  Forest  Stire  ”  says  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  “  is  almost  universally  supposed  to 

afford  a  stronger  cider  than  any  other  kind  of  apple.”  Ide  found  its  specific  gravity  to  be  as  high 

“  as  1  '076  to  1*081  according  to  the  soil  it  grows  in.” 

The  trees  grow  with  numerous  upright  shoots,  like  a  pollard  willow,  and  are  not  renowned 
forbearing  well.  Marshall  in  his  “  Rural  Economy”  (1796)  speaks  of  this  variety  as  decaying 
rapidly. 

There  are  but  very  few  trees  left  in  Gloucestershire  at  this  time,  and  it  will  be  a  special 
object  of  the  Woolhope  Club  to  have  it  propagated. 


PLATE  LXXII. 


The  origin  of  this  variety  is  not  known.  It  is  a  favourite  apple  in  the  Herefordshire 
orchards,  and  is  widely  grown  through  the  country. 

Description. — Fruit:  medium  size,  roundish  oblate,  with  five  or  more  obtuse  angles  at  the 
side.  Skin  :  almost  entirely  covered  with  red,  becoming  much  darker  on  the  side  towards  the  sun, 
and  everywhere  shewing  numerous  small  yellow  spots.  Eye  :  partially  open  with  reflexed 
segments,  set  in  a  narrow  basin,  more  or  less  irregular.  Stalk  :  slender,  more  than  half  an  inch 
long  and  set  in  a  deep  and  narrow  cavity,  lined  with  russet.  Flesh  :  deeply  stained  red  from  the 
skin  to  the  outside  core  lines.  Juice  :  plentiful,  of  a  deep  rose  amber  colour,  sweet,  with  some 
roughness  of  taste. 

The  chemical  analysis  of  the  fresh  juice  (1883)  by  Mr.  G.  H.  With,  F.R.A.S.,  gave  the 
following  results  : — 

Density  of  the  fresh  filtered  juice  ....  ...  ...  1*040 

Ditto  ditto  after  24  hours’  exposure  ...  ...  1*043 

One  hundred  parts  of  the  juice  by  weight  yielded  of — 

Sugar  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  10700 

Tannin,  Mucilage,  Salts,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  2*380 

Water  ..  ...  ...  ...  ...  86*920 

The  tree  grows  to  a  large  size,  and  bears  an  abundance  of  its  highly  coloured  fruit. 


Plate  LXXII1 


7.  Lord  Derby. 


8 .  Br amley's  Seedling . 


Severeyns,  ChromolitK.  Brussels 


lor 


Edith  E. Bull. del 

The  Whoolhope  Club 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


i.  FROGMORE  PROLIFIC. 

This  variety  was  raised  in  the  gardens  at  Frogmore  (c.  1865)  by  the  late  Mr.  Ingram,  the 
head  gardener. 

Description. — Fruit:  large,  roundish,  tapering  towards  the  eye,  very  regular  in  outline. 
Skin  :  smooth,  of  a  pale,  greenish  yellow,  slightly  streaked,  and  shaded  with  crimson  on  the  side 
next  the  sun.  Eye  :  rather  small  and  closed,  in  a  deeply  sunk  regular  basin.  Stalk  :  long,  slender, 
and  very  deeply  inserted.  Flesh  :  white,  very  tender,  juicy,  and  sweet. 

A  culinary  apple  of  excellent  flavour,  “  one  of  the  finest,  which  is  sent  into  the  Royal 
household.”  It  is  in  season  from  September  to  Christmas. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  very  prolific,  in  almost  all  seasons,  “  one  of  the  surest  bearing  and 
best  of  autumn  cooking  apples.” 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


2.  SMALL’S  ADMIRABLE. 

This  apple  was  raised  by  Mr.  F.  Small,  Nurseryman,  of  Colnbrook,  near  Slough  (c.  1850). 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  roundish  ovate  and  flattened,  obtusely  angular  on 
the  sides.  Skin  :  of  an  uniform  lemon  yellow  colour  when  ripe.  Eye  :  small,  closed,  and  set  in  a 
rather  deep  basin.  Stalk :  an  inch  long,  slender.  Flesh  :  yellowish,  firm,  crisp,  sweet,  and 
agreeably  acid  with  a  delicate  perfume. 

An  excellent  kitchen  and  dessert  apple,  in  season  during  November  and  December.  The 
fruit  bears  a  close  ressemblance  to  the  Stirling  Castle  apple. 

The  tree  has  naturally  a  dwarf  bushy  habit.  If  grafted  on  the  paradise  stock,  and  grown  as 
a  dwarf  bush,  it  comes  easily  into  bearing,  and  bears  very  freely.  It  is  ill  adapted  for  pruning,  for 
it  bears  chiefly  at  the  ends  of  the  young  shoots,  instead  of  on  spurs.  It  is  an  excellent  variety 
for  cottage  growth. 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


The  origin  of  this  apple  is  not  known.  It  has  probably  been  cultivated  for  many  years, 
although  only  recently  brought  into  notice  by  Mr.  George  Bunyard,  of  Maidstone. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  broad,  by  two  inches  and  a  half  high, 
oblate  and  symmetrical  in  outline,  but  with  broad  prominent  angles  around  the  eye,  and  extending 
down  the  sides  to  the  base.  Skin  :  smooth,  pale  green,  browning  yellow  at  full  maturity,  with 
small  distinct  white  spots  or  with  minute  dots  of  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  with  segments 
upright  in  the  centre,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep,  narrow,  and  irregular  basin.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch 
long,  swollen  at  the  end,  set  in  a  broad  and  deep  cavity.  Flesh  :  white,  crisp,  and  juicy,  with  a 
pleasantly  acid  flavour. 

A  very  valuable  culinary  apple,  the  largest  of  the  early  CocUins ,  in  season,  during  September 
and  October.  A  first  class  certificate  was  awarded  to  this  apple  at  the  “  National  Apple  Congress,” 
at  Chiswick,  in  October,  1883. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  and  bears  abundantly,  and  very  regularly.  It  succeeds  best  on  the 
paradise  stock  as  a  small  pyramid,  and  when  only  three  or  four  feet  high,  becomes  loaded  with 
fruit.  On  the  crab,  it  forms  fruit  buds  before  the  tree  is  made,  and  requires  constant  skilled 
attention  to  keep  up  the  proper  growth  of  the  tree  by  removing  the  fruit  blossoms. 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


4.  GOLDEN  SPIRE. 

The  origin  of  this  variety  seems  not  to  be  known.  Mr.  Richard  Smith,  of  Worcester,  met 
with  it  in  Lancashire,  where  it  is  greatly  cultivated,  about  twenty-five  years  ago,  and  has  since 
distributed  it  with  much  satisfaction. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large,  conical,  snouted,  ribbed  round  the  apex,  and  of  a  perfect  codlin 
shape.  Skin  :  smooth,  and  shining,  pale  straw  yellow  where  shaded,  but  of  a  thin  golden  colour, 
tinged  with  pale  orange,  where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Eye  :  rather  deeply  sunk  in  a  ribbed  and 
angular  basin  ;  segments,  divergent  and  pointed,  sometimes  quite  reflexed  ;  tube,  conical ;  stamens, 
basal.  Cells  :  open.  Stalk  :  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  set  in  a  deep  and  somewhat  uneven  cavity. 
Flesh  :  tender,  with  an  agreeable  acidity,  and  with  all  the  merits  of  a  fine  cooking  apple. 

A  fine,  solid  fleshed,  well  flavoured,  culinary  apple,  which  comes  into  season  in  August,  and 
will  continue  until  November,  December,  or  even  later,  if  well  kept. 

The  tree  grows  very  upright,  and  the  shoots  are  small,  giving  it  an  “Aspen-like  ”  appearance. 
It  bears  profusely,  and  is  a  worthy  rival  to  Lord  Snjjield ,  the  Keswick  Codlin ,  and  other  early 
culinary  apples,  with  the  additional  advantage  of  keeping  better.  It  is  a  favourite,  therefore,  for 
small  gardens  and  for  the  markets,  indeed  as  a  market  apple  it  can  scarcely  be  surpassed,  since  it 
combines  quantity  with  quality,  and  keeps  much  longer  than  all  other  early  varieties. 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


This  fruit  (which  is  represented  too  small  in  size  on  the  coloured  plate,)  is  an  old  orchard 
variety,  and  held  in  much  estimation. 

Description. — Fruit :  large,  three  inches  wide,  and  two  and  a  half  inches  high,  roundish,  and 
flattened,  obtusely  angular  on  the  sides  and  round  the  eye.  Skin  :  yellow,  with  tinges  and  broken 
stripes  of  pale  crimson  here  and  there ;  and  the  whole  surface  is  sprinkled  with  thin  patches  of  pale 
brown  russet.  Eye  :  open,  with  erect  pointed  segments,  set  in  a  pretty  deep  and  angular  basin. 
Stalk  :  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout,  and  inserted  in  a  deep  Nonpareil-\\ke  cavity.  Flesh  : 
yellow,  very  tender  and  juicy,  with  an  agreeable  acidity  and  good  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple,  in  season  from  November  till  February.  It  is  also  used  as  a 
dessert  apple,  but  is  not  of  the  first  quality  for  the  table. 

The  tree  is  hardy  and  well  adapted  for  orchard  growth  as  a  standard  tree,  when  it  is  very 
profitable,  as  a  steady  and  constant  bearer. 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


6.  SUGARLOAF  PIPPIN. 

[Syn  :  Hutchings  Seedling .] 

It  is  called  Hutchings’  seedling  from  having  got  into  the  hands  of  a  market  gardener  named 
Hutchings,  of  Kensington,  about  the  beginning  of  the  present  century. 

Description. — Fruit :  above  medium  size,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  wide,  and  three 
inches  high  ;  oblong.  Skin  :  clear,  pale  yellow,  becoming  nearly  white  when  fully  ripe.  Eye  :  set 
in  a  rather  deep,  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  deep,  and  regular  cavity. 
Flesh  :  white,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  brisk,  and  pleasantly  flavoured. 

An  excellent  early  culinary  apple,  attractive  in  appearance,  and  of  high  quality.  It  is  in 
season  through  August  and  the  beginning  of  September. 

The  tree  is  robust  and  full  of  foliage.  The  leaves  often  curl  up  so  as  to  show  the  glaucous 
under  surface.  It  bears  very  freely,  and  for  its  short  season,  is  a  fine  market  apple. 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


7.  LORD  DERBY. 

The  origin  of  this  apple  is  unknown.  It  has  probably  been  cultivated  in  the  orchards  for 
some  years,  without  special  notice. 

Description . — Fruit :  of  the  largest  size,  roundish,  with  prominent  ribs,  which  terminate  at 
the  crown  in  bold  ridges.  It  is  broad  at  the  base,  and  inclines  to  be  conical.  Skin  :  smooth  and 
shining,  of  a  dark  grass  green  colour,  strewed  with  a  few  russet  dots.  Eye  :  closed,  set  in  a 
deep,  angular  basin.  Stalk  :  very  short  and  stout.  Flesh  :  greenish  white,  delicate  and  tender, 
with  a  pleasant,  and  mild  acidity. 

One  of  the  finest  culinary  apples ;  in  season  from  October  to  Christmas, 

The  tree  is  robust  in  growth,  and  when  full  grown,  is  very  prolific. 


PLATE  LXXIII. 


8.  BRAMLEY’S  SEEDLING. 

This  apple  was  raised  from  seed  by  Mr.  Bramley,  of  Southwell,  some  years  ago,  and  was 
obtained  from  him  by  Mr.  Merryweather,  Southwell,  Notts,  who  issued  it  to  the  public  (c.  1876). 
It  has  been  highly  commended  by  the  Fruit  Committee  of  the  Royal  Horticultural  Society;  and  at 
the  National  Apple  Congress  at  Chiswick  in  October,  1883,  it  was  awarded  a  first-class  certificate. 

Description. — Fruit  :  large  and  handsome,  roundish  oblate,  even  in  outline,  but  with  four 
pretty  distinct  knobs  at  the  crown.  Skin  :  very  much  covered  with  a  tinge  of  pale  red,  which  is 
striped  with  darker  red,  but  when  shaded,  the  ground  colour  is  yellow.  Eye  :  rather  open,  with 
erect  convergent  segments,  which  are  reflexed  at  the  tips,  and  set  in  a  wide,  saucer-like  basin. 
Stalk  :  very  short,  sometimes  a  mere  knob.  Flesh  :  tender,  with  a  yellowish  tinge,  and  a  free  brisk 
acidity. 

An  excellent  kitchen  apple,  in  season  from  December  to  February.  A  good  market  apple, 
for  it  travels  well,  and  keeps  well. 

The  tree  is  very  robust  in  growth,  and  of  large  size.  It  makes  a  fine  standard  orchard  tree, 
and  this  is  its  proper  place.  It  is  very  hardy,  and  its  blossoms  seem  able  to  withstand  the  spring 
frosts  so  successfully,  that  it  is  a  constant  and  regular  bearer.  It  is  as  free  in  growth  as  the 
Blenheim  Orange ,  and  as  productive  as  Dumelow  s  Seedling ,  and  it  is  therefore  a  very  profitable 
variety  for  cultivation. 


Plate  LXXIV 


1 .  Pigeonnet 


'•V 


Colo-neT  PSSiiffaii 


6.  Tyler's  Kerne 


k  wr.  .  m 

8 .  Warper  Quaenm§ 


■ r,'..  ' 


Queemay 


Alice  B  Elh;,  flc  Eu:th  E 
for  The  V7ho.nl  hope  ■- 


... 


ford-sill  re 


wBs^iW! 


G  Severeyns,  Chromolith .  Brussels 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


i.  PIGEONNET. 

The  origin  of  this  pretty  French  apple  is  not  known. 

Description.  —  Fruit  :  Below  medium  size,  oblate-ovate.  Skin  :  pale  greenish  yellow  on  the 
shaded  side,  but  entirely  covered  with  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  being  striped  and  rayed  with 
darker  red,  some  of  the  stripes  extending  to  the  shaded  side.  Eye  :  small  and  open,  with  erect 
segments,  set  in  a  slightly  depressed  basin.  Stalk :  often  short  and  thick,  inserted  in  a  rather 
shallow  cavity.  Flesh  :  white  and  delicate,  of  an  agreeably  acidulated  and  perfumed  flavour. 

A  very  pretty  dessert  fruit,  but  not  of  high  quality.  It  is  in  season  during  August  and 
September. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  and  bears  well.  It  is  cultivated  chiefly  for  the  beauty  of  its  fruit  on  the 


table. 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


2.  API. 

[Syn  :  Lady  Apple  ;  Pomme  d'Api;  Api  Petit ;  Api  Rouge  ;  Petit  Api  Rouge  i\ 

According  to  Merlet,  the  Api  was  first  discovered  as  a  wilding  in  the  Forest  of  Api,  in 
Brittany. 

“  It  has  been  asserted,”  says  Dr.  Hogg,  “  that  this  apple  was  brought  from  Peloponnesus, 
to  Rome,  by  Appius  Claudius.”  Whether  this  be  true  or  not,  there  can  be  no  doubt  it  is  of  great 
antiquity,  as  all  the  oldest  authors  regard  it  as  the  production  of  an  age  prior  to  their  own. 
Dalechamp  and  Hardouin  are  of  opinion  that  it  is  the  Petisia  of  Pliny  ;  but  J.  Baptista  Porta 
considers  it  to  be  the  Appiana,  of  that  author  who  thus  describes  it,  “Odor  est  cotoneorum  magnitudo 
quse  Claudianis,  color  rubens.”  (Plinii  Hist.  Nat.  Lib.  xv.,  cap.  14.)  From  this  description  it  is 
evident  that  two  varieties  are  referred  to,  the  Appiana  and  Claudiana.  Such  being  the  case, 
J.  Baptista  Porta  says,  “  duo  sunt  apud  nos  mala,  magnitudine,  et  colore  paria  et  preciosa,  quorum 
unum  odorem  servat  cotoneorum,  alterum  minime.  Quod  odore  caret,  vulgo  dictum  Melo  rosa.  Id 
roseo  colore  perfusum  est,  mira  teneritudine  et  sapore,  minime  fugax,  pomum  magnitudine  media,  ut 
facile  cum  ceteris  de  principatu  certet,  nec  indignum  Claudii  nomine.  Hoc  Claudianum  dicerem  ” 
(Villae,  p.  278).  Mela  Rosa  may  possibly  be  the  Pomme  Rose  or  Gros  Api ;  and  if  so,  we  may  infer 
that  the  Api  is  the  Appiana ,  and  the  Gros  Api  the  Claudiana  of  Pliny.  This  however,  may 
be  mere  conjecture,  but  as  the  authority  referred  to  was  a  native  of  Naples,  and  may  be  supposed 
to  have  known  something  of  the  traditionary  associations  of  the  Roman  fruits,  it  has  been  deemed 
advisable  to  record  his  opinion  on  the  subject. 

“  The  Api  does  not  appear  to  have  been  known  in  this  country,  till  towards  the  end  of  the 
17th  century,  although  it  is  mentioned  by  most  of  the  early  continental  writers.”  It  is  first  noticed  by 
Worlidge,  who  calls  it  “  Pomme  Appeased  a  curious  apple,  lately  propagated,  the  fruit  is  small  and 
pleasant,  which  the  Madams  of  France  carry  in  their  pockets  by  reason  they  yield  no  unpleasant 
scent.  Lister,  in  his  “Journey  to  Paris”  (1698),  speaking  of  this  as  being  one  of  the  apples 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


served  up  at  dessert,  says,  “  also  the  Pomme  d'  Apis,  which  is  served  here  more  for  show  than  for 
use  ;  being  a  small  flat  apple,  very  beautiful,  and  very  red  on  one  side,  and  pale  or  white  on  the 
other,  and  may  serve  ladies  at  their  toilets  as  a  pattern  to  paint  by.”  De  la  Ouintinye  calls  it,  “  Une 
pomme  des  Demoiselles  et  de  bonne  compagnie.” 

“There  are  other  varieties  mentioned  by  J.  Baptista  Porta,  as  belonging  to  the  Api  family  ; 
one  which  ripens  in  August,  is  in  size  like  the  Claudiana  already  mentioned,  and  commonly  called 
the  Melo  Appio  Rosso,  because  it  retained  the  scent  of  the  Api ;  this  is  probably  the  Rother 
Sommer-api,  of  Diel.”  There  is  another  Api,  of  which  he  says,  “  Assererem  tuto  esse  Melapium 
Plinii ,”  and  which  was  held  in  such  estimation  as  to  give  rise  to  the  proverb — 

“  Omne  malum  malum  praeter  appium  malum.” 

This  beautiful  little  apple  has  been  represented  in  almost  all  the  illustrated  Pomological 

works. 

Description. — Fruit  :  very  small,  oblate.  Skin  :  thick,  smooth,  and  shining,  yellowish  green 
in  the  shade,  changing  to  pale  yellow  as  it  attains  maturity  ;  and  deep  glossy  red,  approaching  to 
crimson,  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Eye  :  small,  set  in  a  rather  deep  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  : 
short,  and  deeply  inserted.  Flesh  :  white,  crisp,  tender,  sweet,  very  juicy,  and  slightly  perfumed. 

A  beautiful  little  dessert  apple,  in  season  from  October  to  April.  It  should  be  eaten  with 
the  skin  on,  since  it  is  there  that  the  perfume  is  contained.  The  skin  is  very  sensitive  of  shade,  and 
any  device  may  be  formed  upon  it  by  causing  pieces  of  paper,  cut  in  the  form  of  the  design  required, 
to  adhere  to  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun,  before  it  has  attained  its  deep  red  colour. 

Under  the  name  of  Lady  Apple ,  large  quantities  of  the  Api  are  annually  imported  to  this 
country  from  the  United  States,  where  it  is  grown  to  a  great  extent,  and  produces  a  considerable 
return  to  the  growers,  as  it  always  commands  a  higher  price  than  any  other  fancy  apple  in  the 
market.  In  the  winter  months,  it  may  be  seen  encircled  with  various  coloured  tissue  papers, 
adorning  the  windows  of  the  leading  Fruiterers  in  Covent  Garden  Market. 

The  tree  is  pyramidal  in  growth,  healthy,  and  an  abundant  bearer.  It  succeeds  well  on  the 
doucin,  or  crab  stock,  in  almost  any  situation,  provided  the  soil  is  rich  and  loamy,  without  being  too 
light  or  dry.  It  is  best  adapted  for  pot  culture,  when  worked  on  the  French  paradise  stock.  The 
fruit  adheres  firmly  to  the  spurs,  and  resists  well  the  effects  of  high  winds. 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


[Syn  :  Pomme  de  Pigeon ;  Cceur  de  Pigeon  ;  Pigeon  Rouge  ;  Pomme  de  Jerusalem?^ 


The  origin  of  this  pretty  apple  is  not  known.  It  is  supposed  to  have  derived  its  chief  names 
from  a  fancied  resemblance  of  its  bloom  to  the  colour  of  a  dove,  or  of  its  shape  to  that  of  the  heart 
of  a  pigeon  ;  and  that  of  “ Pomme  de  Jerusalem ,”  from  the  core  having  four  cells,  disposed  in  the 
form  of  a  cross,  though  this  is  not  a  permanent  character,  since  the  cells  vary  in  number  from  three 
to  five. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  conical  and  angular.  Skin  :  membranous,  shining,  pale 
yellow,  with  a  greenish  tinge,  which  it  loses  as  it  attains  maturity ;  but  covered  with  fine  clear  red  on 
the  side  next  the  sun,  and  strewed  all  over  with  minute  russety  dots,  and  imbedded  white  specks  ; 
the  whole  surface  is  covered  with  a  bluish  bloom.  Eye  :  open,  with  erect  segments,  prominently 
set  in  a  narrow  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  very  short,  inserted  in  a  deep  and  russety  cavity.  Flesh  : 
white,  tender,  soft,  juicy,  and  pleasantly  flavoured,  though  not  at  all  rich. 

An  excellent  apple  for  all  culinary  purposes,  but  of  little  value  as  a  dessert  fruit.  It  is  in 
season  from  November  to  January. 

The  tree,  though  vigorous,  is  small,  with  long,  slender,  downy  shoots.  It  bears  regularly 
and  well.  In  storing  the  fruit,  care  must  be  taken  to  prevent  fermentation,  which  destroys  its 
pleasant  acidity. 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


4.  COWARNE  OUEENING. 

yn  :  Cowarne  Quoiningi\ 

This  apple  is  without  any  known  history.  It  is  a  local  variety,  and  takes  its  name  from  the 
village  of  Much  Cowarne  in  Herefordshire,  where  it  probably  originated.  Many  very  old  trees  are 
still  growing  there,  and  also  at  Castle  Froome,  and  in  the  surrounding  orchards. 

Description. — Fruit :  below  medium  size,  conical  but  apt  to  be  very  irregular  in  shape.  Skin  : 
greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  with  a  bright  crimson  tint  on  the  side  towards  the  sun,  which 
indeed  often  extends  over  the  whole  fruit.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  and  set  in  a  narrow  depression, 
often  very  irregular.  Stalk  :  short,  and  frequently  fleshy,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Flesh  : 
white,  firm,  crisp,  juicy,  and  very  sweet,  with  a  pleasant  but  peculiar  flavour. 

This  apple  is  highly  esteemed  in  Herefordshire  as  a  dessert  fruit,  and  is  in  season  from 
October  to  December.  “It  is  the  best  apple  that  grows,  for  flavour,”  said  one  of  its  admirers.  As 
a  cider  apple  it  is  also  highly  esteemed,  and  when  made  from  this  fruit  alone,  the  cider  is  often  sold 
at  2s.  the  gallon. 

The  tree  grows  well,  but  does  not  always  bear  well.  Many  young  trees  have  been  recently 
propagated,  and  are  in  a  flourishing  condition. 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


5.  COLONEL  VAUGHAN. 

[Syn  :  Vauris  Pippin  ;  Kentish  Pippin  ;  Red  Kentish  Pippin  ;  Pepping h\ 

A  very  old  and  favourite  apple,  first  mentioned  by  Ray,  and  enumerated  in  the  list  of  Leonard 
Meager,  in  1670,  as  one  of  the  varieties  then  cultivated  in  the  London  Nurseries. 

Description. — Fruit :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  broad,  and  two  inches  and 
a  half  high,  conical,  and  slightly  angular.  Skin  :  pale  yellow,  in  the  shade,  with  a  deep  red  colour 
on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  frequently  covering  almost  all  the  surface,  studded  with  specks,  which 
are  greenish  on  the  shaded  side,  and  yellowish  towards  the  sun.  Eye  :  small,  and  partially  open, 
set  in  a  wide,  shallow,  and  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short,  and  fleshy,  almost  imbedded  in  a  wide  and 
deep  cavity,  which  is  smooth,  or  rarely  marked  with  russet.  Flesh  :  yellowish  white,  delicate,  and 
very  juicy,  with  a  sweet,  and  briskly  acid  flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  of  excellent  quality,  in  season  from  October  to  January;  its  beauty,  when 
small  in  size,  as  it  often  is  from  an  abundant  crop,  frequently  causes  it  to  be  introduced  on  the 
dessert  table. 

Tree  :  hardy,  moderate  in  size,  and  a  great  bearer. 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


6.  TYLER’S  KERNEL. 

This  fruit  has  been  an  unrecorded  denizen  of  the  Herefordshire  orchards  for  a  long  period. 
It  was  brought  into  notice  by  the  Hereford  Fruit  Shows,  and  received  a  certificate  from  the  Royal 
Horticultural  Society  of  London,  in  October,  1883. 

Description.— Fruit :  large,  three  inches  wide,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  high,  conical,  larger 
on  one  side  than  the  other.  Skin  :  greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  with  a  blush  of  crimson 
on  the  side  next  the  sun,  and  with  broken  streaks  of  a  deeper  colour ;  these  streaks  appear  more 
faintly  over  the  general  surface  of  the  fruit.  Eye  :  closed,  set  in  a  narrow,  deep,  and  irregular  basin. 
Stalk  :  short,  half  an  inch  long,  set  in  a  narrow,  and  deep  cavity,  lined  with  russet,  which  russet 
spreads  in  streaks  over  the  base  of  the  apple.  Flesh  :  white,  moderately  firm,  sweet  and  pleasantly 
flavoured. 

The  fruit  is  in  season  from  October  to  December.  Its  chief  use  is  as  a  dessert  fruit,  and  it 
makes  a  handsome  dish  on  the  table.  It  has  been  called  a  conical  Blenheim  Orange ,  from  its 
resemblance  in  colour  to  this  fruit. 

The  tree  grows  freely,  and  bears  well.  It  is  best  grown  as  an  orchard  tree. 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


7.  HEREFORDSHIRE  QUEENING. 

[Syn  :  Summer  Queening,  or  Quoining ;  Crimson  Queening  ;  Scarlet  Queening  ;  Red  Queening. ~\ 

An  old  apple  widely  scattered  through  Herefordshire.  There  are  many  varieties  of 
Queening,  all  distinguished  by  their  angular  shapes,  and  generally  by  a  strong  aromatic  smell  and 
flavour.  This  and  the  Winter  Queening  retain  well  their  hold  in  popular  esteem. 

Description. — Fruit  :  above  medium  size,  conical,  and  more  or  less  angular.  Skin :  deep 
crimson  all  over,  except  a  small  portion  on  the  shaded  side,  which  is  pale  yellow  when  ripe.  Eye  : 
small  and  closed,  set  in  a  plaited  basin.  Stalk  :  short.  Flesh  :  white,  with  a  red  tinge  under  the 
skin,  tender,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  pleasant  aroma. 

A  variety  suitable  either  for  dessert,  or  for  kitchen  use,  and  not  of  the  highest  quality  for 
either.  It  is  in  season  from  October  to  December. 

The  tree  is  hardy,  grows  vigorously,  and  bears  well.  The  fruit  sells  well  in  the  market,  and 
hence  it  is  a  profitable  variety  to  grow. 


PLATE  LXXIV. 


8.  WINTER  QUEENING. 

[Syn  :  Quoining ;  Winter  Quoining ;  Dutch  Queeningl\ 

This  is  a  very  old  English  apple.  Dr.  Hogg  adopts  the  name  of  Quoining,  believing  the 
name  to  be  derived  from  the  word  “  Coin,”  or  “  Quoin,”  the  corner  stones  of  a  building,  because  of 
the  angles,  or  corners  on  the  sides  of  the  fruit.  John  Rea  in  his  “  Pomona”  says,  when  speaking 
of  this  apple,  “  it  succeeds  incomparably  on  the  paradise  apple,  as  the  colviele  (Calville)  and  all 
other  sorts  of  Oueenings  do,’  regarding  the  Calmlle  also  as  a  Queening ,  from  the  angularity  of  its 
shape. 

Description. — Fruit  :  medium  sized,  two  inches  and  a  quarter  wide,  and  rather  more  than 
two  inches  and  a  half  high  ;  conical,  distinctly  five  sided,  with  five  acute  angles,  extending  the  whole 
length  of  the  fruit,  and  terminating  at  the  crown  in  four  equal  prominent  knobs.  Skin  :  pale  green, 
almost  entirely  covered  with  red,  which  is  striped  and  mottled  with  deeper  red,  and  marked  on  the 
shaded  side  with  a  thin  coat  of  russet.  Eye  :  small  and  closed,  set  in  a  narrow  and  angular  cavity. 
Stalk  :  about  half  an  inch  long,  and  slender,  deeply  inserted  in  a  narrow  and  angular  cavity.  Flesh: 
greenish  yellow,  tender,  soft,  not  very  juicy,  but  sugary,  rich,  and  perfumed. 

A  good  old  apple,  suitable  either  for  dessert  or  culinary  purposes.  It  is  in  season  from 
November  to  May.  It  is  a  good  market  gardener’s  apple,  and  packs  well  for  long  carriage. 

“  In  the  17th  century  the  old  Quining  ”  says  Mr.  Thomas  Andrew  Knight,  “  was  highly 
estimated  as  a  cider  apple.”  The  density  of  the  expressed  juice,  was  found  to  be  1*073. 

The  tree  grows  very  large,  is  hardy,  and  bears  well,  but  it  is  not  much  propagated  now,  and 
most  of  the  existing  trees  are  very  aged. 


PLATE  LXXV. 


CRABS,  ORNAMENTAL  AND  USEFUL. 


1.  “A  sweet  nativity  of  flowers.” 

Herrick.  Hesperides ,  No.  142. 

2.  “  A  surfeit  of  the  sweetest  things.” 

Shakespeare.  Midsummer  Night's  Dream ,  II.  3. 

3.  “  Biscuits  and  wine,  with  cheese  of  Crabs  Siberian.” 

Anon.  Social  Chat. 

4.  “  Twin  sister  with  the  rubied  cherry.” 

Shakespeare.  Pericles,  V.  1. 

The  fruits  represented  in  this  Plate,  are  grown  as  much  for  their  beauty  in  blossom  and  in 
fruit,  as  for  their  usefulness  on  the  table,  or  in  the  sick  room.  They  are  so  hardy  and  prolific,  that 
they  will  flourish  and  bear  fruit  abundantly  in  cold,  exposed  situations,  that  would  be  fatal  to  most 
of  the  cultivated  apples.  There  are  numerous  varieties  of  these  cultivated  crabs  ;  and  they 
admit  of  being  multiplied  indefinitely  by  those  who  are  interested  in  growing  seedlings  ;  and 
especially  if  they  have  obtained  the  seeds  as  the  result  of  the  practice  of  hybridization.  Thus  large 
nursery  gardens  often  contain  varieties  peculiar  to  the  locality,  which  are  named  according  to  the 
fancy  of  the  grower. 

The  varieties  here  represented  are  : — 

1.  THE  SIBERIAN  CRAB  (Pyrus  baccata.) 

[Syn  :  Cherry  Apple ;  Cherry  Crab ;  Red  Siberian  Crab ;  Scarlet  Siberian  Crabi] 

2.  THE  TARTARIAN  CRAB. 

[Syn  :  Yellow  Siberian  Crab ;  Yellow  Fruited  Crabi 

3.  THE  SUPREME  CRAB. 

4.  THE  CRIMSON  CRAB. 

[Syn  :  American  Red  Crabi] 

5.  THE  AMERICAN  CRAB. 

6.  THE  TRANSPARENT  CRAB. 

7.  THE  PURPLE  CRAB. 

8.  OUARRENDEN  HYBRIDS. 

The  hardiness  of  the  Siberian  Crab  renders  it  a  favourable  fruit  to  use  in  hybridization.  The 
pretty  Qttarrenden  Hybrids  here  represented  were  raised  by  Mr.  Philip  Fry,  of  Addington  Park 


Plate  LXXV. 


Siberian  Crab 


2  Tar  tar  i  an  (leap 


4.  Crimson 


PtWtV' 


Supreme 


6.  Tran  sparer 


American 


rrenaen 


Bull,  del 


G  Severeyns,  Chromoltfh  Brussels 


for  The  Whoolhope  C 


PLATE  LXXV. 


Gardens,  near  Maidstone.  The  blossoms  of  the  Siberian  Crab  were  fertilized  by  pollen  from  the 
Devonshire  Quarrenden  apple  blossoms.  The  tree  takes  the  form  of  the  Quarrenden  in  growth, 
and  its  fruit  has  a  mixed  flavour  from  both  parents. 

“  Like  as  there  be  divers  apples  ....  so  there  be  sundry  ....  crabs,  whereof  to  write 
apart  were  to  small  purpose,  and  therefore  one  description  for  the  rest  shall  suffice  ”  says  Gerard. 
The  Siberian  Crab  was  introduced  into  England,  according  to  Loudon,  so  late  as  1758,  and  the 
varieties  represented  here,  with  many  others,  are  the  results  of  much  more  recent  cultivation.  They 
are  all  more  or  less  ornamental  trees,  beautiful  in  blossom  and  in  fruit,  and  thus  they  belong  to  the 
lawn,  the  shrubbery,  or  the  pleasure  ground. 

The  fruit  of  almost  all  the  varieties,  when  eaten  fresh  from  the  tree,  has  a  peculiar  flavour, 
and  a  sharp  acidulated  taste,  which  renders  it  very  refreshing  during  the  hot  weather  of  August  and 
September.  The  beauty  of  these  Crabs  often  introduces  them  to  the  dessert  table,  either  when 
newly  gathered,  or  when  preserved  whole,  as  a  rich  and  excellent  sweetmeat.  When  simply  boiled 
in  a  crust,  they  make  a  pudding  of  delicious  aroma  and  taste.  If  eaten  whole,  however,  whether 
in  a  fresh  state,  or  cooked,  the  core  and  pips  assert  themselves  so  very  prominently,  that  after 
boyhood,  a  very  small  allowance  usually  suffices. 

The  juice,  or  pulp  of  the  fruit,  when  prepared  as  a  jelly,  conserve,  or  cheese,  makes  a  rich 
and  delicious  sweetmeat,  retaining  the  peculiar  flavour  so  much  esteemed,  and  in  this  form  it  usually 
makes  its  appearance  on  the  dessert  table. 

A  refreshing  drink  for  the  sick  room  may  be  made  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  the  cooked 
and  broken  fruit,  and  allowing  it  to  cool. 

When  the  trees  are  plentiful,  the  fruit  may  also  be  used  with  apples  to  give  richness  and 
flavour  to  the  cider,  but  this  is  very  seldom  done  in  Herefordshire. 


PLATE  LXXVI. 


THE  MEDLAR  AND  THE  QUINCE. 

I.  MEDLAR. 

“  There’s  a  medlar  for  thee,  eat  it.” 

Shakespeare.  Timon  of  Athens ,  III.  2. 

“  You’ll  be  rotten  ere  you  be  half  ripe,  and  that’s 
the  right  virtue  of  the  medlar.” 

As  you  like  it,  III.  2. 

“  Now  will  he  sit  under  a  Medlar  tree, 

And  wish  his  mistress  were  that  kind  of  fruit, 

As  maids  call  medlars,  when  they  laugh  alone.” 

Romeo  and  Juliet ,  II.  1. 

“  Men  have  gathered  from  the  hawthorn’s  branch 
Large  Medlars  imitating  regal  crowns.” 

Philips. 

October  is  drawn  in  a  garment  of  yellow  and 
carnation,  with  a  basket  of  Services,  Medlars, 
and  Chesnuts.” 

Peacham  “  On  Drawing .” 

The  Medlar  ( Mespilus  Gerinctnica )  is  named  from  the  Saxon,  in  consequence  of  its  being 
used  to  make  the  fermented  wine,  Mead.  It  is  a  native  of  Europe,  and  several  varieties  are  known. 
The  two  following  are  the  best  and  most  profitable  : — 

1.  The  Nottingham  Medlar. 

[Syn  :  N arrozv-leaved  Dutch  ;  Small  Fruited, !] 

This  is  a  small  variety.  Its  fruit  rarely  exceeds  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  and  is 
turbinate  in  shape.  It  is  however  the  most  fruitful,  and  the  best  flavoured.  This  variety  is  at  once 
known  by  the  young  shoots  of  the  tree  being  downy. 

2.  The  Dutch  Medlar. 

[Syn  :  Broad-leaved  Dutch;  Large  Dutch;  Gros  Fruit ;  Gros  Fruit  Monstrueuxh\ 

This  is  the  largest  Medlar.  The  fruit  is  frequently  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter,  and  much 
flattened.  The  eye  is  open,  wide,  and  unequally  set,  extending  sometimes  to  the  extreme  margin 


Plate  I;  XXVI 


G.  Severeyns,  Chromol-Itli .  Brussels  - 


2.  Dutch  Medlar. 


Alice  B.  Elks  del. 
for  The  Woolkope  Club 


PLATE  LXXVI. 


of  the  fruit.  In  consequence  of  its  size,  this  variety  is  now  most  generally  grown,  but  it  is  neither  so 
hardy,  nor  so  fruitful.  Its  leaves  are  broader  and  larger,  and  the  young  shoots  of  the  tree  are 
smooth. 

Another  variety  generally  noticed  is  The  Stoneless  Medlar — [Syn  :  Sans  Noyau;  Sans 
Pepins\ — Tut  it  is  small  in  size  and  not  good  in  flavour,  so  that  it  is  little  more  than  a  botanical 
curiosity  from  being  usually  without  seeds. 

The  fruit  of  the  Medlar  should  be  gathered  when  the  first  sharp  frost  appears.  It  is  in 
season  in  November,  when  its  peculiar  shape  and  its  rich  brown  russety  colour  make  it  very 
ornamental  on  the  dessert  table.  It  has  a  brisk,  sharp,  pleasant  flavour,  which  is  highly  appreciated 
by  many  people.  The  fruit  is  also  used  for  making  jelly,  marmalade,  or  cheese,  which,  when  well 
made,  retains  the  peculiar  flavour  of  the  Medlar.  A  refreshing  drink  for  invalids  may  be  made  by 
pouring  boiling  water  over  crushed  Medlars  and  allowing  it  to  cool.  When  the  fruit  is  abundant,  an 
excellent  wine  may  also  be  made  from  its  fermented  juice. 

The  Medlar  tree  may  be  grown  from  seed,  but  the  different  varieties  are  usually  cultivated 
by  budding,  or  grafting  them  on  the  hawthorn,  and  a  division  hedge,  in  an  orchard,  or  nursery 
garden,  is  sometimes  utilized  in  this  way.  The  tree  when  properly  grown  as  a  standard — especially 
the  Nottingham,  or  N arrow-leaved  variety — often  takes  a  very  graceful  form  of  growth,  and  the 
Autumnal  tints  of  its  foliage  are  very  picturesque.  It  thus  deserves  a  place  in  the  shrubbery,  or 
the  lawn,  as  an  ornamental,  as  well  as  a  useful  tree. 


PLATE  LXXVI. 


II.  THE  OUINCE. 

[Pyrus  Cydonia .] 

“  Cana  . tenera  lanugine  mala.” 

Virgil.  Eel.  II.  51. 

(“  Apples  hoar  with  softest  down.”) 

“  Aurea  mala  ” — (Golden  Apples.) 

Ib.  Eel.  III.  71. 

“  Si  tibi  Cecropio  saturata  Cydonia  melle 

Ponentur,  dicas  hoec  melimela  licet.” 

Martial  XIII.  24. 

(“  With  Attick  honey  saturated, 

If  Quinces  should  be  brought  to  thee, 

Their  name  at  once  is  indicated, 

And  “  Honey  Apples  ”  it  must  be.” 

H.  W.  Phillott.) 

They  call  for  Dates  and  Quinces  in  the  pastry.” 

Shakespeare. — Romeo  and  Juliet  IV.  4. 

The  Quince  has  a  very  remote  and  romantic  history.  It  is  noticed  by  writers  from  the 
earliest  times.  It  has  been  supposed,  by  some,  to  have  been  the  Golden  Apple  of  the  Hesperides, 
so  famous  in  ancient  fable  ;  and  it  has  also  been  alleged  that  the  Golden  Fruit  thrown  by 
Hippomenes  to  Atalanta,  were  Quinces  ;  and  even  it  has  been  supposed  to  be  the  fruit  of  the 
forbidden  tree,  which  the  Jewish  traditions  expressly  describe  as  “  Golden.” 

The  Quince  was  thought  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans  to  be  the  emblem  of  love,  happiness, 
and  fruitfulness.  It  was  dedicated  to  Venus,  and  the  temples  of  that  goddess  at  Cyprus  and  Paphos 
were  decorated  with  it. 

The  Quince  grows  wild  abundantly  on  the  rocky  banks  of  the  Danube,  and  in  the  warmer 
parts  of  Europe.  In  Germany  it  has  become  naturalized  in  the  hedges  ;  and  in  this  country  it  is 
tolerably  hardy,  although  in  severe  winters  it  is  sometimes  much  injured  by  frost.  There  are  many 
varieties  cultivated,  but  they  are  all  closely  allied  to  each  other  in  character,  and  not  in  any  one  of 
them,  has  the  rough,  or  austere  taste  of  the  fruit  been  sufficiently  toned  down  by  cultivation,  to 
render  it  palatable  or  pleasant  to  eat  when  gathered  fresh  from  the  tree. 

The  three  principal  varieties  grown  in  this  country  are  : — 

1.  The  Apple-Shaped  Quince,  round  and  full  in  shape,  resembling  the  apple,  as  its  name 
states.  This  is  a  hardy  variety,  much  cultivated.  It  bears  an  abundance  of  fruit,  which  has  an 
excellent  flavour  when  cooked. 

2.  The  Pear-Shaped  Quince,  in  form  like  the  pear.  This  variety  is  the  one  represented 
on  the  Plate.  It  is  the  one  most  commonly  grown.  It  is  hardy  and  bears  well,  and  though  the 
fruit  is  not  so  succulent,  it  keeps  longer  than  the  Apple-Shaped  Quince.  The  tree  of  this  variety 


PLATE  LXXVI. 


is  often  extremely  ornamental,  and  when  laden  with  ripe  fruit,  it  forms  a  rich,  picturesque,  and 
beautiful  object  on  the  lawn,  in  the  shrubbery,  or  in  the  pleasure  ground. 

3.  The  Portugal  Quince.  This  variety  is  stronger  in  growth  than  either  of  the  preceding 
ones.  The  fruit  is  less  rough  in  flavour.  It  turns  to  a  rich,  deep,  red  colour  in  cooking,  and 
is  therefore  more  prized  for  making  marmalade  or  jam.  It  grows  too  freely  to  bear  well,  and 
consequently  is  not  so  profitable  to  grow  for  fruit.  This  very  luxuriance,  however,  gives  it  the  highest 
value  in  the  nursery  garden.  It  is  very  easily  propagated  by  cuttings,  suckers,  or  layers,  and  the 
young  trees  are  used  as  stocks,  to  bud  or  graft  pears  on,  for  the  purpose  of  forming  the  dwarf 
pyramidal  trees,  now  so  widely  grown. 

The  powerful  fragrance  and  flavour  of  the  Quince,  is  much  improved  by  keeping  the  fruit  for 
some  time  after  it  is  gathered  in  a  dry  airy  place.  Its  chief  uses  in  these  days  are,  when  fresh,  to  give 
flavour  by  adding  a  small  slice  or  two  to  apple  pies  and  puddings  ;  to  make  the  delicious  conserve, 
or  marmalade,  so  highly  appreciated  by  most  people  ;  and  sometimes,  when  they  are  plentiful,  a 
custom  is  borrowed  from  the  ancients,  and  they  are  made  into  wine  [kvSoovit^  oTvos). 

The  Quince  was  much  used  in  medicine  as  an  astringent,  a  stomachic,  a  remedy  against 
melancholy,  a  preservation  from  poison,  and  outwardly  to  encourage  the  growth,  or  restoration  of 
hair.  A  glance  at  a  few  notices  of  the  Quince  by  ancient  authors  will  perhaps  be  the  most 
interesting  way  of  showing  the  many  properties  it  was  supposed  to  possess. 

The  renown  obtained  by  the  Quince  for  its  matrimonial  virtues,  was  probably  derived  from  a 
supposed  law  of  Solon,  that  married  folk  should  after  marriage  eat  a  Quince  between  them  (Plut. 
Solon  20,  Vol.  I.,  p.  356,  Reiske) ;  and  hence  the  nuptial  chambers  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  were 
decorated  with  the  fruit  ;  and  the  bride  and  bridegroom  ate  of  it  after  the  marriage  ceremony.  Brand 
in  his  “  Popular  Antiquities  ”  brings  this  custom  to  comparatively  modern  times.  “  A  present  from 
a  husband  to  his  bride,  is  there  noticed  as  part  of  the  wedding  entertainment,  at  an  English  marriage 
so  late  as  in  1725.”  (Vol.  II.,  p.  97.)  And,  again,  Brand  gives  the  belief  that  “The  baby  boy  born  of 
a  mother,  who  has  eaten  Quinces  freely,  and  Coriander  seed,  is  likely  to  prove  ingenious.”  (Vol.  III., 
P-  I59-) 

Varro  (B.C.  1 1 6),  one  of  the  earliest  writers  on  Rural  Economy,  mentions  the  Quince  in  a 
passage  interesting  for  other  reasons,  and,  speaking  of  apples,  including  Quinces  of  several  sorts,  he  says, 
“  That  in  order  to  store  them  they  should  be  laid  on  chaff  or  straw  (paleas)  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  with 
openings  to  admit  the  North  wind,  but  with  shutters,  lest  when  they  lose  their  moisture  they  become 
shrivelled  ;  and  therefore,  he  continues,  people  do  well  to  line  their  store  chambers,  roof,  floor  and 
walls  with  cement  (marmoratum)  for  coolness’  sake  ;  for  which  reason,  also,  some  people  choose  to 
dine  in  the  rooms  thus  provided  ;  and  whereas  some  are  pleased  to  make  their  dining-room  their 
picture  gallery,  and  thus  enjoy  a  pleasure  derived  from  art ;  why  cannot  they  be  persuaded  to  avail 
themselves  of  the  lovely  sight  provided  by  Nature  in  a  show  of  apples  ;  especially  such  people  as 
are  not  obliged  to  buy  their  apples  in  Rome,  in  order  to  store  them  in  their  places  of  keeping.”  (De 
Re  Rtist.  I.  59.) 

Columella  (A.D.  40)  speaks  of  Quinces  of  three  sorts,  which  not  only  give  pleasure  but  tend 
to  health,  “Non  solum  voluptatem,  sed  etiam  salubritatem.”  ( De  Re  Rtist.  V.  10.)  He  speaks  also 


PLATE  LXXVI. 


of  mixing  Quinces  with  grape  must,  to  give  scent  to  the  wine.  {Ibid.  IV.  19.)  Celsus  (about  the 
same  date)  prescribes  a  stew  of  Apples  and  Pears,  including  Quinces,  to  strengthen  the  stomach 
(IV.  19).  He  also  recommends  their  outward  application — especially  of  Quinces,  to  draw  out  matter 

(II.  33). 

Dioscorides  (A.D.  64)  mentions  the  Quince  wine  (“  KvScovirris  oivos,”)  as  do  other  writers, 
and  the  great  lawyer  Ulpian  (A.D.  400),  draws  a  distinction  between  this,  and  wine  properly  so 
called,  in  the  matter  of  testamentary  disposition.  ( Dig .  XXXIII.  6,  9.) 

Pliny  (A.D.  70),  mentions  Medlars  and  Quinces  of  three  sorts,  but  says,  those  of  the  native 
sort,  of  lighter  colour,  are  of  most  delicious  scent.  All  sorts,  he  says,  are  put  by  some  people  in 
their  guest  chambers,  upon  the  statues  which  are  placed  there,  as  watchers  during  the  night 
(“  simulacra  noctium  conscia  ”). 

Athenseus  (A.D.  200)  speaks  of  Quinces  in  general  “as  wholesome  and  strengthening,  and 
as  an  antidote  to  poison.”  (II.  53,  III.  20,  21,  and  22.)  Isidore  of  Seville,  the  encyclopaedist  of 
his  day,  (A.D.  c.  600)  says  that  a  drink  called  “  Cydonitum  ”  is  made  from  the  fruit,  by  which  the 
longing  of  people  in  low  spirits  is  cheated,  for  both  in  appearance,  taste,  and  smell,  this  drink 
simulates  the  resemblance  of  old  wine.  ( Orig .  XVII.  7,  4.)  Palladius,  (A.D.  355,)  gives  two  receipts 
for  making  Quince  wine  (De  Re  Rust.  XI.  20.) 

Burton  in  his  Anatomy  of  Melancholy ,  suggest  “  Syrupus  Cydoniorum  de  pomis  ”  as  having 
good  use  against  melancholy,  (II.  sec.  5.)  The  laborious  Culpepper,  however,  who  mixed  his  science 
so  freely  with  astrology,  gives  the  most  complete  summary  of  the  medical  value  of  the  Quince.  He 
says  in  his  Herbal  “  Old  Saturn  owns  the  tree.  Quinces  when  they  are  green,  help  whatever 
needeth  astriction  ;  the  syrup  of  the  juice  .  .  .  stirreth  the  languishing  appetite.  To  take  the 
crude  fruit  of  Quinces  is  held  a  preservation  against  the  force  of  deadly  poison.  The  cotton,  or 
down  of  Quinces,  boiled  and  applied  as  a  plaister,  bringeth  hair  to  them  that  are  bald,  and  keepeth 
it  from  falling  off,  if  it  be  ready  to  shed.” 

The  high  medical  renown  of  the  Quince  may  be  said  to  have  declined  from  the  17th  century  ; 
until  at  length  in  the  19th,  it  only  finds  its  place  with  the  confectioner  in  the  still  room,  or  in  the 
hairdressers  shops  ;  for  there  is  yet  another  property  belonging  to  the  Quince,  which  has  not  yet  been 
mentioned.  Quince  pips,  or  seeds,  possess  a  peculiar  gum,  or  mucilage  of  considerable  power, 
which  under  the  names  of  “  Bassorin,”  “  Bandoline,”  or  any  other,  the  perruquier  may  choose  to  give 
it,  is  used  as  a  cement,  or  gum,  for  dressing  the  hair.  Even  here,  however,  its  place  is  supplied  in 
these  days,  by  the  cheaper  gum,  Tragacanth,  or  Gum  Dragon,  as  it  is  sometimes  called. 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 

P*'»l|frn||ir'Ti||nr||n,.-.rn|1,.M||Ht^T|nr.w^njp,.n||Prnwp.,n||r.,nnp.^inn^Br.nair..nnram,,-.,,||n^IB 


“  Nec  requies,  quin  aut  pomis  exuberet  annus 
Aut  foetu  pecorum.”  > 

Virgil.  Geor.  II,  516 — ij. 

The  laded  boughs  their  fruits  in  autumn  bear. 


“  Quotque  in  floro  novo  pomis  se  fertilis  arbos 
Induerat,  totidem  autumno  matura  tenebat.” 

Geor  IV,  142 — 3. 

For  every  bloom  his  trees  in  spring  afford 
An  autumn  apple  was  by  tale  restored. 


The  following  varieties  were  exhibited  at  the  Hereford  Apple  Shows,  held  under  the  auspices 
of  the  Woolhope  Club  in  the  years  1878,  1879,  1880,  1881  and  1883.  They  have  not  been  described 
in  the  preceding  pages.  Their  merits  for  the  most  part  have  not  been  accurately  ascertained, 
though  some  of  them  are  of  excellent  quality.  They  are  placed  alphabetically,  with  such 
observations  about  them,  as  have  been  obtained  from  the  growers.  Numerous  other  varieties 
were  also  shewn,  but  they  were  alike  wanting  in  name,  history,  and  character. 


Alford,  or  Sweet  Alford. — A  white  Devonshire 
apple,  of  middle  size.  The  tree  is  large  and  spreading, 
and  bears  freely.  It  is  a  late  variety,  has  a  sweet  rich 
juice,  and  makes  very  good  cider. 

Amphlett’s  Favorite. —  A  large  striped  apple, 
frequently  met  with  in  Herefordshire  Orchards,  on  the 
eastern  side  of  the  county.  It  is  usually  sold  as  table 
fruit  in  the  market,  but  sometimes  finds  its  way  to  the 
cider  press  as  a  cask  filler. 

Ansell,  or  Ancell. — A  medium  sized,  red,  russety 
apple,  much  grown  at  Oldbury,  in  the  vale  of  Berkeley, 
Gloucestershire.  The  tree  grows  erect  and  bears  freely. 
It  is  a  late  keeping  apple,  and  is  highly  esteemed  for  the 
excellent  cider  it  makes. 

Bastard  Rough  Coat.— A  long  keeping  russet 
apple,  and  more  fit  for  dessert  than  cider. 

Baylis’  Kernel. — A  streaked  apple,  of  medium  size 
and  fair  quality.  It  is  ripe  about  midseason,  and  is 
thought  to  add  good  flavour  to  the  cider  from  mixed  fruit. 


Bell  Orchard  Seedling,  or  Ledbury  Bell. — 
A  middle  sized  apple,  which  in  colour,  shape,  and 
general  appearance  somewhat  resembles  the  Foxwhelp. 
The  flesh  is  more  or  less  red  tinted,  with  good  flavour 
and  rich  juice.  It  makes  a  cider  of  the  first  quality. 
The  tree  is  of  upright  growth,  very  vigorous,  and  a  very 
free  bearer. 

Bennett  Apple. — An  old  variety  figured  by  Mr.  T. 
A.  Knight.  An  orange  striped  apple,  of  full  medium 
size,  and  rather  early.  It  has  an  abundance  of  sweet, 
rich  juice,  of  the  specific  gravity  i’o73  (Knight).  It 
sells  readily  in  the  market  as  table  fruit. 

Best  Bache,  or  Bache’s  Kernel. — An  old  variety, 
grown  in  Herefordshire  orchards  on  the  south  eastern 
side  of  the  county.  It  is  of  full  medium  size,  with  a 
broad  base  and  angular  sides.  Colour  :  golden  yellow, 
streaked  with  pale  and  dark  red.  It  has  a  rich  juice 
of  the  specific  gravity  i‘o73  (Knight),  and  is  highly 
esteemed  as  a  cider  fruit. 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 


Bitter-Scale. — A  Devonshire  apple  formerly  held 
in  high  esteem.  It  does  not  however  seem  to  have 
maintained  its  place  in  the  orchard,  and  it  is  very 
doubtful  whether  the  fruit  shewn  was  the  true  variety. 

Black  Bud,  in  contradistinction  to  Red  Bud. — It 
is  a  dark  red  apple,  of  deep  mahogany  colour  on  the 
sunny  side.  It  is  chiefly  grown  in  the  valley  of  the 
river  Froome.  Its  juice  is  light  and  pale  ;  and  will  help 
to  fill  the  cider,  or  perry  cask,  with  equal  efficiency. 

Black  -  Eyed  Pippin. — A  recent  variety,  much 
esteemed  at  Bishop’s  Froome,  where  it  seems  to  have 
been  raised.  It  makes  a  strong,  full  bodied  cider,  but 
is  not  sweet  enough  for  most  people.  It  is  most  useful 
to  mix  with  other  varieties. 

Black  Hereford. — A  large,  white  apple  grown  in 
Somersetshire  and  reported  as  “  good  for  extra  prime 
tipple.”  It  is  not  known  in  Herefordshire  where  the 
Black  Hereford  (formally  the  Black  Norman )  is  a  dark 
green  apple  below  middle  size. 

Black  Wilding. — A  fine  looking  conical  apple,  of 
a  deep  red  colour,  from  the  valley  of  the  Froome.  It 
is  probably  grown  for  its  colour,  since  it  has  not  much 
distinctive  character  as  a  cider  apple. 

Bottle  Stopper. — A  Devonshire  apple  of  good 
acidity,  in  high  repute  for  apple  jelly,  and  said  also  to 
make  good  cider. 

Bridge  Pippin. — An  early  Gloucestershire  apple, 
yellow  and  sweet.  The  tree  is  erect  and  bears  freely. 

Bristol  Crab. — A  cider  or  pot  fruit.  There  are 
some  fine  trees  at  Moorcroft  and  Colwall.  The  fruit 
makes  excellent  cider,  is  good  enough  to  be  “  kept  for 
the  master’s  drinking.” 

Broad-Eyed  Pippin. — A  yellow  apple  somewhat  like 
the  Downton  Pippin ,  but  larger.  It  is  second  early,  a 
fair  dessert  fruit,  and  should  be  sold  as  such,  since  it  has 
no  especial  merit  for  the  cask. 

Broad-leaved  Hereford  (formerly  Broad-leaved 
Norman ).  A  large  pale  green  apple,  with  a  slight  flush 
of  red  on  the  sunny  side,  of  a  conical  shape  with  obtuse 
angles.  The  trees  grow  freely  with  large  foliage,  and 
they  are  all  comparatively  young  trees,  so  the  variety 
must  be  recent.  They  bear  an  abundance  of  fruit  of  a 
sweet  and  slightly  bitter  taste.  It  makes  good  cider. 

Broadtail. — A  very  productive  variety,  which  comes 
quickly  into  bearing.  It  is  grown  widely  in  the  northern 
and  eastern  districts  of  Herefordshire.  It  is  a  hard 
fleshed  apple,  which  keeps  well,  and  is  often  sold  in  the 
market  as  pot  fruit.  It  is  not  a  good  apple  however, 
and  its  cider  is  pale  and  without  character. 


Bromesberrow  Crab. — An  apple  mentioned  by 
Evelyn,  and  formerly  in  high  repute.  It  is  not  now  met 
with,  and  those  shown  as  such  did  not  answer  to  its  old 
character. 

Brownseys. — A  Somersetshire  apple,  large  and 
striped.  It  is  usually  sold  as  a  table  fruit,  but  is  often 
used  as  a  cask  filler. 

Brown  Snout,  or  Pointed  Brown  Snout. — A  very 
good  late  apple.  The  tree  grows  freely,  and  is  a  very 
heavy  cropper.  The  apple  has  a  projecting  eye,  is 
green  in  colour,  and  firm  in  substance.  It  is  a  bitter¬ 
sweet,  and  makes  good  cider. 

Bull’s  Eye. — A  red  apple  of  medium  size,  hard  in 
texture,  and  a  late  keeper.  There  are  many  trees  in  the 
parish  of  Marden.  They  droop  in  growth,  bear  well, 
and  the  fruit  is  much  esteemed  for  the  quality  of  its  cider. 

Cabbage  Apple. — A  large  green  apple  grown  in 
Gloucestershire.  The  tree  is  erect,  and  bears  well.  It 
is  a  midseason  apple,  and  is  often  sold  as  pot  fruit. 

Canon  Apple. — An  apple  of  some  repute  at  Canon 
Pyon,  but  the  examination  of  its  juice  was  not  satisfactory. 
It  can  only  be  classed  as  a  cask  filler,  since  its  cider 
demands  body  and  flavour  from  other  fruits. 

Candid  Heart. — An  apple  above  medium  size, 
good  for  cooking  purposes,  or  for  cider.  It  is  a  great 
and  constant  bearer. 

Canon  Bitter-Sweet. — -A  greenish,  slightly  streaked 
apple,  of  medium  size.  The  tree  bears  freely.  Its  fruit 
is  late  in  season,  and  is  esteemed  for  its  cider. 

Captain  Nurse,  Captain’s  Kernel,  or  Nurse’s 
Kernel. — A  Gloucestershire  apple,  much  streaked  and 
coloured  with  red,  The  tree  grows  slowly,  but  bears 
well  when  full  grown.  It  is  a  late  variety,  but  has  not 
much  character  as  a  cider  fruit. 

Chaxhill  Red. — A  very  beautiful  little  Gloucester¬ 
shire  apple,  which  received  a  first-class  certificate  at 
Gloucester  (1873)  “for  its  excellence  as  a  cider  fruit.” 
It  was  raised  from  seed  by  Mr.  Bennett,  of  Chaxhill, 
Westbury-on-Severn.  Its  juice,  however,  is  poor  and 
thin,  and  it  has  not  therefore  maintained  its  character  as 
a  cider  apple. 

Chibble’s  Wilding. — A  yellow  apple  raised  in 
Somersetshire,  highly  esteemed  as  a  cider  fruit,  from  the 
richness  of  its  juice,  and  the  briskness  it  is  believed  to 
impart  to  the  cider.  The  tree  bears  well. 

Cider  Brandy  Apple. — A  small,  dark  coloured 
apple,  much  grown  in  Worcestershire,  where  it  is  held 
in  great  repute.  It  is  something  like  Kingston  Black , 
but  much  softer  in  texture. 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 


Claret-Wine  Apple. — A  deep  purple  tinted  apple, 
the  chief  merit  of  which  is  its  colour. 

Coleing. — “  Grown  about  Ludlow  ”  says  Evelyn,  but 
it  is  very  little  heard  of  in  these  days. 

Cook’s  Kernel. — A  favourite  apple  in  some  districts 
of  Herefordshire.  It  is  above  medium  size,  second 
early,  or  late.  The  tree  grows  large  and  bears  well.  It 
is  an  excellent  variety,  and  is  said  to  make  “  the  fullest 
mouth  cider  of  any  kind.” 

Corn  Apple,  or  Harvest  Apple.— An  early,  red 
striped,  conical  apple,  which  makes  a  pleasant  drink  for 
hop-pickers.  It  has  a  sweet  rough  taste,  and  usually 
finds  its  way  into  the  costermongers’  carts.  Its  cider 
is  only  nice  when  drank  as  soon  as  made. 

Darbin  Red  Streak. — A  Somersetshire  red  streak 
much  esteemed  for  its  cider. 

Dean’s  Apple. — A  Devonshire  apple  of  large  size, 
which  belongs  rather  to  the  table  than  to  the  cider  press. 

Devonshire  Red  Streak. — An  apple  of  middle 
size,  good  for  cider,  or  pot  fruit.  It  is  much  grown  in 
Worcestershire  and  Gloucestershire,  and  about  Ledbury. 
The  tree  has  a  drooping  habit  and  bears  well  every  or 
every  other  year.  Its  fruit  is  mid  season  and  makes 
good  cider. 

Devonshire  Royal  Wilding,  sometimes  called  the 
Red  Hill  Crab,  from  the  hill  on  the  highway  on  which 
the  original  tree  grows.  This  variety  is  mentioned  with 
the  highest  praise,  by  Mr.  Hugh  Stafford  of  Pynes 
(1753).  He  denotes  it  as  a  wilding  growing  in  “a  little 
gillet  of  gardening  ”  on  the  highway  side,  one  mile  from 
the  City  of  Exeter,  on  the  border  of  the  parish  of  St. 
Thomas — “Sixteen  years  since”  (i.e.  1737); “it was  grafted 
very  much  by  the  Rev.  Robert  Woolcombe,  Rector  of 
Whitestone,  the  adjoining  parish.”  Mr.  Stafford  was  per¬ 
sonally  acquainted  with  Mr.  Woolcombe,  and  learnt  all 
the  particulars  from  him.  Mr.  Woolcombe  thought  it 
so  superior  to  all  other  apples,  that  he  gave  it  the  name 
of  Royal  Wilding.  The  cyder  has  great  roughness  and 
•  body.  “  I  will  venture  to  affirm  ”  says  Mr.  Stafford  “  that 
I  have  never  tasted  any  cider  equal  to  it  (not  all  the 
genuine  Hereford  I  ever  drank),  that  of  the  tvine-sour 
only  excepted.”  He  has  known  “  five  guineas  refused 
for  a  hogshead  of  its  cyder,  whilst  common  cyder  sells 
for  twenty  shillings  and  South  Hams  from  twenty  to 
thirty.”  When  cooked,  Mr.  Stafford  adds  “it  has  some¬ 
thing  of  the  rough  flavour  of  the  Quince.”  The  Devon¬ 
shire  Royal  Wilding  exhibited  at  the  Herefordshire 
Apple  Shows,  was  a  large  table  fruit,  without  the  quali¬ 
ties  denoted  by  Mr.  Stafford ;  and  the  Committee  tried 
in  vain  to  procure  the  true  variety  from  Devonshire. 


Dufflin. — An  old  Devonshire  apple,  formerly  much 
esteemed.  It  is  doubtful  if  the  true  variety  is  now  to 
be  found. 

Dunn’s  Beloved. — A  pretty,  attractive  apple.  The 
tree  bears  freely.  It  is  a  good  cask  filler,  but  its  juice 
is  light  in  density,  and  its  cider  is  difficult  to  fine.  It 
quickly  turns  dark  colour  on  exposure  to  air.  The 
fruit  keeps  well,  and  should  be  sold  as  pot  fruit  in  the 
early  spring. 

Essex  Kernel. — A  very  good,  late  cider  apple.  It 
is  lemon  shaped  and  yellow,  streaked  with  red.  It  is 
rough  and  russety  round  the  eye  and  stalk.  The  tree 
is  large  and  bears  well,  and  the  fruit  makes  excellent 
cider  of  a  deep  yellow  colour. 

Excels. — A  pale,  red  streaked,  second  early  apple. 
The  tree  is  small  in  size  but  crops  well. 

Farmer  Hearland. — A  Somersetshire  apple  of 
large  size,  and  yellow  colour.  The  tree  is  upright  in 
growth,  and  bears  fruit  that  keeps  well,  and  is  said 
to  make  good  cider. 

Fawkes  Kernel. — An  apple  above  middle  size,  with 
a  broad  base  and  irregular  sides.  The  eye  is  deeply 
sunk.  The  skin  is  thick,  of  a  pale  yellow  colour, 
becoming  orange  on  the  sunny  side,  and  with  numerous 
small  dark  spots  scattered  over  the  surface.  The  fruit 
yields  a  cider  of  high  quality,  and  sells  readily  also  for 
kitchen  purposes.  The  trees  grow  freely  to  a  large  size 
and  crop  well.  It  is  a  valuable  variety,  much  grown 
about  Dymock,  Ledbury,  and  elsewhere. 

Fillets,  or  Violets,  Summer  and  Winter. — 
Apples  formerly  in  good  repute  as  mentioned  by 
Evelyn.  They  are  but  little  esteemed  now,  and  it  is 
doubtful  if  the  varieties  shewn  for  them  are  true. 

Hatcher. — A  Gloucestershire  apple,  green  and 
russety,  with  red  streaks  on  the  sunny  side.  The  tree 
is  middle  sized  and  bears  abundantly.  It  is  a  late 
variety. 

Friar. — A  very  old  variety,  formerly  much  esteemed. 
It  is  mentioned  by  Evelyn,  and  figured  by  Mr.  Thos. 
Andrew  Knight,  who  found  the  specific  gravity  of  its 
juice  to  be  ro73.  It  has  disappeared  of  late  years,  and 
was  not  exhibited  in  its  true  character. 

Fox  Kernel. — A  middle  sized,  high  coloured  apple, 
ovate  in  shape,  with  angular  sides.  The  tree  bears  its 
beautiful  fruit  very  freely,  and  thus  it  has  kept  its 
place  in  the  Herefordshire  orchards.  It  should  however, 
be  sold  in  the  market,  for  it  has  but  a  poor  character 
as  cider  fruit. 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 


Foxley. — A  seedling  of  Mr.  Thos.  Andrew  Knight 
from  the  Siberian  Crab ,  impregnated  with  the  pollen 
of  the  Golden  Pippin.  It  is  a  very  small  but  beautiful 
apple,  of  a  golden  yellow  colour,  with  a  bright  orange 
cheek.  The  specific  gravity  of  the  juice,  Mr.  Knight 
found  to  be  i-o8o.  He  thought  it  a  very  hardy  and 
most  valuable  cider  fruit,  but  it  has  failed  to  retain  this 
character,  and  is  but  very  little  grown. 

Golden  Bittersweet. — A  Devonshire  apple,  large 
and  conical  with  ribbed  sides.  It  is  a  yellow  apple, 
with  a  red  cheek,  and  sprinkled  over  with  small  russet 
dots  and  traces  of  russet.  The  tree  bears  freely  and  the 
fruit  keeps  well.  It  has  a  good  repute  as  a  cider  apple. 

Golden  Moyle. — An  apple  grown  on  almost  every 
farm  round  Ledbury.  The  tree  grows  large  and  bears 
well.  The  fruit  makes  good  cider,  and  is  also  in  high 
repute  for  the  manufacture  of  jelly  and  jam.  For  this 
latter  purpose  the  fruit  taken  from  the  apple  heaps,  sold 
this  year  (1884)  at  four  pounds  the  ton.  “A  sensible 
apple  ”  the  grower  observed. 

Goose  Apple. — A  grass  green  apple,  above  middle 
size.  It  is  very  sour,  cooks  transparently,  and  makes 
excellent  apple  sauce — hence  its  name. — The  tree  crops 
“  wonderfully.”  It  is  chiefly  used  as  a  culinary  fruit, 
but  the  remainder  is  welcomed  at  the  cider  press. 

Granville. — A  small,  red,  Somersetshire  apple  of 
good  repute.  It  is  supposed  to  give  a  high  colour  to 
the  cider. 

Grittleton  Red. — A  very  good  cider  apple  for  a 
mixture  of  fruit,  but  has  not  sufficient  character  to  be 
used  alone.  The  tree  is  a  great  bearer. 

Grittleton  Yellow. — Is  a  Gloucestershire  apple 
of  good  repute  in  some  districts. 

Green  Styre. — A  middle  sized  apple,  late  in  season, 
and  a  good  keeper.  When  it  becomes  yellow,  it  is  a 
good  culinary  apple,  and  is  often  sold  as  such.  The 
tree  is  very  large  and  bears  “  tremendously.”  As  a 
cider  fruit,  it  is  also  considered  very  good. 

Guinea  Apple. — A  small  apple  which  looks  like  a 
crab,  but  is  very  sweet  and  luscious.  It  is  chiefly  found 
about  Ullingswick,  and  the  eastern  side  of  the  county. 
The  fruit  makes  a  rich  red  coloured  cider  of  good 
character,  and  deserves  to  be  grown  more  than  it  is. 

Hall  Door. — A  large  red-streaked  apple,  very 
conical  in  shape  with  a  projecting  snout.  The  trees 
crop  well,  and  the  fruit  sells  readily  in  the  market, 
which  is  its  proper  destination,  for  its  qualities  as  a  cider 
apple  are  but  very  moderate. 

Hanburies  Kernel. — A  red  streaked  apple,  above 


middle  size,  good  as  cider  or  pot  fruit.  It  was  raised  at 
Hanburies,  in  the  parish  of  Bishop’s  Froome,  and  is 
spreading  from  thence  in  all  directions. 

Hangdown,  or  Horner. — A  small  yellow  apple  in 
high  favour  both  in  Devonshire  and  Somersetshire. 
The  tree  is  small  and  spreading.  It  blossoms  very  late, 
not  until  June,  and  bears  profusely.  It  is  a  late  variety 
and  makes  a  good  rich  cider. 

Hard-bearer. — A  second  early  apple  “something 
like  Skyrmes  Kernel ,  and  quite  as  good.”  It  is  grown 
in  the  valley  of  the  Froome  river.  The  fruit  has  a 
bitter-sweet,  astringent  flavour,  and  makes  excellent 
cider. 

Hellen’s  Kernel. — A  seedling  raised  by  C.  W.  Rad- 
cliffe  Cooke,  Esq.,  at  Hellens,  Much  Marcle  (c.  1850). 
The  density  of  the  fresh  juice  is  1057,  it  contains  i2j^ 
per  cent,  of  sugar,  but  is  very  deficient  in  tannin,  mucil¬ 
age  and  salts.  A  good  apple  to  mix  with  rougher  varieties, 
but  without  sufficient  character  to  make  cider  alone. 
It  is  a  pretty  fruit,  and  should  be  sold  in  the  market 
for  immediate  use. 

Heming.— An  old  Gloucestershire  apple  mentioned 
by  Evelyn,  and  formerly  much  esteemed.  It  is  scarcely 
to  be  found  now. 

Hogshead.- — A  very  old  variety  mentioned  by  Forsyth. 
It  is  a  small,  astringent  apple,  but  very  juicy.  It  is 
considered  very  useful  to  mix  with  other  and  sweeter 
varieties. 

Hollow-Eyed  Pippin. — An  apple  above  middle 
size,  very  handsome,  with  angular  sides.  It  is  orange 
with  red  streaks,  and  is  most  suitable  for  sale  as  table 
fruit.  It  makes  but  thin,  poor  cider. 

Honey-combe. — A  Somersetshire  variety.  The  tree 
is  very  vigorous  in  growth,  and  when  full  grown  bears 
very  abundantly.  It  makes  a  large,  handsome  tree  ; 
and  its  fruit  is  said  to  make  excellent  cider. 

Izard’s  Kernel. — A  variety  somewhat  similar  to 
Broadtail ,  but  becoming  more  narrow  towards  the  eye. 
It  has  also  a  much  higher  colour.  It  is  grown  about 
Ledbury,  Pixley  and  Aylton.  It  makes  good  cider 
and  is  saleable  as  pot  fruit  when  better  varieties  are 
scarce. 

Jersey  Chisel,  Chisel  Jersey,  or  Bitter  Jersey. 
A  striped  bitter-sweet  apple  in  the  highest  esteem  in 
Somersetshire.  It  is  a  constant  bearer  and  a  free 
grower.  It  makes  excellent  rich  cider,  of  high  colour, 
and  if  mixed  with  some  rich,  sweet,  kind,  ripening  at  the 
sRme  time,  it  becomes  of  the  highest  quality. 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 


Jersey  Flenier. — This  is  also  a  Somersetshire  apple 
of  good  repute.  The  fruit  is  small,  and  red  striped, 
with  a  juice  of  much  richness  and  flavour.  The  tree 
hears  profusely. 

Jones’  Kernel. —A  good  looking  apple,  but  its  looks 
are  deceptive.  It  is  one  of  the  very  worst  grown.  “  A 
single  bushel  would  spoil  a  hogshead  of  good  cider.” 
The  heads  of  the  trees  should  all  be  cut  off  and  re¬ 
grafted  with  a  better  variety. 

Kill-Boys. — A  Gloucestershire  apple,  of  middle  size, 
late,  and  green.  The  tree  is  vigorous  with  a  drooping 
habit  and  bears  freely.  Its  acrid,  rough  tasted  fruit  has 
probably  given  its  name,  and  it  also  gives  its  value  for 
cider  in  the  mixture  with  other  varieties  of  richer  juice. 

Knotted  Hereford,  (formerly  Knotted  Norman).— 
A  green  bitter  sweet  apple  with  a  broad  base,  and  more 
or  less  russety.  The  trees  grow  very  knotty  and  knarled 
and  crop  badly. 

Langworthy’s  Sour  Natural. — A  local  Somerset¬ 
shire  apple  of  middle  size.  It  is  an  early  variety  and 
bears  well. 

Langworthy’s  Sweet  Natural.  —  A  small  red 
Somersetshire  apple.  It  is  an  early  variety,  but  with¬ 
out  much  merit  in  any  way. 

Maggie.  —  A  Gloucestershire  cider  apple  of  fair 
repute.  It  is  small  and  yellow,  with  a  red  cheek  and 
sprinkled  over  with  russet  dots.  The  tree  bears  well, 
and  the  fruit  has  a  very  acid,  austere  taste. 

Marrow-bone,  or  Tom  Putt  (see  Plate  vi). 

Maundy,  or  Philip  Maundy. — A  middle  sized 
yellow  apple,  with  a  bright  red  cheek.  It  is  second 
early.  The  fruit  has  a  rough,  astringent  flavour,  and  is 
thought  to  give  good  keeping  qualities  to  cider  made 
from  mixed  fruits. 

Monkton. — A  beautiful,  small,  red  apple,  raised  at 
Monkton,  near  Taunton,  in  Somersetshire.  It  should 
be  mixed  with  other  fruits,  since  it  has  no  decided 
vintage  character  of  its  own. 

Morgan’s  Sweet.  —  A  favourite  cider  apple  in 
Somersetshire.  It  is  a  pale  yellow,  conical  apple,  with 
ribbed  sides,  and  covered  with  dots.  The  tree  is 
robust  and  bears  freely.  It  is  a  late  variety,  and  cooks 
well. 

Morris’,  or  Maurices’  Pippin. — A  Gloucestershire 
green  russet  apple  of  middle  size.  It  is  a  late  variety, 
and  considered  an  excellent  cider  fruit. 

Murdy  Apple. — A  variety  said  to  have  been  raised 
at  Murdy,  in  Monmouthshire.  It  is  a  small  bitter  sweet 


apple,  rather  soft,  but  very  good  and  useful  for  cider. 
The  trees  are  large  and  of  upright  growth,  and  bear 
well  every  second  year.  The  fruit  is  late,  and  its  juice 
so  rich,  that  it  will  make  excellent  cider  alone. 

Natural  Pocket  Apple.— A  large  Devonshire  apple 
much  more  useful  as  a  culinary  fruit  than  for  cider 
making.  It  is  a  handsome,  greenish  yellow  apple,  with 
a  red  cheek  and  ribbed  sides.  It  should  always  be  sold 
in  the  market. 

Netherton  Late  Blower. — A  Devonshire  cider 
apple  in  much  favour.  It  is  large,  yellow,  and  conical, 
with  a  pale  red  cheek,  and  russety  base.  The  tree 
bears  freely,  and  the  fruit  keeps  well.  Its  skin  is  so  thick 
that  birds  will  not  injure  the  fruit. 

Netherton  Nonsuch. — A  large,  highly  coloured 
and  very  handsome  apple,  presumably  raised  at  the  end 
of  the  last  century,  at  Little  Netherton,  Dymock, 
Gloucestershire.  There  are  here  two  very  old  trees  and 
many  young,  fresh  grafted  ones  (1880).  It  is  a  heavy, 
broad  based  apple  with  a  deep  eye.  It  is  a  good  “  all 
round  ”  apple,  for  dessert,  culinary  or  cider  purposes. 
“  It  is  a  wonderful  apple  to  run,”  and  makes  a  pleasant 
but  pale  cider.  It  is  a  very  useful,  prolific  variety,  and 
the  Messrs.  Fawke  highly  recommend  it. 

New  Bromley. — A  small  bright  coloured  apple, 
mnch  esteemed  in  Gloucestershire  as  a  cider  fruit.  Its 
flesh  is  often  tinged  red,  and  its  juice  has  the  astringency 
so  useful  in  cider  fruits. 

Never  Blight,  Lopen  Never  Blight,  or  Morris 
Apple. — A  round,  middle  sized  apple  of  high  colour. 
The  tree  is  very  hardy  and  a  great  bearer,  scarcely  ever 
failing  to  produce  a  crop.  It  has  a  sweet  rich  juice, 
and  is  considered  an  excellent  cider  apple. 

Northwood  Bittersweet. — A  large  Somersetshire 
apple,  white  and  red  striped.  The  tree  is  large  and 
generally  bears  well.  It  is  sold  chiefly  as  table  fruit. 

Oaken  Pin.— An  old  variety  mentioned  by  Evelyn. 
The  fruit  is  large,  and  sells  well  as  a  cooking  apple  in 
Devonshire.  This  is  not  a  rich  cider  apple,  and  is  not 
the  old  variety  known  by  this  name. 

Oatlas  Kernel,  or  Oatley’s  Kernel. — An  apple 
of  middle  size,  pale  green,  streaked  with  red.  It  is  an 
old  variety  grown  at  the  Frith  Farm,  in  the  parish  of 
Ledbury,  and  in  some  of  the  surrounding  orchards.  It 
is  considered  a  good  cider  apple  and  is  useful  for  table 
purposes  when  required. 

Old  Germain,  or  Old  Jarman. — A  large  good 
looking  apple  which  keeps  and  cooks  well.  Its  proper 
place  is  the  market  and  not  the  cider  mill. 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 


Olive. — A  variety  mentioned  by  Evelyn,  and  said  to 
grow  near  Ludlow.  It  has  not  kept  favour  in  modern 
times. 

Orange  Pippin. — A  very  beautiful  apple,  like  the 
Blenheim  Orange ,  but  smaller,  and  more  regular  in 
shape.  It  makes  good  cider,  but  usually  finds  its  way 
to  the  market,  where  its  beauty  commands  for  it  a  ready 
sale.  The  tree  grows  well  and  blossoms  well,  but  is  a 
shy  bearer,  and  a  good  crop  can  only  be  looked  for 
once  in  every  four  or  five  years. 

Otley.- — A  Shropshire  apple  formerly  held  in  great 
esteem.  Phillips’  says  of  it : — 

“  Salopian  acres  flourish  with  a  Growth 
Peculiar,  styl’d  the  Otley  :  Be  thou  first 
This  apple  to  transplant :  if  to  the  Name 
Its  Merit  answers  ;  nowhere  shalt  thou  find 
A  wine  more  priz’d,  or  laudable  of  Taste.” 

The  poet’s  advice,  however,  does  not  seem  to  have 
been  followed. 

Pawsan. — An  old  variety,  mentioned  by  Philips,  and 
figured  by  Mr.  T.  A.  Knight  in  the  “  Pomona  Here- 
fordiensis.”  He  found  the  specific  gravity  of  its  juice 
to  be  i ‘076.  The  name  appears  at  our  shows,  but  not 
the  true  apple. 

Pin  Apple. — /\  local  apple  of  good  repute.  The 
original  tree  at  Much  Cowarne  has  an  iron  pin  driven 
through  it,  to  prevent  a  split  from  spreading — -hence  its 
name.  It  is  a  round,  green  and  yellow  apple,  late  in 
season,  and  makes  very  good  cider  without  other 
varieties. 

Poor  Man’s  Profit. — A  small,  striped,  Somerset¬ 
shire  apple,  a  late  variety,  which  is  thought  to  make 
very  good  cider. 

Poughill  Green. — A  large,  green,  Somersetshire 
apple,  which  keeps  well.  It  only  finds  its  way  to  the 
cider  mill  when  the  crop  is  abundant,  and  the  market 
overstocked. 

Pound  Apple. — A  very  large  apple,  without  sufficiently 
good  qualities  to  keep  it  in  the  market,  and  it  is  used 
therefore  in  Devonshire  and  Somersetshire  for  cider.  It 
quickly  fills  the  cask,  but  requires  fruit  of  better 
character  to  give  strength  and  flavour  to  the  liquor. 

Preece’s  Kernel. — A  large  apple,  which  ripens 
early  and  decays  quickly.  It  has  little  merit,  either  on 
the  table,  or  in  the  cider  press. 

Price’s  Bittersweet. — A  late  apple,  striped  red  and 
green,  rather  below  middle  size.  It  is  thought  one  of 
the  best  apples  in  the  Froome  valley,  and  makes 
excellent  cider  alone,  or  in  mixture. 


Puppy  Snout. — A  middle  sized  apple  of  narrow 
pointed  shape.  It  is  late  in  season,  and  of  rather 
doubtful  character  as  a  cider  fruit. 

Ramping  Taurus. — A  recent  variety,  grown  at  Fair 
Oaks  Farm,  Castle  Morton,  Worcestershire.  The  fruit 
is  large,  conical  and  angular,  greenish  white,  and  bitter¬ 
sweet.  It  makes  “  grand  cider  ”  and  very  strong.  This 
apple  has  the  peculiarity  of  baking  well,  but  it  will 
not  boil. 

Red  Cluster. — A  small,  red,  Somersetshire  apple, 
a  late  variety,  which  gives  excellent  assistance  in 
making  cider  from  mixed  fruit.  The  tree  bears  freely. 

Red  Must,  or  Musk. — This  is  the  largest  cider 
apple  grown  in  Herefordshire,  and  is  therefore  seldom 
used  as  such.  It  has  a  light  thin  juice,  of  the  specific 
gravity  U064  (Knight),  and  is  not  so  much  esteemed 
now  as  it  was  formerly. 

Red  Soldier. — “  A  very  lucky  bearer  ”  and  from 
this,  and  its  bright  colour,  it  was  much  sought  after  a 
few  years  since.  However,  it  only  makes  a  thin,  poor 
cider,  and  has  thus  lost  its  repute.  It  should  be  sold 
in  the  market,  where  good  colour  sells  anything. 

Red  Styre. — A  small  apple,  almost  entirely  covered 
with  dark  crimson.  It  is  an  excellent  cider  fruit,  and 
highly  valued  in  the  Froome  valley  where  it  is  chiefly 
to  be  found. 

Red  Turk,  or  Bloody  Turk. — An  early,  soft,  deep 
red  apple,  the  colour  extending  more  or  less  through  the 
flesh.  It  is  a  bad  keeper  and  a  poor  cider  fruit.  It, 
too,  should  be  sold  to  the  costermonger. 

Red  Wilding. — A  late  apple  of  middle  size.  Its 
juice  does  not  fine  well  and  it  is  only  useful  to  mix  with 
other  varieties. 

Reynold’s  Crab,  or  Raynal’s  Crab.- — A  yellow 
fleshed  fruit,  with  something  of  the  flavour  of  the 
Siberian  Crab.  The  tree  grows  to  a  large  size,  and 
bears  “wonderfully.”  The  fruit  makes  “the  very  best 
cider.” 

Rusty  Coat. — A  Gloucestershire  apple  of  good 
repute.  It  is  a  small  yellow  apple,  with  an  orange 
cheek,  specked  and  marked  with  rough  russet.  It  is  a 
late  fruit,  and  thought  to  make  excellent  cider. 

Sea  Spawn. — A  local  variety  from  Dilwyn,  very 
small  in  size.  The  tree  bears  very  freely,  and  the  fruit 
adds  virtue  to  mixed  fruits. 

Sheeps  Snout,  or  Sheeps  Nose. — A  light,  green, 
bitter  sweet  apple,  largely  grown  in  Somersetshire, 
Gloucestershire,  and  Worcestershire.  It  is  of  medium 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 


size,  and  a  somewhat  narrow,  oblong  shape,  with  sharp 
angles.  It  is  valued  as  a  cider  fruit,  and  cooks  well 
when  in  season. 

Siberian  Bitter  Sweet. — A  very  handsome,  small, 
globular  fruit,  of  golden  colour,  with  a  red  cheek, 
growing  in  clusters.  It  is  a  seedling  of  Mr.  Thomas 
Andrew  Knight,  produced  from  a  seed  of  the  Yellow 
Siberian  Crab  fertilized  with  the  pollen  of  the  Golden 
Harvey.  The  juice  is  sweet,  without  acidity,  with  the 
high  specific  gravity  of  1*091.  It  has  failed,  however, 
as  a  cider  apple,  but  is  very  useful  for  making  preserve, 
or  jelly. 

Siberian  Harvey. — Another  seedling  of  Mr.  Knight’s, 
from  the  same  parentage  as  the  last  named  apple,  and  its 
juice  has  the  same  high  specific  gravity  1*091.  It  first 
fruited  in  1807,  when  it  obtained  the  annual  premium  of 
the  Hereford  Agricultural  Society.  It  is  a  beautiful 
fruit,  growing  in  thick  clusters.  Mr.  Knight  thought  it 
would  prove  to  be  a  cider  apple  of  the  highest  merit, 
but  it  has  not  gained  this  character,  and  is  now  but 
little  grown. 

Slack-My-Girdle,  or  Slack-ma-girl. —  A  striped 
Somersetshire  apple  of  large  size.  It  is  also  much 
grown  in  Devonshire.  It  keeps  well  and  is  usually  sold 
for  culinary  purposes,  though  it  often  helps  to  fill  the 
barrel.  As  a  cider  apple,  however,  it  has  not  much  merit. 

Sops  in  Wine. — An  apple  above  middle  size,  orange 
red  on  the  shadiest  side,  and  very  dark  red  towards  the 
sun.  The  fruit  has  a  bloom  on  the  surface.  The  flesh 
is  also  coloured  red,  more  or  less.  The  tree  is  large  and 
bears  well.  It  is  considered  a  good  culinary  and  cider 
fruit. 

Stead’s  Kernel.— An  ovate,  conical  apple  of  middle 
size.  It  was  raised  by  Mr.  Daniel  Stead,  of  Brierley, 
near  Leominster.  It  is  a  late  variety,  yellow  in  colour, 
with  specks  and  lines  of  grey  russet.  It  is  a  valuable 
bitter  sweet  cider  apple,  with  a  combined  sweetness  and 
astringency.  Its  juice  has  the  specific  gravity  of  1*074 
(Knight).  It  cooks  well  during  its  season. 

Styre,  or  Small  Styre. — A  small  red  apple  of 
oblong  shape,  and  yellow  flesh.  It  makes  excellent 
cider.  The  apples  look  like  plums  on  the  tree. 

Sugar  Apple,  or  Sugar  Loaf.- — A  pot,  or  cider 
fruit,  grown  on  every  farm  in  the  parish  of  Ledbury  and 
its  neighbourhood.  It  sells  well  in  the  market,  but  it 
“  helps  to  make  first  class  cider  for  which  it  is  always 
kept  by  those  who  know  its  virtue.” 

Sugwas  Kernel. — local  variety  grown  at  Sugwas, 
near  Hereford,  but  without  any  very  great  merit. 


Sussex  Apple. — A  Sussex  pippin,  hard  in  texture, 
and  covered  with  brown  russet.  It  has  a  rough,  harsh 
taste,  and  is  a  good  cider  apple.  The  tree  is  not 
“  lucky  ”  in  bearing. 

Sweet  Rennet,  or  Reinette. — A  green,  Somerset¬ 
shire  apple,  of  middle  size.  It  is  an  early  variety,  and 
bears  well,  but  has  not  sufficient  character  to  make  good 
cider  by  itself. 

Tankerton. — An  apple  of  full  middle  size,  white, 
with  a  pink  cheek.  The  tree  grows  thick  in  the  wood, 
and  bears  well.  It  is  a  mid-season  apple,  cooks  well, 
and  makes  a  fair  cider. 

Ten  Commandments. — A  deep  red,  rather  conical 
apple,  with  ribs,  becoming  very  prominent  near  the  eye. 
The  flesh  is  white,  stained  here  and  there  with  red. 
When  cut  across,  it  shows  ten  red  spots  around  the 
core,  and  hence  gets  its  name.  The  tree  bears  well, 
and  the  fruit  is  thought  to  make  good  cider. 

Tremlett’s  Bitter. — A  Devonshire  bittersweet 
apple,  above  middle  size,  and  highly  esteemed  as  a 
cider  apple. 

Trace  Apple,  or  Traced  Norman. — A  Hereford¬ 
shire  seedling,  which  bears  freely,  and  keeps  well,  but  is 
without  any  very  special  merit  as  a  cider  apple. 

T urk’s  Cap. — A  large  orange  yellow  apple,  sprinkled 
with  grey  dots.  It  has  an  acid,  astringent  taste.  It  is 
usually  sold  for  culinary  purposes,  but  often  finds  its 
way  to  the  cider  mill. 

Underleaf  (Herefordshire). — A  green  middle 
sized  apple  that  may  serve  for  table  or  cider  fruit.  The 
tree  is  large,  the  wood  growrs  thickly,  and  the  leaves 
conceal  the  fruit,  and  thus  it  gets  its  name.  It  is  a 
good  keeping  apple,  and  usually  finds  its  way  to  the 
market,  but  is  nevertheless  considered  also  a  very  good 
cider  apple. 

Well  Beloved. — A  large  handsome  second  early 
apple,  which  sells  well  in  the  market  as  pot  fruit.  It 
bakes  well,  but  as  a  cider  fruit,  it  has  not  much  merit. 

White  Grapes,  or  White  Cluster. — A  small, 
white  Somersetshire  apple.  The  tree  bears  profusely 
and  is  therefore  a  good  cask  filler,  which  is  its  chief  merit. 

White  Must,  or  Musk. — A  middle  sized  early  apple 
of  a  pale  straw  colour.  The  gathered  fruit  quickly 
becomes  unctuous  to  the  feel  and  has  a  peculiar  ether 
like  smell.  Its  flesh  is  so  soft,  that  the  least  touch  bruises 
it.  It  makes  a  thin,  pleasant  cooling  drink  for  the  hop- 
pickers.  It  will  also  cook  well. 


1 


LIST  OF  OTHER  CIDER  APPLES. 


Winter  Pool. — A  large  oblong  apple,  which  may 
be  used  for  either  table,  or  cider  fruit,  but  is  not  of 
high  quality  in  either  case.  The  tree  moreover  is  a  bad 
bearer. 

Withington  Red,  or  Redstreak. — A  pretty  apple, 
rather  below  the  middle  size.  The  tree  bears  well,  but 
the  fruit  has  no  very  special  merit  as  a  cider  apple. 

Woodcock. — A  very  old  variety  mentioned  by 
Philips,  and  figured  by  Mr.  Knight  in  the  “Pomona 
Herefordiensis.”  It  was  formerly  held  in  great  esteem  ; 
Its  juice  had  the  specific  gravity  of  i ‘073,  but  it  has 
disappeared  from  our  orchards  of  late  years,  and  the 


fruit  exhibited  was  not  true  to  character. 

Woodsell. — An  old  variety  of  high  repute.  It  is 
still  grown  at  Much  Marcle,  and  here  and  there  in  the 
South  Eastern  side  of  the  county.  Its  cider,  in  a  fine 
season,  is  said  to  be  “as  good  as  Foxwhelp.”  It  is  cer¬ 
tainly  a  valuable  variety,  and  one  that  merits  more  ex¬ 
tended  cultivation. 

Yellow  Styre. — This  is  a  very  excellent  cider  fruit. 
It  is  grown  more  in  West  Worcestershire,  at  Bushley, 
Chaseley,  Upton,  &c.,  than  in  Herefordshire.  The  re¬ 
maining  trees  are  however  very  old,  and  young  ones  have 
not  been  grafted.  It  well  deserves  further  propagation. 


LIST  OF  OTHER  PERRY  PEARS, 

Exhibited  at  the  Hereford  Shows  but  not  specially  examined.  This  list  will  be  found  at 
the  end  of  the  letterpress  descriptions  on  Plate  lviii.  There  are  numerous  other  nameless  varieties 
scattered  over  the  county,  but  for  the  most  part  they  are  only  allowed  to  remain  because  they 
are  there. 


LIST  OF 


CIDER  APPLES  AND  PERRY  PEARS, 

Recommended  for  platiting  by  the  Woolhope  Club. 


CIDER  APPLES. 

EARLY  VARIETIES. 

Sack  Apple 
Sam’s  Crab 
White  Bache 


Bran  Rose 
Cherry  Hereford 
Cherry  Pearmain 


Cider  Ladys  Finger 
Gennet  Moyle 
Red  Splash 


Bastard  Foxwhelp 
Cocc-a-gee 
Dymock  Red 
Eggleton  Styre 
Forest  Styre 
Foxwhelp 
Garter  Apple 


MID-SEASON  VARIETIES. 

Green  Wilding 

Hagloe  Crab 

Handsome  Hereford 

Munn’s  Red 

Pym  Square 

Red  Bud 

Red  Foxwhelp 


Red  Royal 
South  Queening 
Spreading  Redstreak 
Upright  Redstreak 
White  Must 
White  Styre 
Yellow  Redstreak 


And  the  Norman 

Argile  Grise 
B  ED  AN-D  ES-P  ARTS 
Bramtot 


Black  Hereford 
Bromley 
Carrion 
Cowarne  Red 
Gummy 


Apples  introduced  by  the  Woolhope 

DE  BOUTTEVILLE 

Frequin  Andie vre 

LATE  VARIETIES. 

Joeby  Crab 
Kingston  Black 
Knotted  Kernel 
Red  Hereford 
Royal  Wilding 


in  1884,  viz  : — 

Medaille  d’or 
Michelin 
Rouge  Bruyere 


Skyrme’s  Kernel 
Strawberry  Hereford 
Styre  Wilding 
Tanner’s  Red 
Wilding  Bittersweet 


The  following  varieties  from  the  “  List  of  other  Cider  Apples  ”  hold  a  high  repute  in  their  several 

localities  and  will  doubtless  repay  careful  propagation. 


Alford 

Ansell 

Broad-leaved  Hereford 
Fawkes’  Kernel 


Cook’s  Kernel 
Golden  Moyie 
New  Bromley 
Red  Styre 


Reynolds’  Crab 
Stead’s  Kernel 
Woodsell 
Yellow  Styre 


PERRY  PEARS. 


Cheatboy 

Moorcroft 


Arlingham  Squash 
Barland 
Black  Huffcap 
Chasely  Green 


Aylton  Red 
Butt  Pear 

The  following 

Dymock  Red 


EARLY  VARIETIES. 

Parsonage 
Taynton  Squash 


MID-SEASON  VARIETIES. 

Longland 

Winnal’s  Longland 
White  Longland 


LATE  VARIETIES. 

CoPPY 
Red  Pear 


varieties  hold  a  high  local  repute  in 

Longstalk 
White  Moorcroft 


Thorn  Pear 
White  Squash 


Oldfield 
Pine  Pear 
Yellow  Huffcap 
Yoking  House 


Rock  Pear 
Thurston  Red 

their  several  districts. 

TurnphPs  Barn 


INDEX 


APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


FIGURED  ON  PLATES  II.— III.— V.— VI.— VII.— X.— XII.— XIV.— XVI.— XVII.— XIX.— XX.— XXI.— XXIII.— 
XXV.—  XXVII.—  XXXI.—  XXXI1L— XXXV.— XXXVII.— XXXIX.— XLL— XLIIL— XLVIL— XLIX.— L.— LIE— LIV. 
— LVI.— LIX.— LXI.— LXIII.— LXV.—  LXVII.—  LXIX.— LXXI.— LXXIII.  and  LXXIV. 


(True  Names 

in  Capitals- 

-Synonyms  in  ordinary  type) 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER 

Adam’s  Pearmain  ... 

XIV. 

3 

Baumann’s  Reinette 

LXV. 

2 

Admirable,  Small’s  . . . 

LXXIII. 

2 

Bedfordshire  Foundling  ... 

XVII. 

3 

Alexander,  Emperor 

XII. 

I 

Beefing,  or  Beaufin,  Herefordshire 

XXXV. 

4 

Alfriston 

LIX. 

3 

-  Norfolk 

XXXV. 

2 

Allen’s  Everlasting 

I.XIX. 

4 

• 

-  Striped 

XXXV. 

3 

American  Fall  Pippin 

XVII. 

5 

Belle  Dubois 

X. 

i 

- Mother 

LIV. 

2 

Belle  Bonne 

LXVI. 

6 

- Plate 

XXXVII. 

I 

- Josephine  ... 

XVII. 

5 

- Red  Crab 

LXXV. 

5 

Bell’s  Scarlet  Pearmain 

XIV. 

2 

— - Red  Juneating 

XIX. 

4 

Benoni 

XLVII. 

I 

Annie  Elizabeth  ... 

LII. 

2 

Bess  Pool 

LXXI. 

2 

Api  Petit,  ou  Rouge 

LXXIV. 

2 

■ - —  New 

LXXI. 

3 

Aporta 

XII. 

I 

Betty  Geeson 

LXVII. 

4 

Arbroath  Pippin 

XXVII. 

I 

Blanche  de  Leipsic  ... 

III. 

5 

d’Arcy  Spice 

XXV. 

2 

Blenheim  Orange  ... 

VII. 

— 

Arley  Pippin 

LIV. 

I 

- - -  Pippin  ... 

VII. 

— 

Aromatic  Cornish  . . . 

XLL 

4 

Bonnet  Garret 

LVI. 

3 

- Pippin 

III. 

7 

Borovitsky 

XXVII. 

4 

- Russet 

LIV. 

7 

Borsdorf,  or  Borsdorf  Hative  ... 

III. 

5 

Ashmead’s  Kernel 

LIV. 

5 

Borsdorffer 

III. 

5 

Astrachan  Red 

XXVII. 

5 

Boston  Russet 

LIV. 

8 

Aurore 

..  XLIX. 

4 

Brabant  Bellefleur 

LXXI. 

5 

Autumn,  or  Red  Calville 

LVI. 

4 

Braddick’s  Nonpareil 

XXL 

7 

Backhouse’s  Nelson 

X. 

5 

Bramley’s  Seedling 

LXXIII. 

8 

Baddow  Pippin 

XXV. 

2 

Brandy  Apple 

XVI. 

i 

Balgone  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

I 

Breitling 

LXVII. 

5 

Baltimore ... 

X. 

I 

Bringewood  Pippin 

LXIX. 

2 

Barcerlona  Pearmain 

XLL 

2 

Broad-End,  or  Broading 

LXXI. 

7 

Barchard’s  Seedling 

LXVII. 

I 

Brown  Cockle 

LIV. 

4 

Bayfordbury  Pippin... 

XXXVII. 

I 

Brownlee’s  Russet 

LIV. 

6 

Beauty  of  Kent  ... 

XII. 

4 

Burr  Knot 

XXVII. 

i 

INDEX  TO  APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE 

NUMBER. 

Caldwell  ... 

XXXIX. 

6 

Cox’s  Pomona 

XII. 

2 

Calville  d’Angleterre 

XLI. 

5 

Crab,  American 

LXXV. 

3 

Calville  Blanche  d’Hiver  . . , 

LVI. 

3 

- Red 

5 

- Malingre 

LVI. 

2 

• - -  Copmanthorpe 

LXIX. 

6 

- Rouge  d’Automne... 

LVI. 

4 

-  Dumelow,  or  Dumellers 

LII. 

i 

Cambridge  Pippin  ... 

XVII. 

3 

-  Minchall 

LXXI. 

4 

Camuesar 

XVII. 

4 

-  Purple 

LXXV. 

7 

Canada  Reinette 

LXV. 

8 

-  Red 

4 

Caraway  Russet  ... 

XXI. 

3 

-  Sam’s 

VIII. 

8 

Carse  of  Gowrie 

X. 

3 

- Scarlet  Hybrids 

LXXV. 

8  &  9 

Catshead 

L. 

3 

-  Siberian  Cherry 

i 

Beaufin  ... 

XXXV. 

2 

-  Tartarian  Yellow 

2 

Cellini  ... 

XII. 

3 

-  Transparent... 

6 

Checkquers 

LXXV. 

6 

-  Y ellow  T artarian 

2 

Christ’s  Golden  Reinette 

LXIX. 

6 

Crofton  Scarlet  ... 

LXV. 

I 

Clifton  Nonesuch  ... 

XLVII. 

2 

Dainty  Apple 

XLIII. 

I 

Clissold’s  Seedling ... 

XXL 

8 

D’Arcy  Spice 

XXV. 

2 

Coates’  Greening  ... 

XLIII. 

8 

D.  T.  Fish 

XXIII. 

I 

Cockle’s  Pippin  ... 

LIV. 

4 

Devonshire  Quarrenden  ... 

Ill 

4 

Coeur  de  Pigeon  ... 

LXXIV. 

3 

Delaware 

XLVII. 

3 

Cockpit 

LII. 

4 

Deux  Ans,  Dewsam,  or  Dusand 

LXXI. 

6 

Codlin,  English,  or  Old  ... 

XXXI. 

5 

Ditton,  Nonpareil  ... 

XXI. 

7 

French  ... 

XXXI. 

2 

*  Downton  Nonpareil 

LXIX. 

5 

Keswick  ... 

VI. 

I 

Downey  ... 

XLIII. 

i 

Manx 

VI. 

2 

Dr.  Harvey 

XXIII. 

3 

-  Nelson  ... 

X. 

5 

Due  d’Arsel 

XXL 

5 

Royal  ... 

XXXI. 

3 

Duchess’  Favorite 

LXIX. 

7 

y 

2 

Transparent 

XXXI. 

4 

■ - -  of  Oldenberg 

XXVII. 

4 

Coe’s  Golden  Drop 

LXIII. 

i 

- of  York’s  Favorite  ... 

LXIX. 

7 

Coleman’s  Winter  ... 

XLIII. 

4 

Dumelow’s  or  Dumeller’s  Crab, 

College  Apple  ... 

XXXV. 

i 

or  Seedling  ... 

LII. 

i 

Colonel  Vaughan 

LXXIV. 

5 

Dundee  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

Combermere  Apple 

LXI. 

7 

Dutch  Mignonne 

LXIX. 

6 

Concombre  Ancien 

XVII. 

4 

- Medlar 

LXXVI. 

2 

Copmanthorpe  Crab 

LXIX. 

6 

Early  Crofton 

XIX. 

2 

Corianda  Rose 

XLIX. 

i 

- French  Reinette 

LXIII. 

4 

Cornish  Aromatic 

XLI. 

4 

- Harvest  ... 

4 

Gilliflower 

XLI. 

5 

- Julien 

2 

Costard,  Gloucestershire... 

L. 

i 

- Margaret 

XIX. 

3 

Herefordshire  . . . 

L. 

2 

- Juneating  ... 

III. 

i 

Court  of  Wick 

III. 

3 

- Nonpareil 

XXVII. 

6 

Court  P endtj-pl at 

XLIX. 

i 

- Red,  or  Striped  Jenetting 

XIX. 

3 

Court  Pendu  dore  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

- Spice 

III. 

8 

Musque,  ou  Rouge  Musque 

- Strawberry 

XIX. 

4 

Rond,  Rond  Gros,  ou  Tres  Gros 

— 

Ecklinville  Seedling 

XVII. 

i 

- Rosat,  Rosaar,  Rouge,  ou 

Edelapfel  Gelber 

XXIII. 

2 

Rougeatre 

— 

Edmonton 

III. 

7 

- Vermeil 

— 

Elizabeth  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

Cowarne  Queening 

LXXIV. 

4 

Emperor  Alexander 

XII. 

i 

Cox’s  Orange  Pippin 

XVI. 

2 

Englese  Orange  Apfel 

LXV. 

4 

INDEX  TO  APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER 

English  Codim 

... 

XXXI. 

5 

Grand  Bohemian  Borsdorffer  ... 

III. 

5 

-  Nonpareil  ... 

. .  • 

XXI. 

5 

Grange  Apple 

LXIX. 

10 

- Pippin 

... 

XLIX. 

4 

Gravenstein 

XXXIX. 

5 

Englischer  Winterquitt  Emapfel 

XLIII. 

3 

Greave’s  Pippin 

LII. 

5 

Englische  Spitals  Reinette 

. .  . 

XXI. 

1 

Green  Blenheim 

II. 

2 

Eve,  Eve  Apple,  or  Ireland 

vi.  2  and  xix.  3 

- Cossings 

XXXIX. 

6 

Fall  Pippin 

.  .  . 

XVII. 

4 

- Reinette 

XXL 

5 

— — —  Sudlow’s 

.  .  . 

XXXVII. 

3 

- Woodcock  ... 

XLIII. 

5 

Fearns,  or  Ferris,  Pippin 

.  .  • 

XLVII. 

2 

Greening,  Goate’s 

XLIII. 

8 

Fillbasket,  Kentish  ... 

.  .  • 

LVI. 

1 

- Northern  ... 

XLIII. 

•  7 

Fish,  D.  T. 

•  • . 

XXIII. 

1 

- - New  Northern 

V. 

1 

Five-crowned  Pippin 

.  .  . 

LXVII. 

2 

- -  Y orkshire 

XLIII. 

8 

Flander’s  Pippin 

. .  . 

LXI. 

8 

Grenadier 

LXXIII. 

3 

Forge 

.  .  • 

LXIII. 

3 

Hambledon  Deux  Ans 

LXXI. 

6 

Foundling,  Bedfordshire 

. .  . 

XVII. 

3 

Hampshire  Yellow  ... 

XLIX. 

7 

Franklin’s  Golden  Pippin 

. .  . 

XXXVII. 

3 

Hanging  Pearmain  ... 

XIV. 

3 

French  Codlin 

•  •  • 

XXXI. 

2 

Hanwell  Souring  ... 

XVII. 

4 

Frith  Pippin 

.  . . 

VI. 

2 

Harvey  Apple  ...  ...xvi. 

i  and  xxiii.  3 

Fry’s  Pippin 

.  .  . 

III. 

3 

Hawberry  Pippin 

LXVII. 

7 

Frogmore  Prolific 

•  •  • 

LXXIII. 

1 

Hawthornden 

VI. 

4 

Gardener’s  Apple 

•  •  • 

LIV. 

2 

- - -  New,  or  Winter 

X. 

4 

Garnon’s  Pippin 

•  •  • 

XLIX. 

1 

Red... 

XXXIX. 

1 

Garrat  Pippin 

•  •  • 

III. 

5 

Herefordshire  Beefing 

XXXV. 

4 

Ginetting  ... 

•  . . 

III. 

1 

- Costard 

L. 

2 

Gipsy  King 

LXIX. 

9 

- Golden  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

1 

Girkin  Pippin 

•  .  . 

LIV. 

1 

- Queening  ... 

LXXIV. 

8 

Gladstone,  Mr. 

•  •  • 

LXIII. 

5 

- Pearmain  ... 

XIV. 

1 

Glammis  Castle 

•  •  • 

X. 

3 

- Pomeroy 

II. 

1 

Gloria  Mundi 

•  •  • 

X. 

1 

- Spice  Apple  . . . 

III. 

8 

Glory  of  Flanders 

* .  . 

LXXI. 

5 

Hicks’  Fancy 

XXVII. 

6 

York 

•  •  • 

XXV. 

1 

Hoary  Morning 

XLIII. 

1 

Gloucestershire  Costard 

•  •  • 

L. 

1 

Hollandbury 

LXVII. 

7 

Gogar  Pippin 

. .  • 

LIV. 

3 

Hood’s  Seedling 

XIV. 

2 

Golden  Apple 

•  •  • 

XXVII. 

1 

Horsley  Pippin 

LXVII. 

7 

-  Drop 

III. 

3 

Hughes’  Golden  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

4 

— - Coe’s 

.  .  . 

LXIII. 

1 

Hutchins’  Seedling  ... 

LXXIII. 

6 

-  Harvey 

.  .  . 

XVI. 

1 

Incomparable,  Moss’ 

LXI. 

4 

-  Knob 

.  .  . 

XXI. 

4 

Ingestrie,  Red 

LXIX. 

1 

— - -  Noble 

•  .  • 

XXIII. 

2 

- Yellow 

LXIX. 

3 

-  Pippin 

.  .  . 

XXXVII. 

1 

Isle  of  Wight  Pippin,  or  Orange 

LXV. 

4 

- Franklin’s 

.  .  . 

XXXVII. 

3 

Irish  Codlin 

VI. 

2 

- Hughes’ 

.  .  . 

XXXVII. 

4 

-  Peach 

XIX. 

2 

— — — -  Pine 

.  .  . 

XXXVII. 

6 

-  Pitcher 

VI. 

2 

- — —  Pitmaston 

.  .  . 

XXXVII. 

5 

-  Reinette 

LIX. 

4 

- Summer 

.  .  . 

III. 

2 

-  Russet 

XXI. 

2 

-  Renette,  Renet,  or  Rennett  xlix. 

4 

Iron  Apple 

LXXI. 

5 

-  Russet 

.  .  . 

3 

Jackson’s  Seedling  ... 

LXIII. 

5 

-  Spire 

... 

LXXIII. 

4 

Jewsam’s  ... 

LXXI. 

6 

-  Winter  Pearmain 

.  . . 

XLIX. 

7 

Joanina,  or  Joanetting 

III. 

1 

Gooseberry  Apple 

... 

XLIII. 

2 

John  Apple 

XLIII. 

7 

Gowrie 

•  •  • 

X. 

3 

Jolly  Beggar 

XXXI. 

1 

INDEX  TO  APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE.  NUMBER. 

Jones’  Southampton  Yellow 

... 

XLIX. 

7 

Josephine,  or  Belle  Josephine... 

XVII. 

4 

Juneating,  or  Junetting 

... 

III. 

i 

Kempster’s  Pippin  ... 

•  •  • 

VII. 

Kentish  Broading  ... 

LXXI. 

7 

Fillbasket... 

.  .  • 

LVI. 

i 

Golden  Knob 

. . . 

XXI. 

4 

-  Pippin 

... 

LXXIV. 

5 

Keeping  Russet 

•  •  • 

XXXIII. 

3 

Kernel,  Ashmead’s  ... 

•  •  • 

LIV. 

5 

- Tyler’s 

... 

LXXIV. 

6 

Kerry  Pippin 

... 

III. 

7 

Keswick  Codlin  . . . 

. .  . 

VI. 

i 

Kief’s  Koy 

... 

XII. 

i 

Killick’s  Apple 

XX. 

2,  and  xxiii. 

i 

King  Apple 

•  f  * 

XXIII. 

i 

King  of  Pippins 

•  •  0 

XLIX. 

7 

- George  Third  ... 

.  •  • 

hi. 

5 

Kirke’s  Admirable  ... 

... 

LXVII. 

7 

- Golden  Reinette 

. . . 

XLIX. 

4 

- Lemon  Pippin 

XLIII. 

3 

Knight’s  Codlin 

... 

V. 

4 

Knightwick  Pippin  ... 

... 

III. 

3 

Kurtzstiel . . . 

• . . 

XLIX. 

i 

Lady  Apple 

... 

LXXIV. 

2 

- Derby 

V 

XXVII. 

3 

-  de  Grey 

... 

LVI. 

i 

-  Henniker  ... 

... 

LXVII. 

3 

Lady’s  Finger 

... 

XIV. 

3 

Lamb  Abbey  Pearmain 

... 

XIV. 

4 

Lammas  ... 

... 

XIX. 

3 

Lancaster,  or  Lancashire  Crab 

LXXI. 

4 

Landsberger  Reinette 

.  .  . 

XLIX. 

2 

Lane’s  Prince  Albert 

... 

LII. 

3 

Large  Fall  Pippin  ... 

•  •• 

XVII. 

5 

Leathercoat 

XXXIII. 

3 

Lemon  Pippin 

... 

XLIII. 

3 

Loddington 

... 

XX. 

2 

Lodgemore  Nonpareil 

.  .  . 

XXI. 

8 

London  Golden  Pippin 

... 

XXXVII. 

i 

Pippin 

.  .  . 

LXVII. 

2 

Longville’s  Kernel  ... 

... 

VIII. 

8 

Lord  Burghley  ... 

.  .  . 

LXV. 

3 

-  Combermere  ... 

... 

LXI. 

7 

-  Derby 

.  .  . 

LXXIII. 

7 

-  Grosvenor 

.  .  . 

XXXI. 

i 

Gwydr’s  Newtown  Pippin 

LIX. 

3 

-  Suffield 

.  .  . 

VI. 

'j 

o 

Lovedon’s  Pippin  . . . 

... 

XXL 

5 

Lucombe’s  Pine 

... 

XLVII. 

6 

PLATE.  NUMBER. 

Mabbut’s  Pearmain 

LXI. 

3 

Madeleine,  Magdalene,  or  Maudlin 

XIX. 

3 

Malingre  d’Angleterre 

LVI. 

2 

Mammoth 

X. 

I 

Manx  Codlin 

VI. 

2 

Margaret,  Marget,  or  Marguerite 

XIX. 

3 

Margil  ... 

XLI. 

3 

Medlar  Dutch 

LXXVI. 

2 

- Nottingham 

I 

Megginch  Favorite... 

XLIX. 

4 

Melon  ... 

LXI. 

5 

Mere  de  Menage 

LXI. 

7 

Milton  Golden  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

i 

Minshall  Crab  ... 

LXXI. 

4 

Minsham’s,  or  Minchin’s  Crab 

Minier’s  Dumpling 

LIX. 

2 

Monstrous  Pippin  ... 

X. 

I 

Morris’  Sack  and  Sugar 

XXVII. 

2 

Moss’  Incomparable 

LXI. 

4 

Mother  Apple  ...  xxvii. 

i,  and  liv. 

2 

Mr.  Gladstone  ... 

LXIII. 

5 

Mugdale  ... 

XIX. 

3 

Munche’s  Pippin  ... 

XLI. 

3 

Nelson,  or  Nelson  Codlin  ... 

X. 

5 

Nelson’s  Glory 

XXIII. 

i 

Neverfail  ... 

XLI. 

3 

New  Bess  Pool 

LXXI. 

3 

- Brunswick 

XXVII. 

4 

- Hawthorn  den ... 

X. 

4 

London  Pippin 

LXVII. 

2 

- Margil 

XLIII. 

I 

- Nonpareil 

XXVII. 

6 

Northern  Greening  ... 

V. 

i 

York  Gloria  Mundi 

X. 

i 

Newbold’s  Duke  of  York 

XXXIX. 

6 

Nonpareil... 

XXI. 

5 

Braddick’s 

7 

d’Angleterre 

5 

- Ditton 

7 

Downton 

LXIX. 

5 

Early,  or  New 

XXVII. 

6 

English,  or  Hunt’s... 

XXL 

5 

Lodgemore 

8 

- Ross  ••• 

9 

- Scarlet  ... 

XLI. 

i  ■ 

- Stagg’s  ... 

XXVII. 

6 

White  ... 

XXI. 

6 

Newland  Sack 

LIX. 

i 

Nonesuch,  Clifton  ... 

XLVII. 

2 

Peasgood’s 

LXI. 

7 

Round  Winter 

2 

I 


INDEX  TO  APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Nonesuch,  Welford  Park 

I 

Pippin,  Cambridge 

XVII. 

3 

Norfolk  Beefing,  or  Beaufin 

XXXV. 

2 

- Cobbet’s  Fall  Pippin 

XVII. 

5 

- Colman’s  Bearer  ... 

XLIII. 

4 

— —  Cox’s  Orange 

XVI. 

2 

- Pippin  ... 

XIV. 

3 

— -  English 

XLIX. 

4 

- Storing  ... 

4 

- Fall,  or  Large  Fall  ... 

XVII. 

5 

Normanton  Wonder 

LII. 

I 

- Fearn’s,  or  Ferris’  ... 

XLVII. 

2 

Northern  Greening 

XLIII. 

7 

- Five  Crowned 

LXVII. 

2 

Nottingham  Medlar 

LXXVI. 

I 

- Flanders 

LXI. 

8 

Nutmeg,  or  Cockle  Pippin  ... 

LIV. 

4 

- Franklin’s  Golden  ... 

XXXVII. 

3 

Oldaker’s  New 

LIX. 

3 

- Frith 

VI. 

2 

Old  Codlin 

XXXI. 

5 

- Fry’s 

III. 

3 

- Nonpareil  ... 

XXI. 

5 

- Garnons  ... 

XLIX. 

i 

Orange  Pippin 

LXV. 

4 

- - Garret 

III. 

5 

Ord’s  Apple 

XLVII. 

5 

- Gogar 

LIV. 

3 

Orgeline,  or  Orglon 

XXVII. 

i 

- Golden 

XXXVII. 

i 

Original  Pippin,  or  Oslin 

— 

- Greave’s  ... 

LII. 

5 

Owen’s  Golden  Beauty 

III. 

i 

- Hawberry  ... 

LXVII. 

7 

Ox  Apple 

X. 

i 

- Herefordshire  Golden 

XXXVII. 

i 

Oxford  Peach 

XIV. 

2 

- Horsley  ... 

LXVII. 

7 

Peach,  Irish 

XIX. 

2 

- Hughes’  Golden 

XXXVII. 

4 

- Oxford  ...  ...  m 

XIV. 

2 

- Isle  of  Wight 

LXV. 

4 

Pearmain,  Adam’s 

XIV. 

3 

- Orange 

LXV. 

4 

- Barcelona 

XLI. 

2 

— — - July,  or  July  Early  .  . 

LXIII. 

4 

— - Golden  Winter 

XLIX. 

7 

- Kempster’s 

VII. 

- — 

- Herefordshire 

XIV. 

I 

- - - -  Kerry 

III. 

7 

- Lambe  Abbey  . . . 

4 

- King  of  ... 

XLIX. 

7 

- Mabbuts 

LXI. 

3 

- Knightwick 

III. 

3 

-  Mannington’s 

XIV. 

5 

- Lemon 

XLIII. 

3 

- Polimia 

XLI. 

2 

- London,  or  New  London 

LXVII. 

2 

- - Royal ... 

XIV. 

I 

-  London  Golden  .  . 

XXXVII. 

I 

- Rushock 

LXI. 

6 

- Lovedons  ... 

XXI. 

5 

- Scarlet  .. 

XIV. 

2 

- Mammoth,  or  Monstrous 

X. 

i 

- Winter,  or  Sussex  Winter 

6 

-  Munches  ... 

XLI. 

3 

- -  Worcester 

III. 

6 

- Norfolk 

XIV. 

•7 

Pearson’s  Plate 

XLVII. 

4 

- Nutmeg  ... 

LIV. 

4 

Peasgood’s  Nonesuch 

LXI. 

8 

- Original  ... 

XXVII. 

i 

Petit  Api  Rouge  ... 

LXXIV. 

2 

- Pine  Apple 

XLVII. 

6 

Phillips’  Reinette  ... 

iii. 

3 

- Pitmaston  Golden  ... 

XXXVII. 

5 

Pigeon  ... 

LXXIV. 

3 

-  Prince  of  ... 

XLIX. 

7 

Pigeonet 

i 

- Ribstone  ... 

XXV. 

i 

Pine  Apple 

XLVII. 

6 

- Scarlet  Golden 

XXXVII. 

2 

Pine  Golden  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

6 

- Shepherd’s 

LIX. 

3 

Pippin,  American  Fall 

XVII. 

5 

-  Simpson’s... 

XLVII. 

5 

- Arbroath  ... 

XXVII. 

i 

- Stettin 

LXIX. 

6 

- Aromatic  ... 

III. 

7 

-  Stone 

LIV. 

3 

- - —  Baddow  ... 

XXV. 

2 

- Stunner  ... 

XXV. 

3 

- Balgone  ... 

XXXVII. 

I 

- Sudlow’s  Fall 

XXXVII. 

3 

- Bayfordbury 

I 

- Sugar  Loaf 

LXXIII. 

6 

- Blenheim  ... 

vii. 

— 

- - Summer  Golden 

III. 

2 

- Bringewood 

LXIX. 

2 

-  Thorle 

XXVII. 

3 

- Brown  Cockle 

LIV. 

4 

- Traver’s  ... 

XXV. 

i 

INDEX  TO  APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Pippin,  Warwickshire 

LIV. 

I 

- Weeks 

III. 

3 

- Whorle 

XXVII. 

3 

- Wormisley 

V. 

4 

- Wyken 

LIV. 

i 

- Wyker 

XLIX. 

4 

- W  oodstock 

VII. 

i 

- Woollaton ... 

XLIX. 

i 

- Yellow 

III. 

3 

Pitmaston  Golden  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

5 

- Nonpareil 

XXXIII. 

2 

- Pine  ... 

LXIX. 

8 

- Russet 

XXXIII. 

2 

Polinia  Pearmain  ... 

XLI. 

2 

Pomeroy 

II. 

I 

- Winter  ... 

— 

2 

Pomme  d’  Api 

LXXIV. 

2 

- d’  Ete  di  Canada 

LXIII. 

4 

- de  Jerusalem 

LXXIV, 

3 

- Madame  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

- d’ Orange  ... 

LXV. 

4 

- de  Pigeon ... 

LXXIV. 

3 

- de  Prochain 

III. 

5 

- Pomona,  Cox’s 

XII. 

2 

- Portugal  ... 

LXV. 

8 

Postophe  d’  Hiver 

III. 

5 

Potts  Seedling  ... 

X. 

2 

Potters  Large 

LVI. 

I 

Prager  ... 

XXL 

I 

Primiting 

III. 

3 

Prince  Albert  ... 

LII. 

3 

Princess  Noble 

XLIX. 

4 

-  Noble  Zoete 

i 

Prince’s  Harvest  ... 

LXIII. 

4 

Putman’s  Russet  ... 

LIV. 

8 

Quarrenden,  or  Quarrington 

Devonshire  ... 

III. 

4 

Queen 

XXXIX. 

4 

-  Anne 

LIV. 

2 

-  Apple 

III. 

5 

-  of  Sauce  ... 

LXXI. 

i 

Queening  Cowarne 

LXXIV. 

4 

- Crimson,  Hereford- 

shire,  Red  or  Summer  ... 

LXXIV. 

8 

- or  Quoining  Winter 

LXXIV. 

7 

Quince  Apple 

XLIII. 

3 

Quince,  Pear  shaped 

LXXVI. 

3 

Ratean,  or  de  Ratteau 

XVII. 

5 

Red  Astrachan 

XXVII. 

5 

- Borsdorffer 

III. 

5 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Red  Calville 

LVI. 

4 

- Hawthornden 

VI. 

4 

- Ingestrie 

LXIX. 

I 

- Juneating 

XIX. 

3 

- Kentish  Pippin 

LXXIV. 

5 

- Quarrenden  ... 

III. 

4 

- Queening 

LXXIV. 

8 

- Winter  Calville 

LVI. 

4 

Reed’s  Baker 

XXXV. 

2 

Reinette  d’Aix  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

-  d’Allemagne 

III. 

5 

- Baumann 

LXV. 

2 

-  de  Canada 

LXV. 

8 

- —  Christs  Golden  ... 

LXIX. 

6 

- Court  Pendu  rouge 

XLIX. 

i 

- -  Early  French 

LXIII. 

4 

-  Gielen 

XLIX. 

4 

- Golden 

XLIX. 

4 

- Grise 

LXV. 

7 

- Kirke’s  Golden  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

- Irish  ... 

LIX. 

4 

- -  Landsberger 

XLIX. 

2 

- de  Misnie 

III. 

5 

— — - Nonpareil 

XXL 

5 

- Seigende 

LXV. 

5 

ijd  VV  U  U  LI  5  ■  •  • 

9 

- Speckled  Golden 

XLI. 

5 

- Striped  monstrous 

XLIII. 

6 

- Tendre 

XVII. 

4 

- Ullner’s  Golden  . . . 

XLIX. 

6 

- — -  Van  Mons 

LXV. 

6 

- -  White  Spanish  ... 

XVII. 

4 

-  Yellow  German  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

Ribstone  Pippin 

XXV. 

i 

Ringer 

LXXIII. 

5 

Rolland 

LXVII. 

6 

Rooks  Nest 

LIV. 

7 

Round  Russet  Harley 

XVI. 

i 

- Winter  Nonesuch... 

LXI. 

2 

Roxburg  Russet 

LIV. 

8 

Royal  Pearmain  ... 

LXI. 

6 

-  Somerset  ... 

LIX. 

5 

Rushock  Pearmain 

LXI. 

6 

Russet,  Aromatic 

LIV. 

7 

- Boston 

8 

- Brownlees 

6 

- Coat  Nonpareil 

XXXIII. 

2 

- Carraway 

XXL 

3 

- Golden 

XLIX. 

3 

- Golden  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

i 

- Irish 

XXL 

2 

INDEX  TO  APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Russet,  Pitmaston 

XXXIII. 

2 

Small  Ribstone 

XLI. 

3 

- - Pietmans  ... 

LIV. 

8 

Small’s  Admirable 

LXXIII 

2 

- Round  Harvey 

XVI. 

i 

Smith’s  Beauty  of  Newark  ... 

XXVII. 

4 

-  Roxburg  .. 

LIV. 

8 

Speckled  Pearmain 

XLI. 

I 

- Royal 

XXXIII. 

3 

Spice  Apple 

LIV. 

7 

-  Shippens  ... 

LIV. 

8 

- -  Early 

III. 

8 

-  St.  Helene 

LXV. 

8 

Spring  Grove  Codlin 

V. 

2 

- - Syke  House 

XXL 

i 

Spring  Ribstone 

XXV. 

2 

- Wheelers 

XXXIII. 

i 

St.  Helena  Russet 

LXV. 

8 

Russian  Apple 

XLIX. 

i 

St.  John’s  Nonpareil 

XXXIII. 

2 

- -  Emperor  ... 

XII. 

i 

Stagg’s  Nonpareil 

XXVII. 

6 

Rymer 

XXXIX. 

6 

Sterling  Castle 

V. 

3 

Sack  and  Sugar 

XXVII. 

2 

Stettin  Pippin 

LXIX. 

6 

Sack  Apple 

VIII. 

9 

Stone  Apple 

XX. 

2 

Salopian 

XXIII. 

i 

- -  Pippin 

LIV. 

3 

Sam’s  Crab 

VIII. 

8 

Striped  Beefing,  or  Beaufin 

XXXV. 

3 

Sam  Rawlings 

XLIII. 

i 

- Joannetting 

XIX. 

3 

Sam  Young 

XXL 

2 

- — — — —  Monstrous  Rein- 

Scarlet  Crofton 

LXV. 

I 

ETTE 

XLIII. 

6 

- Golden  Pippin  ... 

XXXVII. 

2 

- Quarrenden 

XIX. 

3 

Nonpareil 

XLI. 

I 

Sturmer  Pippin.. 

XXV. 

3 

- Queening 

LXXIV. 

8 

Sudlow’s  Fall  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

3 

-  Pearmain 

XIV. 

2 

Sugar  Loaf  Pippin 

LXXIII. 

6 

- - Pippin 

LXIII. 

5 

Syke  House  Russet 

XXI. 

i 

Schoolmaster 

XXXIX. 

3 

Summer  Oslin 

XXVII. 

i 

Seedling,  Barchard’s 

LXVII. 

i 

- Golden  Pippin... 

III. 

2 

-  Bramley 

LXXIII. 

8 

-  Strawberry 

XIX. 

I 

- Clissolds 

XXL 

8 

- Thorle,  or  Whorle 

XXVII. 

3 

- Dumelows,  or  Dume- 

- Traveller 

XIX. 

3 

less 

LII. 

i 

Sussex  Scarlet,  or  Winter 

- Ecklingville 

XVII. 

i 

Pearmain 

XIV. 

6 

-  Hutchings 

LXXIII. 

6 

Taliesin 

XXXV. 

2 

— — — - —  Loddington 

XX. 

2 

Tart  Bough 

LXIII. 

4 

- Pott’s  ... 

X. 

2 

Tartarian  Crab 

LXXV. 

2 

-  Shepperd’s 

LIX. 

3 

Thorle  Pippin 

XXVII.- 

3 

- Waltham  Abbey  ... 

XVII. 

2 

Tom  Montgomery 

LXIII. 

2 

Seek  No  Further 

XLIX. 

5 

Tom  Putt,  or  Tom  Potter  ... 

VI. 

5 

Seigende  Reinette 

LXV. 

5 

Transparent  Crab 

LXXVI. 

6 

Selwood’s  Reinette 

- Codlin 

XXXI. 

4 

Shippen’s  Russet 

LIV. 

8 

Traver’s  Pippin 

XXV. 

i 

Shepherd’s  Pippin,  or  Seedling 

LIX. 

3 

Tower  of  Glammis 

X. 

3 

Siberian  Crab,  or  Cherry 

Trumpington 

XLVII. 

3 

Apple 

LXXV. 

i 

Tyler’s  Kernel... 

LXXIV. 

6 

- — - Oblong 

3 

Uellner’s  Golden  Reinette 

XLIX. 

6 

— - Purple 

8 

Walmer  Court 

XLIII. 

7 

Red  ... 

4 

Waltham  Abbey  Seedling 

XVII. 

2 

- Scarlet 

8-9 

Wanstall 

LIV. 

9 

- Transparent 

7 

Warner’s  King  ... 

XXIII. 

i 

- Yellow  or  Tartarian 

2 

Warter’s  Golden  Pippin 

XXXVII. 

i 

Simpson’s  Pippin  ... 

XLVII. 

5 

Warwickshire  Pippin 

LIV. 

i 

Sleeping  Beauty 

XXXIX. 

2 

Watson’s  New  Nonesuch 

XXVII. 

3 

INDEX  TO  APPLES,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

number. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Weavering 

XXIII. 

I 

Winter  Queening 

LXXIV. 

7 

Week’s  Pippin 

in. 

3 

Wise  Apple 

XLIX. 

i 

Welford  Park  Nonesuch 

LXI. 

i 

Wollaton  Pippin  ... 

XLIX. 

i 

Wellington 

LII. 

i 

Wood’s  Huntington 

III. 

3 

Wheeler’s  Russet 

XXXIII. 

i 

Woodcock 

XLIII. 

5 

White  Cockle 

LIV. 

4 

Woodstock  Pippin 

VII. 

— 

- —  Codlin 

VI. 

i 

Worcester  Pearmain 

III. 

6 

- Hawthornden 

VI. 

4 

Wormisley  Pippin 

V. 

4 

- Joanetting 

III. 

r 

Wyken  Pippin 

LIV. 

i 

- Nonpareil 

XXI. 

6 

Wygers,  or  Wyker  Pippin 

XLIX. 

4 

- Spanish  Reinette  . . . 

XVII. 

4 

Van  Mons  Reinette 

LXV. 

6 

-  Summer  Pippin 

III. 

2 

Vaughan,  or  Vaun’s  Pippin  ... 

LXXIV. 

5 

- Winter  Calville 

LVI. 

3 

Yellow  German  Reinette  ... 

XLIX. 

4 

Whorle  Pippin 

XXVII. 

3 

- - — —  Harvest 

LXIII. 

2 

Winter  Belle  Bonne 

LXVII. 

6 

- Ingestrie 

LXIX. 

O 

D 

-  Broading 

LXXI. 

7. 

- Pippin 

III. 

2 

-  Coleman 

XLIII. 

4 

- Tartarean  Crab 

LXXV. 

2 

-  Hawthornden 

X. 

4 

Yorkshire  Beauty 

XX. 

I 

Pearmain 

XIV. 

6 

- Goose  Sauce  ... 

XLIII. 

8 

-  Pomeroy 

II. 

2 

- Greening 

XLIII. 

8 

INDEX. 


CIDER  APPLES. 


FIGURED  ON  PLATES  I.— VIII.— XI.— XXIX.— XLV.—LVII.  and  LXXII. 


(True  Names  in  Capitals— Synonyms  in  ordinary  type). 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Bastard  Foxwhet.p 

VIII. 

2 

Knotted  Kernel 

LVIII. 

7 

Belle  or  Belle  Norman 

XL 

6 

La  Belle  Normande 

XI. 

6 

Black  Foxwhelp 

VIII. 

4 

Munn’s  Red 

VIII. 

6 

Black  Kingston 

XLV. 

3 

Old  Bromley 

XXIX. 

7 

Black  Hereford  (late 

Pretty  Maid 

VIII. 

6 

Norman) 

XI. 

7 

Pym  Square 

XI. 

8 

Bran  Rose 

LXXII. 

9 

Red  Bud 

LXXII. 

4 

Bromley 

XXIX. 

7 

Foxwhelp  ... 

VIII. 

3 

Cadbury 

XLV. 

4 

— —  Hereford  (late 

Canon 

VIII. 

i 

Norman) 

XI. 

2 

Carrion 

LXXII. 

i 

-  Royal 

XXIX. 

8 

Cherry  Hereford  (late 

-  Splash 

LXXII. 

2 

Norman) 

XI. 

2 

-  Pearmain 

LVII. 

- Spreading,  Upright, 

Cider  Lady’s  Finger 

XXIX. 

and  Yellow 

LVII. 

1-7-2 

Coccagee 

LXXII. 

6 

Redstrake  of  King’s  Caple  ... 

XI. 

I 

Cow arne  Red  ... 

LVII. 

4 

Rejuvenated  Foxwhelp  .. 

VIII. 

I 

Crowe’s  Kernel 

VIII. 

i 

Royal  Wilding 

XLV. 

4 

Gummy 

XLV. 

2 

Sack  Apple 

VIII. 

Q 

Dymock  Red 

VIII. 

c; 

Scudamore’s  Crab 

XI. 

I 

Eggleton  Styre 

XXIX. 

7 

Forest  Styre 

LXXII. 

8 

Spice  Apple 

VIII. 

9 

Skyrme’s  Kernel 

XXIX. 

4 

Fox’s  Kernel 

VIII. 

Q 

Foxwhelp 

I. 

South  Queening 

LVII. 

6 

Spreading  Redstreak 

LVII. 

2 

-  Black,  Red,  and 

Rejuvenated 

VIII. 

4-3-1 

Stire,  Styre,  or  Stirom 

LXXII. 

8 

Garter 

LXXII. 

7 

White 

XXIX. 

i 

Gennet  Moyle  ... 

XXIX. 

6 

- Wilding  ... 

XXIX. 

2 

Creasy  Apple 

VIII. 

6 

- Eggleton 

XXIX. 

3 

Green  Wilding  ... 

XLV. 

6 

- Forest 

LXXII. 

8 

Hagloe  Crab 

LXXII. 

3 

Tanner’s  Red 

LXXII. 

5 

Handsome  FIereford  (late 

Taunton,  or  Taynton  Black... 

XLV. 

3 

Norman) 

XI. 

6 

Upright  Redstreak 

LVII. 

3 

Herefordshire  Redstreak 

XI. 

i 

White  Must,  or  Musk 

VIII. 

7 

Hitterly 

XI. 

2 

- Hereford  (late 

Irchinfield  Redstrake 

XL 

I 

Norman) 

XI. 

4 

Joeby,  or  Joby,  Crab 

XLV. 

I 

- -  Styre 

XXIX. 

i 

Kempley  Red 

LXXII. 

I 

Wilding  Bittersweet 

XLV. 

5 

Kingston  Black 

XLV. 

3 

Yellow  Redstreak 

LVII. 

i 

INDEX 


PEARS,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


FIGURED  ON  PLATES  IV.— IX.— XIII.— XV.— XXII.— XXIV.— XXVI.— XXVIII.— XXXII.— XXXIV.— XXXVI.— 
—XXXVIII.— XL.—  XLIL— XLIV.— XLVIIL—  LI.— LIIL— LV.— LX.— LXII.— LXIV.— LXVL— LXVIII.  and  LXX. 


Abbe  Mongin 

XV. 

Admirable  de  Chartreux 

Africaine 

XXXIV. 

Albert 

IX. 

Albertine 

XLII. 

Alexandrine  Douillard  ... 

XXXVI. 

Helie 

XLVIIL 

Althorpe  Crassane 

IV. 

D’Amanlis 

IX. 

Ambrosia 

XXVIII. 

Angora 

XV. 

d’ Anjou 

XXXVI. 

Arbre  Superbe 

XXXIV. 

d’Aremberg  parfait 

LXX. 

d’Argenson 

Aston  Town 

XXXIV. 

d’Auch 

XL. 

Andusson 

XV. 

Auguste  Jurie  ... 

XXVI. 

- Van  Mons  Soldat 

XXIV. 

Aurore 

XLIV. 

Autocrat 

LXIV. 

Autumn  Bergamot 

LIIL 

Bachelier 

XXIV. 

Badhams 

XXXVI. 

Bartlett 

IX. 

Beau,  or  Beau,  de  la  Cour  ... 

XLII. 

-  Present 

XXVI. 

Beaute  de  Teruerin 

XV. 

Bedminster  Gratioli 

LV. 

Bell  Pear 

XV. 

Belle  Alliance 

LXII. 

Andrienne 

LXVL 

- Angevine 

XV. 

- de  Berry 

LXVI. 

- des  Bois 

IX. 

et  Bonne  d’Eze'e 

LXVL 

PLATE.  NUMBER. 
2 

1 

3 

4 
3 

3 

4 

2 

4 

3 
2 
2 
I 

1 

4 

5 

2 
1 
2 
2 
2 
5 

3 
7 

1 

5 

4 

2 
2 

1 

6 

3 

2 

3 

5 
2 


s  in  ordinary  type). 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Belle  excellente 

LXVI. 

2 

- de  Flandres 

IX. 

5 

- Arde 

LX. 

2 

- Heloise 

LXVL 

3 

- de  Jersey 

XV. 

2 

- Julie 

XLVIIL 

4 

- Lucratif  ... 

XXXIV. 

i 

- de  Noisette 

XV. 

3 

- Vierge 

XXVI. 

4 

Bellissime  d’FTiver 

XV. 

3 

Benedictine 

XXXVI. 

7 

B  ERG  amot-B  erg  amotte 

LIIL 

5 

2 

- de  la  Bouvrier  ... 

LXII. 

2 

- Broca’s 

LIII. 

3 

Bonte 

Cadette 

Common,  or  English 

Dietrich 

Esperen 

d’Ete 

Fievee 

Gansel’s 

Geerard 

de  Heliere 

d’Hiver 

Huyshes 

J  or’s 

Marbree 

Ordinaire 

Pannachee 

de  Pentecote 

Rayee 

River’s  Seedling 
de  Regons 

Suisse,  or  Suisse  Rond 
Tardive 


LXX. 

LXII. 

XXXIV. 

LIII. 

LX. 

LIII. 

LXX. 

LXVIII. 

LIII. 


LXX. 

LIII. 


LXX. 


4 

2 

5 

6 

4 
2 

1 

3 

2 

5 
2 

1 

3 

4 

5 
4 

2 

4 

1 

5 
4 

2 


INDEX  TO  PEARS,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Bergamot  Thieve 

XXXIV. 

I 

Beurre  Gris 

XXXVI. 

7 

- de  Toulouse 

LXX. 

2 

Gurles’  ... 

LIII. 

3 

York 

LIII. 

5 

- d’Hardenpont 

LV. 

i 

Berthebirne 

XV. 

2 

-  d’Hardenpont  de 

Besi  de  Caen 

LX. 

I 

Printemps 

LXVIII. 

6 

- de  Chaumontel 

XXXVIII. 

4 

- Hardy  ... 

XIII. 

i 

- •  de  Marais 

XV. 

i 

- d’Hiver  de  Bruxelles 

LXX. 

2 

de  Quessoy,  or  Caissoy 

XL. 

7 

-  Incomparable 

LXVI. 

5 

Beurru  d’Albret 

XXXIV. 

i 

- Isambert 

XXXVI. 

7 

-  d’Amanlis 

IX. 

4 

-  de  Kent 

LV. 

i 

YYYVT 

Cl  i  I.II1  UUIoL  •  •  • 

-  Anglaise 

LXX. 

/ 

2 

- Lucratif 

XXXIV. 

i 

-  d’Anjou 

XXXVI. 

2 

-  Magnifique 

LXVI. 

5 

-  Apremont 

XXXII. 

3 

- de  Malines 

XXXVIII. 

3 

-  d’ Aremberg 

LXX. 

i 

- de  Merode 

XLII. 

3 

-  dArgenson 

XXXVI. 

6 

-  Napoleon 

XXXVIII. 

5 

-  DE  l’AsSOMPTION  . . . 

XLIV. 

4 

-  de  Noir  Chair,  or 

- Antien 

XXXVIII. 

5 

Chain 

LXVIII. 

6 

- Aurore  .  v 

XLIV. 

2 

- des  Orphelines 

LXX. 

i 

-  d ’Avranche 

IX. 

3 

-  de  Paris 

XXVI. 

4 

-  Batchelier 

XXIV. 

3 

- de  la  Paques 

LXX. 

2 

- * —  Beauchamps,  or  Biemont 

LIII. 

2 

-  de  Pentecote 

— 

— —  Blanc 

LXII. 

4 

- -  Petit  d’Hiver 

XL. 

7 

-  Blanc  des  Capuchines 

XXVIII. 

6 

- Picquery  ... 

XLVIII. 

i 

- —  de  Blumenbach 

XXIV. 

2 

-  Precoce 

LXII. 

i 

- des  Bois 

IX. 

5 

-  de  Printemps 

LX. 

3 

-  Bose 

XXXII. 

3 

-  Quetelet 

LXX. 

8 

-  de  Bourgoyne 

IX. 

5 

- de  Rance,  Rans,  or 

-  Brown 

XXXVI. 

7 

Rhin 

LXVIII. 

6 

-  Cambron 

LV. 

i 

- Robert  du  Comice  . . . 

XIII. 

2 

-  de  Capiaumont  ... 

XLIV. 

2 

-  Rose 

XXXII. 

3 

-  de  Chaumontel 

XXXVIII. 

4 

-  Roupp,  or  Roupe  ... 

LXX. 

2 

- Clairgeau 

XXXII. 

4 

-  Roux,  or  du  Roi 

XXXVI. 

7 

-  Curtet 

LXX. 

8 

-  Royal 

LXVI. 

5 

- Davis,  or  Davy 

IX. 

5 

- -  Six 

XXXVI. 

5 

-  Deschamps 

LXX. 

i 

-  Small  Winter 

XL. 

7 

-  Diel 

LX  VI. 

5 

-  Spence 

IX. 

5 

- Dore 

XXXVI. 

7 

-  St.  Amour 

— 

- Drapiez 

XLVIII. 

i 

-  St.  Nicholas 

XXXII. 

i 

- —  Du  Haume 

XXII. 

3 

. .  Sterckmanns 

LXII. 

6 

-  Durandeau 

5 

-  Summer  .  . 

XXVIII. 

3 

-  Early 

XXVIII. 

3 

- -  Superfin  ... 

XXII. 

i 

-  Easter 

LXX. 

2 

-  de  Trewerenne 

XXXVI. 

7 

-  d’Effingham,  or  d’Elberg 

IX. 

5 

-  de  Trois  Tours 

LXVI. 

5 

-  Epine 

LXVIII. 

6 

Vert 

— 

- d’Ete 

LXII. 

2 

-  de  Westerloo 

XLII. 

3 

- Foidard  ... 

— 

-  White,  or  White  Winter 

LXII. 

4 

de  Celle 

LXVI. 

5 

-  Winter 

XXXVIII. 

4 

- Geerards 

LX. 

2 

Biemont ... 

LIII. 

2 

-  Gens 

XLVIII. 

I 

Bishop’s  Thumb,  or  Thimble 

XLII. 

2 

-  Giffard... 

XXVI. 

5 

Black  Pear  of  Worcester 

LX. 

5 

INDEX  TO  PEARS,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Bolivar  ... 

XV. 

2 

Colmar  ... 

XL. 

5 

Bonaparte 

XXXVIII. 

5 

d’Ete 

XLIV. 

3 

Bon  Chretien  d’ Amiens 

XV. 

i 

- Bonnet 

XXXVI. 

6 

- Napoleon 

XXXVIII 

5 

- Deschamps 

LXX. 

i 

- de  Rans 

LXVIII. 

6 

- Dore 

XL. 

5 

■ - William’s 

IX. 

i 

- Gris 

XXXVI. 

6 

Bon  Papa 

LX  VI. 

3 

- d’Hiver 

LV. 

i 

Bonissime,  or  Bonissime  de  la 

- des  Invalides 

LX. 

3 

Scarthe 

XLII. 

4 

- Nelis 

XXXVIII. 

3 

Bonne  Ente 

LXII. 

4 

- Preul 

XXXVI. 

6 

- d’Ezee,  de  Zees,  ou  de 

- Souverain  ... 

— 

Haies 

LXVI. 

2 

Comice 

XIII. 

2 

- Louise  d’Arandor£  ... 

IX. 

3 

- de  Toulon 

LXVI. 

•  o 

- d’Avranches  ... 

— 

Comte  de  Flandre 

XLII. 

I 

- de  Longueval 

— 

- de  Lamy  ... 

LXX. 

8 

- de  Malines,  ou  Malinaise 

XXXVIII. 

3 

Comtesse  de  Lunay 

9 

- Rouge 

LIII. 

n 

D 

- de  Terueren 

XV. 

2 

Bonnet  de  Boulogne 

XIII. 

i 

Conseilleur  de  la  Cour 

XLII. 

5 

Bont6  Bergamotte  ... 

LIII. 

4 

Corail,  or  Corille  ... 

IX. 

2 

Boss,  or  Bosch  Peer 

IX. 

5 

Cotillard... 

XV. 

I 

Braddick’s  Field  Standard  ... 

LV. 

4 

Coule  Soif 

LXII. 

2 

Brilliante 

IX. 

5 

Cueillette 

XXVI. 

4 

British  Queen  ... 

XL. 

i 

d’Hiver... 

LXVI. 

3 

Broca’s  Bergamot  ... 

LIII. 

3 

Cure,  or  Curette  ... 

— 

Brockworth  Park  ... 

LXVI. 

2 

D’Amanlis 

IX. 

4 

Broomparic 

LI. 

5 

Dana’s  Hovey 

LXX. 

6 

Brown  Beurre  .. 

XXXVI. 

7 

D’Aremberg 

LXX. 

i 

Briisseler  Sommer  Dechants- 

D’Argenson 

XXXVI. 

6 

birne 

XXVI. 

3 

D’Auch  ... 

XL. 

5 

Cadette,  or  Cadet  de  Bourdeaux 

LIII. 

2 

Deans 

LXII. 

4 

Calebasse  Sterckmans 

LXII. 

6 

D’Elbart... 

IX. 

4 

- Tougard 

IX. 

5 

Deuces  d’Hardenpont 

XXXVI. 

4 

- Vasse  ... 

XLIV. 

2 

- — —  des  Orphelines,  or 

Cambron 

LV. 

I 

Deschamps... 

LXX. 

X 

Canning,  or  Canning  d’Hiver 

LXX. 

2 

Deschamps 

— 

Canelle  ... 

XXXII. 

3 

Deux  Sours 

XLVIII. 

2 

Capiaumont 

XLIV. 

2 

Diamant ... 

LIII. 

3 

Captif  de  St.  Helene 

XXXVIII. 

5 

Dillen,  or  Gros  Dillen 

LXVI. 

5 

Catii.lac,  or  Cadillac 

XV. 

i 

Dingier  ... 

LXX. 

8 

Cellite  ... 

XXXVI. 

6 

Doncklelaar 

LV. 

4 

Chamber’s  Large  ... 

XV. 

2 

Dorothee  Royale  ... 

LXVI. 

5 

Chapman’s  Passe  Colmar 

XXXVI. 

6 

Double  Phillipe 

XLII. 

3 

Charles  Dix 

XXXVIII. 

5 

Downham  Seedling 

XXXVIII. 

i 

Chartreuse 

XV. 

i 

Doyenne  d’Alenqon 

XL. 

6 

Chevalier 

XXIV. 

3 

- d’Antomne 

XLII. 

5 

Chopine 

XXVI. 

4 

- Blane 

— 

4 

Chaumontel 

XXXVIII. 

4 

- Boussoc 

XLIII. 

3 

Ciree  d’Hiver 

LX. 

2 

- Crotte 

XLII. 

5 

Citron  des  Carmes 

XLIV. 

I 

- - - Esterckman 

6 

- de  Septembre 

LXII. 

4 

d’Ete  ... 

XXVI. 

3 

Clairgeau  des  Nantes 

xxxi  r. 

4 

- DU  COMICF, 

XIII. 

% 

3 

INDEX  TO  PEARS,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Doyenne  Galleux 

LXII. 

5 

Gambier 

XXXVI. 

6 

- Gris,  ou  Jaune 

lxii. 

5 

Gansel’s  Bergamot 

LIII. 

3 

- Gris  d’Hiver,  ou  Nouveau 

XL. 

6 

• -  Seckle 

LXX. 

7 

- d’Hiver 

LXX. 

2 

Garde  Ecorse 

LX. 

2 

- d’Hiver  d’Alengon 

XL. 

6 

General  Todtleben 

XXIV. 

I 

- de  Juillet 

XXVI. 

3 

Giffard 

XXVI. 

5 

- Marbre 

XL. 

6 

Gilogil,  Gil-6-Gile,  Gilles, 

-  de  Paques 

LXX. 

2 

Gilles-6-Gilles,  Gilot,  Gros  Gilot  lx. 

2 

- Picte 

LXII. 

4 

Glou  Morqeau,  or  Goulu  Morceau  lv. 

I 

— - de  Printemps 

LXX. 

2 

Glout  Morceau,  or  Got  Luc, 

- Red,  Rouge,  ou  Roux 

LXII. 

5 

de  Cambron 

— 

- Robin 

LXX. 

3 

Gobert,  Gros  Gobert 

LX. 

2 

- Summer 

XXVI. 

3 

Grain  de  Corail,  or  Corille  ... 

IX. 

2 

Due  d’Aremberg  ... 

LXX. 

i 

Grand  Mogul,  ou,  Grand  Monarque  xv. 

T 

- d’Orleans 

XLII. 

5 

Gratioli  de  Jersey 

LV. 

2 

Duchesse,  ou  Duchesse 

- d’Hiver 

LXVI. 

5 

d’ Angouleme 

LX  VI. 

4 

- Rond 

XV. 

I 

-  de  Berri  d’Ete 

XXVI. 

3 

Great  Mouth-water 

LXII. 

2 

- d’Hiver . . . 

XV. 

2 

Gresiliere 

I 

-  de  Mars 

LXX. 

9 

Grey  Achan 

XXXVIII. 

4 

-  d’Orleans 

XXXII. 

i 

- Doyenne 

LXII. 

5 

-  de  Pezenas 

LXVI. 

4 

Gros  Figue 

XLII. 

4 

-  Pitmaston 

XIII. 

3 

- Fin  Or  d’Hiver 

XV. 

2 

Dunmore 

LI. 

4 

- Micet  d’l£te 

LXII. 

2 

Durondeau 

XXXII. 

5 

- St.  Jean 

XLIV. 

I 

Early  Beurre 

XXVIII. 

3 

Grosse  Allongee  ... 

LXVI. 

3 

-  Rose  Angle 

XLIV. 

i 

- -  De  Bruxelles 

XV. 

2 

Easter  Beurre  ... 

LXX. 

2 

- Cuisse  Madame 

XXVI. 

4 

Emile  d’Heyst  ... 

XXXII. 

2 

- Dorothee 

LXVI. 

5 

Epargne 

XXVI. 

4 

- Marie 

XLII. 

5 

Eparonnais 

LXVI. 

4 

- Mouille  Bouche 

LXII. 

2 

Epine,  ou  Rose  d’Hiver,  ou  Ovale 

LX. 

4 

Guernsey  Chaumontel 

XXXVIII. 

4 

Esperen 

LXX. 

4 

Guillaume  de  Nassau 

LXVI. 

5 

Etourneau  ...  ...  xxxvm. 

3 

Gurle’s  Beurre 

LIII. 

3 

Excellentissime 

XXXIV. 

i 

Haqons  Incomparable 

XXXVIII. 

i 

Eyewood 

LI. 

6 

Hardenpont  d’Hiver 

LV. 

i 

Fertility 

LXIV. 

3 

Hativeau  Blanc  ... 

LXII. 

2 

Figue  d’Alen^on,  ou  d’Hiver 

XLII. 

4 

Heere  Peer 

LIII. 

5 

Fin  Or  d’Ete 

LXII. 

2 

Herbst  Bergamotte 

LIII. 

5 

Flemish  Beauty 

IX. 

5 

Hertrich,  Bergamotte 

LIII. 

6 

Fond  ante  d’Automne 

XXXIV. 

i 

Hessle,  Hessel,  or  Hazel  ... 

XXVIII. 

2 

-  Des  Bois 

IX. 

5 

His 

XL. 

3 

- -  DE  CUERNE 

XLIV. 

5 

Hubard 

IX. 

4 

-  ou  Fraze  Caneel  of  Knoop  lxii. 

2 

Huyshes  Prince  Consort 

LXVIII. 

2 

-  de  Malines 

LXIV. 

5 

-  Prince  of  Wales 

I 

-  De  Mons,  ou  de  Panisel 

XXXVI. 

6 

Victoria 

3 

Forelle,  ou  Forellenbirne  ... 

IX. 

2 

Imperatrice  des  Bois 

IX. 

5 

Forme  de  Marie  Louise 

LV. 

4 

L’Inconnue  h  Compote 

XVI. 

2 

De  Fosse 

XXVI. 

4 

Invalides 

LX. 

3 

Franc  Real  d’Ete  ...  . . 

LXII. 

2 

Isambert  le  Bon  ... 

XXXVI. 

7 

Gagnee  a  Heuze  ... 

IX. 

5 

Ives  Bergamot 

LIII. 

3 

i 


INDEX  TO  PEARS,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER 

Jargonelle 

XXVI. 

4 

New  Autumn 

XXVI. 

4 

Jenneret 

XXXVIII. 

4 

New  York  Red  Cheek 

XXVIII. 

i 

Jewess 

XLVIII. 

5 

Norris’  Pear 

LV. 

2 

Joliment,  or  Jolivet 

XXVI. 

3 

Nouveau  Poiteau 

LV. 

5 

Josephine  de  Malines 

LXX. 

5 

Nouvelle  Boussoch 

XLII. 

3 

La  Juive 

XLVIII. 

5 

Nutmeg 

XL. 

7 

Julius  Deschantsbirne 

XXVI. 

3 

Olivier  de  Serres 

XL, 

8 

Kaissoise 

IX. 

4 

L’Orph&ine 

LXX. 

i 

Knight’s  Monarch  (False  iv.  i)  True  li. 

i 

- d’Engheim 

LXX. 

i 

Lammas  (of  the  Americans) 

XXVIII. 

i 

Oxford  Cbaumontel 

XXXVIII. 

4 

De  La  vault 

IX. 

i 

Parkinson’s  Warden 

LX. 

5 

Lent  St.  Germain ... 

XV. 

2 

Passe  Colmar,  Iilpineux,  ou  Gris 

XXXVI. 

6 

L£on  le  Clerc  de  Laval 

LX. 

I 

Pastorale  d’Hiver  ou  du  Patre 

LXX. 

2 

Liard 

XXXVIII. 

5 

Paternoster 

LXVI. 

3 

Linden  d’Automne 

LV. 

i 

Peach,  or  Peche  ... 

LXII. 

3 

Louis  Dupont 

XLVIII. 

i 

Petit  Beurre  d’Hiver 

XL. 

7 

Louise  d’Avranche 

IX. 

3 

- Corail 

IX. 

2 

Louise  Bonne  of  Jersey... 

IX. 

3 

De  Pez£nas 

LXVI. 

4 

Louise  d’Orleans 

LXVI. 

i 

Phillipe  Goes 

XL. 

3 

Lucrate 

XXXIV. 

i 

-  de  Paques 

LXX. 

2 

Mabille 

XXXVIII. 

5 

Pickering  Pear,  or  Warden  ... 

XV. 

2 

Madeleine,  ou  Gros  St.  Jean 

XLIV. 

i 

Picquery 

XLVIII. 

I 

De  Maraise 

XLVIII. 

3 

Pine 

LXII. 

4 

Marechal  de  Cour 

XLII. 

5 

Piper 

XV. 

2 

Marianne  Nouvelle 

XXXII. 

3 

Pitmaston  Duchess 

XIII. 

3 

Marie  Chretienne 

LV. 

4 

Plombgastelle 

IX. 

4 

Marie  Benoist  ... 

LXVIII. 

5 

Poire  de  Caissoy  ... 

XL. 

7 

Marie  Louise  ... 

LV. 

4 

Pouce  de  l’£veque 

XLII. 

2 

D’Uccle  ... 

LV. 

3 

Pound  Pear 

XV. 

I  &  2 

Delcourt,  ou  Nova 

LV. 

4 

Pradel 

LXVI. 

3 

Mars,  Duchesse  de 

LXX. 

9 

Precel,  ou  Present  de  Malines 

XXXVI. 

6 

Marotte  Sucre 

XXXVI. 

6 

Preul,  Colmar  Preul 

XXXVI. 

6 

De  Maune 

XL. 

5 

Prince  Consort 

LXVIII. 

3 

Medaille 

XXXVIII. 

5 

of  Wales 

LXVIII. 

i 

Melon 

LXVI. 

5 

Princess  (River’s) 

LXIV. 

4 

Merveille  de  la  Nature 

LXX. 

2 

Princesse  de  Parme 

LV. 

4 

Milan  Blanc,  ou  De  la  Beuvriere 

LXII. 

2 

Professeur  de  Brieul 

XL. 

2 

Milan,  ou  Milan  de  Bourdeaux 

LIII. 

2 

Pucelle  Condesienne 

XXXVI. 

6 

Milinaise  Guvelier 

XXXVIII. 

3 

Quenillac 

XV. 

i 

Monarch  (False  iv.  i)  True 

LI. 

i 

De  Quessoy 

XL. 

7 

Monsieur  le  Cure,  ou  de  Clion 

LXVI. 

3 

Red  Doyenne  ... 

LXII. 

5 

Monstrueuse  de  Landes 

XV. 

i 

Rdgentine 

XXXVI. 

6 

Mouille  Bouche  d’Ete 

XXVI. 

4 

River’s  Princess 

LXIV. 

4 

Musqude  ... 

XXXIV. 

3 

Seedling  Bergamot 

LIII. 

i 

Nouvelle  ... 

IX. 

5 

Roi  de  Baviere 

XXXVI. 

6 

Napoleon  I. 

XXXVIII. 

5 

Joliment 

XXVI. 

3 

Napoleon  III.  ... 

XL. 

4 

- de  Rome 

XXXV  III. 

5 

Neige 

LXII. 

4 

de  Wurtemberg 

LV. 

i 

- Grise 

LXII. 

5 

Rouse  Lench 

LI. 

2 

Nelis  d’Hiver,  or  Winter 

XXXVIII. 

3 

Rouseline 

XLII. 

2 

Nec  Plus  Meuris,  or  Ultra 

LXVIII. 

4 

Rousette  d’Angou... 

XL. 

7 

INDEX  TO  PEARS,  CULINARY  AND  DESSERT. 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Royale 

... 

LXII. 

2 

Thiessoise 

IX. 

4 

- d’Angleterre 

.  .  . 

XV. 

2 

Thompsons 

XXXIV. 

2 

Sanguinole 

.  .  . 

XXXIV. 

3 

Tillington 

LI. 

3 

• -  d’Ete,  de  Royder,  ou 

De  Tongres 

XXXII. 

5 

Sang  Rouge  ... 

.  .  • 

— 

Tombe  de  1’ Amateur 

LV. 

5 

Schweitzerbergamotte 

.  .  . 

LIII. 

4 

Tres  Grosse  de  Bruxelles  ... 

XV. 

2 

Seckle,  Seckel,  or  Sicker 

.  .  . 

XXVIII. 

I 

Triomphe  de  Jodoigne  ... 

XXII. 

2 

-  Gansel’s  ... 

•  .  . 

LXX. 

7 

De  Trois  Tours  ... 

LX  VI. 

5 

Seigneur 

.  .  . 

LXII. 

4 

Trout  Pear,  Truite,  ou  Trutte 

IX. 

2 

-  d’Esperen 

.  .  . 

XXXIV. 

i 

Dr.  Udale’s  Warden,  or  Union  Pear 

XV. 

2 

-  Gris,  ou  D’Hiver 

•  •  • 

LXX. 

2 

Urbaniste 

XLVIII. 

X 

Soldat  Laboureur,  ou  Esperen 

XXIV. 

2 

Uvedale’s  St.  Germain  .. 

XV. 

2 

Souvenir  Du  Congres 

.  .  • 

XXVIII. 

5 

Van  Mons  Leon  le  Clerc 

LXVIII. 

7- 

Souverain,  ou  S.  d’Hiver 

•  .  • 

XXXVI. 

6 

Van  Donckelaar  ... 

LV. 

4 

St.  Jean  Baptiste 

.  .  . 

XLII. 

i 

Vermilion  d’Espagne 

XV. 

3 

St.  Lambert 

.  .  . 

XXVI. 

4 

Vicar  of  Winkfield 

LX  VI. 

3 

St.  Michel  d’Ete  ... 

•  •  • 

3 

Victoria 

LXVIII. 

2 

- Dore,  ou  Gris 

.  .  • 

LXII. 

5 

Vineuse 

LXIV. 

I 

- d’Hiver 

.  .  . 

XL. 

6 

Virgalieu  Musquee 

XLVIII. 

I 

St.  Samson  ,.. 

•  •  • 

XXVI. 

4 

Vlesembeek 

XXXIV. 

2 

Staunton 

•  •  • 

LIII. 

3 

Voye  aux  Prestres 

LIII. 

2 

Sucree  Doree 

.  .  . 

XXXVIII. 

5 

Warwick  Bergamot 

LXII. 

4 

Summer  d’Aremberg 

•  .  • 

XXVI. 

2 

Wheelers 

IX. 

I 

-  Beurre  . . . 

•  •  • 

XXVIII. 

3 

White,  or  White  Autumn  Beurre 

LXII. 

4 

-  Doyenne 

•  .  • 

XXVI. 

3 

Wilhelmine 

IX. 

4 

-  Franc  Real 

•  •  • 

LXII. 

• 

2 

William’s,  or  W.  Bon  Chretien 

IX. 

i 

SUSETTE  DE  BAVAY 

•  .  • 

XXVIII. 

4 

- Duchesse  d’Angouleme 

XIII. 

3 

Swan’s  Egg 

•  •  • 

XXXIV. 

5 

William  the  Fourth 

IX. 

3 

Sweet  Summer 

•  .  . 

XXVI. 

4 

Winter  Bell  Pear 

XV. 

2 

Swiss  Bergamot  ... 

•  •  • 

LIII. 

4 

-  Beurre 

XXXVIII. 

4 

Sylvange  d’Hiver  ... 

.  .  . 

LXX. 

2 

-  Nelis 

XXXVIII. 

3 

De  la  Table  des  Princes 

.  .  . 

XXVI. 

4 

-  Poplin  ... 

XL. 

7 

Tardif  de  Mons 

•  •  • 

XXXVI. 

I 

- Thorn  ... 

LX. 

4 

Tete  du  Chat 

•  .  . 

XV. 

I 

Wurtemburg 

LV. 

i 

Teton  de  Venus  ... 

...  XV. 

3  &  LX. 

2 

Zephirin  Gregoire 

XXXVIII. 

2 

INDEX, 


PERRY  PEARS. 


FIGURED  ON  PLATES— XVIII.—  XXX.—  XLVI.  and  LVIII. 
(True  Names  in  Capitals — Synonyms  in  ordinary  type). 


PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

PLATE. 

NUMBER. 

Arlingham  Squash 

XLVI. 

7 

Parsonage 

XLVI. 

3 

Aylton  Red 

XLVI. 

4 

Pine  Pear 

XLVI. 

6 

Barland,  Bareland,  or  Bearland 

XVIII. 

i 

Pint  Pear 

XLVI. 

5 

Black  Pear 

XVIII. 

5 

Red,  or  Red  Horse,  Pear  ... 

XVIII. 

4 

Black  Horse  Pear  ... 

XLVI. 

4 

Red  Squash 

XXX. 

5 

Black  Huff  Cap  ... 

XVIII. 

5 

Rock  Pear 

LVIII. 

i 

Black  Kingston 

XLV. 

3 

Sack  Pear 

XLVI. 

4 

Blakeney  Red 

LVIII. 

9 

Squirt  Pear 

XXX. 

6 

Bosbury  Pear 

XVIII. 

i 

Stanton,  or  Staunton  Squash  ... 

XXX. 

6 

Brown  Huff  Cap 

XVIII. 

5 

Stony  Way 

LVIII. 

3 

Butt  Pear 

XLVI. 

i 

Taynton,  or  Teinton  Squash 

XXX. 

5 

Chaseley  Green  ... 

XXX. 

7 

Thorn  Pear 

LVIII. 

5 

Cheatboy 

LVIII. 

4 

Thurston’s  Red  ... 

XXX. 

3 

Coppy,  or  Coppice  ... 

LVIII. 

2 

White  Horse  Pear  ... 

XVIII. 

3 

Dymock  Red 

XXX. 

3 

White  Longland  ... 

XVIII. 

3 

/T 

Green  Squash  of  Evelyn 

XLVI. 

7 

White  Squash 

XXX. 

D 

Hartpury  Green 

XXX. 

7 

Winnal’s  Longland 

LVIII. 

6 

z: 

Holmer,  or  Plolmore  Pear 

XXX. 

4 

Yellow  Huff  Cap 

XVIII. 

0 

Longland,  or  Longdon  Pear  ... 
Malvern,  or  Malvern  Hill  Pear 
Moorcroft 

XVIII. 

XXX. 

XXX. 

2 

2 

2 

Yolking  House  ... 

LVIII. 

8 

Newbridge 

New  Meadow 

Oldfield 

LVIII. 

XLVI. 

XXX. 

7 

2 

I 

N.B. — For  other  Perry  Pears 
Appendix  to  the  letterpress 

not  examined, 
of  Plate  lviii. 

see 

