A    GUIDE 


TO    THE 


ORCHARD  AND  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 


LONDOK : 

Printed  by  A.  &  R.  Spottiswoode, 
New-  Street-  Square. 


A    GUIDE 


TO    THE 

ORCHARD    AND    KITCHEN    GARDEN; 

OB, 

AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  MOST  VALUABLE  FRUIT  AND 
VEGETABLES  CULTIVATED 

IN     GREAT     BRITAIN: 


KALENDARS    OF    THE    WORK    REQUIRED    IN    THE    ORCHARD 
AND    KITCHEN  GARDEN 

DURING    EVERY    MONTH    IN    THE    YEAR. 


BY   GEORGE   LINDLEY,    C.M.  H.S. 


EDITED    BY 

JOHN    LINDLEY,    F.R.S. 

&c.  &c. 

ASSISTANT    SECRETARY    OP    THE    HORTICULTURAL    SOCIETY 
OP    LONDON. 


LONDON: 

PRINTED    FOR 

LONGMAN,  REES,  ORME,  BROWN,  AND  GREEN, 

PATERNOSTER-ROW. 
1831. 


PREFACE  BY  THE  EDITOR. 


THE  Author  of  the  following  work  has  been  occupied, 
at  intervals,  during  nearly  forty  years,  in  preparing  for 
the  press  materials  for  a  complete  account  of  the  fruit 
trees  and  vegetables  cultivated  in  the  gardens  of  Great 
Britain.  The  result  of  these  enquiries  is  now  pre- 
sented to  the  reader,  in  a  form  which,  it  is  thought,  is 
so  condensed  as  to  comprehend  the  greatest  quantity 
of  information  in  the  smallest  compass,  and  which  at 
the  same  time  is  sufficiently  diffuse  to  render  it  pos- 
sible for  the  reader  to  acquire  as  much  knowledge  as  is 
either  important  or  indispensable  in  regard  to  any 
particular  variety.  Those  points  which  are  so  pecu- 
liarly interesting  to  all  Gardeners,  such  as  the  kind  of 
stock  upon  which  a  given  variety  will  succeed  better 
than  upon  another,  —  the  comparative  value  of  each  kind 
of  fruit,  —  the  aspects  that  it  requires,  —  the  different 
names  under  which  it  is  known  in  England  or  else- 
where, —  the  books  in  which  a  faithful  figure  may  be 
found, — the  purposes  for  which  it  is  best  adapted,  —  the 
seasons  when  it  is  in  the  greatest  perfection, — and  topics 
of  a  similar  kind,  have  been  in  all  cases  treated  with 
especial  care.  This  there  are  few  men  more  compe- 
tent to  do  well  than  Mr.  Lindley,  whose  long  practical 
experience,  and  ample  opportunities  of  investigating  such 
subjects  personally  during  a  series  of  many  years,  have 
been  such  as  have  rarely  fallen  to  the  lot  of  any  one. 

A  3 

6G7795 


VI  PREFACE. 

The  forcing  department  has  been  considered  foreign 
to  the  purpose  of  this  work,  and  Is  therefore  entirely 
omitted.  In  recommending  particular  modes  of  cul- 
tivation, it  has  been  wished  to  present  the  reader  with 
one  or  two  methods  of  operation,  that  experience  has 
shown  to  be  simple  and  effectual,  rather  than  to  intro- 
duce a  great  number  of  different  plans,  among  which 
the  unskilful  reader  can  never  know  which  to  select 
in  preference,  and  where  the  chances  are,  perhaps,  in 
favour  of  his  making  choice  of  that  which  is  least 
adapted  to  practice. 

While  thus  much  may  be  said  of  the  Author  and  his 
work,  it  is  at  the  same  time  necessary  to  explain  why 
no  mention  is  made  of  some  sorts  which  are  common  in 
particular  districts.  In  such  cases  it  is  to  be  understood, 
that  the  variety  omitted  is  considered  either  so  like 
some  kind  already  described  as  to  be  undeserving  of 
particular  notice,  or  so  little  valuable  as  to  be  unworthy 
of  cultivation. 

In  all  other  respects  the  work  speaks  for  itself. 
Under  that  impression,  the  Editor  would  only  add,  that 
nothing  in  the  following  pages  is  to  be  ascribed  to  him- 
self, except  the  introductory  matter,  and  such  typo- 
graphical errors  as  may  have  remained  uncorrected 
during  the  progress  of  the  work  through  the  press. 

i 

London,  July  1.  1831. 


INTRODUCTION. 


IN  all  books  upon  Gardening  a  great  variety  of  modes 
of  operating  are  comprehended,  each  of  which  has,  it 
may  be  supposed,  its  own  peculiar  merit  under  particular 
circumstances.  In  several  the  very  same  mode  is  re- 
peatedly recommended,  with  slight  variations  of  phrase- 
ology, in  speaking  of  many  different  subjects ;  and  it  has 
at  last  become  a  common  complaint,  among  those  who 
seek  for  information  from  books  upon  horticultural 
subjects,  that  they  can  find  plenty  of  rules  of  action,  but 
very  few  reasons. 

No  greater  boon  could  be  bestowed  upon  the  garden- 
ing world  than  to  reduce  all  horticultural  operations  to 
their  first  principles,  and  to  lay  bare  the  naked  causes 
why  in  one  case  one  mode  of  procedure  is  advisable,  and 
another  in  another.  But  there  are  few  persons  who  are 
competent  to  undertake  this  task ;  it  requires  a  com- 
bination of  great  physiological  knowledge,  with  a  per- 
fect acquaintance  with  the  common  manipulation  of  the 
gardener's  art,  and  much  experience  in  all  the  little 
accidents  which  are  scarcely  appreciable  by  the  most 
observing  cultivator,  with  which  the  mere  man  of  science 
can  necessarily  have  no  acquaintance,  but  upon  which 
the  success  of  a  gardener's  operations  often  mainly 
depends;  which  are  to  the  cultivator  signs  as  certain  of 
the  issue  of  his  experiments,  as  to  the  mariner  are  the 
almost  invisible  changes  in  the  appearance  of  the  heavens 
by  which  the  weather  is  prognosticated. 

Deeply  impressed  with  a  persuasion  of  the  justice  of 

A  4 


Vlll  INTRODUCTION. 

the  foregoing  observations,  and  sincerely  regretting  that 
there  should  be  no  present  expectation  of  such  a  task 
being  undertaken  by  any  one  fully  competent  to  it,  the 
Editor  of  this  work  ventures  to  throw  himself  upon  the 
indulgence  of  the  public  in  attempting,  not  to  carry  into 
effect  such  a  plan  himself,  but  to  sketch  out,  in  regard 
to  the  Fruit  Garden,  what  he  thinks  the  method  should 
be  upon  which  a  more  competent  person  would  do  well 
to  proceed. 

All  our  fruits,  without  exception,  have  been  so  much 
ameliorated  by  one  circumstance  or  another,  that  they 
no  longer  bear  any  resemblance  in  respect  of  quality  to 
their  original.  Who,  for  instance,  would  recognise  the 
wild  parent  of  the  Coe's  or  Green  Gage  Plum  in  the 
savage  Sloe,  or  that  of  the  Ribston  and  Golden  Pippin 
Apples  in  the  worthless  acid  Crab  ?  Or  what  re- 
semblance can  now  be  traced  between  the  delicious 
Beurre  Pears,  whose  flesh  is  so  succulent,  rich,  and  melt- 
ing, and  that  hard,  stony,  astringent  fruit,  which  even 
birds  and  animals  refuse  to  eat?  Yet  these  are  undoubted 
cases  of  improvement  resulting  from  time  and  skill 
patiently  and  constantly  in  action.  The  constant  drop- 
ping of  water  will  not  more  surely  wear  away  the  hardest 
stone,  than  will  the  reason  of  man  in  time  compel  all 
nature  to  become  subservient  to  his  wants  or  wishes. 
But  it  would  be  of  little  service  to  mankind  that  the 
quality  of  any  fruit  should  be  improved,  unless  we 
found  some  efficient  and  certain  mode  of  multiplying 
the  individuals  when  obtained.  Hence  there  are  two 
great  considerations  to  which  it  is,  above  all  things,  ne- 
cessary that  the  attention  of  the  cultivator  should  be 
directed,  viz.  AMELIORATION  and  PROPAGATION. 

Amelioration  consists  either  in  acquiring  new  and 
improved  varieties  of  fruit,  or  in  increasing  their  good 
qualities  when  acquired.  It  will  be  as  well  to  consider 
these  two  subjects  separately. 


INTRODUCTION.  JX 

By  what  means  the  first  tendency  to  change  their 
nature  was  given  to  domesticated  plants,  we  are  entirely 
ignorant.  It  is  probable  that  it  was  originally  due 
to  accident,  and  also  that  it  was  still  mere  chance 
which  continued  to  operate  down  to  very  modern  times. 
Philosophers  are  unacquainted  with  the  reason  why 
there  should  be  any  tendency  to  variation  from  the 
characters  first  stamped  on  any  species  by  Nature ;  but  all 
know  that  this  tendency  does  exist,  and  in  a  most  re- 
markable degree  in  many  species.  There  is  in  all  beings 
a  disposition  to  deviate  from  their  original  nature  when 
cultivated,  or  even  in  a  wild  state  ;  but  this  disposition 
is  so  strong  in  some  as  to  render  them  particularly 
well  adapted  to  become  subject  to  domestication : 
for  instance,  the  dog,  the  pigeon,  and  the  barn-yard 
fowl,  are  cases  in  which  this  tendency  is  most  strongly 
marked  in  animals  ;  and  domesticated  fruits  are  a  parallel 
case  in  the  vegetable  world. 

Without,  then,  vainly  endeavouring  to  discover  the 
first  cause  of  this  disposition  to  form  varieties,  let  us 
take  it  as  a  naked  fact  that  the  disposition  exists.  Cul- 
tivators increase  this  disposition  chiefly  in  two  ways ; 
either  by  constantly  selecting  the  finest  existing  varieties 
for  seed,  or  by  intermixing  the  pollen  and  stigma  of  two 
varieties  for  the  purpose  of  procuring  something  of  an 
intermediate  nature.  The  ancients  were  unacquainted 
with  either  of  these  practices,  and  consequently  their 
gardens  contained  few  things  which  would  now  be 
deemed  worthy  of  cultivation.  The  power  of  obtaining 
cross-bred  varieties  at  pleasure  has  only  existed  since  the 
discovery  of  sexes  in  plants ;  but  as  it  exerts  a  most 
extensive  influence  over  alterations  in  the  vegetable  king- 
dom, it  may  be  considered  the  most  important  control- 
ling power  that  we  possess. 

In  sowing  seeds  for  the  purpose  of  procuring  improved 
varieties,  care  should  be  had,  not  only  that  the  seeds  be 


X  INTRODUCTION. 

taken  from  the  finest  existing  kinds  ;  but  also  that  the 
most  handsome,  the  largest  and  the  most  perfectly 
ripened  specimens  should  be  those  that  supply  the  seed. 
A  seedling  plant  will  always  partake  more  or  less  of  the 
character  of  its  parent,  the  qualities  of  which  are  con- 
centrated in  the  embryo  when  it  has  arrived  at  full 
maturity.  How  this  concentration  takes  place,  we  are  as 
ignorant  as  why  certain  constitutional  peculiarities  are 
in  men  transferred  from  father  to  son,  and  from  gene- 
ration to  generation ;  but  we  know  that  it  does  take 
place.  Now  if  the  general  qualities  of  a  given  variety  are 
concentrated  in  the  embryo  under  any  circumstances, 
it  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  they  will  be  most  espe- 
cially concentrated  in  a  seed  taken  from  that  part  of  a 
tree  in  which,  its  peculiar  good  qualities  reside  in  the 
highest  degree.  For  instance,  in  the  fruit  of  an  apple 
growing  upon  a  north  wall  there  is  a  smaller  formation 
of  sugar  than  in  the  same  variety  growing  on  a  south 
wall  -,  and  it  can  be  easily  understood  that  the  seed  of 
that  fruit  which  is  itself  least  capable  of  forming 
saccharine  secretions,  will  acquire  from  its  parent  a  less 
power  of  the  same  nature  than  if  it  had  been  formed 
within  a  fruit  in  which  the  saccharine  principle  was 
abundant.  It  should  therefore  be  always  an  object  with 
a  gardener,  in  selecting  a  variety  to  become  the  parent 
of  a  new  sort,  to  stimulate  that  variety  by  every  means 
in  his  power  to  produce  the  largest  and  the  most 
fully  ripened  fruit  that  it  is  capable  of  bearing.  The 
importance  of  doing  this  is  well  known  in  regard  to 
Melons  and  Cucumbers,  and  also  in  preserving  fugitive 
varieties  of  flowers ;  but  it  is  not  generally  practised  in 
raising  fruit  trees. 

The  power  of  procuring  intermediate  varieties  by  the 
intermixture  of  the  pollen  and  stigma  of  two  different 
parents  is,  however,  that  which  most  deserves  consider- 
ation. We  all  know  that  hybrid  plants  are  constantly 


INTRODUCTION.  \i 

produced  in  every  garden,  and  that  improvements  of 
the  most  remarkable  kind  are  yearly  occurring  in  conse- 
quence. Experiments  are,  however,  it  may  be  supposed, 
sometimes  made  without  the  operator  being  exactly 
aware  either  of  the  precise  nature  of  the  action  to  which 
he  is  trusting  for  success,  or  of  the  limits  within  which 
his  experiments  should  be  confined. 

Cross  fertilisation  is  effected,  as  every  one  knows,  by 
the  action  of  the  pollen  of  one  plant  upon  the  stigma  of 
another.  The  nature  of  this  action  is  highly  curious. 
Pollen  consists  of  extremely  minute  hollow  balls  or 
bodies ;  their  cavity  is  filled  with  fluid,  in  which  swim 
particles  of  a  figure  varying  from  spherical  to  oblong,  and 
having  an  apparently  spontaneous  motion.  The  stigma 
is  composed  of  very  lax  tissue,  the  intercellular  passages 
of  which  have  a  greater  diameter  than  the  moving 
particles  of  the  pollen. 

When  a  grain  of  pollen  comes  in  contact  with  the 
stigma,  it  bursts  and  discharges  its  contents  among  the 
lax  tissue  upon  which  it  has  fallen.  The  moving  par- 
ticles descend  through  the  tissue  of  the  style,  until  one, 
or  sometimes  more,  of  them  finds  its  way,  by  routes 
specially  destined  by  nature  for  this  service,  into  a  little 
opening  in  the  integuments  of  the  ovulum  or  young 
seed.  Once  deposited  there,  the  particle  swells,  increases 
gradually  in  size,  separates  into  radicle  and  cotyledons, 
and  finally  becomes  the  embryo,  —  that  part  which  is 
to  give  birth,  when  the  seed  is  sown,  to  a  new  in- 
dividual. 

Such  being  the  mode  in  which  the  pollen  influences 
the  stigma  and  subsequently  the  seed,  a  practical  conse- 
quence of  great  importance  necessarily  follows,  viz.  that 
in  all  cases  of  cross  fertilisation  the  new  variety  will  take 
chiefly  after  its  polliniferous  or  male  parent ;  and  that 
at  the  same  time  it  will  acquire  some  of  the  constitu- 


Xll  INTRODUCTION. 

tional  peculiarities  of  its  mother.*  Thus,  the  male  pa- 
rent of  the  Downton  Strawberry  was  the  Old  Black,  the 
female  a  kind  of  Scarlet ;  in  Coe's  Golden  Drop  Plum, 
the  father  was  the  Yellow  Magnum  Bonum,  the  mother 
the  Green  Gage ;  and  in  the  Elton  Cherry  the  White 
Heart  was  the  male  parent,  and  the  Graffion  the  female. 

The  limits  within  which  experiments  of  this  kind 
must  be  confined  are,  however,  narrow.  It  seems  that 
cross  fertilisation  will  not  take  place  at  all,  or  very  rarely, 
between  different  species,  unless  these  species  are  nearly 
related  to  each  other;  and  that  the  offspring  of  the 
two  distinct  species  is  itself  sterile,  or  if  it  possesses  the 
power  of  multiplying  itself  by  seed,  its  progeny  returns 
back  to  the  state  of  one  or  other  of  its  parents.  Hence 
it  seldom  or  never  has  happened  that  domesticated  fruits 
have  had  such  an  origin.  We  have  no  varieties  raised 
between  the  Apple  and  the  Pear,  or  the  Quince  and 
the  latter,  or  the  Plum  and  Cherry,  or  the  Gooseberry 
and  the  Currant.  On  the  other  hand,  new  varieties 
obtained  by  the  intermixture  of  two  pre-existing  va- 
rieties are  not  less  prolific,  but,  on  the  contrary,  often 
more  so  than  either  of  their  parents ;  witness  the 
numerous  sorts  of  Flemish  Pears  which  have  been  raised 
by  cross  fertilisation  from  bad  bearers,  within  the  last 
twenty  years,  and  which  are  the  most  prolific  fruit  trees 
with  which  gardeners  are  acquainted  ;  witness  also  Mr. 
Knight's  Cherries,  raised  between  the  May  Duke  and 
the  Graffion,  and  the  Coe's  Plum  already  mentioned. 

It  is,  therefore,  to  the  intermixture  of  the  most 
valuable  existing  varieties  of  fruit  that  gardeners  should 
trust  for  the  amelioration  of  their  stock.  By  this  oper- 
ation the  pears  that  are  in  eating  in  the  spring  have  been 

*  In  early  crosses  between  distinct  species  this  Is  particularly 
manifest ;  but  in  those  of  varieties  long  domesticated  it  is  less 
apparent,  the  distinctions  between  the  parents  themselves  being 
less  fixed,  and  less  clearly  marked. 


INTRODUCTION.  xiii 

rendered  as  delicious  and  as  fertile  as  those  of  the 
autumn  ;  and  there  is  no  apparent  reason  why  those 
very  early,  but  worthless  sorts,  such  as  the  Muscat 
Robert,  which  usher  in  the  season  of  Pears,  should 
not  be  brought  to  a  similar  state  of  perfection. 

There  is  no  kind  of  fruit,  however  delicious,  that 
may  not  be  deteriorated,  or  however  worthless,  that  may 
not  be  ameliorated,  by  particular  modes  of  management ; 
so  that  after  a  given  variety  shall  have  been  created,  its 
merits  may  still  be  either  elicited  or  destroyed  by  the 
cultivator.  In  this  place  those  practices  only  need  be 
considered  that  tend  to  improvement. 

Some  fruits  of  excellent  quality  are  bad  bearers  :  this 
defect  is  remedied  by  a  variety  of  different  methods, 
such   as,    1.  By  ringing  the  bark ;    2.  By    bending 
branches  downwards  ;    3.  By  training  ;    and,  4.  By 
the  use  of  different  kinds  of  stocks.    All  these  practices 
are  intended  to  produce  exactly  the  same  effect  by  dif- 
ferent ways.    Physiologists  know  that  whatever  tends  to 
cause  a  rapid  diffusion  of  the  sap  and  secretions  of  any 
plant,  causes  also  the  formation  of  leaf  buds  instead  of 
flower  buds  ;  and  that  whatever,  on  the  contrary,  tends 
to  cause  an  accumulation  of  sap  and  secretions,  has  the 
effect  of  producing  flower  buds  in  abundance.    This  cir- 
cumstance, which  at  first  sight  seems  to  be  difficult  to 
account  for  physiologically,  is  no  doubt  to  be  explained 
by  the  difference  between  leaf  buds  and  flower  buds 
themselves.     In  a  leaf  bud,  all  the  appendages  or  leaves 
are  in  a  high  state  of  development,  and  the  central 
part  or  axis,  around  which    they  are  arranged,  has  a 
tendency   to   extend   itself    in   the  form  of  a  branch 
as  soon  as  the  necessary  stimulus  has  been  communi- 
cated to  the  system  by  the  light  and  warmth  of  spring. 
In  a  flower  bud,  the  appendages  or  leaves  are  in  that 
imperfectly  formed,  contracted  state,  which  we  name 
calyx,  corolla,  stamens,  and  pistilla  ;  and  the  central  part 


XIV  INTRODUCTION. 

around  which  they  are  arranged  has  itself  no  tendency 
to  elongate  under  the  influence  of  the  usual  stimulants. 
Hence,  a  flower  bud,  or  flower,  is  nothing  but  a  con- 
tracted branch ;  as  is  proved  by  the  occasional  elong- 
ation of  the  axis  in  flowers  that  expand  during  un- 
usually hot  damp  weather  late  in  the  spring,  becoming 
branches,  bearing  sepals  and  petals  instead  of  leaves. 
It  is,  therefore,  easily  to  be  understood  why,  so  long  as 
all  the  motions  in  the  fluids  and  secretions  of  a  tree  go 
on  rapidly,  with  vigour,  and  without  interruption,  only 
rudiments  of  branches  (or  leaf  buds)  should  be  formed  ; 
and  why,  on  the  other  hand,  when  the  former  become 
languid,  and  the  parts  are  formed  slowly,  bodies  of  a 
contracted  nature,  with  no  disposition  to  extension,  (or 
flower  buds,)  should  appear. 

It  will  be  found  that  the  success  of  the  practices  above 
enumerated,  to  which  the  gardener  has  recourse  in 
order  to  increase  the  fertility  of  his  fruit  trees,  is  to  be 
explained  by  what  has  just  been  said.  In  ringing  fruit 
trees,  a  cylinder  of  bark  is  cut  from  the  branch,  by 
which  means  the  return  of  the  elaborated  juices  from 
the  leaves  down  the  bark  is  cut  off,  and  all  that 
would  have  been  expended  below  the  annular  incision 
is  confined  to  the  branch  above  it.  This  produces  an 
accumulation  of  proper  juice ;  and  flower  buds,  or  fertility, 
are  the  result.  But  there  is  a  defect  in  this  practice,  to 
which  want  of  success  in  many  cases  is  no  doubt  to  be 
attributed.  Although  the  returning  fluid  is  found  to 
accumulate  above  the  annular  incision,  yet  the  ascend- 
ing sap  flows  along  the  alburnum  into  the  buds  with 
nearly  as  much  rapidity  as  ever,  so  that  the  accumula- 
tion is  but  imperfectly  produced.  On  this  account  the 
second  practice,  of  bending  branches  downwards,  is  found 
to  be  attended  with  more  certain  consequences.  The 
effect  of  turning  the  branches  of  a  tree  from  their  natural 
position  to  a  pendulous  or  a  horizontal  one  is,  to  im- 


INTRODUCTION.  XV 

pede  both  the  ascent  and  the  descent  of  the  fluids  in  a 
gradual  but  certain  manner.  The  tissue  of  which 
branches  are  composed  is  certainly  permeable  to  fluids 
in  every  direction  ;  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
vital  action  of  the  vessels  of  a  plant  is  performed  both 
in  the  natural  and  in  an  inverted  position.  So  long  as 
that  erect  direction  of  the  branches  which  is  natural  to 
them  is  exactly  maintained,  the  flow  of  their  fluids, 
being  subject  to  no  interruptions,  will  take  place  in  the 
freest  possible  manner  ;  but  the  moment  this  natural 
direction  is  deviated  from,  the  vessels  become  more  or 
less  compressed,  their  action  is  impeded,  and  finally, 
if  the  inversion  is  perfect,  it  becomes  so  slow  that  an 
accumulation  of  the  proper  juices  necessarily  takes  place 
through  every  part  of  the  system. 

One  of  the  objects  of  training  is  to  produce  the  same 
effect.     Branches   are   bent  more   or   less  from  their 
naturally  erect  position  ;  their  motion,  in  consequence 
of  the  action  of  winds  upon  them,  which  is  known  to 
facilitate    the  movement   of  the  fluids,  is  totally  de- 
stroyed ;    and  hence  arises  the  accumulation  of  proper 
juice  which    is  necessary  to  their  fertility.     Nor  is  the 
influence  of  the  stock  of  an  essentially  different  nature. 
In  proportion  as  the  scion  and  the  stock  approach  each 
other  closely  in  constitution,  the  less  effect  is  produced 
by  the  latter  ;  and,  on  the  contrary,  in  proportion  to  the 
constitutional  difference  between  the  stock  and  the  scion, 
is  the  effect  of  the  former  important.    Thus,  when  Pears 
are  grafted  or  budded  on  the  wild  species,  Apples  upon 
Crabs,  Plums  upon  Plums,  and  Peaches  upon  Peaches 
or  Almonds,  the  scion  is,  in  regard  to  fertility,  exactly 
in  the  same  state  as  if  it  had  not  been  grafted  at  all. 
While,  on  the  other  hand,  a  great  increase  of  fertility  is 
the  result    of  grafting  Pears  upon   Quinces,    Peaches 
upon  Plums,   Apples  upon  Whitethorn,  and  the  like. 
In  these  latter  cases,  the  food  absorbed  from   the  earth 


XVI  INTRODUCTION. 

by  the  root  of  the  stock  is  communicated  slowly  and 
unwillingly  to  the  scion  ;  under  no  circumstances  is 
the  communication  between  the  one  and  the  other  as 
free  and  perfect  as  if  their  natures  had  been  more  nearly 
the  same  ;  the  sap  is  impeded  in  its  ascent,  and  the 
proper  juices  are  impeded  in  their  descent,  whence 
arises  that  accumulation  of  secretion  which  is  sure  to 
be  attended  by  increased  fertility.  No  other  influence 
than  this  can  be  exercised  by  the  scion  upon  the  stock. 
Those  who  fancy  that  the  contrary  takes  place  ;  that 
the  Quince,  for  instance,  communicates  some  portion 
of  its  austerity  to  the  Pear,  can  scarcely  have  considered 
the  question  physiologically,  or  they  would  have  seen 
that  the  whole  of  the  food  communicated  from  the 
alburnum  of  the  Quince  to  that  of  the  Pear  is  in  nearly 
the  same  state  as  when  it  entered  the  roots  of  the  for- 
mer. Whatever  elaboration  it  undergoes  must  neces- 
sarily take  place  in  the  foliage  of  the  Pear  ;  where,  far 
from  the  influence  of  the  Quince,  secretions  natural 
to  the  variety  go  on  with  no  more  interruption  than  if 
the  Quince  formed  no  part  of  the  system  of  the  indi- 
vidual. 

If  we  consider  upon  what  principle  the  flavour  of 
particular  fruits  may  be  improved,  we  shall  find  that  it 
is  entirely  due  to  the  increased  action  of  the  vital  func- 
tions of  leaves.  When  the  sap  is  first  communicated 
by  the  stem  to  the  leaves,  it  has  experienced  but  few 
chemical  changes  since  it  first  entered  the  roots.  Such 
changes  as  it  has  undergone  have  been  due  rather  to 
the  solution  of  some  of  the  pre-existing  peculiar  secre- 
tions of  the  individual  by  the  sap  in  its  way  upwards 
through  the  alburnum,  than  to  any  other  cause.  As 
soon,  however,  as  it  enters  the  leaves,  it  becomes  al- 
tered in  a  variety  of  ways,  by  the  combined  action  of 
air,  and  light,  and  evaporation ;  for  which  purposes  the 
leaf  is  admirably  adapted  by  its  anatomical  structure. 


INTRODUCTION.  XV11 

Thus  altered  in  the  leaves,  it  ceases  to  be  what  we  call 
sap,  but  becomes  the  proper  juice  ;  or,  in  other  words, 
acquires  the  peculiar  character  of  the  final  secretions  of 
the  individual  from  which  it  is  formed.  Discharged  by 
the  leaves  into  the  bark,  it  is  thence  conveyed  by 
myriads  of  channels  of  cellular  substance  throughout 
the  whole  system.  From  these  secretions,  of  whatever 
nature  they  may  be,  the  fruit  has  the  power  of  attract- 
ing such  portions  as  are  necessary  for  its  maturation. 
Hence  it  follows,  that  the  more  we  can  increase  the  pe- 
culiar secretions  of  a  plant,  the  higher  will  become  the 
quality  of  its  fruit ;  and  that,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
less  the  plant  is  in  condition  to  form  those  secretions, 
the  less  will  be  the  quality  of  the  fruit.  It  is  for  the 
purpose  of  producing  the  former  effect  that  pruning 
and  training  trees  are  more  especially  destined.  In 
pruning,  we  remove  all  those  superfluous  branches 
which"  overshadowed  the  remainder,  and  we  endeavour 
to  expose  every  part  to  the  freest  action  of  light  and 
air.  In  training,  the  same  thing  takes  place,  but  is 
increased ;  there  is  not  a  branch  that  is  not  fully  ex- 
posed to  the  most  direct  rays  of  light,  and  to  the  freest 
circulation  of  air,  and  even  to  the  unimpeded  action  of 
the  sun  in  aspects  exposed  to  the  south,  east,  or  west. 
This  action  is  obviously  most  powerful  on  the  south, 
and  hence  the  higher  quality  of  fruits  matured  upon 
that  exposure  than  on  any  other  ;  while,  on  the  other 
hand,  fruits  raised  upon  a  northern  aspect  are  well 
known  to  be  less  highly  flavoured  than  those  from  even 
an  open  standard.  For  a  similar  reason,  forced  fruits, 
which  are  obtained  at  a  period  when  there  is  little  light, 
cannot  be  compared  with  those  which  are  matured  in 
the  full  blaze  of  a  summer  sun  ;  and  hence  melons 
grown  in  frames  covered  with  mats,  and  carefully  ex- 
cluded from  the  influence  of  that  solar  light  which  is 
indispensable  to  them,  have,  whatever  may  be  their  ex- 


XV111  INTRODUCTION. 

ternal  beauty,  none  of  that  luscious  flavour  which  the 
melon,  when  well  cultivated,  possesses  in  so  eminent  a 
degree. 

The  next  subject  of  consideration  is  the  mode  of 
multiplying  improved  varieties  of  fruit,  so  as  to  con- 
tinue in  the  progeny  exactly  the  same  qualities  as  ex- 
isted in  the  parent.  Unless  we  have  the  power  of 
doing  this  readily,  the  advantages  of  procuring  improved 
races  would  be  very  much  circumscribed  ;  and  the  art 
of  horticulture,  in  this  respect,  would  be  one  of  the 
greatest  uncertainty.  The  usual  mode  of  increasing 
plants,  that  mode  which  has  been  more  especially  pro- 
vided by  nature,  is  by  seeds  ;  but,  while  seeds  increase 
the  species  without  error,  the  peculiarities  of  varieties 
can  rarely  be  perpetuated  in  the  same  manner.  In 
order  to  secure  the  multiplication  of  a  variety,  with  all  its 
qualities  unaltered,  it  is  necessary  that  portions  should 
be  detached  from  the  original  individual,  and  converted 
into  new  individuals,  each  to  undergo  a  similar  dismem- 
berment, with  similar  consequences.  It  happens  that 
while  in  animals  this  is  impracticable,  except  in  the  case 
of  polypes,  the  system  of  life  in  a  plant  is,  of  all  others, 
the  best  adapted  to  such  a  purpose.  We  are  accus- 
tomed to  consider  individual  plants  of  exactly  the  same 
nature  as  individual  animals  :  this  is,  however,  a  vulgar 
error,  which  is  dissipated  by  the  slightest  enquiry 
into  the  nature  of  a  plant.  A  plant  is  really  an  ani- 
mated body,  composed  of  infinite  multitudes  of  systems 
of  life ;  all,  indeed,  united  in  a  whole,  but  each  having 
an  independent  existence.  When,  therefore,  any  num- 
ber of  these  systems  of  life  is  removed,  those  which  re- 
main, as  well  as  those  which  are  separated,  will,  under 
fitting  circumstances,  continue  to  perform  their  natural 
functions  as  well  as  if  no  union  between  them  had  ever 
existed.  These  systems  of  life  are  buds,  each  having  a 
power  of  emitting  descending  fibres  in  the  form  of  roots, 


INTRODUCTION. 

and  also  of  ascending  in  the  form  of  stem.  The  first  of 
these  buds  is  the  embryo  ;  the  others  are  subsequently 
formed  on  the  stem  emitted  by  the  embryo.  As  these 
secondary  buds  develope,  their  descending  roots  com- 
bine and  form  the  wood,  their  ascending  stems  give  rise 
again  to  new  buds.  These  buds  are  all  exactly  like 
each  other  :  they  have  the  same  constitution,  the  same 
organic  structure,  and  the  individuals  they  are  capable 
of  producing  are,  consequently,  all  identically  the  same ; 
allowance,  of  course,  being  made  for  such  accidental 
injuries  or  alterations  as  they  may  sustain  during  their 
subsequent  growth.  It  is  upon  the  existence  of  such  a 
remarkable  physiological  peculiarity  in  plants,  that  pro- 
pagation entirely  depends ;  an  evident  proof  of  which 
may  be  seen  in  this  circumstance.  Take  a  cutting  of  a 
vine  consisting  only  of  the  space  which  lies  between  two 
buds,  or  an  internodium,  as  botanists  would  call  such  a 
piece,  and  no  art  will  succeed  in  ever  making  it  become 
a  new  plant,  no  matter  how  considerable  the  size  of  the 
internodium  may  be.*  But,  on  the  other  hand,  take  the 
bud  of  a  vine  without  any  portion  of  the  stem  adhering 
to  it,  and  it  will  throw  out  stem  and  root,  and  become 
a  new  plant  immediately.  If  we  examine  the  various 
modes  employed  in  horticulture  for  propagating  plants, 
we  shall  find  that,  however  different  they  may  be  in  ap- 
pearance, they  all  consist  in  the  application  of  these 
principles  under  various  forms.  It  will  be  most  con- 
venient to  consider  these  methods  separately. 

Propagation  is  effected  by  the  arts  of  Increasing  by 
Eyes,  Striking  from  Cuttings,  Laying,  Budding,  and 
Grafting. 

Increasing  by  Eyes  is  the  simplest  of  all  these 
methods  :  it  consists  in  nothing  but  extracting  a  single 

*  This  is,  of  course,  said  without  reference  to  the  power 
which  some  plants  possess  of  developing  latent  buds, —  a  subject 
which  is  foreign  to  the  present  enquiry. 

a  2 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 

system  of  life,  or  a  bud,  from  a  given  plant,  placing  it  in 
due  heat  and  moisture, ,  and  surrounding  it  with  fitting 
food,  and  thus  causing  it  to  grow  as  a  solitary  indivi- 
dual, instead  of  as  one  of  the  community  to  which  it 
originally  belonged. 

Striking  from  Cuttings  is  a  slight  modification  of 
the  last  method.  Instead  of  taking  a  single  bud,  a 
stem  containing  two,  three,  or  more  buds,  is  placed  in 
circumstances  fitted  for  the  maintenance  of  its  life.  In 
this  case,  the  chances  of  success  are  increased  by  the 
additional  number  of  buds  which  are  the  subject  of 
experiment.  That  bud  which  is  the  nearest  the  bottom 
of  the  cutting  emits  its  roots  at  once  into  the  earth,  and 
so  establishes  a  communication  between  the  general 
system  of  the  cutting  and  the  medium  from  which  its 
food  is  to  be  derived.  The  other  buds,  by  pushing  their 
stems  upwards  into  light,  attract  the  nutriment  absorbed 
by  the  roots,  and  so  stimulate  the  latter  to  increased 
action.  Ultimately,  the  roots  of  all  the  buds  descend 
between  the  bark  and  the  wood  until  they  reach  the 
earth,  into  which  they  finally  pass,  like  those  of  the  first 
bud.  There  is  another  circumstance  which  renders  the 
operation  of  striking  plants  from  cuttings  less  precarious 
than  from  eyes.  In  both  cases,  the  buds  have,  at 
the  outset,  to  feed  upon  matter  in  their  vicinity, 
until  they  shall  have  formed  roots  which  are  capable 
of  absorbing  food  from  the  earth ;  but  in  eyes,  the 
nutritive  matter  can  exist  only  in  such  portions  of  t}ie 
stem  as  may  have  been  cut  away  with  themselves ;  while, 
on  the  other  hand,  in  cuttings,  the  stem  itself  forms  an 
important  reservoir  of  nutriment.  This  is  a  consider- 
ation, the  practical  importance  of  which  will  be  obvious 
to  every  cultivator.  As  it  is  from  the  buds  alone  of 
cuttings  that  roots  proceed,  it  follows,  that  in  cases  of 
difficulty,  when  plants  strike  unwillingly,  any  thing 
which  may  facilitate  the  immediate  introduction  of  roots 


INTRODUCTION.  XXi 

into  the  soil  will  be  advantageous.  It  is  for  this  reason 
that  a  good  operator  always  takes  care,  that  the  lower 
end  of  his  cutting  is  pared  down  as  close  to  the  base  of 
a  bud  as  may  be  practicable  without  actually  destroying 
any  part  of  the  bud  itself;  by  this  means  the  first 
emitted  roots,  instead  of  having  to  find  their  way  down- 
wards between  the  bark  and  wood,  strike  at  once  into 
the  earth,  and  become  a  natural  channel  by  which  nu- 
triment is  conveyed  into  the  general  system  of  the 
cutting. 

Laying  is  nothing  but  striking  from  cuttings  that 
are  still  allowed  to  maintain  their  connection  with  the 
mother  plant  by  means  of  a  portion  at  least  of  their 
stem.  Where  roots  are  emitted  with  great  readiness, 
simply  bending  a  branch  into  the  soil,  leaving  its  point 
above  ground,  is  sufficient  to  ensure  the  success  of 
the  operation ;  but  in  cases  of  difficulty  other  expe- 
dients are  resorted  to,  all  which  will  still  be  found  to 
have  reference  to  the  emission  of  roots  by  buds.  One 
common  practice  is,  to  head  down  the  branch  that  is 
laid  into  the  earth ;  this  is  to  call  into  action  the  buds 
below  the  incision,  by  stopping  the  general  axis  of  deve- 
lopment. Another  method  is  to  tongue  the  layer,  that 
is,  to  split  the  stem  just  up  to  the  origin  of  a  bud ;  a 
practice  that  has  the  effect  of  enabling  the  roots  to  be 
emitted  into  the  soil  through  the  wound  more  readily 
than  if  they  had  to  pierce  through  the  bark ;  the  resist- 
ance offered  to  their  passage  through  the  bark  is  in 
many  cases  so  great  as  to  compel  them  to  continue  to 
make  wood  rather  than  to  appear  in  the  form  that  is 
necessary  for  the  success  of  the  cultivator. 

Budding  and  Grafting  are  operations  that  equally 
depend  for  their  success  upon  the  property  that  buds 
possess  of  shooting  roots  downwards  and  stems  upwards ; 
but  in  these  practices  the  roots  strike  between  the  bark 
and  wood  of  the  stock,  instead  of  into  the  earth,  and  form 

a  3 


XX11  INTRODUCTION. 

new  layers  of  wood  instead  of  subterranean  fibres.  The 
success  of  such  practices,  however,  depends  upon  other 
causes  than  those  which  influence  the  growth  of  cuttings. 
It  is  necessary  that  an  adhesion  should  take  place 
between  the  scion  and  the  stock,  so  that  when  the 
descending  fibres  of  the  buds  shall  have  fixed  themselves 
upon  the  wood  of  the  stock,  they  may  not  be  liable  to  sub- 
sequent separation.  No  one  can  have  studied  the  economy 
of  the  vegetable  kingdom  without  having  remarked  that 
there  is  a  strong  tendency  to  cohesion  in  bodies  or  parts 
that  are  placed  in  contact  with  each  other.  Two  stems 
are  tied  together  for  some  purpose :  when  the  ligature 
is  removed,  they  are  found  to  have  grown  into  one  :  two 
Cucumbers  accidentally  placed  side  by  side,  or  two 
Apples  growing  in  contact  with  each  other,  form  double 
Cucumbers  or  double  Apples ;  and  most  of  the  normal 
modifications  of  the  leaves,  floral  envelopes,  or  fertilis- 
ing organs,  are  due  to  various  degrees  of  cohesion  in 
contiguous  parts.  This  cohesion  will  be  always  found 
to  take  place  in  the  cellular  tissue  only,  and  never  in  the 
vascular  tissue.  In  the  stems  of  all  such  trees  as  are 
grafted  by  orchardists,  the  cellular  tissue  is  found  alive 
only  in  the  medullary  rays  and  the  liber ;  it  is  therefore 
essential,  in  the  first  place,  that  those  parts,  both  in  the 
stock  and  the  scion,  should  be  placed  in  contact.  In 
regard  to  the  medullary  rays,  these  are  so  numerous  and 
so  closely  placed  that  it  is  scarcely  possible  that  a  portion 
of  one  stem  should  be  applied  to  another  without  the 
medullary  rays  of  both  touching  each  other  at  many 
points.  No  care,  therefore,  is  required  to  ensure  this, 
which  may  be  safely  left  to  chance.  But  in  regard  to 
the  liber,  as  this  is  confined  to  a  narrow  strip  in  both 
stock  and  scion,  great  care  must  be  taken  that  they  are 
both  placed  as  exactly  in  contact  with  each  other  as 
possible,  so  that  the  line  of  separation  of  the  wood  and 
bark  should,  in  both  stock  and  scion,  be  accurately 


INTRODUCTION.  XX111 

adjusted.  The  success  of  grafting  depends  very  much 
upon  attention  to  this.  But  there  are  other  reasons 
why  this  accuracy  in  adjusting  the  line  between  the 
bark  and  wood  of  the  stock  and  scion  is  so  important. 
It  is  at  that  part  that  the  roots  of  the  latter  pass  down- 
wards over  the  former ;  and  it  is  also  there  that  the 
substance  called  cambium,  which  serves  as  food  for  the 
young  descending  fibres,  is  secreted.  It  is  obvious, 
that  the  more  accurate  the  adjustment  of  the  line  separat- 
ing the  wood  from  the  bark,  the  more  ready  will  be  the 
transmission  of  young  fibres  from  the  one  to  the  other ; 
and  that  the  less  the  accuracy  that  may  be  observed  in 
this  respect,  the  greater  the  difficulty  of  such  transmis- 
sion will  be.  Provided  the  stock  and  scion  be  of  exactly 
the  same  size,  the  adjustment  can  scarcely  fail  to  be 
accurate  in  the  most  unskilful  hands ;  it  is  in  the  more 
common  case  of  the  scion  being  much  smaller  than  the 
stock,  that  this  is  to  be  most  particularly  attended  to. 

Budding  differs  from  grafting  in  this,  that  a  portion 
of  a  stem  is  not  made  to  strike  root  on  another  stem, 
but  that,  on  the  contrary,  a  bud  deprived  of  all  trace  of 
the  woody  part  of  a  stem  is  introduced  beneath  the  bark 
of  the  stock,  and  there  induced  to  strike  root.  In  this 
operation  no  care  is  requisite  in  securing  the  exact  con- 
tact of  similar  parts,  and  a  free  channel  for  the  trans- 
mission of  the  roots  of  the  bud  between  the  bark  and 
wood  of  the  stock ;  for,  from  the  very  nature  of  the 
operation  of  budding,  this  must  of  necessity  be  ensured. 
The  bark  of  the  bud  readily  coheres  with  the  wood  of 
the  stock,  and  secures  the  bud  itself  against  all  accident 
or  injury.  But  if  precautions  of  the  same  nature  as  in 
grafting  are  not  requisite  in  budding,  others  are  of  no 
less  moment.  It  is  indispensable  that  the  bud  which  is 
employed  should  be  fully  formed,  or  what  gardeners  call 
ripe  ;  if  it  is  imperfectly  formed,  or  unripe,  it  may  not 
be  capable  of  that  subsequent  elongation  upwards  and 

a  4 


XXIV  INTRODUCTION. 

downwards  upon  which  the  whole  success  of  the  prac- 
tice depends.     Secondly,  great  care  should  be  taken,  in 
raising  the  bark  of  the  stock  for  the  insertion  of  the 
bud,  that  the    cambium  be  not  disturbed  or  injured. 
The  cambium    is  a  secretion  between  the  wood  and 
bark,  not  only  destined  to  support  the  descending  fibres 
of  the  buds,  but  also  to  generate  the  new  cellular  sub- 
stance within  which  the  descending  fibres  are  finally 
found  imbedded.    If,  in  the  preparation  of  the  bark  for 
receiving  the  bud,  this  cambium  be  injured  or  disturbed, 
it  becomes  much  less  capable  of  effecting  the  cohesion 
that  is  necessary,  than  if  uninjured.   In  budding,  there- 
fore, the  bark  should  be  carefully  lifted  up,  and  not  forced 
from  the  wood  with  a  bone  or  metal  blade,  as  is  usually 
the  case ;  for  although  it  is  no  doubt  true,  that  an  opera- 
tion clumsily  performed  will  often  succeed,  yet  it  should 
be  remembered,  that  if  skilfully  managed  it  would  be 
attended  with  much  more  perfect  success;  and  that  a 
habit  of  constantly  operating  with  delicacy  will  enable  a 
gardener  to  succeed  with  certainty  in  cases  in  which  a 
bungling  practitioner  would  be  sure  to  fail.     Little  do 
those  who  crush  with  rude  hands  the  tender  limbs  of 
plants,   reflect  how  delicate  is  that  organisation  upon 
which  the  life  of  their  victim  is  dependent. 

Transplanting  is,  perhaps,  that  operation  in  which  the 
greatest  difficulty  is  generally  found  to  exist,  and  in 
which  the  causes  of  success  or  failure  are  often  the  least 
understood.  Volumes  have  been  written  upon  the  sub- 
ject, and  the  whole  range  of  vegetable  physiology  has 
been  called  in  aid  of  the  explanation  of  the  theory ; 
yet  I  am  much  mistaken  if  it  cannot  be  proved  to 
depend  exclusively  upon  the  two  following  circum- 
stances:  1.  The  preservation  of  the  spongioles  of  the 
roots  ;  and,  2.  The  prevention  of  excessive  evapora- 
tion. 

It  is  well  known  that  plants  feed  upon  fluid  contained 


INTRODUCTION.  XXV 

in  the  soil,  and  that  their  roots  are  the  mouths  through 
which  the  food  is  conveyed  into  their  body.  But  the 
absorption  of  fluid  does  not  take  place  either  by  all  the 
surface  of  their  roots,  nor  even  of  their  fibres,  but  only 
by  the  extremities  of  the  latter,  consisting  of  bundles 
of  vessels  surrounded  by  cellular  tissue  in  a  very  lax 
spongy  state,  whence  those  extremities  are  called  spon- 
gioles.  That  it  is  only  through  the  spongioles  that 
absorption  to  any  amount  takes  place,  is  easily  shown  by 
growing  a  plant  in  water  and  alternately  preventing 
the  action  of  the  spongioles,  when  languor  and  a  cessa- 
tion of  vital  action  comes  on,  and  preventing  the  action 
of  the  general  surface  of  the  roots,  leaving  the  spongioles 
at  liberty,  when  the  vital  energies  are  immediately 
renewed.  These  spongioles  are  exceedingly  delicate  in 
their  organisation,  and  a  very  slight  degree  of  violence 
destroys  them.  It  is  scarcely  possible  to  remove  the  soil 
from  the  roots  without  injuring  them  in  some  degree 
and  if  transplantation  is  effected  violently  or  carelessly, 
they  are  in  a  great  measure  destroyed.  In  proportion  to 
the  size  or  age  of  a  tree,  is  the  difficulty  of  preserving 
them  increased ;  and  hence  at  the  same  time  the  difficulty 
of  transplantation  is  augmented.  If,  by  any  method,  the 
spongioles  could  be  preserved  unharmed,  there  would 
be  no  reason  whatever  why  the  largest  forest  tree  should 
not  be  removed  as  easily  as  the  young  plants  in  a  nur- 
sery ;  but  their  preservation  in  such  cases  is  impossible, 
and  therefore  the  transplantation  of  trees  of  great  mag- 
nitude cannot  be  effected.  It  is  because  of  the  security 
of  the  spongioles  from  injury  when  the  earth  is  undis- 
turbed, that  plants  reared  in  pots  are  transplanted  with 
so  much  more  success  than  if  taken  immediately  from 
the  soil.  Hence,  also,  when  earth  is  frozen  into  a  huge 
ball  around  the  root  of  a  plant,  transplantation  is  effected 
with  the  same  kind  of  certainty.  The  practice  of  cutting 
the  roots  of  large  trees  the  year  previous  to  removing 


XXVI  INTRODUCTION. 

them  is  attended  with  success  for  a  similar  reason. 
Wherever  the  roots  are  cut  through,  the  new  fibres 
which  are  emitted,  provided  a  plant  is  in  health,  in  short 
tufts,  and  each  terminated  by  a  spongiole,  are  much 
more  easily  taken  out  of  the  ground  without  injury  than 
if  they  were  longer  and  more  scattered  among  the  soil. 
When  destroyed,  the  spongioles  are  often  speedily  re- 
placed, particularly  in  orchard  trees,  provided  a  slight 
degree  of  growth  continues  to  be  maintained.  This  is 
one  of  the  reasons  why  trees  removed  in  October  succeed 
better  than  if  transplanted  at  any  other  time.  The  growth 
of  a  tree  at  that  season  is  not  quite  over ;  and  the  first 
impulse  of  nature,  when  the  tree  finds  itself  in  a  new 
situation,  is  to  create  new  mouths  by  which  to  feed  when 
the  season  for  growing  again  returns. 

Evaporation  takes  place  in  plants  to  an  inconceivable 
degree  in  certain  circumstances.  It  is  known  by  the 
experiments  of  Dr.  Hales,  that  a  sunflower  plant  will 
lose  as  much  as  lib.  14 oz.  by  perspiration  in  twelve 
hours ;  and  that  in  general,  "  in  equal  surfaces  and 
equal  times,  a  man  would  perspire  sV,  the  plant  T<br,  or 
as  50  :  15 ; "  and  that  taking  all  things  into  account,  a 
sunflower  perspires  17  times  more  than  a  man.  The 
same  most  accurate  observer  found  that  a  cabbage  per- 
spired in  twelve  hours  1  Ib.  9  oz. ;  a  Paradise  Stock  in  a 
pot,  11  ounces  ;  and  a  Lemon  Plant,  8oz.  Guettard 
states  that  he  found  Cornus  Mascula  perspire  twice  its 
own  weight  in  a  day  ;  and  Mr.  Knight  has  remarked 
a  Vine  in  a  hot  day  losing  moisture  with  such  rapidity 
that  a  glass  placed  under  one  of  its  leaves  was  speedily 
covered  with  dew,  and  in  half  an  hour  the  perspiration 
was  running  off  the  glass.  In  damp  or  wet  weather 
this  evaporation  is  least ;  in  hot  dry  weather  it  is  great- 
est. This  loss  has  all  to  be  supplied  by  the  moisture 
introduced  into  the  system  by  the  spongioles  ;  and 
hence,  if  the  spongioles  are  destroyed,  and  evaporation 


INTRODUCTION.  XXV11 

takes  place  before  they  can  be  replaced,  a  plant  must 
necessarily  die.  This  is  the  reason  why  deciduous 
trees  cannot  be  transplanted  when  in  leaf;  it  is  im- 
possible to  remove  them  without  injuring  their  spon- 
gioles,  and  it  is  equally  impossible  to  hinder  the  evapo- 
ration by  their  leaves :  but  if  they  are  kept  in  pots,  it 
matters  not  at  what  season  their  removal  takes  place, 
because  as  their  spongioles  are  then  uninjured,  even 
excessive  evaporation  would  be  made  good  by  their 
action.  It  is  well  known  that  certain  evergreens,  such 
as  Hollies,  Laurels,  &c.  can  be  transplanted  in  almost  all 
months  ;  this  arises  from  their  perspiration  being  much 
less  copious  than  in  deciduous  trees,  wherefore  the  spon- 
gioles have  less  difficulty  in  supplying  the^  loss  occa- 
sioned by  it ;  yet  even  evergreens  cannot  be  removed  in 
the  hottest  months  in  the  year,  because  then  the  action 
of  such  spongioles  as  may  be  saved  in  the  operation 
would  not  be  sufficient  to  supply  the  waste  by  eva- 
poration. Plants  first  beginning  to  grow  in  the  spring, 
with  their  leaves  just  turning  green,  are  in  a  most  unfit 
state  to  remove ;  for,  when  transplanted,  their  roots  will 
not  have  time  to  form  a  sufficient  number  of  new 
spongioles  to  supply  the  loss  to  which  the  rapid  pers- 
piration by  the  leaves  at  that  season  will  give  rise.  It  is 
upon  this  same  principle,  that  if  deciduous  plants  are 
taken  from  the  ground  in  the  summer,  they  are  put 
into  pots  and  placed  in  a  hot-bed  to  recover ;  not  for 
the  sake  of  the  heat,  but  because  the  atmosphere  of  a 
hot-bed  is  so  charged  with  humidity  that  perspiration 
cannot  go  on,  so  that  the  vital  energies  of  the  plant, 
instead  of  being  wasted  by  evaporation,  are  directed  to 
the  formation  of  new  mouths  by  which  to  feed. 

This  is  but  a  brief  outline  of  what  the  principles  are 
upon  which  the  common  operations  of  the  Fruit 
Garden  depend  ;  yet  it  is  hoped  that  it  may  not  be 
without  its  use  in  calling  attention  to  the  rationaiia  of 


XXV111  INTRODUCTION. 

what  may  seem  extremely  simple  and  well-understood 
practices,  but  which  are  undoubtedly  neither  so  perfect, 
nor  generally  so  skilfully  performed,  as  to  be  incapable 
of  amendment. 


,  XXIX 


ABBREVIATIONS,  AND  BOOKS  QUOTED. 


Aitons  Epitome.     Epitome  of  the  2d  Edition  of  the  Hortus  Kew- 

ensis.     By  W.  T.  Aiton.    8vo.    London,  1814. 
Baumanns  Cat.  Catalogue  des  V£g£taux  en  tout  Genre  disponibles 

dans  rE'tablissement   des  Freres  Baumann,    a  Bolwiller. 

1826. 

Bon  Jard.     Le  Bon  Jardinier.     Par  A.  Poiteau,  &c. 
Bradley.     New  Improvements  of  Planting  and  Gardening.     By 

Richard  Bradley.     1724. 
ChaptaFs  Tr.  sur  la  Vigne.     Traite*  Th£ore"tique  et  Pratique  sur 

la  Culture  de  la  Vigne,  avec  1' Art  de  faire  le  Vin,  &c.     Par 

MM.  Chaptal,  Rozier,  Parmentier,  et  Dussieux.      2  vols. 

8vo.     1801. 
Coxc's  View.     A  View  of  the  Cultivation  of  Fruit  Trees,  and  the 

Management  of  Orchards  and  Cider,  &c.      By  William 

Coxe,  Esq.     8vo.     1817. 

fVersuch  einer  Systematischen  Beschreibung 
in  Deutschland  vorhandener  Kernobstsorten. 
Von  Dr.  Aug.  Friedr.  Adr.  Diel.    24  vols. 
small  8vo.     1799  —  1825. 
Duhamel.     Trait£  des  Arbres  Fruitiers.       Par  M.  Duhamel  du 

Monceau.     2  vols.  4to.     Paris,  1768. 
Forsyth.     A  Treatise  on  the  Culture  and  Management  of  Fruit 

Trees.     By  William  Forsyth.     8vo. 
Hanbury.     A  Complete  Body  of  Planting  and  Gardening.    By  the 

Rev.  Wm.  Hanbury.     2  vols.  fol.     1770. 
Hitt.     A   Treatise   on  Fruit  Trees.     By  Thomas  Hitt.     Third 

Edition.     8vo.     1768. 
Hookers  Pom.  Lond.    Pomona  Londinensis.    By  William  Hooker. 

4to.     London,  1813. 
Hort.  Gard.  Coll.     A  Collection  of  Fruit  Trees  in  the  Garden  of 

the  Horticultural  Society  at  Chiswick. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.     A  Catalogue  of  Fruits  cultivated  in  the  Garden 

of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London.     8vo.     1826. 
Hort.  Trans.    Transactions  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  Lon- 
don.   4to.     7  vols. 


XXX  ABBREVIATIONS,    AND 

Jard.  Fruit..     Le  Jardin  Fruitier.     Par  M.  Noisette.     3  vols.  4to. 

Paris,  1821. 
Knoop  Fruct.     Fructologie,  ou  Description  des  Arbres  Fruitiers. 

Par  J.  H.  Knoop.     Folio.     1771. 
Knoop  Pom.     Pomologie,  ou  Description  des  Meilleures  Sortes  de 

Pommes  et  de  Poires.     Par  J.  H.  Knoop.     Folio.     1771. 
Kraft  Pom.  Aust.      Abhandlung  von   den   Obstbaumen.      Von 

Johann  Kraft.     2  vols.  folio.     1792  —  1796. 
Langley.     Pomona,   or  the  Fruit  Garden  illustrated.     By  Batty 

Langley.     Folio.     1729. 
Lelieur.     La  Pomone  Fran£aise,  ou  Traite  de  la  Culture  Fran£aise, 

et  de  la  Taille  des  Arbres  Fruitiers.     8vo.     1811. 
Lindl.  Geo.  Cat.     A  Catalogue  of  Trees,  &c.  in  the  Nursery  at 

Catton,  near  Norwich. 
Lindl.y  Geo.y  in  Hort.  Trans.  Communications  in  the  Horticultural 

Transactions  of  London. 
Lindl.9  Geo.,  Plan  of  an  Orchard.     A  Plan  of  an  Orchard.     By 

George  Lindley.     1796. 

Loud.  Gard.  Mag.     London's  Gardener's  Magazine. 
Martyris  Miller.      Miller's  Dictionary.      By  the  Rev.  Thomas 

Martyn.     4  vols.  folio.     1807. 
Ma>we.     Every  Man  his  own  Gardener.     By  Thomas  Mawe  and 

John  Abercrombie.     8vo.     1822. 
Mayers   Pom.   Franc.      Pomona    Franconica,    Description    des 

Arbres  Fruitiers  au  Jardin  de  Wurtzbourg.     Par  le  Sieur 

Jean  Mayer.     3  vols.  4-to.     1776  —  1801. 
Miller.     The  Gardener's  and  Botanist's  Dictionary.     By  Philip 

Miller.     Folio.     1768. 
Nicol.      The  Gardener's  Kalendar ;    or  a  Monthly  Directory  of 

Operations  in  every  Branch  of  Horticulture.     By  Walter 

Nicol.     4th  Edition.     8vo.     1822. 

Nois.  Manuel.     Manuel  Complet  du  Jardinier.     Par  M.  Noisette. 
Parkinson.      Paradisi   in   Sole   Paradisus   Terrestris.      By  John 

Parkinson.     Folio.     1629. 
Poit.  et  Turp.    Traite  des  Arbres  Fruitiers  de  Duhamel.    Nouvelfe 

Edition,  par  Poiteau  et  Turpin.    Folio.    Paris,  1808,  &c. 
Pom.  Heref.      Pomona   Herefordiensis.      By    Thomas   Andrew 

Knight,  Esq.     4to.     1811. 
Pomona  Italians     Pomona  Italiana,  ossia  trattato  degli  Alberi 

Fruttiferi,  di  Georgio  Gallesio.     Folio.   Pisa,  1817.     Still 

in  publication. 
Pom.  Mag.     The  Pomological  Magazine.     3  vols.  8vo.     London, 

1827—1830. 
Ray.     Historia  Plantarum,  a  Joh.  Ray,  M.D.      3  vols.    folio. 


BOOKS    QUOTED.  XXXi 

London.     1st,  1686;   2d,   1688;    3d,   or   Supplementing, 

1704. 

~Rea.   Flora,  or  a  Complete  Florilege.    By  John  Rea.  Folio.    1702. 
Sickler  Teutsch.     Der  Teutsche  Obstgartner.    Von  J.  B.  Sickler. 

22  vols.  8vo.     1 794  —  1 804. 
Speedily  s  Pine.    .A  Treatise  on  the  Culture  of  the  Pine  Apple. 

By  Wm.  Speechly.     8vo.     1796. 
Speechly  s   Vine.     A  Treatise  on  the  Culture  of  the  Vine.     By 

Wm.  Speechly.     4to.     1790. 
Srvitzer.     The  Practical   Fruit-Gardener.     By  Stephen   Switzer. 

8vo.     1724. 
Taschenb.     Taschenbuch  des  Verstandigen  Gartners.     Aus  dem 

Franzosischer  iibersetzt.     Von  J.  F.  Lippold.     Nebst  be- 

deutenden  Zusatzen  und  Verbesserungen.     Von  Gebriider 

Baumann.     8vo.     1824. 

{Catalogue  Descriptif  Abr£g4 ;  contenant  une 
Partie  des  Arbres  Fruitiers  qui,  depuis  1798 
jusqu'en  1823,  ont  forme'  la  Collection  de 
J.  B.  Van  Mons. 


A 

GUIDE 

TO    THE 

FRUIT  AND  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 


CHAP.  I. 

V.  ' 

ALMONDS. 

THIS  description  of  fruit  being  little  known  in  Great 
Britain,  the  following  list  of  the  principal  varieties  cul- 
tivated in  France  is  taken  from  the  Transactions  of  the 
Horticultural  Society. 

1.  AMANDE   COMMUNE.  —  The    nuts  of  the  com- 
mon almond  are  about  one  inch  and  a  quarter  long, 
with  a  hard  smooth  shell,  containing  a  kernel  of  little 
value  in  comparison  with  some  others.     It  is  the  most 
common  in  France,  and  the  young  plants  from  it  are 
used  for  stocks  to  bud  peaches  upon. 

2.  AMANDE  DOUCE  A  COQUE  DURE.  —  The   nuts 
of  these  are  large,   fully  one  inch  and  a  half  long, 
smooth,  and  of  a  dull  colour :  the  shell  is  thick  and 
hard,  the  kernel  small,  and  not  high  flavoured. 

This  is  an  improved  variety  of  the  former,  and 
differs  from  it  only  in  having  larger  fruit.  It  is  a  pre- 
ferable sort  for  stocks,  and  used  by  the  more  careful  of 
their  gardeners. 

B 


3.  AMANDE  DOUCE  A  COQUE  TENDRE.  —  Much 
resembles  the  last  in  appearance  and  colour,  but  it  has 
a  tender  shell ;  one  side  is  usually  straight,  and  the 
other  rounded. 

This  sort  is  budded  upon  the  others,  and  is  grown 
in  gardens  to  produce  the  young  almonds,  which  in 
France  are  eaten  fresh  in  July,  the  kernel  being  sweet 
and  well  flavoured. 

4.  AMANDE  DES  DAMES This  is  eaten  dry,  and 

cultivated  as  an  article  of  commerce,  in  the  southern 
parts  of  France. 

The  nut  exceeds  an  inch  in  length,  is  of  an  oval 
shape,  and  thicker  in  proportion  than  the  others ;  the 
shell  being  light-coloured,  porous,  and  tender ;  the 
kernel  plump,  rich,  and  sweet. 

5.  AMANDE  SULTANA. — This  resembles  the  amande 
des  dames,  but  is  smaller. 

6.  AMANDE    PISTACHE.  —  Is  similar  to  the  last, 
but  still  smaller. 

The  two  last  varieties  are  peculiar  to  the  south  of 
France,  and  are  not  in  general  cultivation. 

7.  AMANDE  PRINCESSE.  —  This  approaches  to  the 
amande  des  dames  in  its  qualities  and  size,  but  has  a 
much  thinner  shell,  which  is  rough  externally,  appearing 
as  if  the  outer  part  were  removed. 

8.  AMANDE  AMERE. —  Of  this,  which  is  the  bitter 
almond,  there  are  several  varieties,  differing  in  the  size 
of  their  nuts,  which  are  dark  coloured,  with  hard  shells, 
and  bitter  kernels. 

Propagation  and  Cultivation. 

All  the  varieties  of  the  almond  in  this  country  may 
be  propagated  by  budding  them  upon  the  muscle  stock, 
in  the  same  manner  as  directed  for  peaches  and  nec- 
tarines. 


APPLES. 


Being  natives  of  Barbary,  their  cultivation  in  this 
country,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  fruit,  cannot  be 
expected  to  be  successful,  unless  the  trees  are  trained 
against  an  east  or  south-east  wall,  and  subjected  to  the 
same  management  as  the  peach.  This  may  be  done  by 
those  who  have  extent  of  wall  to  spare,  and  as  an  object 
of  curiosity. 

Almonds  obtained  in  this  way  may  be  preserved  in 
dry  sand  for  use  ;  but  they  must  be  thoroughly  dried  on 
shelves,  or  boards,  in  an  airy  place,  before  they  are  put 
up,  otherwise  they  will  get  mouldy. 

Those,  however,  who  require  almonds  for  the  dessert, 
will  find  it  far  more  to  their  advantage  to  purchase  the 
imported  fruit. 


CHAP.  II. 

APPLES. 
SECT.  I.  —  Summer.     Hound,  or  nearly  so. 

1.  BOROVITSKY.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  94. ;  Pom. 
Mag.  t.  10. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish,  and  rather  angular. 
Eye  seated  in  a  rather  large  cavity,  and  surrounded 
by  a  few  small  plaits.  Stalk  about  an  inch  long, 
inserted  in  a  deep  and  rather  wide  cavity.  Skin  pale 
green  on  the  shaded  side,  sometimes  broken  by  a  silvery 
appearance  of  the  epidermis  ;  on  the  sunny  side,  striped 
with  crimson  red  on  a  ground  of  paler  red  ;  rather  trans- 
parent. Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy,  with  a  sweet,  brisk, 
sub-acid,  very  pleasant  flavour. 

An  early  dessert  fruit,  ripe  the  middle  of  August. 
This  beautiful  apple  was  sent  from  the  Taurida  Gardens, 


.APPLES. 

near  St.  Petersburg!!,   to  the  Horticultural  Society  of 
London,  in  1824. 

2.  EARLY  JULIEN.     Hort.  Trans.    Vol.  iv.  p.  216. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  irregular  globular  form,  with 

several  ribs  or  angles  on  the  sides,  which  become  quite 
prominent  round  the  eye.  Skin  of  a  pale  yellow,  with- 
out any  mixture  of  colour.  Flesh  approaching  to  yel- 
low, firm  and  crisp,  with  a  pleasant  brisk  juice,  having 
much  the  highest  flavour  of  any  of  the  very  early  apples. 
A  Scotch  dessert  apple,  ripe  the  beginning  and  mid- 
dle of  August. 

3.  IRISH  PEACH  APPLE.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  740. 
Pom.  Mag.  1. 100. 

Early  Crofton.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  321.  and 
453. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  depressed,  globular,  obtusely 
angular.  Eye  nearly  closed  by  the  segments  of  the 
calyx.  Stalk  short,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  marked 
with  brownish  red,  intermixed  with  some  streaks  of 
deeper  red  ;  the  shaded  side  yellowish  green,  sprinkled 
with  small  brown  dots.  Flesh  white,  tender,  juicy, 
rich,  and  very  highly  flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple,  ripe  in  August. 

4.  JUNEATING.    Ray  (1688),  No.  1.  Langley  Pom. 
t.  74.  f.  2. 

Fruit  small,  round,  somewhat  flattened  at  both  ends, 
about  one  inch  and  three  quarters  in  diameter,  and 
one  inch  and  a  half  deep.  Eye  small,  with  a  closed 
calyx  in  a  depressed  wrinkled  basin.  Stalk  slender, 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small 
narrow  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  slight  pale 
tinge  of  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  crisp,  but  soon 
becomes  mealy.  Juice  a  little  sugary,  with  a  slight 
perfume. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  and  beginning  of  August. 

5.  MARGARET.     Miller,  No.  2. 


APPLES.  5 

Magdalene.     Ray  (1688),  No.  2. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  two  inches  and  a  quar- 
ter in  diameter,  and  two  inches  deep,  slightly  angular 
on  its  sides.  Eye  small,  with  a  closed  calyx,  placed 
in  a  narrow  basin,  surrounded  by  several  unequal  plaits. 
Stalk  short,  slender,  in  a  funnel-shaped  cavity,  even 
with  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  numerous  small 
pearl-coloured  imbedded  specks,  and  slightly  tinged 
with  orange  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  very  crisp 
and  tender.  Juice  plentiful,  saccharine,  and  highly 
perfumed. 

A  dessert  apple,  of  first-rate  excellence,  from  the 
middle  of  August  to  the  end. 

This  is  the  true  Margaret  apple  of  MILLER,  and  has 
been  in  our  gardens  since  the  time  of  RAY,  in  1688  ; 
but  it  is  not  the  Margaret  of  Forsyth,  and  of  many  col- 
lections of  the  present  day  (See  No.  13).  The  tree  is 
readily  known  from  every  other  variety  of  apple,  by  its 
upright  growth,  by  its  short  erect  branches,  and  by  the 
excessive  pubescence  of  its  leaves. 

6.  OSLIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  5. ;  Pom.  Mag. 
t.  5. 

Oslin  Pippin.     Nicol  Ed.  4.  p.  164. 

Oslin,  or  Arbroath  Pippin.  Forsyth.  Ed.  J.  p.  119. 

Orgeline,  or  Orjeline.     Ib.  Ed.  5.    p.  119. 

Fruit  roundish,  depressed,  without  angles.  Eye 
rather  prominent,  with  a  few  moderately  sized  plaits. 
Stalk  short,  thick,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  very  thick 
and  tough,  pale  bright  lemon  colour  when  fully  ripe, 
intermixed  with  a  little  bright  green,  and  sprinkled  with 
numerous  spots  of  the  same.  Flesh  inclining  to  yellow, 
firm,  crisp,  juicy,  very  rich,  and  highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  August,  and  very  excellent. 
This  is  supposed  to  have  been  raised  at  Arbroath,  in 
Forfarshire ;  although  there  is  a  tradition  of  its  having 
been  brought  from  France  by  the  monks  of  the  abbey 

B  3 


APPLES. 


of  Arbroath  ;  but  it  is  not  to  be  found  at  the  present 
time  among  the  continental  writers. 

7.  RED  ASTRACAN.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  522. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  123. 

Fruit  rather  above  the  middle  size,  roundish,  slightly 
angular.  Eye  in  a  tolerably  deep  basin,  surrounded  by 
a  few  knobby  protuberances.  Stalk  short,  deeply  in- 
serted. Skin  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  deep  crimson 
on  the  exposed  side,  and  over  great  part  of  the  surface 
spotted  with  russet,  with  a  little  coarse  russet  surround- 
ing the  stalk.  The  greatest  part  of  the  red  colour  is 
covered  with  a  delicate  white  bloom  like  that  of  a  plum, 
which  gives  it  somewhat  the  appearance  of  a  peach. 
Flesh  white,  crisp.  Juice  abundant,  with  a  rich  sac- 
charine acid,  but  soon  becomes  mealy. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  August. 

This  very  beautiful  apple  was  imported  from  Sweden, 
and  first  fruited  by  William  Atkinson,  Esq.  of  Grove 
End,  Paddington,  in  1816.  Fruit  of  it  was  exhibited 
at  the  Horticultural  Society,  in  1820. 

8.  RED   QUARENDEN.     Hooker  Pom.  Lond.  t.  13. 
Devonshire  Quarenden.      Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  822. 

Pom.  Mag.  t.  94. 

Sack  apple,  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1012.  according  to 
the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  oblate,  or  round,  and 
depressed,  the  outline  tolerably  regular.  Eye  slightly 
or  not  at  all  depressed,  entirely  closed  by  the  long 
segments  of  the  calyx,  and  surrounded  by  little  knotty 
protuberances.  Stalk  thick,  rather  short,  deeply  inserted. 
Skin  of  an  uniform  deep  rich  crimson,  with  a  great 
many  green  dots  intermixed  ;  greenish  on  the  shaded 
side.  Flesh  greenish  white;  when  newly  gathered, 
crisp,  very  juicy,  mixed  with  a  most  agreeable  acid. 

Ripe  in  August,  and  will  keep  till  the  end  of  Sep- 
tember. This  is  said  to  be  a  Devonshire  apple,  although 


APPLES.  7 

I  find  no  such  name  as  Quarenden  in  the  county.  It 
is  common  in  Somersetshire  and  Gloucestershire,  where 
it  is  very  much  and  very  justly  esteemed. 

9.  SPRING  GROVE  CODLIN.    Hort.  Trans.   Vol.  i. 
p.  197. 1. 11. 

Fruit  of  the  usual  codlin  shape,  about  three  inches 
in  diameter  at  the  base,  and  two  inches  and  three  quar- 
ters deep,  slightly  angular  on  its  sides,  and  tapering  to 
a  narrow  crown.  Eye  closed  by  broad,  short  segments 
of  the  calyx,  slightly  sunk  in  a  narrow,  oblique,  plaited 
hollow.  Stalk  rather  short,  not  protruding  beyond  the 
base.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  tinged  with  orange  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  tender.  Juice 
saccharine,  with  a  mixture  of  acid,  and  a  very  slight  per- 
fume. It  is  ready  for  tarts  in  July,  and  will  keep  till 
October  or  November. 

The  Spring  Grove  Codlin  was  first  brought  into 
notice  by  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  in  a  communication  to  the 
Horticultural  Society  of  London,  read  April  3.  1810. 

10.  SUMMER  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No. 
393.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  50. 

Fruit  small,  roundish-oblong,  flattened  at  both  ends, 
Eye  in  a  wide,  shallow,  even  hollow.  Stalk  short,  in- 
serted in  a  middle-sized  cavity.  Skin  very  smooth  and 
shining ;  on  the  side  next  the  sun  bright  yellow,  tinged 
a  little  with  orange,  which  gradually  fades  away  on  the 
shaded  side  into  a  pale  lemon  colour,  and  marked 
throughout  with  pale  scattered  dots.  Flesh  whitish, 
firm,  very  juicy,  sweet  and  agreeable,  without  perfume. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August,  and  will  keep  ten  days  or  a 
fortnight. 

A  very  beautiful  and  excellent  little  dessert  apple. 

11.  WHITE  ASTRACAN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.    No.  23. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  96. 

Glace  de  Zelande.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  366.,  and 
of  foreign  gardens,  according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

B  4 


8  APPLES. 

Transparent  de  Moscovie.  Ib.  according  to  the  Pom. 
Mag.  and  the  Hort.  Cat. 

Pyrus  Astracanica,  De  Cand.  Prod.  Vol.  ii.  p.  635. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish,  angular  on  the  sides, 
and  ribbed  at  the  apex.  Eye  depressed  in  a  small  hol- 
low. Stalk  thick,  and  very  short.  Skin  smooth,  with 
a  few  faint  streaks  of  red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered 
with  a  white  bloom.  Flesh  snow-white,  often  trans- 
parent in  part,  tender,  juicy,  crisp,  very  pleasant  and 
delicate. 

Ripe  in  August,  and  will  keep  good  for  only  a  few 
days.  It  is  a  hardy  tree,  and  a  very  good  bearer.  It 
has  been  introduced  from  Russia,  where  it  is  said  to 
grow  wild  about  Astracan,  and  was  first  brought  into 
notice  by  William  Atkinson,  Esq.  of  Grove  End, 
Paddington. 

SECT.  II.  —  Summer.     Conical  or  oblong. 

12.  DOCTOR   HELSHAM'S   PIPPIN.     G.  Lind.  Cat. 
1815. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  more  long  than  broad,  eight  or 
nine  inches  in  circumference,  a  little  angular  on  the 
sides.  Eye  small,  in  a  rather  wide  and  oblique  basin. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  yel- 
lowish green,  with  several  reddish  spots ;  on  the  sunny 
side  of  a  fine  clear  red.  Flesh  white.  Juice  sweet, 
with  a  slight  aromatic  flavour. 

Ripe  in  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

The  branches  of  this  tree  droop  in  the  manner  of  a 
Jargonelle  Pear.  It  is  an  abundant  bearer,  and  deserves 
cultivation. 

The  original  tree,  which  is  a  large  one,  was  raised  by 
the  late  Dr.  Helsham,  and  is  now  growing  in  the  garden 
of  Mr.  Etheredge,  of  Stoke  Ferry,  in  Norfolk. 

13.  EARLY  RED  MARGARET.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No. 
588.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  46. 


APPLES.  9 

Margaret  Apple.     Langley.  Pom.Lond.  t.  74.  f.  1. 

Red  Juneating.  1  According  to  Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 

Early  Striped  ditto.  J       No.  588. 

Early  Red  Juneating.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  504. 

Eve  Apple.  Of  the  Irish  Gardens,  according  to  the 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 

Margaretha  Apfel.       1  Of  the  Germans,  according 

R other  Jacob's  Apfel.  J      to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  roundish  oblong,  rather 
angular,  tapering  a  little  to  the  crown.  Eye  contracted, 
plaited.  Stalk  short,  thick.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
richly  and  closely  streaked  with  deep  red.  Flesh  white, 
juicy,  breaking,  sub-acid,  very  rich  and  agreeable,  with- 
out any  perfume  or  spicy  flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

A  very  good  early  apple,  but  soon  grows  mealy. 

14.  RED  CALVILLE. 

Calville  d'Ete.     Duhamel  1.  1. 1. 

Calville  Rouge  d'Ete.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  131. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  cordate  or  conical,  hav- 
ing alternately  large  and  small  angles  terminating  in  the 
crown,  which  is  narrow  and  pointed  :  about  one  inch  and 
three  quarters  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  deep.  Eye 
narrow,  prominent,  surrounded  by  large  plaits.  Stalk 
half  an  inch,  rather  stout,  inserted  in  a  regular  and 
rather  deep  cavity.  Skin  pale  red,  but  of  a  deep  colour, 
and  shaded  with  deeper  streaks  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  white,  slightly  tinged  with  red  next  the  core. 
Juice  not  plentiful,  but  pretty  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  in  August  and  September. 

The  French  gardeners  pretend  to  distinguish  all  their 
Calvilles,  when  cut  transversely,  by  a  regular  five-angled 
cavity  at  the  core. 

15.  REVELSTONE   PIPPIN.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv. 
p.  522. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  angular  on  the  sides, 


10  APPLES. 

the  angular  protuberances  uniting  round  the  eye  in  large 
knobs.  Stalk  short  and  thick,  inserted  in  a  very  regu- 
lar cavity.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  yellow  russetty  spots,  and  nearly  covered  with  a 
bright  red.  Flesh  yellow,  firm.  Juice  not  plentiful, 
but  sweet,  and  of  a  very  good  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September, 
and  will  not  keep  long. 

This  is  one  of  the  sorts  usually  planted  against  walls 
in  the  Carse  of  Gowrie.  In  this  country  it  does  well  as 
an  open  standard,  and  is  an  abundant  bearer.  Its 
fruit  was  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society,  Lon- 
don, in  1820. 

16.  SUGAR-LOAF  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1078. 
Pom.  Mag:  t.  3. 

Dolgoi  Squoznoi.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  &54.,  ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  ovate  or  oblong,  generally  tapering  to  the  eye, 
which  is  much  hollowed,  with  a  few  slight  plaits.  Stalk 
about  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  deep,  regular  cavity. 
Skin  a  very  clear  light  yellow,  with  a  few  greenish  dots  ; 
yellow  on  the  sunny  side,  and  becoming  nearly  white 
when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  whitish,  firm,  crisp,  very  juicy, 
with  a  most  agreeable,  lively,  sweetish  sub-acid  flavour. 

An  excellent  summer  apple,  ripe  the  beginning  of 
August,  but  if  kept  above  a  week  or  ten  days  it  becomes 
soft  and  mealy. 

This  appears  to  be  of  Russian  origin,  having  been^ 
sent  from  the  Taurida  Gardens,    at   St.  Petersburgh, 
to  the  Horticultural  Society,  London,   under  the  name 
of    Dolgoi  Squoznoi,    two   Russian   words   signifying 
dolgoiy  long,  and  squoz?ioi,  transparent. 

SECT.  III. — Autumnal.     Round,  or  nearly  so. 

17*  BERE  COURT  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  400. 


APPLES.  11 

Fruit  about  the  middle  size,  resembling  a  large  and 
well  formed  Nonesuch,  but  rather  less  flattened.  Stalk 
slender  and  deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  yellow,  beauti- 
fully variegated  with  broken  stripes  of  red.  Flesh 
crisp,  very  juicy,  with  a  high  flavoured  acidity.  It  does 
not  keep  late,  but  is  a  most  valuable  apple  for  the 
kitchen  while  it  lasts. 

Raised  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Symonds  Breedon,  in  his 
garden  at  Bere  Court,  near  Pangbourne,  in  Berkshire, 
and  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society,  London, 
October  15.  1822. 

18.  CALVILLE  ROUGE  DE  MICOUD.  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  242. 

Fruit  of  the  first  crop,  depressed,  spherical,  nearly 
three  inches  in  diameter,  and  about  two  inches  deep ; 
three,  or  more  frequently  four  slight  ridges  divide  it 
lengthways,  and  give  it  a  somewhat  square  outline. 
Stalk  moderately  thick,  rather  long,  placed  in  a  funnel- 
shaped  cavity.  Eye  placed  in  the  bottom  of  a  hollow, 
scooped  out  like  a  funnel,  and  larger  than  that  in  which 
the  stalk  is  placed,  the  divisions  of  the  calyx  remaining 
in  part  when  the  fruit  is  ripe.  Skin  of  a  very  deep, 
dull  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun,  but  less  intense  on 
the  shaded  side,  where  it  is  streaked  by  a  few  lines,  and 
spots  of  a  pale  red.  It  is  tough,  adhering  firmly  to  the 
flesh,  of  an  austere  taste.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  fine, 
breaking  with  a  crystalline  appearance,  juicy.  Juice 
sweetish  acid,  and  agreeably  perfumed. 

Its  maturity  commences  about  the  middle  of  July, 
and  continues,  with  little  interruption,  till  November. 
The  fruit  of  April-flowering  ripen  mostly  in  August, 
and  are  usually  eaten  during  harvest.  Those  of  the 
second  flowering  succeed  the  first,  and  may  be  brought 
to  table  till  the  end  of  October  ;  they  are  quite  as  good 
as  the  first,  but  are  not  bigger  than  a  hen's  egg.  The 
fruit  of  the  latter  flowerings  are  not  bigger  than  a  Pomme 


APPLES. 

d'Api;  nevertheless,  when  they  are  stopped  in  their 
growth  by  the  frost,  they  may  be  placed  in  the  fruit- 
room,  where  they  ripen  very  well,  and  keep  till  Novem- 
ber. This  is  eaten  raw ;  but  if  roasted  it  acquires  a 
delicate  and  sweet  flavour,  and  it  is  also  very  agreeable 
when  stewed. 

Mons.  Andre  Thouin,  from  whom  the  above  is  taken, 
has  given  an  interesting  account  of  this  singular  apple. 
The  original  tree,  which  bears  three  thousand  apples  an- 
nually, is  growing  on  the  farm  of  the  Baroness  de 
Micoud,  which  lies  near  La  Charite  sur  Loire,  in  the 
department  of  the  Nievre.  The  first  flowering  takes 
place  in  April,  the  second  in  June  ;  the  tree  then  ceases 
for  a  time  to  produce  flowers.  The  third  and  suc- 
ceeding flowerings  take  place  in  August,  September, 
October,  and  November,  when  they  are  stopped  by  the 
severity  of  the  frost.  It  is  necessary  to  remark,  that  the 
last  flowerings  are  much  less  abundant  than  the  two 
first,  and  the  fruit  which  they  produce  is  small,  and  im- 
perfectly ripened.  The  blossoms  are  produced  in  corymbs 
of  twelve  or  fifteen  flowers  in  the  first  season  of  blos- 
soming, but  only  from  five  to  nine  in  the  succeeding 
seasons.  The  colour  of  the  corolla  is  white,  tinged  with 
rose-coloured  stains,  especially  on  the  edge  of  the  petals. 

Mons.  Thouin  very  justly  remarks,  "  that  the  dense, 
dark  green,  shining  foliage  during  three  fourths  of  the 
year,  enamelled  with  numerous  bunches  of  delicate  rose- 
coloured  blossoms,  and  scattered  over  with  fruit  of 
diversity  of  colour,  render  it  a  most  interesting  object  of 
cultivation,  especially  as  an  ornament  to  our  lawns  and 
shrubberies,  producing  an  effect  not  less  novel  than 
agreeable." 

19.  CHRISTIE'S  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  155. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  shaped  like  a  flattish  Nonesuch, 
about  two  inches  deep,  and  two  inches  aud  a  half  in 
diameter,  quite  round,  without  angles.  Eye  small, 


APPLES.  IS 

closed  by  a  short  calyx,  moderately  sunk,  in  a  very  even 
circular  basin,  perfectly  free  from  plaits.  Stalk  short, 
slender,  rather  deeply  sunk,  not  protruding  beyond  the 
base.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  becoming  bright  yel- 
low when  highly  ripened,  marbled  and  streaked  with 
red  on  the  sunny  side,  like  the  Nonesuch.  Flesh  pale 
yellowish  white,  tender.  Juice  rather  thin,  smart, 
slightly  saccharine,  and  of  a  very  pleasant  flavour.  A 
culinary  apple  in  October  and  November. 

This  apple  has  very  much  the  appearance  of  a  small 
Nonesuch,  from  which  it  has  probably  originated.  Its 
branches  are  spurred  in  the  same  manner,  and  it  bears 
equally  as  well  and  as  soon.  A  great  many  trees  of  it 
have  lately  been  planted  by  the  kitchen  gardeners  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  London. 

20.  COBHAM  APPLE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  166. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  about  two  inches  and 

three  quarters  deep,  and  three  inches  and  a  quarter  in 
diameter ;  somewhat  irregularly  round,  with  a  few  ob- 
tuse angles  reaching  to  the  crown,  which  is  rather  narrow 
and  depressed.  Eye  small,  closed  by  the  segments  of  the 
calyx.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  rather  deeply 
inserted.  Skin  dull  yellowish  green,  dashed  on  the  sunny 
side  with  faint  red,  intermixed  with  light  russet.  Flesh 
crisp,  pale  yellow.  Juice  saccharine  and  aromatic. 

A  dessert  apple  from  Michaelmas  to  Christmas.  Cul- 
tivated in  Kent  under  this  name.  I  received  specimens 
of  this  apple  from  Mr.  Kirke  of  Brompton  in  1819- 

21.  COLE  APPLE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  190.  Pom. 
Mag.  1. 104. 

Scarlet  Perfume.      Of  some  collections. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  about  three  inches  and 
a  quarter  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep, 
angular  in  a  slight  degree,  with  a  wide  eye,  mostly 
closed  by  the  segments  of  the  calyx.  Skin  deeply 
stained,  and  streaked  with  crimson,  slightly  russetted, 


14-  APPLES. 

with  a  small  portion  of  it  showing  through.  Stalk 
woolly,  sometimes  inserted  beneath  a  deep  lip  protrud- 
ing into  the  cavity  of  the  base.  Flesh  white,  firm, 
juicy,  sweet  mixed  with  acid,  little  perfumed,  very  rich 
and  agreeable. 

A  very  excellent  autumn  dessert  apple,  in  perfection 
about  the  end  of  August,  and  will  keep  sound  till 
Christmas.  It  is  a  healthy,  hardy  variety,  but  better 
adapted  for  dwarfs  than  for  standards. 

22.  EMPEROR  ALEXANDER.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii. 
p.  407.  t.  28. 

Alexander.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  6. 

Aporta.     According  to  the  Hort.  Cat. 

Fruit  very  large,  somewhat  cordate,  tapering  from 
the  base,  which  is  broad,  to  the  crown,  where  it  is  small 
and  narrow.  Eye  large,  and  deeply  seated  in  a  per- 
fectly [smooth  round  basin.  Stalk  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  long,  not  protruded  beyond  the  base.  Skin 
greenish  yellow,  slightly  streaked  with  red,  but  on  the 
sunny  side  beautifully  marbled,  and  streaked  with  bright 
red  and  orange.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  and  very 
tender.  Juice  sugary,  and  of  a  rich  aromatic  flavour. 
An  autumnal  dessert  apple  from  October  till  nearly 
Christmas.  An  excellent  and  valuable  fruit. 

Some  fruit  of  this  apple  were  imported  from  Riga  by 
the  late  Mr.  Lee,  in  January,  1817,  °ne  of  which  mea- 
sured five  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter,  four  inches 
deep,  sixteen  inches  in  circumference,  and  weighed 
nineteen  ounces.  From  this  fruit  the  drawing  above 
referred  to  in  the  Hort.  Trans,  was  taken. 

23.  FLOWER  OF  KENT.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  338. 
Fruit  rather  large,  somewhat  flat,  irregularly  ribbed 

on  its  sides.  Eye  small  and  contracted,  surrounded  by 
prominent  angles  extending  from  the  ribs.  Stalk  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  long,  lengthened  beyond  the  base. 
Skin  dull  yellow  or  olive  on  the  shaded  side  j  of  a  muddy 


APPLES.  15 

brown,  tinged  with  bright  red  streaks,  when  exposed 
to  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  with  a  pretty  good 
juice.  A  good  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas  to 
Christmas. 

Specimens  of  this  apple  were  sent  me  from  Mr.  Kirke 
of  Brompton. 

24.  FRANKLIN'S  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.     Hart.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  383.  Pom.  Mag.  1. 137- 

Sudlow's  Fall  Pippin.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  217- 
according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  oval,  rather  broadest  at  the  base. 
Eye  slightly  sunk  in  an  even  hollow,  surrounded  by 
very  minute  plaits,  generally  closed  by  the  segments  of 
the  calyx.  Stalk  short,  slender,  in  a  deep  cavity.  Skin 
bright  deep  yellow,  somewhat  scabrous,  with  a  tinge  of 
green,  sprinkled  with  numerous  grey  and  dark-coloured 
specks  or  spots.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  crisp,  tender.  Juice 
rich,  of  a  poignant  aromatic  flavour.  A  most  excellent 
autumnal  dessert  apple,  from  Michaelmas  to  Christmas. 

This  appears  to  be  of  American  origin,  and  was  im- 
ported by  Mr.  Sudlow  from  the  United  States,  as 
appears  from  the  statement  in  the  Transactions  of  the 
Horticultural  Society  above  alluded  to  in  1819.  Its 
introduction,  however,  was  previously  to  this,  and  can- 
not have  been  later  than  1805  or  1806. 

25.  FRANK  RAMBOUR.     Switzer. 
Rambour  Franc.     Duh.  Vol.  i.  28.  t.  10. 
Rambour  Gros.     Hart.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  844. 

Fruit  large,  of  a  flattish  and  somewhat  irregular 
figure,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  three 
inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  rather  large, 
with  a  long  connivent  calyx,  deeply  sunk  in  an  irregu- 
larly angled  basin.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  with  a  few  stains  of  red  on  the  sunny  side, 
and  a  little  russetty  in  the  cavity  round  the  stalk. 
Flesh  rather  soft,  with  a  slightly  acid  juice.  A  good 
culinary  apple  in  October  and  November. 


16  APPLES. 

26.  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.  Ray  (1688),  No.  9-  Pom. 
Here/,  t.  2. 

Pepin  d'Or.     Knoop.  Pom.  54.  t.  9. 

Fruit  small,  perfectly  round  in  its  outline,  without 
any  angles  on  its  sides, generally  from  an  inch  and  a  half 
to  two  inches,  both  in  its  depth  and  diameter.  In  young 
and  vigorous  trees  its  size  will  be  more,  and  of  a  greater 
length ;  but  on  old  trees,  which  are  in  health,  the  size 
will  be  less,  and  shorter  than  its  width.  Eye  small,  in  an 
even  shallow  basin.  Stalk  one  inch  long,  slender.  Skin 
bright  yellow,  or  gold  colour,  interspersed  with  several 
grey  russetty  specks  on  the  sunny  side,  and  full  of  mi- 
nute, pearl-coloured,  imbedded  specks.  Flesh  pale 
bright  gold  colour,  crisp.  Juice  rich,  saccharine,  of 
the  most  delicious  flavour  of  any  apple  we  possess,  if  in 
high  perfection. 

The  Golden  Pippin,  one  of  the  most  celebrated  and 
esteemed  apples  of  this  or  perhaps  any  other  country,  has 
been  considered  by  some  of  our  modern  writers  on 
pomology  to  be  in  a  state  of  decay,  its  fruit  of  inferior 
quality  in  comparison  to  that  of  former  times,  and  its 
existence  near  its  termination.  I  cannot  for  a  moment 
agree  with  such  an  opinion,  because  we  have  facts 
annually  before  our  eyes  completely  at  variance  with 
such  an  assertion.  Any  person  visiting  Covent  Garden 
or  the  Borough  markets  during  the  fruit  season,  and 
indeed  any  other  large  market  in  the  southern  or  mid- 
land counties  of  England,  will  find  specimens  of  fruit 
as  perfect  and  as  fine  as  any  which  have  been  either 
figured  or  described  by  any  writer  whatever,  either  in 
this  or  any  other  country.  In  favourable  situations,  in 
many  parts  of  the  country,  instead  of  the  trees  being  in 
a  state  of  rapid  decay,  they  may  be  found  of  unusually 
large  size,  perfectly  healthy,  and  their  crops  abundant ; 
the  fruit  perfect  in  form,  beautiful  in  colour,  and  excel- 
lent in  quality.  I  may  refer  to  a  tree  at  this  time 


APPLES.  17 

growing  in  a  garden  belonging  to  Michael  Bland,  Esq., 
in  the  city  of  Norwich,  as  one  example  out  of  the  many 
which  might  be  produced,  in  corroboration  of  what  I 
have  stated. 

If  the  Golden  Pippin  be  planted  upon  a  good  soil  on 
a  dry  bottom,  and  in  a  warm  or  sheltered  situation,  well 
exposed  to  the  sun,  where  its  blossoms  are  secured  from 
cold  blasts  in  the  spring,  and  where  it  can  ripen  its  wood 
perfectly,  it  will  be  found  hardy,  without  exhibiting 
those  alarming  signs  of  decay  which  have  been  held  out 
as  a  presage  of  its  speedy  death. 

Ripe  in  October,  and  will  keep  two  months,  or  till 
past  Christmas. 

27.  HAWTHORNDEN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  440.  Pom. 
Mag.  t.  34. 

White  Hawthornden.  NicoPs  Fr.  Gard.  p.  £56. 
According  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  rather  irregularly  formed, 
generally  about  three  inches  in  diameter  in  one  direc- 
tion, and  three  inches  and  a  quarter  in  another.  When 
this  irregularity  happens,  for  it  is  not  always  the  case, 
it  arises  from  a  broad  protuberant  rib,  which  extends 
from  the  base  to  the  crown.  This  has  occasioned  the 
Hawthornden  to  be  represented  in  the  figure  quoted 
above  as  having  a  cleft  on  its  side  ;  but  neither  this  nor 
yet  any  other  apple  has  one  naturally.  Sutures,  or 
channels  in  fruit,  are  no  where  to  be  found,  except  in 
those  which  are  termed  drupaceous,  or  stone  fruit.  Its 
depth  is  from  two  inches  and  a  quarter  to  two  inches 
and  a  half.  Eye  rather  small,  with  a  converging  calyx, 
rather  deep,  and  surrounded  by  a  few  obtuse  plaits. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  rather  deeply  inserted. 
Skin  very  smooth,  white,  of  a  very  pale  greenish  yellow, 
sometimes  a  / little  tinged  with  a  blush  on  the  sunny  side 
towards  the  base.  Flesh  white.  Juice  plentiful,  and 
well  flavoured. 


18  APPLES. 

An  excellent  culinary  fruit  from  Michaelmas  to 
Christmas.  This  is  a  very  valuable  apple,  and  a  most 
excellent  bearer.  The  extreme  buds  are  mostly  blossom 
buds,  which  occasion  the  branches  to  become  pendulous 
when  the  fruit  is  fully  grown.  It  is  said  to  have  origin- 
ated at  Hawthornden,  near  Edinburgh,  where  Drum- 
mond  the  poet  was  born. 

28.  HOARY  MORNING.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  455. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  53. 

Dainty  apple.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  234.,  according 
to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  rather  large,  round,  depressed,  angular,  with 
a  very  small  close-plaited  eye.  Stalk  generally  rather 
short,  in  a  wide  cavity.  Skin  covered  with  a  fine  bloom, 
with  broad,  broken,  irregular  stripes  of  red  next  the  sun, 
and  paler  and  more  distant  marking  of  the  same  kind 
in  the  shade.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  occasionally 
tinged  with  £ink  next  the  skin,  with  a  rich  and  brisk 
flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas  till  Christmas. 
A  very  handsome  and  useful  kind,  supposed  to  have 
had  its  origin  in  Somersetshire,  from  whence  specimens 
were  first  communicated  to  the  Horticultural  Society 
by  Charles  Worthington,  Esq.  several  years  ago. 

29.  HUGHES'S  GOLDEN   PIPPIN.      Hooker,    Pom. 
Lond.  t.  26.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  132. 

Hughes's  New    Golden  Pippin.     Forsytli,  p.  108. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  round,  slightly  flattened 
at  the  eye  and  stalk.  Eye  large,  open,  sometimes 
almost  level  with  the  top,  but  generally  in  a  shallow 
depression,  surrounded  by  a  few  plaits.  Stalk  short, 
thick,  inserted  in  a  very  slight  cavity,  or  frequently  not 
at  all  sunk,  but  forming  a  knob  projecting  on  the  base  of 
the  fruit.  Skin  "yellow,  thickly  set  with  green  spots 
and  small  russetty  specks,  and  tinged  with  green  around 
the  stalk.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  juicy,  with  a  rich, 
agreeable,  sharp  flavour. 


APPLES.  19 

A  very  neat  and  most  excellent  dessert  apple,  from 
October  till  January. 

30.  KERRY  PIPPIN.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  20. 
Kerry  Pippin.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  107.      Hart.  Trans. 

Vol.  iii.  p.  454. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  oval,  flattened  at  the  eye,  round 
which  are  small  regular  plaits.  Stalk  short,  sometimes 
thickened  and  fleshy,  inserted  in  a  contracted  cavity, 
with  a  projection  of  the  fruit  on  one  side  ;  one  or  more 
sharp  ridges  or  lines  are  almost  always  distinguishable 
from  the  eye  to  the  stalk.  Skin  pale  straw  colour, 
mixed  with  a  deeper  yellow,  streaked  and  marbled  with 
red,  highly  polished.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  tender,  juicy, 
sugary,  and  high  flavoured. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  from  September  till  No- 
vember. This  has  been  long  known  in  the  county 
of  Kerry,  in  Ireland,  where  it  is  esteemed  one  of 
their  best  dessert  apples.  Mr.  Robertson,  of  Kilkenny, 
describes  the  tree  as  broom-headed  :  the  young  shoots 
erect,  of  a  greenish  brown,  full  of  spurs,  downy  at  the 
extremities.  In  this  country  it  does  not  appear  to  be  a 
very  plentiful  bearer  ;  but  it  is  very  deserving  of  cul- 
tivation, and  succeeds  best  grafted  on.  the  JDoucin  stock, 
and  trained  in  the  garden  as  an  espalier. 

31.  KIRKE'S  GOLDEN    PIPPIN.      Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  386. 

Fruit  small,  formed  with  the  most  perfect  regularity 
of  outline,  a  little  more  long  than  broad.  Crown 
quite  flat.  Eye  large,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of 
the  fruit,  but  very  shallow,  surrounded  by  a  fine  thin 
russet.  Skin  pale  green  on  the  shaded  side ;  on  that 
exposed  to  the  sun,  of  a  very  pure,  clear  yellow,  free 
from  specks.  Flesh  pale  greenish  yellow,  firm,  crisp. 
Juice  abundant,  saccharine,  and  highly  flavoured.  A 
dessert  apple  from  Michaelmas  to  Christmas. 

This  is  a  very  beautiful  little  fruit,  raised  a  few  years 

c  2 


20  APPLES. 

ago  from  a  seed  of  the  old  Golden  Pippin  by  Mr.  Kirke, 
in  his  nursery  at  Old  Brompton,  near  London,  and  is 
highly  deserving  of  cultivation.  Like  all  other  Golden 
Pippins,  it  is  too  tender  for  an  orchard  tree  in  cold 
situations.  It  succeeds  best  when  grafted  upon  the 
Doucin  stock  and  planted  in  the  garden. 

32.  NONESUCH.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  677, 
Nonsuch.     Forsyth  Ed.  3.  121. 
Langton  Nonesuch.     Hanbury. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  of  a  very  regular  round  figure, 
and  free  from  angles  on  its  sides,  about  two  inches  and 
a  half  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep. 
Eye  small,  with  a  short,  closed  calyx,  in  a  very  regular, 
rather  shallow,  saucer-shaped  basin,  without  plaits. 
Stalk  short,  slender,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity, 
seldom  projecting  beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
spotted  and  marbled  with  orange,  with  numerous  broken 
stripes  and  patches  of  brick-red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
white,  soft,  and  tender.  Juice  plentiful,  a  little  sac- 
charine, and  slightly  perfumed.  A  handsome  dessert 
apple  from  'Michaelmas  till  nearly  Christmas.  RAY  has 
a  Nonsuch  Apple,  in  1668;  but,  as  he  has  placed  it 
among  his  winter  or  keeping  apples,  it  is  not  certain 
whether  that  is  the  same  as  this. 

33.  OAKE'S  APPLE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  698. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  a  little  irregular  in  its 

outline,  having  two  or  three  obtuse  ribs  swelling  and 
lengthening  one  of  its  sides  more  than  the  other,  abou£ 
three  inches  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
deep.  Eye  small,  nearly  closed  by  the  short  segments  of 
the  calyx,  rather  deeply  sunk  in  an  irregular,  uneven 
bason.  Stalk  very  short,  thick,  wholly  inserted  within 
the  base  in  a  narrow  cavity.  Skin  thick,  pale  green, 
with  several  imbedded  white  dots,  and  slightly  marked 
with  many  short,  broken  streaks  of  pale  brown,  with 
russetty  specks  on  the  sunny  side,  particularly  in  the 


APPLES.  21 

crown  and  round  the  eye.  Flesh  rather  soft,  greenish 
white,  with  a  slightly  saccharine  juice,  but  not  much 
flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  in  November  and  December,  de- 
scribed from  a  fruit  grown  in  the  Horticultural  garden 
at  Chiswick  in  1830. 

34.  PADLEY'S  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  69. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  720.  Pom.  Mag.  1. 151. 

Fruit  rather  small,  and  somewhat  flat,  one  inch  and 
a  half  deep,  and  two  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with 
a  very  small  closed  calyx,  placed  in  a  shallow  and  rather 
angular  basin.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  very 
slender,  one  half  projecting  beyond  the  base  of  the  fruit. 
Skin  pale,  dull  yellow,  very  much  covered  with  a  rough 
grey  russet,  and  a  little  tinged  with  orange  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  yellowish,  crisp.  Juice  sac- 
charine, with  a  very  pleasant,  aromatic  flavour.  A  very 
neat  and  excellent  dessert  apple  in  November  and  De- 
cember. Raised  about  twenty  years  ago  by  the  late 
Mr.  William  Padley,  gardener  to  His  Majesty,  at 
Hampton  Court,  and  first  propagated  by  Mr,  Ronalds 
of  Brentford. 

35.  PHILADELPHIA  PIPPIN.    G.  Lind.  Cat.  1815. 
Ditchingham  Pippin.  ib. 

Fruit  rather  above  the  middle  size,  round,  but  some- 
what flat  at  the  crown.  Eye  small.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  inserted  in  a  rather  deeply  hollowed  base.  Skin 
yellowish  grey,  with  a  faint  blush  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  white.  Juice  brisk  and  well  flavoured. 

A  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas  to  Christmas. 
An  American  apple,  brought  into  this  country  about 
seventy  years  ago.  Four  of  these  trees  are  now  growing 
in  the  gardens  of  J.  J.  Bedingfeld,  Esq.  at  Ditchingham 
Hall,  in  Norfolk.  They  grow  to  a  large  size,  are  very 
hardy,  and  great  bearers.  The  fruit  are,  for  the  most 
part,  produced  singly  on  the  branches  :  they  are,  in 

c  3 


22  APPLES. 

consequence,  always  more  perfectly  formed  than  those 
growing  in  clusters. 

36.  POMME  DE  NEIGE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  626. 
Fameuse.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  44. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  not  much  unlike  the  shape 
of  a  Nonesuch  ;  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep, 
and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye 
small,  nearly  closed,  in  a  shallow  depression,  surrounded 
by  a  few  wrinkled  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  very 
slender,  sunk  in  a  funnel-shaped  cavity,  and  protruding 
but  little  beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale  green,  tinged 
with  pale  red,  and  marked  with  short  streaks  of  a  darker 
colour  ;  on  the  sunny  side,  of  a  still  deeper  red.  Flesh 
very  tender,  snow-white,  juice  sugary,  with  a  slight 
musky  perfume. 

A  dessert  apple  in  October  and  November.  This 
beautiful  and  singular  apple,  we  are  told  by  Mr.  For- 
syth,  was  introduced  from  Canada  by  Mr.  Barclay  of 
Brompton.  It  is  said  to  derive  its  name  from  a  village 
where  it  is  cultivated. 

37.  POTTER'S  LARGE  APPLE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No. 
805. 

Fruit  one  of  the  largest  size,  generally  eleven  or 
twelve  inches  in  circumference,  irregularly  formed,  with 
large  obtuse  angles  on  the  sides.  Eye  wide,  deep,  sur- 
rounded with  large  plaits,  the  alternate  ones  being  much 
the  most  prominent.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a 
deep  cavity.  Skin  pale  green,  thinly  sprinkled  with  grey 
specks,  and  tinged  with  faint  red  near  the  base  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  white.  Juice  not  plentiful,  sub- 
acid. 

A  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas  to  Christmas  ; 
raised  it  is  said  by  a  Mr.  Potter  of  Chelsea.  A  trans- 
verse section  of  it,  when  cut  open,  exhibits  a  large,  five- 
angled  cavity. 


APPLES.  23 

38.  RED  INGESTRIE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  i.  p.  227. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  481.  Pom.  Mag.  1. 17. 

Fruit  roundish,  oblong,  about  the  size  of  a  large 
Golden  Pippin,  with  a  small  calyx,  and  hollow  open 
eye,  wholly  destitute  of  angles.  Stalk  short,  slender. 
Skin  bright  yellow,  deeply  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny 
side,  with  many  indistinct  white  spots.  Flesh  yellowish, 
firm,  juicy,  and  rich,  nearly  as  highly  flavoured  as  that 
of  the  Golden  Pippin. 

An  excellent  and  beautiful  dessert  apple,  ripening  the 
end  of  October,  but  not  in  perfection  after  having  been 
gathered  a  few  weeks. 

This  and  the  yellow  Ingestrie  sprang  from  two  seeds 
taken  from  the  same  cell  of  an  Orange  Pippin,  which 
had  been  impregnated  with  the  pollen  of  the  Old  Golden 
Pippin.  They  were  raised  by  T.  A.  Knight,  Esq. 
about  1800,  and  planted  at  Wonnsley  Grange,  in  Here- 
fordshire. Their  name  is  derived  from  the  seat  of  the 
Earl  Talbot,  in  Staffordshire.  They  were  first  noticed 
in  the  Hort.  Trans,  in  March,  1811. 

39- SCARLET  CROFTON.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.iii.  p.  453. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  flattish,  about  two  inches  and 
a  half  in  diameter,  and  two  deep,  somewhat  angular 
on  the  sides.  Eye  wide,  but  shallow.  Stalk  short, 
sometimes  bent.  Skin  yellowish  russet,  of  a  bright 
red  intermixed  with  russet  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
firm,  crisp,  never  becoming  mealy.  Juice  plentiful,  of 
a  rich  saccharine  flavour.  An  Irish  dessert  apple,  ripen- 
ing in  October,  and  continuing  till  Christmas. 

40.  STRIPED  HOLLAND  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No. 
1075. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  very  regular  figure,  nearly  as 
broad  as  it  is  wide,  with  five  obscure  angles,  extending 
from  the  sides  into  the  crown.  Eye  small.  Stalk 
short  in  a  shallow  base.  Skin  yellow,  with  numerous 
green  specks  imbedded,  tinged  with  orange,  and  streaked 

c  4 


2  APPLES. 

with  bright  crimson  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white. 
Juice  not  plentiful,  subacid. 

A  culinary  fruit  from  October  to  December.  This, 
like  many  other  Dutch  apples,  has  a  thick  skin.  •  Its 
chief  merits  are  on  the  outside. 

41.  SUMMER  BROADEN,  of  the  Norwich  Gardens. 
Summer  Colman.  G.Lind.Planofan  Orchard,  1796. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  about  two  inches  and 

three  quarters  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
deep,  slightly  angular  on  the  sides.  Eye  small,  with  a 
closed  calyx,  in  a  rather  narrow  basin,  surrounded  by 
some  angular  plaits.  Stalk  short,  slender,  deeply  in- 
serted, not  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin  dull 
yellowish  green,  tinged  on  the  sunny  side  with  pale 
dull  brown.  Flesh  greenish  white,  not  crisp.  Juice 
subacid,  with  a  pretty  good  flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  in  October  and  November.  This 
is  an  useful  Norfolk  apple,  and  known  in  the  markets 
by  the  above  name.  The  trees  are  rather  small  growers, 
but  great  bearers. 

42.  WALTHAM   ABBEY  SEEDLING.     Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  269, 

Fruit  resembling  a  Golden  Pippin,  but  much  larger, 
nearly  globular,  some  tapering  a  little  towards  the  crown. 
Eye  large  and  open,  seated  in  an  even  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  yellow,  be- 
coming deeper  as  the  fruit  ripens,  sometimes  with  a 
tinge  of  dull  scarlet  next  the  sun  ;  the  whole  surface  is 
speckled  with  minute  greenish  spots,  and  a  patch  of 
coarse  russet  always  surrounds  the  stalk.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, soft,  juicy,  and  very  sweet ;  it  melts  perfectly 
in  baking,  taking  a  clear  pale  amber  colour,  and  retaining 
a  high  flavour. 

A  dessert  and  culinary  apple  from  October  till 
January.  Raised  from  a  seed  of  the  Golden  Noble, 
by  Mr.  John  Barnard  of  Waltham  Abbey,  in  Essex, 


APPLES.  &5 

about  1810.      It  began  bearing  in  1819,  and  its  fruit 
was  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1821.- 

43.  WORMSLEY  PIPPIN/  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1183. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  80. 

Knight's  Codlin,  of  some  collections,  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  globular,  slightly  angular.  Eye 
deeply  sunk,  surrounded  by  small  plaits.  Stalk  about 
an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  green  on  the 
shaded  side,  brown  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  firm, 
crisp,  juicy,  with  a  lively  sugared  juice. 

Ripens  the  beginning  of  September,  and  remains  in 
perfection  till  the  end  of  October.  This  is  an  excellent 
autumnal  fruit,  bearing  well,  and  having  a  firm  high- 
flavoured  flesh,  resembling  in  quality  that  of  the  New- 
town  Pippin.  It  derives  its  name  from  Wormsley 
Grange,  a  country  seat  where  Mr.  Knight  formerly 
resided.  The  first  account  of  it  is  to  be  found  in  the 
Horticultural  Transactions,  communicated  by  Mr. 
Knight,  in  March,  1811. 

44.  WYKEN  PIPPIN.     Loud.  Gard.  Mag. 

Fruit  rather  below  the  middle  size,  round,  somewhat 
flattened  both  at  the  base  and  the  crown,  about  two 
inches  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  rather  small,  open,  naked,  with  but  little  of  the 
remaining  calyx,  placed  in  a  shallow,  regularly  formed 
basin.  Stalk  short,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  yel- 
lowish green,  interspersed  with  several  small  grey  specks, 
and  a  little  tinged  with  pale  dull  brown  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  firm,  crisp.  Juice  su- 
gary, with  a  little  musky  perfume.  A  very  neat  dessert 
apple  from  October  to  December.  The  original  tree,  a 
very  old  one,  or  the  trunk  of  it,  with  a  strong  sucker 
from  its  root,  was  growing  in  May,  1827,  at  its  native 
place,  Wyken,  two  miles  from  Coventry.  The  seed,  it 
is  said,  was  planted  by  a  Lord  Craven,  who  brought  it 


26  APPLES. 

from  a  fruit  he  had  eaten  on  his  travels  from  France  to 
Holland.  All  the  cottagers  round  Wyken  have  from 
two  to  twelve  trees  each  of  this  apple  in  their  gardens, 
and  it  is  a  great  favourite  throughout  the  whole  county 
of  Warwick. 

45.  YELLOW  INGESTRIE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  i.  p.227. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  482. 

Fruit  small,  shaped  much  like  the  Old  Golden  Pip- 
pin. Eye  very  small,  flat.  Stalk  half  an  inch,  rather 
deeply  inserted,  just  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin 
bright  gold,  with  a  few  pearly  specks  imbedded.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  very  tender  and  delicate.  Juice  plenti- 
ful, rich,  and  highly  flavoured.  A  beautiful  little  dessert 
apple  in  October  and  November.  Raised  by  Mr.  Knight, 
of  Downton  Castle.  See  RED  INGESTRIE,  No.  38. 

SECT,  IV.  —  Autumnal.     Conical,  or  oblong. 

46.  ALFRISTON.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  7- 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  broad  towards  the  base,  and  nar- 
rowed to  the  crown,  broadly  and  irregularly  ribbed  on  its 
sides,  one  of  the  angles  generally  being  considerably  more 
swelled  than  the  rest ;  about  three  inches  and  a  half 
deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  open,  rather 
deeply  sunk,  in  an  uneven  hollow  surrounded  by  uneven 
plaits.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted  in  an  irregularly 
deep  cavity.  Skin  pale  green,  becoming  yellow,  tinged 
with  orange  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  slightly  marked 
with  thin  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  very  crisp  and 
tender.  Juice  plentiful,  saccharine,  combined  with  a 
smart  brisk  acid. 

A  very  fine  and  excellent  culinary  apple  in  October 
and  till  Christmas. 

Described  from  a  very  fine  specimen  grown  in  the 
Horticultural  Society's  Garden,  at  Chiswick,  in  1830. 
This  has  sometimes  been  called  the  Newtown  Pippin, 
but  from  which  it  differs  very  materially. 


APPLES.  27 

47.  BEAUTY  OF  KENT.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  48. 
Beauty  of  Kent.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  4. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  three  inches  and  a  quarter  deep, 
and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter,  somewhat  irregu- 
larly formed,  with  slightly  prominent  unequal  angles, 
terminating  in  the  crown,  which  is  rather  contracted. 
Eye  small,  closed  by  a  short  calyx,  a  little  depressed,  in 
a  narrow  angular  basin.  Stalk  short,  slender,  rather 
deeply  inserted  in  a  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  a  very 
clear  yellowish  green,  mottled  with  dull  red ;  but  on  the 
sunny  side  of  a  bright  red,  mottled  and  streaked  with 
yellowr,  intermixed  with  russet  round  the  base.  Flesh 
firm,  yellowish  white,  crisp,  and  tender.  Juice  abun- 
dant, and  pleasantly  acid. 

An  autumnal  dessert  apple,  from  Michaelmas  to 
Christmas. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  apple  ;  and,  although  not 
distinguished  by  any  peculiar  richness  of  flavour,  it  cer- 
tainly must  be  reckoned  a  very  excellent  fruit. 

48.  CRAY  PIPPIN.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.   p.  401. 
Fruit  rather  below  the  middle  size,  conical,  rather 

angular.  Eye  small  and  close,  in  an  even  and  well 
formed  hollow.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  a 
delicate  straw  colour,  with  a  very  slight  blush  of  red  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp.  Juice  not  abun- 
dant, but  sweet  and  highly  flavoured. 

A  very  excellent  dessert  apple,  in  perfection  in  Octo- 
ber and  November.  Raised  by  Richard  Waring,  Esq. 
in  his  garden  at  Saint  Mary's  Cray,  Kent,  and  exhibited 
at  the  Horticultural  Society,  October  15.  1822. 

49.  Do  WELL'S  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.v.  p.  268. 
Fruit,  in  size  and  form,  somewhat  resembling  the  Rib- 

ston  Pippin ;  but  more  pointed  at  the  crown,  and  the 
eye  sunk  in  a  more  confined  and  a  deeper  cavity.  Stalk 
short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  green,  nearly  covered 
with  a  clear  thin  russet,  slightly  tinged  with  brownish 


28  APPLES. 

red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  rather  finer  than  that  of 
the  Ribston  Pippin,  but  in  colour  and  flavour  closely 
resembling  it. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  from  October  to  Christ- 
mas. 

Raised  from  a  seed  of  the  Ribston  Pippin,  in  the 
garden  of  Stephen  Dowell,  Esq.  at  Braygrove,  in  Berk- 
shire, and  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society,  Oc- 
tober 15.  1821. 

50.  DOWNTON  PIPPIN.     Pom.  Hereford,  t.  9.  Pom. 
Mag.  t.  113. 

Elton  Pippin.  Of  Forsyth,  p.  135.,  according  to 
the  Pom.  Mag. 

Elton  Golden  Pippin,      -\  of  different    Collections* 

Knight's  Pippin,  L      according  to  the  Pom. 

Knight's  Golden  Pippin,  J       Mag. 

Fruit  rather  larger  than  a  Golden  Pippin,  cylin- 
drical, flat  at  the  ends.  Eye  large,  open,  level  with  the 
top.  Stalk  short,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  nearly 
smooth,  yellow,  sprinkled  with  numerous  indistinct 
specks.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  with  a  brisk,  rich,  sub- 
acid  juice. 

Ripe  in  October  and  November,  and  will  keep  till 
Christmas.  Raised  by  Mr.  Knight  from  the  seed  of 
the  Orange  Pippin,  and  the  pollen  of  the  Golden  Pippin. 

The  Downton  Pippin  is  a  most  abundant  bearer, 
extremely  well  adapted  for  the  market,  and  an  excellent 
apple  for  cider. 

51.  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT'S  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat: 
No.  284. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  an  angular  shape,  having  five 
very  prominent  ribs,  with  small  intermediate  ones  ex- 
tending from  the  base  to  the  crown.  Eye  very  deeply 
sunk.  Stalk  but  little  protruded  beyond  the  base, 
which  is  as  deep  as  the  eye.  Skin  dark  green,  with 
numerous  small  dark  specks  intermixed ;  on  the  sunny 


APPLES.  29 

side  softly  streaked  with  a  clear  pale  red,  which  extends 
only  between  the  two  widest  ribs.  Flesh  pale  greenish 
white,  crisp,  and  tender.  Juice  abundant,  subacid,  but 
pleasant. 

A  very  good  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas  to 
Christmas. 

52.  DUTCH  CODLIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  175. 
French  Codlin.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  50. 
Glory  of  the  West.      Of  some  Nurseries. 

Fruit  very  large,  of  an  oblong  figure,  with  five  ribs 
extending  from  the  base  to  the  crown  ;  the  three  upper 
ones  being  the  broadest,  and  the  two  lower  ones  the 
shortest  and  most  acute,  in  the  manner  of  the  Catshead. 
Eye  small  and  deep.  Stalk  short  and  thick.  Skin 
yellow,  but,  when  fully  ripe,  of  an  orange  colour  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  rather  dry.  Juice  a  little 
sugary,  or  subacid. 

A  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas  to  Christmas. 

This  apple  is  known  in  Gloucestershire,  Somersetshire, 
and  some  other  western  counties,  by  the  name  of  Glory 
of  the  West.  The  tree  is  not  a  large  grower,  although 
the  wood  is  remarkably  strong. 

53.  ENGLISH  CODLIN.  Langley.  Pom.  Lond.  t.  74. 
f.  3. 

Codling.     Ray  (1688),  No.  19. 

The  English  Codlin  is  too  well  known  in  every  part 
of  England  to  require  any  description  of  it  here.  It  is 
noticed  only  with  the  view  of  directing  the  attention  of 
the  orchardist  to  it  as  an  old  and  valuable  apple.  The 
customary  method,  for  at  least  one  hundred  and  fifty 
years,  has  been  to  raise  the  trees  from  suckers,  and 
truncheons,  as  they  are  called  ;  and  in  every  old  garden 
where  they  are  found  they  are  diminutive,  ill-formed, 
unproductive,  and  full  of  disease,  incrusted,  as  it  were, 
root  and  branch  with  the  greatest  of  all  pests,  the  aphis 


30  APPLES. 

lanigera,  in  consequence  of  which  its  fruit  exhibits 
scarcely  any  thing  of  its  original  character. 

Healthy,  robust,  and  substantial  trees  are  only  to  be 
obtained  by  grafting  on  stocks  of  the  real  sour  Hedge- 
Crab  ;  they  then  grow  freely,  erect,  and  form  very  hand- 
some heads,  yielding  fruit  as  superior  to  those  of  our  old 
orchards,  as  the  old,  and  at'present  deteriorated,  Codlin 
is  to  the  Crab  itself. 

54.  GREY  LEADINGTON.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  545. 
Fruit  very  large,  oblong,  broader  at  the  base  than  at 

the  crown,  with  five  obtuse  angles,  extending  the  length 
of  the  fruit,  in  the  manner  of  the  French  Codlin.  Eye 
pretty  large,  an  inch  deep.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
strong,  not  projecting  beyond  the  base.  Skin  yellow, 
with  a  deep  blush  or  pale  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
tender.  Juice  sugary,  with  a  little  acid  and  a  slight 
perfume.  An  excellent  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas 
to  Christmas. 

This  is  very  different  from  either  the  Catshead  or  the 
French  Codlin  :  the  branches  are  long  and  strong,  and 
it  makes  a  large  wide-spreading  tree. 

55.  JUBILEE  PIPPIN.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  400. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,   two  inches  and  three 

quarters  deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter,  rather  conical, 
with  irregular  ribs  extending  from  the  base  to  the  crown, 
where  it  is  narrow,  and  unequally  angular.  Eye  small, 
with  a  short  connivent  calyx,  deeply  sunk  in  a  narrow 
compressed  hollow.  Stalk  short,  in  an  uneven  funnel*- 
shaped  cavity,  not  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin 
very  pale  straw  or  cream  colour,  almost  transparent, 
sprinkled  with  several  small  grey,  and,  on  the  sunny  side, 
brownish  specks.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  with  a  wide  open 
core.  Juice  plentiful,  sugary,  and  of  a  high  musky 
flavour. 

A  dessert  and  culinary  fruit  from  Michaelmas  to 
Christmas.  Raised  by  Michael  Bland,  Esq.,  in  his 


APPLES.  31 

garden  at  Norwich.  The  seed  was  sown  on  the  day  of 
the  jubilee,  1809;  produced  fruit  in  1818;  and  first 
exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society,  October  1 .1822. 
The  tree  is  now  (1830)  in  a  very  healthy  and  flourish- 
ing state. 

56.  KESWICK  CODLIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  180. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  somewhat  irregularly  formed,  hav- 
ing a  few  obtuse  ribs  extending  from  the  base  to  the 
crown,  which  is  obliquely  pentangular.  Eye  rather 
large  and  deep.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted,  not  pro- 
truding beyond  the  level  of  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
a  little  tinged  with  blush  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
pale  yellow.  Juice  plentiful,  subacid.  A  culinary 
apple  from  September  to  November. 

This  very  valuable  apple  is  said  to  have  originated 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Keswick,  in  Cumberland.  Its 
young  fruit  may  be  gathered  for  tarts  in  the  month  of 
June,  when  scarcely  any  other  young  apple  is  fit  for 
use.  When  the  young  trees  are  vigorous,  the  last  year's 
branches  are  loaded  with  fruit,  while  the  spurs  on  the 
older  ones  are  crowded  to  excess.  This  and  the  Haw- 
thornden  might,  with  great  propriety,  be  recommended 
for  the  poor  cottager's  garden  ;  and  whoever,  as  a  land- 
lord, plants  them  for  such  a  purpose,  may  be  truly 
deemed  the  cottager's  friend. 

57.  KING  OF  THE  PIPPINS.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  519- 
Pom.  Mag.  t.117. 

Hampshire  Yellow.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  431.,  ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  inclining  to  oblong, 
broadest  next  the  base  ;  the  outline  tolerably  free  from 
angles,  about  twro  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  three 
inches  in  diameter.  Eye  large,  deep,  in  an  even,  very 
little  plaited,  hollow.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender, 
about  half  inserted  in  a  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin 
smooth,  pale  orange  yellow,  generally  tinged  with  red 


3%  APPLES. 

next  the  sun,  and  faintly  streaked  with  the  same  colour. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  breaking,  very  sweet,  juicy, 
and  highly  flavoured. 

A  very  beautiful  dessert  fruit  in  November  and  De- 
cember. This  very  excellent  apple  was  brought  into 
notice  by  Mr.  Kirke,  of  Brompton.  It  is  hardy,  and  a 
very  plentiful  bearer. 

58.  LONGVILLE'S  KERNEL.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  567, 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  63. 

Sam's  Crab.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1021.,  according 
to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  approaching  to  conical, 
rather  angular.  Eye  rather  small,  with  a  short  erect 
calyx,  somewhat  deeply  sunk,  and  surrounded  by  a  few 
even  plaits.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  green- 
ish yellow,  streaked  and  spotted  with  bright  red.  Flesh 
firm,  yellow.  Juice  perfumed,  rich,  sweet,  pleasantly 
subacid.  A  dessert  apple  from  the  middle  of  August 
to  the  middle  of  September. 

It  is  said  that  this  apple  has  originated  in  Hereford- 
shire, where  it  is  at  present  but  little  known :  it  is  very 
handsome,  and  of  considerable  merit. 

59.  MANKS  CODLIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  183. 
Irish  Pitcher.     Ibid. 

Frith  Pitcher.      Of  some  collections. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  a  little  more  long  than  broad, 
without  angles,  but  at  the  crown  higher  on  one  side  than 
on  the  other.  Eye  shallow,  surrounded  by  a  few  plaits. 
Stalk  rather  fleshy.  Skin  a  clear,  pale,  waxen  yellow; 
on  the  sunny  side,  shaded  with  deep  orange,  sprinkled 
with  numerous  dark  specks.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
very  firm.  Juice  brisk,  subacid,  with  a  slight  aromatic 
flavour.  An  excellent  culinary  apple  from  September 
to  November. 

60.  NELSON'S  CODLIN.     Nursery  Catalogues.  - 
Fruit  about  the  size  of  the  English  Codlin,  three 


APPLES.  33 

inches  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
deep,  broad  at  the  base,  slightly  angular  on  the  sides, 
and  tapering  to  the  crown  which  is  narrow.  Eye  very 
small,  with  a  slender  closed  calyx,  inserted  in  a  narrow, 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  short,  slender,  not  protruding 
beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale  lemon  colour  on  the 
shaded  side,  with  a  few  green  specks  imbedded  beneath 
the  surface  ;  on  the  sunny  side,  of  a  bright  gold  colour. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  very  tender.  Juice  a  little  sac- 
charine, with  a  slight  acid  and  a  little  perfume. 
A  culinary  apple  in  October  and  November. 

61.  RYMER  APPLE.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  329. 
Fruit  pretty  large,,  of  an  irregular  figure,  with  very 

broad  ribs  slightly  formed  at  the  base,  but  very  promi- 
nent at  the  crown,  about  two  and  a  half  or  three  inches 
deep,  and  three  and  a  quarter  or  three  inches  and  a 
half  in  diameter.  Eye  open,  seated  rather  deeply  in 
an  oblique,  uneven,  obtusely  angled  basin.  Stalk  half 
an  inch  long,  in  a  somewhat  shallow  cavity,  not  protrud- 
ing beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellow,  nearly  covered 
with  a  thin  deep  salmon  colour,  and  tinged  with  dull 
scarlet  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  tender. 
Juice  subacid,  with  a  brisk  flavour,  which  becomes  very 
rich  when  baked. 

A  culinary  apple  in  November  and  December. 

This  apple  was  raised  by  a  gentleman  of  the  name 
of  Rymer,  at  Thirsk,  in  Yorkshire. 

62.  SCARLET  PEARMAIN.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  767. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  62. 

BelPs  Scarlet.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  767. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  conical,  of  the  true  Pearmain 
form.  Eye  middle-sized,  deeply  sunk,  surrounded  by 
small  plaits,  and  crowned  by  the  green  persistent  calyx. 
Stalk  about  an  inch  long,  slender,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
a  rich  glowing  crimson  on  the  sunny  side ;  deep  red, 

D 


34  APPLES. 

with  a  little  yellow  intermixed,  upon  the  other.     Flesh 
whitish,  crisp.     Juice  rich,  sugary,  and  pleasant. 

A  very  handsome  dessert  apple  from  September  till 
December. 

63.  SOPS  OF  WINE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1164. 
Sops  in  Wine.     Ray.  (1688).  No.  21. 

Rode  Wyn  Appel.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  45  t.  8. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  globular,  but  narrow 
at  the  crown,  with  a  few  slight  angles  on  its  sides. 
Eye  small,  closed  by  the  calyx,  and  but  little  depressed. 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender.  Shin  pale  yellow,  marked 
and  streaked  with  scarlet,  deep  red,  and  blood  colour  ;  on 
the  sunny  side,  especially  near  the  crown,  it  is  wholly 
deep  red.  flesh  soft,  white,  tinctured  more  or  less 
with  pale  red  to  the  core.  Cells  large,  open,  five- 
angled.  Juice  sweet,  but  not  rich. 

A  culinary  apple  in  October  and  November. 

64.  SUMMER  PEARMAIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  771. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  116. 

Summer  Pearmain.     Miller  Ed.  8.  No.  3. 

Parmain  d'E'te.     Knoop,  p.  17.  t.  2. 

Royal  Pearmain.  Mawe,  u4bercrombie,  Forsytli, 
and  of  the  London  Nurserymen. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  tapering  gradually  from 
the  base  to  the  crown.  Eye  small,  with  a  slender  and 
nearly  closed  calyx,  in  a  broad  shallow  depression,  some- 
times almost  level,  very  slightly  plaited.  Stalk  short, 
obliquely  inserted,  somewhat  like  a  lemon,  into  a  fleshy 
continuation  of  the  fruit.  Skin  bright  gold  colouV, 
sprinkled  all  over  with  numerous  minute  brown  specks  ; 
on  the  sunny  side  marbled  and  streaked  with  bright 
orange  and  scarlet.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  crisp,  firm. 
Juice  not  plentiful,  but  rich,  and  of  a  high  aromatic 
flavour. 

A  most  excellent  and  beautiful  dessert  apple  from 
October  till  Christmas.  In  some  seasons,  however,  it  is 


APPLES.  35 

in  perfection  in  September.  The  branches  of  this  tree 
are  slender,  and  produce  numerous  fruit  spurs,  which 
render  it  particularly  well  adapted  for  espalier  training  ; 
for  which  purpose  it  should  be  grafted  on  the  Doucin 
stock. 

65.  TRANSPARENT  CODLIN.     G.  Lind.  Cat.  1815. 
Fruit  about  the  same  size  as  the  English  codlin,  but 

wider  at  the  base,  which  is  generally  about  two  inches 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter,  and  narrower  at  the 
crown,  where  it  is  drawn  almost  to  a  blunt  point ; 
its  depth  is  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter.  Eye 
small,  with  a  short  closed  calyx,  sunk  rather  deep  in  an 
angular,  oblique  basin.  Stalk  short  and  slender,  deeply 
sunk  in  a  wide  and  deep  cavity.  Skin  smooth,  bright 
lemon,  tinged  with  deep  salmon  or  pale  crimson  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  very  tender ;  in  some  seasons  semi- 
transparent.  Juice  sugary  and  well  flavoured.  A  cu- 
linary fruit  from  the  end  of  September  till  November. 

This  very  handsome  and  useful  apple  was  brought 
into  notice  about  twenty-five  years  ago  by  the  late 
Timothy  Tompson,  Esq.  of  Norwich.  It  makes  a  very 
handsome  spreading  tree,  and  is  a  most  excellent  bearer. 

66.  WILLIAMS'S  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.i.  p.  69. 
Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of  a  somewhat  conical 

figure,  from  two  to  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and 
nearly  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  hollow,  with  a  leafy 
persistent  calyx.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  a  little  mottled  with  pale  red  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  soft,  with  a  very  good  and 
pleasant  flavoured  juice.  Excellent  to  eat  ripe  from  the 
tree,  baking  and  roasting  well  till  Christmas. 

SECT.  V.  —  Winter.     Round,  or  nearly  so. 

67.  BEACHAMWELL    SEEDLING.     Hort.   Soc.    Cat. 
No.  42.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  82. 

Motteux's  Seedling.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  42, 
D  2 


36  APPLES. 

Fruit  rather  below  the  middle  size,  the  shape  of  a  small 
Golden  Reinette.  Eye  small,  open,  slightly  sunk.  Stalk 
half  an  inch  long,  moderately  thick.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
slightly  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  sprinkled 
with  irregular  brown  spots.  Flesh  yellow,  tender,  juicy, 
and  pleasant.  An  excellent  dessert  apple  from  Novem- 
ber till  April.  Raised  some  years  ago  by  John  Motteux, 
Esq.  of  Beachamwell,  in  Norfolk,  where  the  original  tree 
now  stands  ;  it  is  a  hardy  sort  and  a  very  good  bearer. 

68.  BELLEDGE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  65. 

Fruit  rather  below  the  middle  size,  round,  free  from 
angles,  and  a  little  narrowed  towards  the  crown.  About 
two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  half 
in  diameter.  Eye  rather  small,  nearly  closed  by  short, 
acute  segments  of  the  calyx,  in  a  round  rather  well 
shaped  basin,  surrounded  by  very  slight  obtuse  plaits. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  sunk  level  with  the  base 
in  a  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  pale  grass-green,  slightly 
tinged  with  pale  brown  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  the 
whole  interspersed  with  numerous  imbedded  grey  dots. 
Flesh  tender,  crisp,  greenish  white.  Juice  plentiful, 
sugary,  with  a  slight  pleasant  acid,  and  a  slight  aromatic 
flavour. 

A  neat  dessert  and  culinary  apple,  from  October  till 
Christmas. 

Described  from  a  fruit  grown  in  the  Horticultural 
Society's  Garden,  at  Chiswick,  in  1830. 

69.  BELLE  GUIDELINE.      G.  Lind.  Plan  of  an  Or- 
chard, 1796. 

Belle  Grisdeline.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  5. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  of  a  very  regular,  and  perfectly 
round  figure.  Eye  sunk  in  a  somewhat  deep  regularly 
formed  basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender.  Skin 
yellow,  marbled  and  shaded  on  the  sunny  side  with  a 
lively  red,  intermixed  with  a  thin  grey  russet.  Flesh 
white,  firm,  and  crisp.  Juice  brisk  and  well  flavoured. 


APPLES.  37 

A  beautiful  dessert  apple,  from  November  till 
March. 

This  makes  a  very  handsome  middle  sized  tree,  and  is 
a  most  abundant  bearer.  It  originated  in  a  small  gar- 
den near  Surry-street  Gates,  Norwich,  about  sixty  years 
ago  ;  and  was  first  propagated  by  myself  in  1793,  when 
I  gave  it  the  above  name.  The  original  tree,  owing  to 
improper  treatment,  died  about  seven  years  afterwards. 

69.  *  BELVOIR  PIPPIN.     Hart.  Soc.  Garden. 

Fruit  small,  about  the  size,  and  very  much  the  figure, 
of  the  Old  Golden  Pippin  :  about  one  inch  and  a  half 
deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  closed ;  the 
long  and  almost  linear  segments  of  the  calyx,  in  a  very 
shallow  depression,  surrounded  by  about  fifteen  very 
narrow  plaits,  three  to  each  segment.  Stalk  three  quar- 
ters of  an  inch  long,  slender,  slightly  sunk  in  an  open, 
shallow,  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow ;  on 
the  sunny  side  spotted  and  tinged  with  brownish  crim- 
son, and  having  a  portion  of  thin  russet  round  the  stalk. 
Flesh  pale  yellow,  firm,  crisp,  very  tender  and  delicate. 
Juice  saccharine,  mixed  with  a  slight  brisk  acid,  rich, 
and  very  highly  flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple,  in  perfection  in  November  and  De- 
cember. 

This  beautiful  and  very  excellent  little  apple  was  sent 
me  October  12, 1830,  by  John  Motteux,  Esq.  of  Beach- 
amwell,  in  Norfolk.  It  appears  to  have  originated  from 
the  Old  Golden  Pippin,  in  the  garden  of  Sir  John 
Thoroton,  and  to  have  improved  even  upon  that  favour- 
ite variety.  It  ought  to  be  grafted  upon  the  Doucin 
stock,  and  trained  in  the  garden  either  as  an  open  dwarf, 
or  as  an  espalier. 

'  No.  69.  is  inserted  twice  in  consequence  of  the  Belvoir  Pippin 
having  been  sent  me  after  the  numerical  arrangement  had  been 
completed. 

D   3 


38  APPLES. 

70.  BIGGS'S  NONESUCH.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  i.  p.  70. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  in  shape  and  general  appear- 
ance somewhat  like  the  Nonesuch,  but  broader  at  the 
base ;  moderately  depressed  about  the  foot-stalk,  and 
very  hollow  at  the  crown,  where  the  segments  of  the 
calyx  remain  long,  and  rolled  back.  Stalk  one  quarter 
of  an  inch  within  the  base.  Skin  gold  colour,  on  the 
side  next  the  sun  dashed  with  long,  broad,  scarlet 
gtripes.  Flesh  soft,  pale  yellow.  Juice  very  good,  and 
excellent  to  eat  as  soon  as  gathered  off  the  tree. 

A  culinary  apple  also,  from  October  to  December. 

71.  BIRMINGHAM  PIPPIN.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Brummage  Pippin,  1 

**  >      f\T    QfllYVtff      /\rV/VQ0t"}0V 

f*  TV         •          t     VT  biJliltj  J.\  U/I  oo/  too. 

(jrrummage  Pippin,  J    J 

Fruit  small,  about  six  inches  in  circumference,  nearly 
globular,  a  little  flattened  at  the  crown,  and  having 
somewhat  the  appearance  of  a  Golden  Pippin.  Eye 
small.  Stalk  very  short,  inserted  in  a  very  shallow 
cavity.  Skin  pale  green  when  fresh  gathered,  becom- 
ing pale  yellow,  spotted  and  marbled  with  a  thin  russet. 
Flesh  very  hard  and  firm,  pale  green.  Juice  sub-acid, 
of  a  pleasant  flavour. 

A  very  neat  dessert  apple,  from  December  to  June. 

This  apple  is  supposed  to  be  of  Warwickshire  origin, 
and  is  to  be  found  in  different  parts  of  England  under 
various  names.  It  makes  but  a  small  tree.  The  branches 
are  short  and  very  stout,  and  its  fruit  is  of  a  greater 
specific  variety  than  any  other  apple  with  which  I  am 
acquainted. 

72.  BLENHEIM  PIPPIN.     Hort.   Soc.   Cat.  No.  81. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  28. 

Blenheim  Orange.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  81. 

Woodstock  Pippin.     Ib. 

Fruit  large,  of  a  roundish  figure,  rather  broadest  at 
the  base,  two  and  a  half  to  three  inches  deep,  and  three 
to  four  inches  across  the  widest  part.  Eye  very  hollow 


APPLES.  39 

and  open,  but  slightly  angular.  Skin  yellowish,  stained 
on  the  sunny  side  with  dull  red,  intermixed  with  streaks 
of  deeper  colour.  Flesh  yellow,  breaking,  sweet,  juicy, 
extremely  pleasant,  and  high  flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March.  This  is 
one  of  the  largest  of  our  table  apples.  It  was  raised  in 
a  garden  belonging  to  a  baker  at  Old  Woodstock,  near 
Oxford,  a  short  distance  from  Blenheim. 

73.  BORSDORFF.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  56.  1. 10. 
Borsdorffer.     Ib. 

Reinette  batarde.     Ib. 

Postophe  d'Hiver.     Bon.  Jard.  1827.  P-  323. 

Postdoff.     Ib. 

Bursdoff,  or  Queen's  Apple.  Forsytli,  Ed.  3.  No.  15. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of  a  roundish  figure, 
rather  narrower  at  the  crown  than  the  base.  Eye  small, 
a  little  sunk.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  marked  with  various  ramifications  of  a  grey  rus- 
setted  network,  interspersed  with  a  few  dark-coloured 
specks ;  when  fully  exposed  to  the  sun  it  is  of  a  beau- 
tiful brilliant  red,  extending  nearly  round  its  base. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  crisp.  Juice  sugary,  with 
a  singularly  musky  perfume. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February.  This 
is  a  German  apple  of  very  excellent  quality.  The 
fruit  from  which  this  account  was  written,  was  brought 
from  Leipsic  in  January,  1798.  ,  It  was  a  great  favo- 
rite with  Queen  Charlotte,  who  had  it  imported  for  her 
annually,  and  appears  to  have  been  introduced  into  this 
country  soon  after  her  arrival  in  1761. 

74.  BRICKLEY  SEEDLING.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  124. 

Fruit  about  the  size  of  the  Scarlet  Nonpareil ;  round- 
ish, becoming  a  little  narrower  towards  the  crown.  Eye 
small,  open,  placed  in  an  evenly-formed,  not  very  deep 
depression.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  rather  large,  even 
cavity.  Skin  red  next  the  sun,  and  a  deep  yellow 

D  4 


40  APPLES. 

on  the  shaded  size,  towards  which  the  red  breaks  off  in 
slight  streaks.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish,  sugary,  rich  and 
of  excellent  quality. 

A  very  handsome  dessert  apple  from  December  till 
May.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  and  a  profuse  bearer, 
either  as  a  standard  or  dwarf,  highly  deserving  of  cul- 
tivation. 

75.  BRINGEWOOD  PIPPIN.     Hort.  Soc.    Cat.   107. 
Fruit  small  sized,  somewhat  globular,  about  six  inches 

and  a  half  in  circumference,  every  way,  with  a  narrow  flat 
crown.  Eye  very  small  and  open,  divested  of  its  calyx. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  somewhat  protruded  beyond  the 
base.  Skin  bright  gold-colour,  full  of  pearly  specks  ; 
on  the  sunny  side  a  few  russetty  stripes  and  specks  near 
the  edge.  Flesh  very  firm,  crisp,  somewhat  dry.  Juice 
saccharine,  of  a  highly  perfumed,  aromatic  flavour. 

A  very  neat  and  most  excellent  dessert  apple  from 
October  till  March.  Raised  by  Mr.  Knight,  of  Down- 
ton  Castle,  from  a  seed  of  the  Golden  Harvey  which 
had  been  impregnated  by  the  pollen  of  the  Old  Golden 
Pippin. 

76.  CANADIAN  REINETTE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  77- 
Reinette  de  Canada.     Hort.  Soc.    Cat.   No.  868. 

Bon.Jard.  1827.  P-  325. 

Grosse  Reinette  d'Angleterre.  Duliam.  No.  £1. 
t.  12.  f.  5. 

Reinette  de  Canada  blanche.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  868. 

Reinette  Grosse  de  Canada.     Ib. 

Reinette  de  Canada  a  Cotes.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  869". 

Reinette  de  Caen.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  867,  ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Portugal  apple.     Ib.  No.  803. 

Janurea.     Ib.  No.  489. 

Mela  Janurea,  of  the  Ionian  Islands. 

Fruit  large,  broad  and  flat ;  about  three  inches  and 
a  half  in  diameter,  and  three  inches  deep.  Eye  rather 


APPLES.  41 

open,  with  a  short  calyx,  in  a  tolerable  cavity  surrounded 
with  prominent  ribs,  which  pass  halfway  down  the  sides 
to  the  base.  Stalk  short,  in  a  wide  spreading  cavity. 
>'/r//i  rich,  greenish  yellow,  tinged  slightly  with  brown 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm,  juicy, 
with  a  high,  brisk,  sub-acid  flavour.  An  excellent  des- 
sert fruit  in  December,  and  keeps  well  till  March. 

Mr.  Hooker  observes,  in  the  Horticultural  Transac- 
tions, Vol.  ii.  p.  299.  that  the  Canadian  Reinette  is  fre- 
quently sold  in  the  shops  in  London  for  the  Newtown 
Pippin.  It  varies  very  much  in  figure,  in  conse- 
quence of  which  several  varieties  have  been  formed  out 
of  one.  The  fruit  from  late  blossoms,  is  much  less  an- 
gular than  those  from  early  ones,  in  which  the  ribs  are 
very  distinctly  marked  ;  hence  the  Reinette  de  Canada 
a  Cotes. 

77-  CAROLINE  APPLE.  G.  Lind.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  66. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  globular.  Eye  small, 
in  a  rather  confined  hollow,  round  which  are  prominent 
plaits.  Stalk  very  short,  surrounded  by  a  little  russet. 
Skin  fine  rich  yellow,  broadly  streaked  with  red.  Flesh 
firm,  with  a  brisk  juice  and  high  flavour. 

A  most  excellent  culinary  apple  from  November  till 
February.  Its  name  originated  from  Caroline,  the 
lady  of  the  late  Lord  Suffield,  of  Blickling  and  Gunton 
Hall,  in  Norfolk. 

77-*  CONTIN  REINETTE.  Hort.  TVa/w.Vol.  vii.  p.  339. 

This  is  a  small  handsome  fruit,  of  a  deep  dull  yel- 
low, richly  painted  with  red  on  the  exposed  side,  and  a 
little  marked  with  russet  about  the  stalk.  The  flesh  is 
firm,  rather  yellow,  not  particularly  juicy,  yet  highly 
flavoured,  with  a  little  agreeable  acid. 

In  season,  in  Ross-shire,  from  the  end  of  November 
till  the  end  of  January.  Raised  by  Sir  George  Steuart 
Mackenzie,  in  his  garden  at  Coul,  near  Dingwall,  an 


42  APPLES. 

account  of  which  is  given  by  him,  along  with  the  Ki- 
nellan  Apple  and  Tarvey  Codlin,  in  a  paper,  dated 
March  12.  1827- 

78.  CORNISH  AROMATIC.      Hort.   Trans.  Vol.  ii. 
p.  74.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  203.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  58. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  somewhat  angular  towards  the 
eye,  which  is  sunken  and  small,  with  a  very  short  calyx. 
Stalk  short,  in  a  deep  contracted  cavity.  Skin  on  the 
shaded  side,  covered  with  a  soft  brownish  russet,  sprinkled 
with  pale  brown  dots  on  the  sunny  side,  of  a  rich,  deep 
bright  red,  slightly  intermixed  with  russet,  and  sprinkled 
with  a  few  lemon-coloured  dots.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm, 
juicy,  with  an  exceedingly  rich,  high,  aromatic  flavour. 
A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February. 

This  most  excellent  variety  appears  to  have  been 
first  brought  into  notice  by  Sir  Christopher  Hawkins, 
in  the  communication  to  the  Horticultural  Society  cited 
above,  who  says  it  has  been  known  in  Cornwall  for 
years.  It  is  highly  deserving  of  cultivation,  and  cannot 
be  too  generally  known. 

79.  COURT  OF  WICK   PIPPIN.      Hort.    Soc.  Cat. 
No.  219-     Pom.  Mag.  t.  32. 

Court  de  Wick.     Hooker.  Pom.  Lond.  t.  32. 
Fry's  Pippin, 


Golden  Drop, 
Knight  wick  Pippin, 
Phillips's  Reinette, 


Of  various  Nurseries, 
^  according  to  the  Pom. 
Mag. 


Wood's  Huntingdon, 

Wood's  Transparent  Pippin,  - 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  about  twice  as  large  as 
a  Golden  Pippin,  ovate,  flat  at  either  end,  with  no  traces 
of  angles  or  plaits  at  the  eye.  Eye  large,  open,  with  a 
reflexed  calyx,  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stalk  short, 
slender.  Skin  greenish  yellow  in  the  shade,  bright 
orange,  with  small  russetty  brown  spots  where  exposed, 
sometimes  slightly  tinged  with  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh 


APPLES.  43 

pale  yellow,  mixed  with  green,  when  first  gathered  ;  be- 
coming deep  yellow,  crisp,  tender,  juicy,  and  highly 
flavoured  when  fully  ripe.  A  dessert  apple  from  October 
till  April. 

This  most  excellent  and  beautiful  little  apple  origi- 
ginated  from  a  seed  of  the  Golden  Pippin  at  Court  de 
Wick,  as  it  was  fornlerly  written,  in  Somersetshire. 
Throughout  this,  and  indeed  throughout  almost  all  the 
western  counties,  it  is  held  in  the  highest  estimation  as 
a  table  fruit.  The  trees  grow  to  a  good  size,  are  very 
hardy,  standing  in  some  places  the  most  severe  blasts 
from  the  Welsh  mountains,  and  there  bearing  in  the 
greatest  abundance,  becoming  the  most  perfectly  ripened 
of  their  orchard  fruits.  It  cannot  have  too  extensive 
a  cultivation. 

80.  COURTPENDU.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  66. 

Capendu.     Duham.  Vol.  i.  p.  315.  1. 13. 

Courtpendu.     Noisette  Manuel,  p.  548. 

Courtpendu  Plat.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  211. 

Garnon's  Apple.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  round,  depressed,  without  any 
trace  of  angles.  Eye  large,  open,  in  a  wide  shallow 
basin.  Stalk  short,  very  deeply  inserted,  rarely  pro- 
jecting beyond  the  base  of  the  fruit.  Skin  deep  red 
next  the  sun,  greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side.  Flesh 
yellow,  crisp,  with  a  rich,  lively,  agreeable  flavour.  A 
dessert  apple  from  November  till  March. 

This  is  one  of  the  handsomest  and  best  of  our 
table  apples.  It  is  of  French  origin,  but  how  long  it 
has  been  in  this  country  is  uncertain.  There  are  a  few 
trees  of  it  growing  at  Garnons,  the  seat  of  Sir  J.  G. 
Cotterell,  Bart.,  near  Hereford,  which  were  planted 
ten  or  fifteen  years  ago  ;  they  are  very  hardy,  handsome, 
and  upright  in  their  growth,  and  very  excellent  bearers. 
Its  fruit  possesses  so  many  good  qualities,  that  it  ought 
to  be  introduced  into  every  good  collection  in  England. 


44  APPLES. 

81.  DUMELOW'S  SEEDLING.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv. 
p.  529. 

Dumelow's  Crab.     Ib. 

Wellington  Apple.     Ib. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  round,  flattened  at  both 
ends.  Eye  large  and  open,  rather  deeply  sunk.  Stalk 
very  short.  Skin  clear  yellow,  with  a  blush  of  light  red 
where  exposed  to  the  sun ;  the  whole  surface  sprinkled 
with  small  brown  spots.  Flesh  yellow,  crisp,  with  a 
brisk  acid  juice.  An  excellent  culinary  apple  from 
November  to  April. 

Raised  some  years  ago  by  a  Mr.Dumelow,  a  nursery- 
man near  Derby.  It  is  well  known  in  the  counties  of 
Derby,  Lancaster,  and  Nottingham,  by  the  name  of 
Dumelow's  Crab.  Its  fruit  was  first  exhibited  at  the 
Horticultural  Society,  in  1820. 

82.  DUTCH  MIGNONNE.     G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  70.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  84. 

Christ's  Golden  Reinette.      Taschenb.  p.  405. 

Reinette  Doree.     Mayer.  Pom.  Franc,  t.  xxx. 

Pomme  de  Laak.  Stoffels,  and  Thouin,  according 
to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Paternoster  Apple.     Audibert. 

-Fruit  above  the  middle  size*,  very  regularly  formed, 
rather  narrower  at  the  crown  than  at  the  base.  Eye 
generally  close,  deeply  sunk.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender, 
deeply  inserted.  Skin  dull  yellow,  sprinkled  with  nu- 
merous, small,  russetty,  green,  and  white  spots  ;  on  the 
sunny  side  of  a  rich,  deep,  dull  red,  streaked  and  mot- 
tled. Flesh  very  firm,  crisp.  Juice  plentiful,  with  a 
delicious  aromatic,  sub-acid  flavour.  A  dessert  apple 
from  November  till  May  or  June. 

*  I  have  now  by  me,  October  1830,  a  fruit  of  this  apple,  grown 
in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick,  which  measures  three 
inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  four  inches  in  diameter. 


APPLES.  45 

This  very  valuable  apple  was  brought  from  Holland 
into  the  neighbourhood  of  Norwich  by  the  late  Thomas 
Harvey,  Esq.,  and  planted  in  his  garden  at  Catton 
about  fifty  years  ago,  where  two  or  three  of  the  trees 
are  now  growing,  and  in  the  possession  of  Thomas 
Cobbold,  Esq.  They  are  very  hardy,  and  bear  abun- 
dant crops. 

The  Copmanthorpe  Crab,  mentioned  in  the  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  315,  has  been  said  to  be  the  same  as 
this.  A  closer  examination  of  the  two  may  possibly  set 
this  opinion  aside  ;  as  it  appears  improbable  that  an  apple 
raised  within  a  few  miles  of  York,  should  have  been  so 
extensively,  so  well,  and  so  long  known  on  the  con- 
tinent. 

83.  EASTER  PIPPIN.      G.  Lind.  Cat.  1815. 

French  Crab.  Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  49.  Hort.  Soc. 
Cat.  348. 

Claremont  Pippin, 

Ironstone  Pippin,  ^  of  some  Gardens. 

Young's  Long  Keeping, 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  globular,  about  two 
inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in 
diameter,  perfectly  free  from  angles  on  its  sides.  Eye 
small,  almost  closed,  flat,  surrounded  by  a  few  very  small, 
angular,  crumpled  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
slender,  deeply  inserted,  not  protruding  beyond  the  base. 
Skin  rather  thick,  deep  clear  green,  with  numerous  white 
dots  interspersed ;  on  the  sunny  side,  shaded  with  a 
pale  livid  brown ;  but  the  whole  becomes  yellow  with 
keeping.  Flesh  very  hard,  pale  green,  or  yellowish 
white.  Juice  not  plentiful,  sub-acid,  with  a  slight  aro- 
matic flavour.  An  excellent  culinary  apple,  from  No- 
vember till  the  November  following. 

This  appears  to  have  been  an  imported  variety ;  it 
has  been  known  in  this  country  at  least  forty  years,  and 
is  sold  in  many  nurseries  by  the  name  of  French  Crab. 


}; 

b 


46  APPLES. 

What  this  appellation  has  to  do  with  it,  or  why  it  was 
given,  I  am  at  a  loss  to  imagine ;  since  it  has  no  more 
the  appearance  of  a  crab,  in  any  one  respect,  than  any 
other  apple  in  our  collections.  Such  a  misnomer  ought 
to  be  abolished  as  most  absurd.  The  name  of  Easter 
Pippin  was  suggested  to  me  more  than  twenty  years 
ago  by  the  late  Dr.  Rigby  of  Norwich,  whose  high  pro- 
fessional acquirements  and  classical  taste,  ranked  him 
among  the  first  men  of  his  time. 

It  is  a  most  valuable  fruit,  of  great  specific  gravity,  a 
most  hardy  tree,  an  abundant  bearer,  and  keeps  longer 
than  any  other  apple  I  have  ever  met  with.  I  had 
some  perfectly  sound,  and  very  firm  fruit  of  it,  in  March 
1822,  which  were  grown  in  1820 :  the  colour  then  was 
that  of  a  pale  orange. 

84.  EMBROIDERED  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  (7a£.  No.302. 

Fenouillet  Jaime.     Duhamel,  No.  12. 

Drap  d'Or.  Duhamel,  No.  12.  Knoop.  Pom.  p.  59- 
1. 10. 

Pomme  de  Caractere.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  globular,  about  two 
inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in 
diameter  ;  a  little  broader  at  the  base  than  the  crown  ; 
and  regularly  formed  without  angles.  Eye  small,  a 
little  depressed.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
greenish  white  when  first  gathered,  turning  to  a  bright 
yellow,  strongly  marked  with  a  sort  of  broken  ramified 
net-work  of  deep  grey  russet,  hence  the  last  synonyme 
from  Knoop.  Flesh  white,  somewhat  tough,  and,  with 
keeping,  elastic.  Juice  not  plentiful,  but  saccharine,  and 
of  an  excellent  and  singularly  perfumed  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  December  to  April.  This  is  a 
very  excellent  apple,  of  foreign  origin,  very  hardy,  and 
an  abundant  bearer  ;  it  requires  to  be  well  ripened  upon 
the  tree,  otherwise  it  is  apt  to  be  clung,  tough,  and 
leathery. 


AtPLES.  47 

85.  EYER'S  GREENING.     G.  LindL  Plan  of  an  Or- 
chard,  1796. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  somewhat  round  flattish  figure. 
Eye  large  and  hollow.  Skin  pale  green,  tinged  with 
brown  on  the  sunny  side,  and  thinly  spotted  with  grey 
russetty  specks.  Flesh  pale  green,  firm,  with  a  sweetish 
sub-acid  juice.  A  dessert  and  culinary  apple  from  No- 
vember till  March. 

86.  FAIL-ME-NEVER.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Never-fail.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  629. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat  flat,  with  five 
prominent  narrow  ribs  surrounding  the  crown.  Eye 
small,  with  the  segments  of  the  calyx  closed,  seated  in 
a  shallow,  deeply  plaited  basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  not  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin  red,  shaded 
with  a  deeper  colour,  and  full  of  small  russetty  specks. 
Flesh  white.  Juice  sugary  and  of  a  pretty  good  flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  March.  This 
is  said  to  be  a  Scottish  apple.  It  is  a  small  growing  tree, 
very  hardy,  and  an  abundant  bearer. 

87-  FEARN'S  PIPPIN.  Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  43. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  67. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  and  flattened.  Eye  large, 
shallow,  with  scarcely  any  appearance  of  plaiting.  Stalk 
short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  deep  red  on  the  exposed 
side,  with  numerous  whitish  dots  ;  on  the  shaded  side 
greenish  yellow,  partially  tinged  with  brownish  red. 
Flesh  whitish,  firm,  very  juicy,  rich  and  pleasant. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March.  This 
very  handsome  and  excellent  apple  has  been  known  in 
the  London  nurseries  but  a  few  years.  It  makes  a 
handsome  tree,  is  very  hardy,  and  an  abundant  bearer. 
It  highly  deserves  an  extended  cultivation.  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  i.  p.  67.  and  Vol.  ii.  p.  103. 

88.  FENOUILLET  ROUGE.     Duhamel,  No.  11.  t.  6. 

Bardin.     Ib. 


48  APPLES. 

Courtpendu  de  la  Quintinye.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  regular  round,  flattish  figure, 
about  two  inches  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in 
diameter.  Eye  shallow.  Stalk  very  short,  scarcely 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  long,  and  sunk  in  a  small  cavity. 
Skin  somewhat  grey,  deeply  coloured  with  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  with  a  rich,  highly-flavoured, 
sugary  juice. 

A  very  handsome  dessert  apple  from  December  to 
January. 

89.  FULWOOD.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  351. 
Fruit  large,  of  an  uneven  figure,  with  broad  irregular 

ribs  on  its  sides,  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter,  and 
two  inches  and  a  half  deep.  Eye  rather  large,  closed, 
not  deep,  surrounded  by  four  or  five  broad  obtuse  plaits. 
Stalk  short,  slender,  deeply  inserted  in  a  narrow,  un- 
even cavity.  Skin  grass-green,  freckled  with  red  specks ; 
on  the  sunny  side  stained  with  deep  salmon-colour,  and 
dashed  with  broken  stripes  of  dull,  dark,  muddy  red. 
Flesh  pale  green,  or  greenish  white,  very  firm  and 
crisp.  Juice  plentiful,  slightly  saccharine,  with  a  very 
brisk  acid,  and  slight  pleasant  perfume. 

A  culinary  apple,  from  November  till  March  or 
April. 

This  very  much  resembles  the  Striped  Beaufin  in 
shape  and  colour,  but  is  materially  different.  It  is  not 
quite  so  large,  a  little  more  flat,  has  a  closed  eye,  a 
much  firmer  flesh,  a  more  abundant  juice,  and  a  much 
higher  flavour.  It  is  supposed  to  have  originated  vat 
Fulwood,  near  Sheffield ;  or  Fulwood,  near  Preston,  in 
Lancashire. 

90.  GOGAR  PIPPIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.    No.  370. 
Fruit    rather    small,    round,     and    somewhat    flat, 

about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  broad,  and  one  inch 
and  three  quarters  deep.  Eye  small,  with  a  short 
closed  calyx,  placed  in  a  round  shallow  basin.  Stalk 


APPLES.  49 

short,  slender,  inserted  in  a  funnel-shaped  cavity,  not 
protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin  rather  thick  and 
tough,  of  a  pale  green,  changing  to  a  bright  yellow  ;  on 
the  sunny  side  of  a  beautiful  bright  and  lively  red. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  pretty  firm.  Juice  sub-acid, 
combined  with  a  little  sugar,  but  without  any  particular 
perfume. 

A  culinary  apple,  from  November  till  May. 

A  very  handsome  Scotch  apple,  from  Gogar,  near 
Edinburgh.  Specimens  of  this  were  given  me  by  Mrs. 
Mackie,  from  her  nursery,  near  Norwich. 

91.  GOLDEN  HARVEY.      Pom.  Heref.  t.  22.    Pom. 
Mag.  t.  39. 

Brandy  Apple.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  p.  95. 

Fruit  small,  quite  round,  generally  about  five  inches 
in  circumference,  and  free  from  angles  or  irregularities 
of  surface.  Eye  small,  open  ;  the  segments  of  the  calyx 
narrow,  very  short  and  diverging,  placed  in  a  flat,  very 
shallow,  slightly-crumpled  basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  slender,  not  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin  dull 
russet,  with  a  bright  yellow  ground,  often  breaking 
through  the  russet  in  patches,  and  marbled  on  the  sunny 
side  with  a  lively  shaded  red.  Flesh  yellow,  firm, 
breaking,  very  rich,  juicy,  spicy,  and  high  flavoured. 

A  most  excellent  and  beautiful  dessert  apple,  ripening 
in  December,  and  keeping  till  May  or  June. 

The  tree  is  not  a  large  grower,  but  very  hardy  ;  a 
great  and  constant  bearer,  and  no  garden,  capable  of  con- 
taining ten  trees,  ought  to  be  without  one  of  it. 

92.  GOLDEN  NOBLE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  524. 
Fruit  of  a  pretty  large  size,  round,  becoming  a  little 

pointed  towards  the  crown.  Eye  small,  not  deeply 
sunk,  surrounded  by  several  small  plaits.  Stalk  quite 
short,  and  thickened  like  that  of  the  Kerry  Pippin. 
Skin  perfectly  smooth,  of  a  clear  bright  yellow,  without 
any  blush  of  red  ;  but  having  a  few  small  reddish  spots, 


50  APPLES. 

and  generally  two  or  three  small  patches  of  russet, 
Flesh  yellow,  tender,  with  a  pleasant  sub-acid  juice. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  March. 

It  bakes  of  a  fine,  clear  amber  colour,  perfectly  melt- 
ing, with  a  rich  acidity.  An  old  tree  of  it  is  growing 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Downham  Market,  in  Norfolk, 
from  which  specimens  of  the  fruit  were  exhibited  at  the 
Horticultural  Society,  in  1820. 

93.  GOLDEN  REINETTE.  Pom.  Mag.  i.  69.  Hort. 
Soc.  Cat.  No.  26. 

Atirore, 

Yellow  German  Reinette, 


English  Pippin, 


of  some  foreign  col- 
lections,  according  to 


the  Pom.  Mag. 


Wyker  Pippin, 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  roundish,  depressed, 
Eye  large,  open,  seated  in  a  broad  shallow  basin.  Stalk 
an  inch  long,  moderately  thick.  Skin  usually  smooth* 
with  a  few  minute  russetty  spots  ;  in  the  shade  greenish 
yellow,  changing  to  a  golden  yellow,  with  a  dull  red 
eheek  slightly  streaked  with  brighter  red.  Flesh  yellow, 
crisp,  with  a  rich  sugary  juice. 

A  beautiful  and  most  excellent  dessert  apple,  from 
October  to  February. 

This  has  been  many  years  in  our  gardens.  It  is  bet- 
ter known  and  more  common  in  the  London  markets 
than  in  any  other  part  of  England.  It  is  highly  de- 
serving of  cultivation. 

94.  GREEN  NEWTOWN  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cqt- 
No.  636. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  about  two  inches  or  two  and  a 
quarter  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  or  twa 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter,  tapering  a  little  from 
the  base  to  the  crown,  where  it  is  terminated  by  five 
obtuse  but  prominent  angles.  Eye  small,  closed  by  the 
segments  of  the  calyx,  moderately  sunk  in  a  narrow 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  one  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a 


APPLES.  51 

narrow  deep  cavity.  Skin  thick,  dark  green  quite  round 
the  fruit,  mottled  with  pale  green  at  the  base,  where  it 
has  a  dull  dark  olive  colour  surrounding  the  stalk. 
Flesh  greenish  white,  firm,  crisp.  Juice  saccharine, 
with  a  brisk  acid,  and  a  slight  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  December  till  May  or  June. 
Lately  sent  to  this  country  by  David  Hosack,  M.  D. 
of  New  York. 

95.  HOLLAND  PIPPIN.  Miller,  No.  8. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  of  a  somewhat  square  figure, 
being  nearly  as  broad  at  the  crown  as  the  base,  and  a  little 
angular  on  its  sides,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep, 
and  three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  rather  small,  with 
a  closed  calyx,  sunk  in  a  narrow  regularly  plaited  basin. 
Stalk  short,  rather  deeply  sunk  in  a  wide  funnel-shaped 
cavity.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  interspersed  with  a  few 
green  dots,  and  tinged  with  pale  dingy  brown  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  pretty  firm,  tender. 
Juice  sub-acid,  mixed  with  a  good  deal  of  sugar,  and  a 
slight  perfume. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  January. 

96.  KIRKE'S  LORD  NELSON.  Hart.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  570. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  about  two  inches  and  a 

half  deep,  and  three  inches  in  diameter,  of  a  very  regular 
shape,  and  nearly  free  from  angles,  not  much  unlike  the 
Emperor  Alexander  Apple,  particularly  at  the  crown, 
where  it  is  narrowed.  Eye  open,  with  a  short  recurved 
calyx,  in  a  moderately  deep  basin,  surrounded  by  a  few 
puckered  plaits.  Stalk  short,  slender.  Skin  clear, 
pale  yellow,  deeply  tinged  with  red  towards  the  base ;  on 
the  sunny  side  of  a  vivid  red,  streaked  with  a  deeper 
colour,  with  a  few  small  dark  spots  near  the  eye.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  firm.  Juice  plentiful,  of  a  pleasant 
aromatic  flavour. 

A  beautiful  dessert  and  culinary  apple  from  November 
to  January. 


52  APPLES. 

This  had  its  name  given  to  it  by  Mr.  Kirke,  who  re- 
ceived it  from  abroad  some  years  ago,  without  any  name 
being  attached  to  it. 

97«  LONDON  PIPPIN.  G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  67. 

Five-crowned  Pippin.     Forsyihy  Ed.  3.    No.  99. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  about  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  having 
five  regularly  formed,  equidistant  ribs,  slightly  marked 
at  tire  base,  progressively  increasing  to  the  crown, 
where  they  are  acute  and  prominent.  Eye  rather  small, 
with  a  closed  calyx,  somewhat  shallow.  Stalk  half  an 
inch  long,  slender,  rather  deeply  inserted.  Skin  clear, 
pale  yellowish  green,  becoming  pale  lemon,  of  a  dull 
red  where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  firm,  crisp,  of  a  yel- 
lowish white.  Juice  plentiful,  sub-acid,  of  a  good  flavour. 

A  culinary  sort  from  October  till  January. 

This  is  a  real  Norfolk  apple  ;  the  most  common  and 
best  known  of  any  in  the  Norwich  market.  The  tree 
is  a  small  grower,  and  an  excellent  bearer. 

98.  LUCOMBE'S  SEEDLING.   Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  575- 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  109. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  roundish,  slightly  angular,  con- 
tracted at  the  eye,  which  is  small,  and  surrounded  with 
small  plaits.  Stalk  short,  thick,  in  a  moderately  deep 
cavity.  Skin  pale,  greenish  yellow,  spotted  with  innu- 
merable black  and  green  specks  ;  on  the  sunny  side  very 
distinctly  dashed  writh  a  vivid  carmine  over  a  ground 
spotted  with  the  same  colour,  only  more  faint.  Flem 
whitish,  firm,  juicy,  and  agreeable,  but  not  high  flavoured. 

A  very  handsome  culinary  fruit  from  October  till 
February  or  March.  Raised  by  Mr.  Lucombe,  of 
Exeter,  to  whom  we  are  indebted  also  for  the  well 
known  Lucombe's  Oak. 

99.  MALCARLE.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vii.  p.  259-  t.7. 

Charles  Apple.     Ib. 


APPLES.  63 

Mela  Carla.     Pomona  Italiana,  Vol.  i.  p.  1.  t.  1. 

Fruit  nearly  round,  inclining  to  ovate,  with  a  very 
regular  outline,  about  the  size  of  a  Golden  Reinette. 
Eye  small,  destitute  of  angles,  and  rather  deeply  sunk, 
with  a  closed  calyx.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted 
in  a  small  deep  cavity.  Skin  of  a  delicate  waxen  texture, 
without  spots,  except  a  very  faint  mottling  of  green 
appearing  through  the  skin  near  the  eye ;  pale  clear 
yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  and  brilliant  crimson  next 
the  sun,  the  two  colours  scarcely  melting  into  each 
other,  but  separating  rather  abruptly.  Flesh  white, 
tender,  very  delicate,  sweet,  with  a  delicate  perfume, 
like  that  of  roses,  which  is  sensibly  perceived  before  the 
fruit  is  cut  open. 

Ripe  in  September,  and  will  keep  till  the  spring. 
This  description  is  taken  from  fruit  sent  from  Turin  to 
the  Horticultural  Society,  and  exhibited  the  18th  of 
December,  1827. 

The  Malcarle  is  a  native  of  the  territory  of  Finale, 
in  Liguria.  It  is  an  important  article  of  trade  in  the 
whole  Genoese  territory,  and  of  exportation  to  Nice, 
Marseilles,  Barcelona,  and  Cadiz.  The  climate  of  the 
Italian  territory  is  so  entirely  different  from  that  of 
England,  that  we  cannot  expect  the  delicate,  Malcarle 
should  succeed  here,  unless  trained  against  a  south  or 
south-east  wall,  and  in  a  warm  and  kind  soil.  Its  great 
beauty  in  the  dessert  renders  it  an  interesting  object  of 
cultivation. 

100.  MARGIL.  Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  33.  Hort. 
Soc.  Cat.  589.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  36. 

Fruit  small,  ovate,  about  two  inches  or  two  and  a  half 
deep,  and  one  inch  and  a  half  or  two  inches  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  angular,  as  are  also  the  sides.  Stalk  short. 
Skin  light  bright  orange,  streaked  and  mottled  with 
rich  red  and  brown,  occasionally  a  little  russetty.  Flesh 
yellow,  firm,  breaking.  Juice  sweet,  with  a  high  aro- 
matic flavour. 

E  3 


54)  APPLES. 

A  dessert  fruit  from  November  till  March. 

This  very  excellent  apple  has  been  many  years  known 
all  over  England,  and  has  no  doubt  originated  here,  as 
it  has  not  been  recognised  in  any  foreign  publication. 
It  is  a  hardy  tree,  and  a  very  excellent  bearer. 

101.  MINCHALL  CRAB.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  114. 
Minshull  Crab.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  609. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  round,  somewhat  flat- 
tened, with  a  few  obtuse  angles  on  its  sides,  about  two 
and  a  half  inches  deep,  and  three  or  three  and  a  half 
inches  in  diameter.  Eye  rather  large,  open,  with  a 
very  short  calyx,  placed  in  a  flat  shallow  basin,  sur- 
rounded by  a  few  rather  slight  obtuse  plaits.  Stalk 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a 
shallow  cavity,  one  half  of  which  protrudes  beyond  the 
base.  Flesh  almost  white,  firm.  Juice  smart,  sub-acid. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  March. 

This  apple  derives  its  name  from  a  village  in  Cheshire, 
where  it  is  a  great  favourite.  It  is  common  in  all  the 
principal  markets  of  that  and  the  adjoining  counties, 
and  is  particularly  abundant  in  that  of  Manchester. 

102.  MINIER'S DUMPLING.  Hort.  ZVa/wr.  Vol. i. p.  70. 
Fruit  large,  from  three  to  three  inches  and  a  half 

in  diameter,  but  not  so  deep ;  contracted  at  the  crown, 
depressed,  and  swelled  into  a  few  imperfect  angles  on 
its  sides.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  thick.  Skin  deep 
green,  striped  with  a  still  deeper  on  the  shaded  side, 
and  of  a  dark  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  firm.  Juice 
plentiful,  sub-acid,  with  a  very  pleasant  flavour. 

A  very  good  culinary  apple  from  November  till  May. 

103.  NEWTOWN  PIPPIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  635. 
American  Newtown  Pippin.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  rather  flat,  and  somewhat  irre- 
gular in  its  outline,  having  broad,  obtuse,  unequal  ribs, 
which  increase  from  the  base,  becoming  more  prominent 
at  the  crown  ;  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and 
three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  open,  with  a  very  short 


APPLES.  55 

slender  calyx,  which  leaves  the  eye  nearly  naked,  deeply 
sunk  in  a  somewhat  oblique  cavity.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  slender,  wholly  sunk  within  the  base,  in  a  wide,  fun- 
nel-shaped cavity.  Skin  of  a  dull  green,  changing  to  an 
olive  yellow,  becoming  more  yellow  as  it  acquires  matu- 
rity, having  a  thin  russet  covering  the  greatest  part  of 
the  base.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  or  yellowish  white,  firm. 
Juice  saccharine,  and  possessing  an  exceedingly  rich 
and  highly  aromatic  flavour. 

In  eating  from  December  till  April. 

The  specimen  from  which  this  description  is  written 
was  grown  in  the  Horticultural  Society's  garden,  at 
Chiswick,  in  1830,  and  may  be  relied  upon  as  the  true 
Newtown  Pippin,  although  several  other  apples  are  sold 
under  this  name  ;  the  Canadian  Reinette  particularly. 

104.  NEWTOWN  SPITZEMBERG.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  144. 
Newtown  Spitzemberg.      Coze's  View,  p.  126.,  ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Matchless,  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  597»j  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  depressed,  globular,  not  angular, 
bearing  much  resemblance  in  shape  to  a  Nonesuch, 
about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  three  inches 
and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  open,  in  a  moderate- 
sized  basin,  very  little  plaited.  Stalk  short,  rather  thick, 
inserted  in  a  tolerably  deep  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
with  a  tinge  of  green  where  shaded,  and  of  a  reddish 
colour  streaked  with  darker  next  the  sun.  Towards  the 
crown,  in  particular,  the  skin  is  set  with  whitish  spots. 
Flesh  firm,  yellowish,  rich,  and  very  good. 

A  dessert  kind  from  November  till  the  end  of  January. 

This  very  beautiful  apple  is  of  American  origin,  and 
has  been  sold  by  Mr.  Cobbett  under  the  name  of  the 
Matchless  Apple.  It  is  well  deserving  of  cultivation. 

105.  NORFOLK  BEAUFIX.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  45. 
Norfolk  Beefin.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  124. 

E  4 


56  APPLES. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  somewhat  irregular  flattish 
figure,  and  having  a  few  broad  obtuse  angles  extending 
from  the  base  to  the  crown,  generally  about  three  inches 
in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  or  two  inches 
and  three  quarters  deep.  Eye  large,  deep,  surrounded 
by  irregular  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  fleshy, 
deeply  inserted.  Skin  deep  green,  with  livid  red,  nearly 
round  the  fruit,  but  deepest  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
very  firm.  Juice  not  plentiful,  sub-acid. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  May  or  June. 

The  Beaufin,  undoubtedly  a  Norfolk  apple,  is  a  fruit 
of  great  merit.  Independently  of  its  general  use  in  the 
kitchen,  it  furnishes  a  luxury  at  the  table  as  a  sweetmeat 
throughout  the  winter.  Many  thousands  of  these  apples 
are  dried  by  the  bakers  in  Norwich,  annually,  and  sent 
in  boxes  as  presents  to  all  parts  of  the  kingdom,  where 
they  are  universally  admired.  The  trees,  being  some- 
what tender,  require  to  be  planted  on  a  good  soil  and 
in  a  warm  situation,  otherwise  they  are  apt  to  canker 
and  become  short  lived. 

106.  REINETTE  FRANCHE.     Duhamel,  No.  22. 

Reinette  Tranche.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  53.  t.  9- 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  flattish  figure,  about  three 
inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter  at  its  base,  and  two 
inches  and  a  half  deep.  Eye  small,  rather  deep,  sur- 
rounded by  some  broad  plaits,  the  termination  of  rather 
obscure  ribs,  from  the  sides  of  the  fruit.  Stalk  thick, 
short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  smooth,  pale  yellow  when 
ripe,  marked  with  numerous  russetty  specks  and  patches, 
which  ramify  thinly  over  a  good  part  of  the  surface. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm.  Juice  saccharine  and 
highly  flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  to  February. 

lOy.  ROBINSON'S  PIPPIN.  Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  176. 
Hooker.  Pom.  Lond.  t.  42. 

Fruit  about  the  size  of  a  Golden  Pippin,  oval,  flat- 


ATPLES.  57 

tened  at  both  extremities.  Eye  well  formed,  open, 
sunk  in  a  broad  but  very  shallow  hollow.  Stalk  short, 
slender.  Skin  green,  approaching  to  brownish  yellow 
where  fully  exposed,  with  a  large  portion  of  russet 
brown,  particularly  round  the  eye.  Flesh  greenish, 
breaking,  tender.  Juice  plentiful,  partaking  of  the 
flavour  of  both  a  Golden  Pippin  and  Nonpareil.  The 
fruit  is  generally  produced  in  clusters  at  the  ends  of  the 
branches,  often  eight  or  ten  together. 

A  very  neat  and  excellent  dessert  apple  from  Decem- 
ber till  May. 

This  has  long  been  cultivated  in  His  Majesty's 
gardens  at  Kew,  under  its  present  name. 

108.  STRIPED   BEAUFIN.       G.  Lind.   Plan  of  an 
Orchard,  1796. 

Fruit  large,  of  an  uneven  outline,  with  broad  ir- 
regular ribs  on  its  sides,  about  three  inches  and  three 
quarters  in  diameter,  and  three  inches  deep.  Eye 
large,  open,  in  a  deep  and  wide  irregular  obtuse-angled 
basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted  in  a 
wide  uneven  cavity.  Skin  green,  tinged  with  dull  sal- 
mon colour,  mottled,  and  covered  with  broken  stripes 
and  dashes  of  dull  red  all  round  the  fruit.  Flesh  firm, 
pale  greenish  white.  Juice  quick,  slightly  sub-acid. 

A  culinary  fruit  from  October  till  May.  I  found  a 
large  tree  of  this  sort  in  1794,  growing  in  the  garden  of 
the  late  William  Crowe,  Esq.,  at  Lakenham,  near  Nor- 
wich, a  fruit  of  which  I  gathered,  measuring  twelve 
inches  and  a  half  in  circumference,  and  weighing 
twelve  ounces  and  a  half  avoirdupoise.  It  is  a  very 
excellent  apple,  and,  being  very  hardy,  deserves  culti- 
vation. 

109.  WINTER  BROADIXC.    G.  Lind.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  66. 

Broad-end.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  108. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  globular,   flattened  at  both  ends. 


58  APPLES. 

Eye  placed  in  a  small  narrow  basin.  Stalk  very  short, 
deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  green,  with  a  tinge  of  faint 
brownish  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  mixed 
with  green.  Juice  sub-acid,  but  pleasant. 

A  good  culinary  apple  from  Michaelmas  till  Christmas. 

A  Norfolk  apple,  well  known  in  the  Norwich  market. 

110.  WINTER  COLMAN.      O.Lind.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  66. 

Norfolk  Coleman.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  683. 

Norfolk  Storing.     Forty  th,  Ed.  3.  No.  126. 

Fruit  rather  large,  of  a  round  and  rather  flattish 
figure,  nearly  as  broad  at  the  crown  as  the  base ;  gene- 
rally about  three  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter, 
and  two  inches  and  a  half  deep.  Eye  open,  rather  nar- 
row, not  deep,  surrounded  by  several  pretty  regular 
plaits.  Stalk  short,  thick,  inserted  quite  within  the 
base.  Skin  bright  deep  red  next  the  sun,  pale  yellow 
freckled  with  red  on  the  shaded  side.  Flesh  firm,  crisp, 
with  a  smart  sub-acid  juice. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  March. 

The  Colman  is  a  Norfolk  apple  of  a  very  excellent 
quality  for  kitchen  use.  The  wood  is  very  strong,  and 
the  trees  grow  to  a  large  size,  are  very  hardy,  and  good 
bearers. 

111.  WINTER  MAJETIN.     G.  Lind.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.iv.  p.  68.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1170. 

Fruit  somewhat  resembling  the  London  Pippin  in 
form,  having  prominent  ribs  round  the  crown,  but  it  is 
a  little  more  oval.  Eye  small,  closed,  rather  deeply 
sunk  in  a  narrow  basin,  surrounded  by  five  deep  and 
prominent  plaits  or  knobby  angles.  Stalk  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  long,  slender,  one  half  of  which  is  within  a  wide 
funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  dull  green,  with  a  tinge  of 
brownish  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  white, 
and  resembles  that  of  the  Easter  Pippin  in  texture  and 
flavour. 


APPLES.  59 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  March. 

This  is  another  Norfolk  apple,  well  known  in  the 
Norwich  market.  It  is  one  of  the  most  hardy  sorts  in 
the  county,  and  a  never-failing  bearer. 

The  aphis  lamgera,  a  white  meally  insect,  so  de- 
structive to  most  of  our  old  orchard  trees,  appears  to  be 
set  at  defiance  by  the  Majetin.  An  old  tree  now 
growing  in  a  garden  belonging  to  Mr  William  Young- 
man,  of  Norwich,  which  had  been  grafted  about  three 
feet  high  in  the  stem,  has  been  for  many  years  attacked 
by  this  insect  below  the  grafted  part,  but  never  above  it, 
the  limbs  and  branches  being  to  this  day  perfectly  free, 
although  all  the  other  trees  in  the  same  garden  have 
been  infested  more  or  less  with  it.  Mr,  Knight's  Sibe- 
rian Bitter-sweet  Apple  appears  to  possess  the  same 
property  of  resisting  the  attacks  of  these  formidable 
and  widely  increasing  depredators. 

112.  WINTER  QUEENING.    G.Lind.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  70.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  833. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat  globular, 
equally  broad  each  way,  obscurely  five-angled  on  its 
sides.  Eye  large,  placed  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  very 
short,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  green,  or  greenish 
yellow  ;  but  wrhere  exposed  to  the  sun,  of  a  deep  red, 
mixed  with  russet,  and  striped  towards  the  base.  Flesh 
white,  with  a  mixture  of  green,  firm.  Juice  sub-acid, 
with  a  slight  aromatic  flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  March. 

The  Queening  is  an  old  apple,  known  to  Ray  in  1668. 
It  forms  a  large  handsome  tree,  is  very  hardy,  and  a 
great  bearer. 

113.  WINTER  WTHITE  CALVILLE. 

Calville  Blanche  d'Hiver.     Duhamel,    No.  3.  t.  2. 
Jard.  Fruit,  t.  49- 
Bonnet  Carre.  Ib. 
Fruit  large,  of  a  flattish  figure,  with  broad,  uneven 


60  APPLES. 

ribs  on  its  sides,  about  three  inches  and  a  half  in  dia- 
meter, and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep.  Eye  small, 
in  a  wide,  deep,  obtuse-angled  basin.  Stalk  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
smooth,  yellowish  green  ;  when  fully  ripe,  it  is  of  a 
bright  yellow,  and  tinged  with  a  lively  red  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  white  and  tender,  with  a  very  pleasant  juice. 

A  culinary  apple  from  December  till  March. 
'114.  YORKSHIRE  GREENING.  Forsyth,E'd.3.  No.197. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  1191. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  flattish  figure,  two  inches  and 
a  half  deep,  and  three  inches  a  half  in  diameter,  having 
a  few  slight  undefined  ribs  on  its  sides.  Eye  flat,  closed 
by  the  calyx,  seated  in  a  very  shallow,  unequally  plaited 
bason.  Stalk  short,  thick,  woolly,  inserted  in  a  wide, 
flat,  uneven  cavity.  Skin  dull,  dark  green,  slightly 
tinged  with  muddy,  pale  brown,  interspersed  with 
broken  stripes  and  dashes  of  dull  red  quite  round  the 
upper  part  of  the  fruit,  and  partly  covered  with  a  meally 
white  all  over  the  base.  Flesh  greenish  white,  firm. 
Juice  plentiful,  smart  acid,  without  perfume. 

A  most  excellent  culinary  apple  from  November  till 
April. 


SECT.  VI.  —  Winter.      Conical  or  Oblong. 

115.  ADAMS'S  PEARMAIN.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  133. 

Norfolk  Pippin,  of  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  685.,  ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  very  handsome,  Pear- 
main  shaped,  somewhat  conical,  not  angular,  about  two 
inches  and  three  quarters  deep,  two  inches  and  a  half 
diameter  at  the  base,  and  one  inch  and  a  quarter  at  the 
crown.  Eye  rather  small,  with  a  closed  calyx,  placed 
in  a  very  narrow,  regular,  slightly  plaited  basin.  Stalk 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender,  one  half  pro- 


APPLES.  61 

jecting  beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow, 
covered  with  a  thin  grey  russet ;  on  the  sunny  side  of  a 
deeper  yellow,  tinged  with  salmon  colour,  having  a  few 
thin,  slightly  striped  patches  of  a  deeper  colour,  sprinkled 
with  whitish  spots  near  the  base.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm, 
crisp.  Juice  saccharine,  rich,  with  a  very  high  aromatic 
flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  and  most  excellent  apple, 
and  highly  deserving  of  cultivation.  It  is  well  adapted 
for  grafting  on  the  Doucin  stock,  and  for  training  in 
the  garden  as  an  espalier. 

116.  ^SOPUS  SPITZEMBERG.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  401. 

Fruit  large,  oblong.  Stalk  of  moderate  length, 
placed  in  a  deep  cavity,  and  projecting  a  little  beyond 
the  base.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  lively  brilliant  red,  ap- 
proaching to  scarlet,  with  numerous  small  yellow  spots. 
Flesh  yellow,  very  rich,  juicy,  and  brisk.  Ripe  about 
Christmas. 

A  most  excellent  apple  of  American  origin ;  it  is 
said  to  be  of  ^Esopus,  in  Ulster  county.  It  is  plenti- 
fully cultivated  at  Livingston's  manor,  in  Columbia 
county,  in  the  state  of  New  York.  It  is  too  tender  to 
succeed  in  this  country,  without  the  assistance  of  a  south 
or  an  east  wall.  Some  very  fine  fruit  from  a  south  wall 
at  Sacomb  Park,  in  Hertfordshire,  were  exhibited  at 
the  Horticultural  Society  of  London,  October  15.1821. 

117.  BALTIMORE.    Hort.  Trans.  V.  iii.  p.  120.  t.  4. 

Fruit  very  large,  in  form  something  like  the  Alex- 
ander, but  more  flat.  Eye  large,  open,  and  deep, 
surrounded  by  a  few  obtuse  plaits.  Skin  pale  lemon 
colour,  covered  with  a  very  thin  grey  russet,  especially 
near  the  eye,  and  tinged  with  a  pale  salmon-coloured 
blush  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  very  good,  and  close 
at  the  core. 


62  APPLES. 

Raised  in  the  garden  of  Mr.  Smith,  near  the  city  of 
Baltimore,  in  America,  and  brought  into  Liverpool  by 
Captain  George  Hobson,  of  the  Belvidere,  of  Baltimore, 
in  1817*  One  of  its  fruit  fourteen  inches  and  three 
quarters  in  circumference,  and  four  inches  in  height, 
weighed  one  pound  seven  ounces  and  a  half  avoirdupoise. 

118.  BARCELONA    PEARMAIN.       Hort.    Soc.    Cat. 
No.  747.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  85. 

Glace  Rouge.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  365. 

Kleiner  Casseler  Reinette.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  913., 
according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Speckled  Golden  Reinette.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  933., 
according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Reinette  Rouge,          ~\ 

Reinette  Rousse,  I  of  various  collections. 

Reinette  des  Carmes,  J 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  not  angular,  rather  long, 
with  a  small  shallow  eye,  the  divisions  of  the  calyx  acute, 
erect.  Stalk  short,  usually  a  little  thickened  on  one 
side.  Skin  uneven,  with  numerous  irregular  russet 
spots ;  on  the  sunny  side  of  a  deep  warm  red,  on  the 
other  a  brownish  yellow.  Flesh  firm,  inclining  to 
yellowish,  with  a  rich  aromatic  but  slight  agreeable  acid. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February. 

This  apple  is  of  foreign  origin,  but  has  been  for  several 
years  known  in  this  country.  It  is  a  very  good  bearer, 
and  deserves  to  be  more  extensively  cultivated. 

119.  BAXTER'S   PEARMAIN.      G.   Lind.    in   Hor{. 
Trans.   Vol.  iv.    p.  67.       Hort.   Soc.    Cat.    No.  748. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  longish  figure,  nearly  as  broad 
at  the  crown  as  the  base,  having  a  few  obtuse  slight 
angles,  extending  the  length  of  the  fruit.  Eye  small, 
a  little  hollowed.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  rather  stout. 
Skin  a  light  green,  a  little  coloured  with  faint  red  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm.  Juice  saccharine,  and 
well  flavoured. 


APPLES.  63 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  March. 

This  is  a  real  Norfolk  apple,  in  general  cultivation 
throughout  the  county.  It  makes  a  large  tree,  is 
hardy,  and  a  very  good  bearer. 

120.  BEDFORDSHIRE  FOUNDLING.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  51. 

Cambridge  Pippin.     Ib. 

Fruit  very  large,  three  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and 
three  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter,  irregularly  rib- 
bed, with  very  broad  obtuse  angles  on  the  sides,  generally 
two  or  three  of  these  are  longer  than  others,  which  give 
the  crown  an  oblique  inclination.  Eye  not  large,  but 
open,  rather  deeply  placed  in  a  somewhat  narrow  basin. 
Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  greenish  yel- 
low on  the  shaded  side,  sprinkled  with  a  few  green 
specks  ;  on  the  sunny  side  slightly  tinged  with  pale 
orange,  and  sprinkled  thinly  with  dull  red  specks. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  tender,  mellow.  Juice  sub-acid 
and  slightly  saccharine.  Core  generally  large  and  hol- 
low. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  to  January. 

121.  BELLE  BONNE.      G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  68.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  52. 

Holland,  of  some  collections. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  about  ten  inches  in  circumference, 
somewhat  conical ;  broad  at  the  base,  full  in  the  middle, 
and  narrow  at  the  crown.  Eye  small,  flat,  closed  by  the 
segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender, 
in  some  obliquely  inserted  under  an  elongated  lip. 
Skin  thick,  pale,  greenish  yellow,  brightened  on  the 
sunny  side  by  a  few  reddish  streaks,  which  become  rus- 
setty  at  the  base,  and  surround  the  stalk.  Flesh  firm, 
juicy,  and  well  flavoured. 

A  valuable  dessert  and  culinary  apple  from  October 
till  January. 

The  only  old  tree  I  have  ever  seen  of  this  sort  is  now 
growing  in  a  garden  occupied  by  Mrs.  Sanctuary,  at 


64  APPLES. 

Catton,  near  Norwich,  and  was  planted  about  fifty  years 
ago.  Ray,  in  1668,  has  a  summer  and  a  winter  Belle 
and  Bonne ;  but  their  identity  cannot  now  be  ascer- 
tained. 

122.  BEN  WELL'S    PEARMAIN.      Hort.    Soc.    Cat. 
No.  749. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  oblong,  and  narrowed 
at  the  crown.  Eye  small,  surrounded  by  a  few  some- 
what obscure  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  rather 
deeply  inserted.  Skin  muddy  green,  with  numerous 
brownish  red  dashes  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  crisp, 
yellowish  white.  Juice  sub-acid,  with  a  very  pleasant 
aromatic  flavour. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  from  Michaelmas  to 
Christmas. 

The  above  name  was  given  to  this  apple  by  Mr.  Kirke, 
of  Brompton,  who  received  it  a  few  years  ago  from  Mr. 
Benwell,  of  Henley-upon-Thames,  in  Oxfordshire. 

123.  BOSSOM  APPLE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  528. 
Fruit  obtusely  pyramidal.      Eye  placed  in  a  shallow 

hollow,  surrounded  by  several  rather  indistinct  plaits. 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  greenish 
yellow,  very  much  russetted  ;  and,  in  some  specimens, 
with  a  bright  red  on  the  side  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh 
dull  white,  inclining  to  yellow,  fine  in  texture,  crisp,  with 
a  sugared  juice  ;  it  bakes  of  a  fine  colour,  and  melts 
perfectly. 

A  large  handsome  culinary  apple  from  November  till 
March. 

Specimens  of  this,  from  the  Earl  of  Egremont's,  at 
Petworth,  were  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society, 
in  1820. 

124.  BREEDON  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  268. 
t.  10.  f.  1. 

Fruit  flatly  conical,  with  an  inclination  to  square, 
especially  near  the  eye  ;  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
in  the  widest,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  its 


APPLES.  65 

narrowest  diameter,  a  good  deal  flattened  and  irregular 
at  the  crown.  Eye  seated  in  a  broad  and  shallow  basin, 
surrounded  by  plaits  and  wrinkles  variously  formed ; 
at  the  base  it  is  also  flat,  and  broader  than  the  crown. 
Stalk  long,  inserted  in  a  regular  and  well  hollowed 
cavity.  Skin  of  a  pale,  rather  dull  yellow,  tinged  with 
reddish  orange  on  the  sunny  side.  flesh  yellowish, 
firm,  very  sweet,  with  a  rich  vinous  acid,  a  little  spicy, 
and  having  a  flavour  something  resembling  a  pine. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  after  Christmas. 

Raised  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Symonds  Breedon,  at  Bere 
Court,  in  Berkshire. 

125.  CATSHEAD.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  147. 
Cat's  Head.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  21. 
Costard.     Pay,  1688. 

Coustard,  of  the  Norman  Gardens. 

Fruit  large,  long,  nearly  as  broad  at  the  crown  as  the 
base,  having  usually  three  obtuse  angles  on  the  upper, 
and  two  more  acute,  which  are  also  shorter,  on  the 
under  side.  Eye  large,  open,  and  hollow.  Stalk  half 
an  inch  long,  slender,  rather  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
very  smooth,  pale  green,  scarcely  coloured  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  tender.  Juice  plentiful,  sub-acid. 

A  culinary  apple  from  October  till  January. 

126.  CHESTER  PEARMAIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  751. 
Fruit    rather    small,    more  long  than    broad,    and 

tapering  from  the  base  to  the  crown.  Eye  very  small, 
slightly  depressed.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
slender.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a  little  faint  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  crisp,  with  a  sugary  perfumed  juice. 
A  dessert  apple  from  October  to  February. 

127.  CLAYGATE  PEARMAIN.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  402. 

Fruit  a  large  and  handsome  Pearmain*  Skin  dull 
yellow,  nearly  covered  with  broad  stripes  of  deep  red. 
Flesh  yellow,  rather  dry,  like  all  apples  of  this  class,  but 
sweet  and  very  rich. 


66  APPLES. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February. 

The  Claygate  Pearmain  may  be  considered  as  a  valu- 
able addition  to  our  stock  of  table  apples.  It  originated 
in  a  hedge-row  in  the  hamlet  of  Claygate,  near  Thames 
Ditton  ;  and  its  fruit  was  first  exhibited  at  the  Horticul- 
tural Society,  by  John  Braddick,  Esq.,  December  17> 
1821. 

128.  COCKLE  PIPPIN.     Hort.   Soc.  Cat.  No.  169. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  136. 

Nutmeg  Cockle  Pippin.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  169. 

Nutmeg  Pippin,  of  various  Collections,  according 
to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

White  Cockle.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  tapering  a  little  from  the 
base  to  the  crown,  very  slightly  angular  on  the  sides, 
about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  narrow,  with  a  closed  slender 
calyx,  rather  shallow,  surrounded  by  narrow  plaits.  Stalk 
half  an  inch  long,  slender,  one  half  of  which  is  sunk  in 
a  narrow  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  pale  green,  be- 
coming bright  yellow,  with  a  few  grey  specks,  and  partly 
covered,  especially  near  the  base,  with  a  pretty  thick 
light  brown  russet.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  and  tender. 
Juice  saccharine,  mixed  with  acid,  and  a  slight  pleasant 
perfume. 

A  dessert  apple,  and  also  excellent  for  culinary  pur- 
poses from  November  till  May. 

129.  COLONEL  HARBORD'S  PIPPIN.      G.  Lindl.^n 
Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  65. 

Fruit  rather  large,  inclining  to  a  conical  shape,  about 
eleven  inches  in  circumference  each  way,  angular  on  the 
sides.  Eye  large,  in  a  rather  shallow  basin,  surrounded 
by  bold  plaits  or  wrinkles.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long. 
Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  partially  russetted  on  one  side. 
Flesh  white  mixed  with  green,  soft,  very  juicy,  with  a 
pleasant  brisk  ^stringency. 


APPLES.  67 

A  very  excellent  culinary  apple  from  November  till 
March. 

This  is  a  Norfolk  apple,  which  originated  on  the 
estate  of  the  late  Colonel  Harbord,  the  second  Lord 
Suffield,  of  Blickling  and  Gunton  Hall,  in  this  county. 

130.  CORNISH  GILLIFLOWER.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  140. 

Julyflower.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  74. 

Cornish  Julyflower.  Ib.  Vol.  iii.  p.  323,  according 
to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Calville  d'Angleterre.     Baumann  Cat. 

Fruit  moderately  large,  of  an  oval  form  and  angular, 
about  three  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter,  and  the 
same  in  depth.  Eye  closed  by  the  segments  of  the 
calyx,  and  sunk  among  knobby  protuberances  rising 
from  the  terminations  of  the  angles  on  the  sides.  Stalk 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
dull  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but  where  fully  exposed 
to  the  sun  intermixed  with  brownish  red,  slightly 
sprinkled  with  russet,  and  sometimes  richer  streaks  of 
red.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  and  very  rich  ;  when  cut,  it 
gives  out  a  pleasant  perfume,  resembling  the  Clove 
Gilliflower,  whence  its  name. 

A  dessert  apple,  ripening  in  November,  and  will  keep 
till  April. 

This  very  valuable  apple  was  first  noticed  in  the 
Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  74-  in  a  letter  from  Sir  Chris- 
topher Hawkins,  in  1813.  It  was  discovered  in  a  cot- 
tage garden  near  Truro,  about  ten  or  fifteen  years  before 
that  date,  and  was  considered  by  the  Society  of  so  much 
importance  that  the  silver  medal  was  awarded  to  Sir 
Christopher  for  his  exertions  in  bringing  it  into  notice. 
It  is  considered  as  but  an  indifferent  bearer ;  but  this 
defect  may  be  remedied  by  grafting  it  upon  the  Doucin 
stock,  and  planting  it  in  the  garden,  and  training  it 
either  as  an  open  dwarf  or  as  an  espalier. 

130.*  COUL  BLUSH.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vii.  p.  340. 
F  2 


68  APPLE  S. 

The  fruit  has  the  angular  figure  of  the  Calvilles.  The 
skin  has  a  clear  waxy  yellow,  with  a  dull  red  cheek, 
which  is  varied  by  numerous  bright  crimson  dots  and 
streaks.  The  stalk  is  slender  and  smooth.  The  fash  is 
rather  yellow,  crisp,  and  juicy,  with  a  very  pleasant 
brisk  taste. 

In  season  in  December  and  till  the  middle  of  Ja- 
nuary. 

This  very  beautiful  apple  was  raised  by  Sir  George 
Steuart  Mackenzie,  in  his  garden  at  Coul,  near  Ding- 
wall  ;  an  account  of  which  is  given  by  him,  along  with 
the  Kinellan  ^4pple,  the  Tarvey  Codlin,  and  the  Con- 
tin  Reinette,  in  a  paper  dated  March  12,  18^7- 

131.  DARLING  PIPPIN.  G.  LindL  Plan  of  an  Or- 
chard, 1796. 

<  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  conical,  a  little  flat- 
tened both  at  the  crown  and  the  base.  Eye  small, 
slightly  depressed,  and  surrounded  by  a  few  unequal, 
knobby  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  in  some  an  inch, 
slender.  Skin  bright  lemon-colour,  sprinkled  with  nu- 
merous small  pearl-coloured  specks,  quite  within  the 
surface.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  crisp.  Juice  plentiful, 
saccharine,  of  a  very  agreeable  flavour. 

A  very  handsome  dessert  apple  from  November  till 
Christmas. 
-• "  132.  FARLEIGH  PIPPIN.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Farley  Pippin.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  319. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  rather  long,  with  five  angles  ^x- 
tending  from  the  base  to  the  crown,  where  they  are 
very  prominent.  Eye  deeply  sunk.  Skin  green  on 
the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  brownish  red  where  fully 
exposed  to  the  sun,  and  marked  with  a  deeper  colour. 
Flesh  green,  firm.  Juice  plentiful,  saccharine,  and  of 
an  excellent  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  to  February. 

A  very  excellent  apple,  sent  me  by  Mr.  Kirke,  who 
had  it  from  Farleigh  in  Kent. 


APPLES.  69 


133.  FORMAN'S  CREW.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.   No. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  89- 

Fruit  like  a  large  Golden  Pippin,  but  russetty,  about 
two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  a  little  open,  placed  in  a  shallow  depression. 
Stalk  short,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  nearly  covered 
with  a  yellowish  russet  brown.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
juicy,  rich,  very  high-flavoured,  and  excellent. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  May. 

This  handsome  and  very  valuable  apple  was  raised  by 
Thomas  Seton  Fonnan,  Esq.,  at  Pennydarron  Place, 
near  Merthyr  Tidvil,  in  Glamorganshire.  It  is  one 
of  the  best  table  apples  we  have,  combining  the  excel- 
lence of  the  old  Golden  Pippin  and  Nonpareil.  It  bears 
abundantly,.  as  an  open  standard^  and>  when  grafted  upon 
the  Doucin  stock,  it  is  invaluable  as  an  espalier. 

134.  FOULDON   PEARMAIN.       G.  LindL  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  69- 

Horrex's  Pearmain.     Ibid. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oblong  shape,  somewhat. 
resembling  the  old  Green  Pearmain,  about  eight  inches 
the  long,  and  seven  inches  and  three  quarters  the  short 
circumference.  Eye  narrow,  flat.  Stalk  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  long,  slender.  Ski7i  pale  yellow,  when  matured, 
with  a  little  blush  on  the  sunny  side,  especially  towards 
the  base,  in  consequence  of  the  fruit  being  mostly 
pendent.  Flesh  greenish  white,  firm,  crisp.  Juice. 
plentiful,  brisk,  and  of  a  very  high  flavour. 

A  most  excellent  dessert  apple  from  November  till 
March. 

The  original  tree  of  this  apple  is  now  growing  in  the 
garden  of  Mrs.  Horrex,  of  Foul  den  in  Norfolk. 

13,5.  GANGES.     Nursery  Catalogue. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  an  oblong,  irregular  figure.  Eye 
hollow.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted,  quite 
within  the  base.  Skin  green,  with  a  few  specks  of  darker 

F  3 


70  APPLES. 

green  interspersed,  and  dashed  with  red  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  pale  yellowish  green.  Juice  sub-acid,  of 
good  flavour. 

A  good  culinary  apple  from  October  till  January. 

136.  GOLDEN  LUSTRE.     G.  LindL  Plan  of  an  Or- 
chard, 1796. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  somewhat  conical  figure, 
acutely  and  prominently  angular  towards  the  crown, 
near  which  it  has  generally  an  indented  circle,  as  if 
caused  by  a  ligature  having  been  tied  round  the  fruit ; 
it  is  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  the 
same  in  diameter.  Eye  rather  small,  closed  by  the 
long  segments  of  the  calyx,  not  deeply  sunk,  and  sur- 
rounded by  sharp  prominent  plaits,  the  intermediate 
ones  being  small,  and  having  a  blistered  appearance. 
Stalk  short,  slender,  inserted  in  a  small  narrow  cavity. 
Skin  bright  yellow  or  gold  colour  on  the  shaded  side,  but 
where  exposed  to  the  sun  bright  red,  breaking  out  into 
small  patches  and  stripes.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  firm. 
Juice  not  plentiful,  sub-acid,  combined  with  a  little 
sugar,  but  without  any  particular  perfume. 

A  good  culinary  apple  from  November  till  May. 

137.  GOLDEN  PEARMAIN.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  58. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  755. 

Ruckman's  Pearmain.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  755. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  rather  conical,  a  little 
angular  on  its  sides.  Eye  small,  with  short  obtuse  seg- 
ments of  the  calyx,  placed  in  a  narrow  and  rather  shallow 
basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  pressed  close  to 
the  base  on  one  side  of  its  cavity,  by  a  large  pointed  pro- 
tuberance of  the  fruit  pressing  upon  it  from  the  opposite 
side.  This  is  not  the  case  in  all  the  fruit  of  this  sort, 
but  it  is  so  in  three  out  of  four  throughout  the  whole 
crop,  and  is  one  of  its  most  distinguishing  characters. 
Skin  bright  yellow,  marbled  nearly  all  over  with  faint 
red  and  orange,  highly  coloured  on  the  sunny  side,  and 


APPLES.  71 

streaked  with  broken  dashes  of  deeper  red.     Juice  not 
plentiful,  but  saccharine,  of  a  slight  aromatic  flavour. 

A  good  and  handsome  dessert  apple  from  October 
till  Christmas. 

138.  GRAVENSTEIN.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  216 
and  523.  t.21.  Pom.  Mag.  i.^. 

Fruit  large,  about  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter, 
broadest  at  the  base,  generally  flattened,  sometimes  rather 
oblong,  with  angles  which  terminate  in  the  crown.  Eye 
rather  wide,  sunk  in  a  deep  hollow,  surrounded  by  se- 
veral projecting  folds  or  knobs.  Stalk  very  short,  deeply 
inserted.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  clear  yellowish  green  or 
straw  colour,  streaked  and  mottled  with  red  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  crisp,  with  a  high-flavoured 
vinous  juice. 

A  dessert  apple,  ripening  in  the  autumn,  but  will  keep 
till  April,  and  may  be  reckoned  a  rival  to  our  Ribston 
Pippin. 

It  is  supposed  to  have  originated  at  Gravenstein,  in 
Holstein,  nearly  a  century  ago,  and  is  esteemed  the  best 
apple  in  Germany  and  the  Low  Countries.  The  fruit 
was  first  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1819. 

139.  HANWELL  SOURING.     Hort.  Trans.    Vol.  iv. 
p.  219. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  conical,  very  angular  on  the  sides. 
Eye  deeply  sunk  in  a  contracted  basin.  Stalk  short, 
very  deeply  inserted  in  a  wide,  even  cavity.  Skin  green, 
with  a  blush  of  red  where  exposed,  profusely  spotted 
with  minute  brown  spots,  and  a  little  russetted  round 
the  stalk.  Flesh  white,  very  crisp,  with  a  rich  acid  juice. 

This  apple  is  scarcely  in  perfection  till  April  or  May, 
and  then  possesses  more  acid  than  any  other  which 
keeps  to  so  late  a  period. 

It  is  supposed  to  have  originated  at  Hanwell,  near 
Banbury,  in  Oxfordshire.  Fruit  of  it  were  exhibited 
at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  May,  1 820. 

F  4 


72  APPLES. 

140.  HARVEY  APPLE.     G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  67. 

Doctor  Harvey's  Apple.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  251. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oval,  generally  about  nine  inches 
and  a  half  or  ten  inches  in  circumference,  narrow  at 
the  crown,  slightly  angular  on  the  sides.  Eye  small, 
scarcely  sunk,  surrounded  by  several  small  knobby  plaits. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  deeply  inserted  in  a 
wide,  uneven  cavity.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  full  of 
green  and  pearly  specks,  with  various  russetty,  broken 
ramifications  near  the  crown.  Flesh  whitish,  firm. 
Juice  quick,  sub-acid,  with  a  little  musky  perfume. 

A  valuable  culinary  fruit  from  October  to  January. 

This  is  a  real  Norfolk  apple,  and  but  little  known 
out  of  the  county.  It  appears  to  have  been  known  in 
the  time  of  Ray,  in  1688,  who  says  it  took  its  name 
from  "  the  famous  Dr.  Gabriel  Harvey ." 

When  baked  in  an  oven  which  is  not  too  hot,  these 
apples  are  most  excellent ;  they  become  sugary,  and  will 
keep  a  week  or  ten  days,  furnishing  for  the  dessert  a 
highly-flavoured  sweetmeat.  It  makes  a  large  hand- 
some tree,  is  very  hardy,  and  a  great  bearer. 

141.  HOLLOW-CROWNED  PIPPIN.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  459. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oblong  figure,  fully  as  broad 
at  the  crown  as  at  the  base,  slightly  angular  on  its  sides. 
Eye  wide,  and  deeply  sunk.  Stalk  short,  thick,  and 
crooked.  Skin  pale  green,  becoming  yellow  with  a  faint 
blush  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sub- 
acid,  with  a  slight  portion  of  sugar. 

A  culinary  apple  from  October  to  January.  A  hardy 
bearer,  peculiar  to  Norfolk,  and  common  in  the  Nor- 
wich market. 

142.  HUBBARD'S  PEARMAIN.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  68.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  27. 


APPLES.  73 

Golden  Vining,  of  Devonshire.  According  to  the 
Pom.  Mag.  Ib. 

Fruit  small,  ovate,  about  two  inches  deep,  and  the 
same  in  diameter,  free  from  angles.  Eye  small,  close, 
with  a  very  short  calyx,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  short. 
Skin  pale  russet,  or  cinnamon  colour,  with  a  little  green 
or  red  breaking  through  it  here  and  there;  in  some 
specimens,  particularly  in  warm  seasons,  of  an  uniform, 
clear,  yellowish  green,  without  russet,  mottled  and 
tinged  with  orange  or  pale  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
yellow,  firm,  rather  dry.  Juice  sweet,  rich,  of  a  most 
highly  perfumed  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  October  till  March  or  April. 

This  is  a  real  Norfolk  apple,  well  known  in  the  Norwich 
market ;  and  although  it  may  be  found  elsewhere,  its 
great  excellence  may  have  caused  its  removal  hence. 
It  may  have  acquired  the  name  of  Golden  Vining  in 
Devonshire,  with  as  much  facility  as  the  Court  of  Wick, 
that  of  Wood's  Transparent  Pippin  at  Huntingdon. 
The  merits  of  Hubbard's  Pearmain  as  a  table  apple  are 
unrivalled,  and  its  superior,  from  the  commencement 
of  its  season  to  the  end,  does  not,  I  am  of  opinion,  exist 
in  this  country.  It  is  a  small-growing  tree,  very  hardy, 
and  an  abundant  bearer,  both  in  the  orchard  and  in  the 
garden  as  an  espalier. 

143.  KENTISH  PIPPIN.     Miller,  Ed.  8.  No.  11. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  of  an  oblong  figure, 
slightly  angular  on  its  sides,  tapering  a  little  from  the 
base  to  the  crown,  which  is  rather  narrow.  Eye  small, 
with  a  closed  calyx,  a  little  sunk,  and  surrounded  by 
several  obtuse  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  not 
protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellow,  with  a 
few  scattered  greenish  specks  ;  on  the  sunny  side  pale 
dull  brown.  Flesh  yellowish  white.  Juice  sweetish, 
or  sub-acid,  with  a  smart  pungent  flavour. 

An  excellent  culinary  apple  from  October  tilljanuary. 


74  APPLES. 

This  is  an  old  favourite  kitchen  apple,  mentioned  by 
Ray  in  1688,  and  described  shortly  by  Miller ;  but  it 
is  not  the  Kentish  Pippin  of  Mr.  Forsyth.  It  makes 
strong  shoots,  attains  a  large  size,  with  an  open  spreading 
head,  is  a  very  hardy  orchard  tree,  and  an  excellent 
bearer. 

144.  KINELLAN  APPLE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vii. 
p.  338. 

The  skin  is  a  clear  pale  green,  very  little  dotted, 
but  strongly  coloured  with  yellowish  bright  red  on  the 
exposed  side.  The  eye  is  rather  angular  ;  the  stalk 
downy  ;  the  flesh  white,  firm,  rather  juicy,  and  pleasant. 

A  pleasant  table  apple,  in  season  in  Ross-shire  from  the 
beginning  of  December  till  January,  and  will  keep  till 
March. 

This  is  an  offspring  between  the  Nonpareil  and  Manx 
Codlin,  obtained  by  Sir  George  Steuart  Mackenzie, 
Bart.,  of  Coul,near  Dingwall,  in  Ross-shire;  it  produced 
its  first  fruit  in  1825.  In  size  the  apple  resembles  the 
Manx  Codlin,  and  in  appearance  and  other  qualities  the 
Nonpareil. 

144*.  LAMB  ABBEY  PEARMAIN.  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  269.  t.  10.  f.  2. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  somewhat  pyramidal,  rather 
flattened  at  both  ends,  about  three  inches  deep,  and  two 
inches  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  sunk  in 
a  deep  and  broad  hollow,  surrounded  by  regular  but 
slight  plaits,  which  do  not  extend  to  the  body  of  tfte 
fruit.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin  yellowish 
green  on  the  shaded  side  and  next  the  eye ;  the  sunny 
side  being  covered  with  a  handsome  red,  having  many 
black  dots,  in  the  manner  of  an  ordinary  Golden  Rei- 
nette.  Flesh  yellowish  next  the  skin,  green  next  the 
core,  firm,  crisp,  very  juicy,  with  a  peculiar  rich  sweet- 
ness, and  a  light  aromatic  flavour. 

An  excellent  dessert  fruit  from  December  till  March. 


APPLES.  75 

This  very  valuable  apple  was  raised,  in  1803,  from  a 
kernel  of  the  Newtown  Pippin,  by  Mrs.Malcolm,  the  lady 
of  NeiFMalcolm,  Esq.,  of  Lamb  Abbey,  in  Kent.  At  six 
years  old  it  produced  three  apples,  at  nine  years  seven 
dozen,  and  from  that  time  it  has  regularly  produced 
good  crops. 

145.  LEMON  PIPPIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.    No.  550. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  37. 

Lemon  Pippin.    Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  102. 1 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  very  regularly  formed, 
without  angles,  about  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in 
diameter,  and  three  inches  deep.  Eye  small,  open, 
with  a  very  short  slender  calyx,  slightly  depressed. 
Stalk  short,  fleshy,  curved  inwards,  and  forming  a  con- 
tinuance of  the  fruit,  in  the  manner  of  a  lemon ;  hence 
its  name.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  becoming  yellow 
when  ripe,  with  neither  red  nor  russet.  Flesh  firm, 
breaking.  Juice  not  abundant,  nor  high  flavoured,  but 
very  pleasant. 

A  dessert  fruit  from  October  till  March. 

A  very  hardy  orchard  apple ;  the  tree  grows  erect, 
very  regularly  formed,  and  handsome,  and  is  a  most 
excellent  bearer. 

146.  NEW  ROCK  PIPPIN.  Hort.Trans.  Vol.  v.p.269. 
Fruit  of  the  Nonpareil  kind,  but  less  regular  in  shape, 

and  the  eye  sunk  a  little  deeper.  Stalk  short.  Skin 
of  a  dull  green  on  the  shaded  side  ;  on  the  part  exposed 
to  the  sun  it  becomes  brown,  with  a  slight  tinge  of  red, 
and  the  whole  surface  sprinkled  with  russet.  Flesh 
yellow,  firm,  not  very  juicy,  but  rich  and  sweet,  with  a 
fine  anise  perfume. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  April. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Pleasance,  of  Barnwell,  near  Cam- 
bridge. It  keeps  late  in  the  spring,  and  is  then  hardly 
surpassed  by  any  of  the  old  varieties.  Exhibited  at 
the  Horticultural  Society,  November  20,  1821. 


76  APPLES. 

147.  NEW  YORK  PIPPIN.  G.  Lindl  Plan  of  an 
Orchard,  1796. 

New  York  Pippin.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  642. 

Fruit  rather  large,  of  an  oblong  figure,  somewhat 
pyramidal,  rather  irregular  in  its  outline,  and  slightly 
pentangular  on  its  sides,  three  of  which  are  generally 
much  shorter  than  the  other,  forming  a  kind  of  lip  at 
the  crown  ;  from  two  inches  and  a  half  to  three  inches 
deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter  at  the  base.  Eye  closed, 
rather  deeply  sunk  in  a  very  uneven  irregular  basin. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  rather  deeply  inserted 
in  a  wide  uneven  cavity.  Skin  dull  greenish  yellow,  with 
a  few  green  specks,  intermixed  with  a  little  skin,  grey 
russet,  and  tinged  with  brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
firm,  crisp,  tender.  Juice  plentiful,  saccharine,  with  a 
slight  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  April. 

An  American  variety  of  excellence.  The  tree  grows 
large,  and  bears  well.  It  sometimes  happens  with  this 
as  it  does  with  Hubbard's  Pearmain,  that  smooth  fruit 
grow  upon  one  branch  and  russetty  ones  upon  another ; 
and  in  cold  seasons  the  fruit  are  for  the  most  part  rus- 
setty. 

It  was  named  the  New  York  Pippin  by  Mr.  Mackie, 
and  first  propagated  in  his  Nursery  at  Norwich  about 
forty  years  ago.  Its  name  first  appeared  in  1796  in  my 
Plan  of  an  Orchard,  and  was  afterwards  copied,  with- 
out acknowledgment,  with  almost  all  the  rest,  togethefr 
with  their  synonyms  and  characters,  into  Mr.  Forsyth's 
Treatise  on  Fruit  Trees.  I  have,  for  this  reason,  in  the 
present  instance  and  in  some  others,  quoted  my  own  pub- 
lication as  a  matter  of  priority,  and  given  the  authority, 
where  I  have  been  able  to  find  any,  for  all  other  fruits 
introduced  into  this  work.  If  I  have  omitted  any,  I 
have  very  humbly  to  crave  the  author's  indulgence. 


APPLES.  77 

148.  NORFOLK  PARADISE.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  684. 
Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  1 25. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  irregularly  formed.  Eye 
very  large,  deeply  sunk,  in  an  uneven,  oblique  hollow. 
Stalk  rather  short,  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  greenish 
yellow ;  on  the  sunny  side  of  a  brownish  red,  streaked 
with  a  darker  colour.  Flesh  white,  very  firm.  Juice 
abundant,  and  of  a  very  excellent  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  October  till  March. 

Its  name  seems  to  indicate  a  Norfolk  origin ;  but 
I  never  could  find  it  in  any  part  of  the  county. 

149.  NORTHERN  GREENING.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No. 
693.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  127. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  of  an  oblong  figure, 
scarcely  angular  on  its  sides,  about  three  inches  deep,  and 
two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  rather 
small,  with  a  closed  calyx,  seated  in  a  somewhat  narrow, 
shallow,  irregularly  plaited  basin.  Stalk  short  and 
thick,  inserted  without  any  cavity,  but  connected  by  a 
projecting  lip  on  one  side,  similar  to  that  of  the  Lemon 
Pippin.  Skin  pale  dull  green,  sprinkled  with  specks  of 
darker  green  imbedded  in  the  skin  ;  on  the  sunny  side 
it  is  tinged  with  pale  brown,  interspersed  with  slight 
streaks  of  a  darker  colour.  Flesh  greenish,  white,  firm. 
Juice  sub-acid,  without  any  apparent  saccharine  pro- 
perty. 

A  very  excellent  culinary  apple  from  November  till 
April. 

150.  ORD'S  APPLE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  285. 
t.19- 

Simpson's  Pippin.     Ib. 

Simpson's  Seedling.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1043. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  on  oblong  ovate  shape,  with 
the  base  and  crown  depressed,  from  two  inches  and  a 
half  to  three  inches  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
in  diameter  at  the  base.  Eye  small,  with  a  short  con- 


78  APPLES. 

nivent  calyx,  in  a  very  shallow  basin,  surrounded  by 
some  irregular  plaits,  the  natural  number  of  which  is 
five.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long.  Skin  thick, 
always  green  while  on  the  tree,  tinged  with  copper- 
coloured  red,  with  several  darker  spots  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  firm.  Juice  rich  and  perfumed. 

A  dessert  apple  from  December  till  March. 

Raised  some  years  ago  by  Mrs.  Anne  Simpson,  sister- 
in-law  of  John  Ord,  Esq.,  from  the  seed  of  an  apple 
grown  in  his  garden  at  Purser's  Cross,  near  Fulham, 
the  produce  of  a  tree  he  had  raised  from  a  Newtown 
Pippin,  which  he  had  imported  from  America  about 
the  year  1777. 

151.  ORTLEY  APPLE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  4 15. 
Fruit  very  much  resembling  the  yellow  Newtown 

Pippin,  but  a  little  more  oval.  Eye  large  and  well 
formed,  not  deeply  sunk,  and  surrounded  by  many  small 
folds  or  plaits.  Stalk  slender,  inserted  in  a  deep,  and 
even-formed  cavity.  Skin  bright  clear  yellow  where 
shaded,  and  of  a  bright  scarlet,  sprinkled  with  a  few 
russetty  spots,  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  inclining  to 
yellow,  crisp,  and  breaking.  Juice  plentiful,  with  the 
same  fine  flavour  which  distinguishes  the  Newtown 
Pippin. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  April. 

This  most  excellent  variety  is  a  native  of  New  Jersey, 
in  North  America.  Specimens  of  it  were  sent  from 
thence  to  the  Horticultural  Society,  and  exhibited  at 
the  meetings  of  the  1st  and  15th  of  March,  1825. 

152.  OXNEAD  PEARMAIN.      G.  Lindl.  Plan  of  an 
Orchard,  1796. 

Earl  of  Yarmouth's  Pearmain.     Ib. 

Fruit  small,  conically  tapering  from  the  base  to  the 
crown.  Eye  very  small,  surrounded  by  three  or  four 
somewhat  obscure  plaits.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
long,  very  slender.  Skin  entirely  grass-green,  always 


APPLES.  79 

covered  with  a  thin  russet ;  sometimes  when  highly 
ripened  it  is  tinged  with  a  very  pale  brown  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  very  firm,  crisp,  of  a  pale  green  colour. 
Juice  not  plentiful,  but  it  is  very  rich  and  highly 
flavoured. 

A  very  neat  dessert  apple  from  November  till  April. 

This  excellent  little  sort  is  supposed  to  have  origi- 
nated at  Oxnead,  near  Norwich,  the  seat  of  the  Earl  of 
Yarmouth.  It  has  been  known  for  many  years  in 
Norfolk,  no  doubt  prior  to  the  extinction  of  that  peerage 
in  1733,  and  I  have  never  seen  it  out  of  the  county. 
The  tree  is  a  very  small  grower;  its  branches  are  small 
and  wiry,  and  of  a  grass-green  colour  :  it  is  very  hardy, 
and  an  excellent  bearer. 

153.  PETIT  JEAN.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  525. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  781. 

Fruit  small,  oval,  slightly  flattened  at  both  ends. 
Eye  very  small,  placed  in  a  confined  basin.  Stalk  very 
short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin,  where  shaded,  of  a  pale 
yellow,  but  the  whole  nearly  covered  with  brilliant 
red,  which,  in  less  exposed  parts,  is  broken  into  stripes, 
through  which  the  ground  colour  is  seen.  Flesh  very 
white,  extremely  tender,  with  an  agreeable  juice. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  April. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  little  apple,  native  of  Jer- 
sey, which  keeps  well  to  the  end  of  the  season,  and 
is  extensively  cultivated  in  that  island.  Specimens  of 
the  fruit  were  sent  to  the  Horticultural  Society  in 
1820. 

154.  PINNER   SEEDLING.     Hort.    Trans.   Vol.  iv. 
p.  530. 

Carrel's  Seedling.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  791. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  slightly  angular  on  the  sides. 
Eye  close,  very  little  depressed.  Stalk  short,  in  a  con- 
fined but  deep  cavity.  Skin  bright  yellow,  nearly 


80  APPLES. 

covered  with   clear  yellow  russet.     Flesh  inclining  to 
yellow,  crisp,  and  tender.    Juice  brisk  and  saccharine. 

An  excellent  dessert  apple  from  November  till  the 
end  of  May. 

Raised  by  James  Carrel,  Nurseryman,  at  Pinner, 
Middlesex,  in  1810.  It  produced  its  first  fruit  in 
1818,  and  was  first  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  So- 
ciety in  1820. 

155.  RIBSTON  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  946. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  141. 

Formosa  Pippin.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii,  p.  322. 

Traver's  Apple.  Ib.  Vol.  iii.  p.  324.,  according  to 
the  Pom.  Mag. 

Glory  of  York.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  946. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  irregularly  formed, 
with  a  few  broad,  obtuse,  indistinct  angles  on  its  sides, 
and  generally  more  broad  than  long ;  about  two  inches 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  deep.  Eye  rather  small,  with  a  closed  calyx, 
placed  in  an  irregularly  angular  basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  rather  narrow,  funnel-shaped 
cavity,  seldom  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  russetty  in  the  crown  and  round  the  stalk,  and 
mottled  thinly  with  dull  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
pale  yellow,  firm,  crisp.  Juice  saccharine,  with  a  pun- 
gent, rich,  and  delicious  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  October  till  April,  but  it  is 
generally  in  its  greatest  perfection  when  it  has  t>een 
gathered  a  month  or  six  weeks. 

The  Rijbston  Pippin  may  be  truly  said  to  be  one  of 
the  best,  and  certainly  is  one  of  the  most  popular  des- 
sert apples  of  the  present  day,  as  well  known  as  the 
Golden  Pippin  and  the  Nonpareil ;  and  a  greater  num- 
ber of  trees  of  it  are  sold  by  nurserymen  throughout 
England,  than  of  both  those  sorts  put  together.  It  was 
raised,  according  to  traditionary  accounts,  from  some 


APPLES.  81 

pips  which  were  brought  from  Rouen,  about  the  year 
1688,  and  sown  in  the  garden  at  Ribston  Hall,  near 
Knaresborough,  in  the  county  of  York.  A  tree  from 
these  was  planted  out  in  the  park,  which  grew  to  a  very 
large  size,  and  formed  the  subject  of  the  present  article. 

I  visited  it  in  17&9,  and  found  it  in  a.  very  healthy 
state  :  it  was,  however,  in  a  violent  gale,  in  1810, 
thrown  down  ;  and,  five  years  afterwards,  still  continued 
to  bear  fruit,  although  lying  on  the  ground. 

It  has  been  doubted  by  some,  whether  the  tree  at 
Ribston  Hall  was  an  original  from  the  seed.  The  fact 
of  its  not  being  a  grafted  tree,  has  been  satisfactorily 
ascertained  by  Sir  Henry  Goodricke,  the  present  pro- 
prietor, by  causing  suckers  from  its  root  to  be  planted 
out,  which  have  set  the  matter  at  rest,  that  it  was  not  a 
grafted  tree.  One  of  these  suckers  has  produced  fruit 
in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick. 

156.  ROYAL  PEARMAIN.  Reds  Flora,  1665. 
No.  16. 

Herefordshire  Pearmain.     Hart.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  757. 

Parmain  Royal.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  71  •  t.  12. 

Parmain  Royal  de  longue  duree.     Ib.  p.  131. 

Parmain  double.     Ib. 

Engelsche  Konings  of  King's  Pepping.     Ib. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  oblong,  and  somewhat 
conical,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  two  inches' 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter,  slightly  angular  on  its 
sides.  Eye  rather  small,  open,  with  a  reflexed  calyx,  seated 
in  a  narrow,  shallow,  russetty  basin,  scarcely  marked  by 
plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  rather  deeply  in- 
serted, protruding  just  beyond  the  base.  Skin  dull,  pale 
yellowish  green,  interspersed  with  grey  russetty  specks, 
especially  on  the  sunny  side,  where  it  is  tinged  with  a 
soft  brown,  and  marked  with  a  few  narrow  broken 
stripes.  Flesh  pale  greenish  yellow,  tender,  crisp. 


82  APPLES. 

Juice  saccharine,  and  of  a  very  pleasant  aromatic 
richness. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February  or 
March. 

This  very  excellent  apple  is  of  many  years'  standing 
in  this  country,  although  far  from  being  common  in  the 
nurseries,  another  apple  having  unjustly  usurped  its 
name. 

157.  ROYAL  REINETTE.     Hort.    Trans.    Vol.   iv. 
p.  529. 

Fruit  rather  small,  a  little  more  conical  than  the 
Golden  Reinette.  Eye  large  and  open,  in  an  even  and 
small  basin.  Stalk  very  short,  with  the  flesh  growing 
pretty  closely  round  it.  Skin  delicate  yellow,  sprinkled 
with  a  few  dark  spots  ;  on  the  sunny  side  stained  and 
striped  with  delicate  but  brilliant  red,  and  covered  with 
numerous  grey  spots  ;  the  whole  surface  highly  polished 
and  shining.  Flesh  pale  yellow.  Juice  of  excellent 
flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  April  and  May. 

This  very  beautiful  apple  is  cultivated  in  the  western 
parts  of  Sussex ;  fruit  from  the  Earl  of  Egremont's, 
at  Petworth,  was  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society 
in  1820. 

158.  STONE  PIPPIN.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  69. 

White  Stone  Pippin.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1071. 

White  Pippin,  of  Norfolk. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oblong  figure,  tapering  to 
the  crown,  where  it  is  narrow,  somewhat  angular  on  its 
sides.  Eye  small,  hollow,  surrounded  by  slight  obtuse, 
bold  plaits.  Stalk  slender,  not  protruded  beyond  the 
base.  Skin  very  smooth,  pale  green,  becoming  yellow 
when  kept  a  few  weeks.  Flesh  very  firm  and  dense. 
Juice  not  plentiful,  sharp,  slightly  acid,  becoming  sweet 
when  mature,  with  a  little  perfume. 


APPLES.  83 

A  dessert  and  culinary  apple  from  November  till  July 
or  August.. 

This  is,  a  valuable  Norfolk  apple,  known  in  the  Nor- 
wich market  by  the  name  of  White  Pippin.  The  fruit, 
when  peeled,  sliced,  and  boiled  in  sugar,  becomes  trans- 
parent, affording  for  many  months  a  most  delicious 
sweetmeat  for  tarts.  The  tree  grows  to  a  large  size,  is 
very  hardy,  and  in  all  seasons  an  abundant  bearer.  It 
is  highly  deserving  of  an  extended  cultivation. 

158*.  TARVEY  CODLIN.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vii. 
p.  338. 

The  skin  is  a  dull  olive  green,  with  an  imperfect 
mixture  of  yellow ;  on  the  exposed  side  it  is  yellowish 
red,  much  spotted  with  broken  rows  of  large  blood-red 
dots.  The  flesh  is  white  and  juicy,  with  the  taste  of 
an  English  Codlin. 

A  very  good  apple,  in  its  season,  in  Ross-shire,  in 
November  and  December. 

This  was  raised  from  a  seed  of  the  Manx  Codlin,  by 
Sir  George  Steuart  Mackenzie,  in  his  garden  at  Coul, 
near  Dingwall,  an  account  of  which  is  given  by  him, 
in  a  paper  in  the  Horticultural  Transactions,  dated 
March  12,  1827- 

159.  WHITE  SPANISH  REINETTE.  Pom.  Mag. 
1. 110. 

Reinette  Blanche  d'Espagne.  -Mayer's  Pomona. 
According  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

D'Espagne,  1 

De  Ratteau,  f  of  foreign  Gardens. 

Concombre  Ancien,  J 

Fall  Pippin,  "|  of  the  English  and  Ame- 

Cobbett's  Fall  Pippin,  \   ricans,    according    to   the 

Large  Fall  Pippin,       J    Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish  oblong,  about  three  inches 
and  three  quarters  deep,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in 
diameter,  irregular  in  its  outline,  with  broad  irregular 

G  2 


84  APPLES. 

ribs  on  its  sides,  which  terminate  in  an  uneven  crown, 
where  it  is  nearly  as  broad  as  at  the  base.  Eye  large, 
open,  very  deeply  placed  in  a  broad-angled,  oblique,  irre- 
gular basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  not  deeply  inserted, 
in  a  rather  small  evenly-formed  cavity.  Skin  smooth, 
yellowish  green  on  the  shaded  side,  tinged  with  orange 
where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
crisp,  and  tender,  with  a  rich  sugary  juice. 

A  dessert  apple,  and  for  culinary  purposes  also,  from 
November  till  February  or  March. 

This  extremely  valuable  apple  is  at  present  but  little 
known  in  England,  although,  from  specimens  exhibited 
at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1829,  by  John  Darby, 
Esq.,  it  appears  that  very  ancient  trees  of  it  exist  in 
Sussex.  In  America  it  is  called  Fall  Pippin,  under 
which  name  it  has  been  for  some  time  sold  by  Mr. 
Cobbett. 

160.  WHITMORE'S  PIPPIN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat  No.  1158. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  very  regular,  somewhat  co- 
nical figure,  with  eight  or  ten  obtuse  angles  on  the  sides, 
which  terminate  more  distinctly  in  the  crown,  where  it 
is  almost  drawn  to  a  point.  Eye  very  narrow,  flat. 
Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender,  deeply  in- 
serted, and  not  protruded  beyond  the  base.  Skin  a 
clear  yellowish  green,  sprinkled  with  numerous  small 
dark  green  specks  ;  on  the  sunny  side  tinged  with  faint 
red.  Flesh  whitish  green,  breaking.  Juice  brisk,  with 
a  slight  aromatic  flavour.  ^ 

A  winter  dessert  and  culinary  apple  from  November 
till  January  or  February. 

161.  WINTER  PEARMAIN.     Ray,  1688. 
Old  Pearmain.     Pom.  Hereford,  t.  29. 
Parmain  d'Hiver.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  64.  1. 11. 
Pepin  Parmain  d'Angleterre.     Ib.  p.  131. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  regularly  shaped,  tapering  a  little 
from  the  base  to  the  crown,  which  is  a  little  narrowed. 


APPLES.  85 

Eye  small,  and  closed  by  the  short  segments  of  the 
calyx.  Stalk  short,  slender,  protruding  a  little  beyond 
the  base.  Skin  a  grass  green,  with  a  little  colour  of  a 
livid  red  on  the  sunny  side,  interspersed  with  a  few  dark 
specks,  particularly  on  the  produce  of  old  trees,  espe- 
cially those  which  are  encumbered  with  a  profusion  of 
wood.  Flesh  pale  green,  firm,  crisp.  Juice  not  plen- 
tiful, but  saccharine,  and  of  a  slight  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March. 

162.  WINTER  RED  CALVILLE*  Nursery  Cata- 
logues. 

Calville  Rouge.     DuhameL  4.  t.  3. 

Calville  .Rouge  d'Hiver.  Bon  Jard.  1827,  P-  323. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  132. 

Fruit  large,  of  an  oblong  figure,  broader  at  the  base 
than  at  the  crown,  about  three  inches  in  diameter,  and 
three  inches  and  a  half  deep.  Eye  large,  rather  deeply 
sunk.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  rather 
deeply  inserted.  Skin  pale  red  on  the  shaded  side,  but 
where  exposed  to  the  sun,  of  a  much  deeper  colour. 
Flesh  tender,  with  an  agreeable  juice. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  February. 


SECT.  VII. — Russets  and  Nonpareils. 

163.  ACKLAM'S  RUSSET.  Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  1. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  977* 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  perfectly  round  in  its 
outline,  and  rather  flat ;  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
in  diameter,  and  two  inches  deep.  Eye  small,  with  a 
converging  calyx,  sunk  in  a  very  regular,  circular,  open 
basin,  free  from  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  even 
with  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  covered  with  a 
very  thin,  smooth,  grey  russet,  in  which  are  interspersed 
numerous  yellowish  grey  specks.  Flesh  greenish  white, 

G  3 


86  APPLES. 

very  firm,  and  crisp.     Juice  sugary,    and   of  a  high 
poignant  flavour. 

A  very  neat  dessert  apple  from  November  till  Fe- 
bruary. 

This  is  a  Yorkshire  apple  of  great  merit ;  the  trees 
are  but  small  growers,  but  they  are  very  hardy,  and 
great  bearers. 

164<.  AROMATIC  RUSSET.  Nursery  Catalogues. 
But  not  of  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  1061. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  a  little  conical,  but  flattened  at 
both  the  base  and  the  crown.  Eye  small,  a  little  de- 
pressed. Stalk  very  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
green,  covered  with  a  thin  grey  russet,  and  a  little  tinged 
with  dull  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  white, 
firm,  crisp,  but  tender.  Juice  saccharine  and  per- 
fumed. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February. 

The  wood  of  this  tree  is  straight,  rather  slender;  and 
when  the  young  branches  are  vigorous,  they  are  furnished 
with  spurs,  somewhat  in  the  manner  of  the  Nonesuch. 
It  is  a  very  hardy  sort,  and  an  excellent  bearer. 

165.  ASHMEAD'S  KERNEL.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  20. 

Dr.  Ashmead's  Kernel,  of  the  Gloucester  shire  Gardens. 

Fruit  rather  small,  not  much  unlike  the  old  Nonpareil, 
except  in  being  a  little  longer,  and  having  a  few  obtuse 
angles  running  from  the  base  to  the  crown,  which  is 
somewhat  narrow.  Eye  small,  a  little  depressed.  Stalk 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender,  and  inserted 
half  its  length  in  a  conical  cavity.  Skin  of  a  pale  brown- 
ish grey  russet  upon  a  green  ground,  and  of  a  brownish 
orange  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm  and  crisp. 
Juice  plentiful,  of  an  excellent  and  rich  aromatic  flavour. 

A  very  neat  dessert  apple  from  November  till  May. 

The  habit  and  general  appearance  of  the  tree  is  very 
much  like  that  of  a  Nonpareil,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt 
of  its  having  originated  from  a  seed  of  that  fruit.  It  is 


APPLES.  87 

a  Gloucestershire  apple,  and  was  raised  by  a  Dr.  Ash- 
mead,  of  Ashmeads,  in  that  county.  It  is  a  very  valu- 
able and  hardy  variety,  highly  deserving  of  cultivation. 

166.  BOWYER'S  RUSSET.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  979. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  121. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  broadest  at  the  base  ; 
the  outline  tolerably  round,  about  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter,  and  one  inch  and  three  quarters  deep. 
Eye  close,  in  a  small  depression,  surrounded  by  obscure 
wrinkled  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a 
middle-sized  evenly-formed  cavity.  Skin  covered  all  over 
with  a  fine  golden  russet.  Flesh  greenish  white,  with  a 
tinge  of  yellow,  and  having  a  sharp,  rich,  aromatic^z//c0. 

A  very  handsome  and  valuable  dessert  apple  in  the  month 
of  September,  and  will  keep  a  few  weeks  after  this  time. 

Cuttings  of  it  were  sent  to  the  Horticultural  Society 
in  1824,  by  Mr.  Boult,  of  Hawthorn  Hill,  Maidenhead. 
It  is  perfectly  hardy,  bearing  abundantly  upon  standards 

1 67.  BRADDICK'S  NONPAREIL.   Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii. 
p.  268.  1. 10.  f.  3. 

Fruit  of  a  flattened  globular  figure,  three  inches  in 
its  widest,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  its  shortest 
diameter,  not  much  lessened  near  the  eye,  and  nearly 
flat  at  the  stalk.  Eye  rather  small,  inserted  in  a  some- 
what deep  and  nearly  rounded  basin,  almost  without 
plait  or  wrinkle.  Stalk  short,  not  deeply  inserted. 
Skin  smooth,  greenish  near  the  stalk,  becoming  tinged 
with  yellowish  brown,  and  a  considerable  portion  of 
brownish  red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  generally  a  patch 
of  fine  russet  round  the  eye.  Stalk  short,  not  deeply 
inserted.  Flesh  yellowish,  sweeter  and  more  melting 
than  the  old  Nonpareil,  with  a  richly  sugared  and 
slightly  aromatic  juice. 

A  dessert  apple  from  October  till  Christmas. 

This  very  valuable  apple  was  raised  by  John  Braddick, 
Esq.,  in  his  garden  at  Thames  Ditton,  in  Surrey. 


88  APPLES. 

168.  EARLY  NONPAREIL.      G.  Lindl.  Plan  of  an 
Orchard,  1796. 

Summer  Nonpareil,  1  Gardeners^  Names  in  Norfoik, 

otagg  s  JSIonpareil,    J 

Hicks's  Fancy.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  450. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  a  little  more  long  than  broad,  and 
somewhat  narrowed  at  the  crown.  Eye  small,  in  a  very 
shallow  basin.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
slender.  Skin  yellowish,  covered  with  a  very  thin  rus- 
set, interspersed  with  a  few  grey  specks.  Flesh  yellow- 
ish white,  very  crisp,  and  tender.  Juice  plentiful,  of 
a  rich  and  highly  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  in  October  and  November. 

This  very  excellent  apple  was  raised  from  a  seed  of 
the  old  Nonpareil,  by  a  nurseryman  of  the  name  of 
Stagg,  at  Caister,  near  Great  Yarmouth,  in  Norfolk, 
about  fifty  years  ago.  The  tree  has  much  the  appear- 
ance of  the  Nonpareil,  except  its  wood  being  shorter, 
and  of  a  more  upright  growth.  Its  last  name  originated 
somewhat  whimsically,  in  a  nursery  near  town,  in  con- 
sequence of  a  gentleman  of  the  name  of  Hicks  having 
selected  this,  from  a  large  collection  of  which  he  had 
tasted,  in  preference  to  any  other.  It  is  a  hardy  bearer, 
and  highly  deserving  of  cultivation. 

169.  FENOUILLET  GRIS.     Duhamel,  10.  t.  5. 
Anis.     Ib. 

Caraway  Russet.      Hort  Soc.  Cat.  No.  982. 

Spice  Apple.  ^  ^ 

Brown  Apple  of  Burnt  Island.     I  Id.    No.  1061. 

Rook's-nest  Apple.  J 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish  ovate,  of  a  very  regular 
outline,  without  any  angles  on  its  sides,  about  two 
inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter  at  its  base, and  two  inches 
deep.  Eye  small,  with  narrow  diverging  segments,  deep- 
ly sunk  in  a  narrow,  funnel-shaped  basin.  Stalk  short, 
deeply  sunk  in  a  funnel-shaped  cavity,  quite  within  the 


APPLES.  89 

base.  Skin  yellowish  grey,  covered  with  a  thin  russet, 
and  very  slightly  tinged  with  brown  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  crisp,  tender,  with  a  saccharine 
and  highly  flavoured  aromatic  juice. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February. 

This  is  a  very  neat  French  apple,  and  has  been  some 
years  in  the  London  nurseries,  where  it  is  often  sold 
under  the  name  of  Aromatic  Russet.  The  tree  is  a 
rather  small  grower,  with  slender,  smooth,  wiry  branches, 
which  seldom  produce  any  spurs  upon  those  of  the  pre- 
sent year  :  it  is  hardy,  and  a  good  bearer. 

170.  GOLDEN   RUSSET.      Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  5J. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  983. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  pretty  regular  in  its 
outline,  without  angles,  generally  about  two  inches  deep, 
and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  rather 
small,  close,  moderately  depressed,  surrounded  by  irre- 
gular plaits,  part  of  which  are  more  prominent  than  the 
rest.  Stalk  very  short,  deeply  inserted  in  an  uneven 
narrow  cavity,  not  protruding  so  far  as  the  base.  Skin 
thick,  of  a  pale  copper-coloured  yellowish  russet,  very 
thick  and  rough  on  the  shaded  side,  with  a  few  patches, 
occasionally,  of  bright  red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  verru- 
cose  at  the  base.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  very  firm  and  crisp. 
Juice  not  plentiful,  but  saccharine,  of  an  aromatic  and 
slightly  musky  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  December  till  April. 

The  Golden  Russet  has  been  known  in  our  gardens 
ever  since  the  time  of  Ray,  who  makes  it  synonymous 
with  the  Aromatic  Russet.  The  trees  are  very  hardy, 
bearing  well  in  bleak  situations  ;  they  grow  to  a  good 
size,  and  are  rather  remarkable,  in  having  a  profusion  of 
slender  pendulous  branches. 

171.  HORSHAM  RUSSET.    G.LindL  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.iv.  p.  69. 

Fruit  about   the   size  of  a  Nonpareil,  but  not  so 


90  APPLES. 

regular  in  its  outline,  generally  about  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  deep.  Eye  small, 
closed,  in  a  small  depression  without  angles.  Stalk 
short,  rather  thick,  rather  deeply  inserted  in  a  wide 
uneven  cavity.  Skin  pale  green,  covered  with  a  thin, 
yellowish  grey  russet  round  its  upper  part,  with  a  pale 
salmon-coloured  tinge  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
greenish  white,  firm,  crisp.  Juice  plentiful,  of  a  high 
aromatic  Nonpareil  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March. 

Raised  from  the  seed  of  a  Nonpareil  about  thirty 
years  ago,  by  Mrs.  Goose,  of  H  or  sham  Saint  Faith's, 
near  Norwich.  It  is  a  very  hardy  tree,  and  a  good 
bearer. 

172.  HUNT'S  DUKE  OF  GLOUCESTER.  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  525. 

Hunt's  Nonpareil.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  659. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  resembling  a  Nonpareil  in  form, 
but  is  a  little  more  oval.  Skin  a  clear  green  on  the 
shaded  side,  but  little  of  that  colour  is  visible,  nearly 
the  whole  being  covered  with  thin  russet,  becoming 
coarser  and  thicker  round  the  eye ;  on  the  sunny  side 
it  is  tinged  with  a  reddish  brown.  Flesh  white,  mixed 
with  green,  like  the  old  Nonpareil,  crisp,  juicy,  and  high 
flavoured. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March  or  April. 

Raised  by  Dr.  Fry,  of  Gloucester,  from  a  seed  of 
the  Nonpareil,  and  was  first  exhibited  at  the  Horticul- 
tural Society  in  1820. 

173.  KNOBBY    RUSSET.      Hort.   Trans.    Vol.  iv. 
p.  219. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oval  form.  Eye  consider- 
ably depressed.  Stalk  short,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
yellow,  with  a  mixture  of  green,  but  nearly  covered  with 
russetty  warts.  Flesh  yellowish,  crisp,  not  juicy,  but 
sweet  and  high  flavoured. 


APPLES.  91 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  May. 

Fruit  from  Midhurst,  in  Sussex,  gathered  from  the 
tree  in  January,  1820,  was  exhibited  at  the  Horticul- 
tural Society  in  March  and  May  following.  It  is  a 
valuable  fruit,  and  extremely  hardy. 

174.  MARTIN  NONPAREIL.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii. 
p.  456.    Pom.  Mag.  t.  79. 

Fruit  larger  than  that  of  the  old  Nonpareil,  and 
more  irregular  in  figure  ;  it  is  generally  roundish,  some- 
times approaching  a  conical  form.  Eye  rather  wide, 
surrounded  by  broad  angular  plaits.  Stalk  short,  thick, 
not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  lemon  colour,  sprinkled  and 
shaded  with  yellowish  brown  russet.  Flesh  yellow, 
firm.  Juice  saccharine  and  rich. 

A  dessert  apple  from  December  till  May. 

This  very  valuable  apple  was  raised  by  the  Rev. 
George  Williams,  of  Martin  Hussingtree,  near  Wor- 
cester. It  had  been  received  by  him  from  a  nursery,  as 
a  crab-stock,  about  the  year  1795.  It  is  a  great  bearer 
as  a  standard  tree,  and  highly  valuable  to  those  who 
cultivate  fruit  for  the  market,  as  it  is  in  perfection  at  a 
period  of  the  year  when  good  apples  fetch  a  high  price. 

175.  OLD  NONPAREIL.     Langley,  Pom.  t.  79-  f.  4. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  86. 

Non-Pareille.     Duhamel,  35.  1. 12.  f.  2. 

Nom-Pareil.     Knoop.  Pom.  t.  9- 

Reinette  Nompareille.     Ib.  p.  51. 

Grime  Reinette,  of  the  Germans,  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  approaching  to  middle-sized,  flat,  broadest  at 
the  base.  Eye  very  small,  prominent,  or  very  slightly 
depressed.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender,  three  quarters 
of  which  protrudes  beyond  the  base.  Skin9  when  fully 
ripened,  greenish  yellow,  slightly  coated  with  light 
russet ;  occasionally,  where  fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  of 
a  reddish  brown.  Flesh  very  firm,  crisp.  Juice  not 


APPLES. 

plentiful,  but  of  a  most  singularly  rich,  poignant,  aro- 
matic flavour. 

One  of  our  most  admired  dessert  apples,  in  its  greatest 
perfection  from  Christmas  to  Lady-day. 

Switzer,  in  17^4,  says,  "  The  Nonpareil  is  no  stranger 
in  England,  though  it  might  have  had  its  origin  in 
France ;  yet  there  are  trees  of  it  about  the  Ashtons,  in 
Oxfordshire,  of  about  one  hundred  years  ojd,  which  (as 
they  have  it  by  tradition)  were  first  brought  out  of 
France,  and  planted  by  a  Jesuit,  in  Queen  Mary's  or 
Queen  Elizabeth's  time."  From  which  it  appears  that 
it  must  have  been  in  our  gardens  above  two  centuries. 
The  trees  are  regularly  good  bearers ;  and  when  grafted 
upon  the  Doucin  stock,  upon  a  good  soil,  and  under 
judicious  management,  their  fruit  has  been  as  perfect 
as  the  best  of  our  newest  productions. 

176.  OLD  ROYAL  RUSSET,  of  the  old  Gardens. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  rather  irregular  in  its 

outline,  about  three  inches  in  diameter,  and  two  inches 
and  a  half  deep.  Eye  small,  with  a  closed  calyx,  deeply 
sunk  in  a  narrow,  oblique,  irregular  basin,  surrounded 
by  blunt  plaits.  Skin  a  rough  grey  russet,  upon  a 
green  ground,  with  dull  brown  breaking  through  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very  firm.  Juice 
not  plentiful,  very  sharp  sub- acid,  with  a  slight  astrin- 
gency  before  fully  matured. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  April. 

Late  in  the  season,  when  it  begins  to  shrivel,  it  ejats 
pretty  well ;  but  before  that  time  it  is  too  harsh  to  bring 
to  table.  The  trees  grow  to  the  largest  size,  are  very 
hardy,  and  in  all  seasons  great  bearers. 

The  Leathercoat  Russet  of  some  country  orchards  is 
very  different  from  this,  very  inferior,  and  making  a 
very  ugly  tree,  mostly  full  of  disease,  and  not  worth 
cultivating. 

177.  PATCH'S  RUSSET.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  993. 


APPLES.  93 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  ovate,  slightly  angular 
on  its  sides,  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and 
two  inches  and  a  half  or  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  long,  slender,  connivent 
calyx,  placed  in  a  narrow,  somewhat  irregularly  formed 
basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  very  slender,  inserted  in  a 
funnel-shaped  cavity,  one  half  protruding  beyond  the 
base.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin 
grey  russet.  Flesh  pale  yellowish  white,  crisp.  Juice 
brisk  acid,  with  a  rich  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March. 

178.  PENNINGTON'S    SEEDLING.      Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  778. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  round,  slightly  angular 
on  the  sides,  and  somewhat  flattened,  broadest  at  the 
base,  and  narrowed  at  the  crown ;  about  three  inches 
in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep.  Eye 
closed  with  long  slender  segments  of  the  calyx,  in  a 
rather  shallow  irregularly  formed  hollow.  Stalk  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  long,  strong,  inserted  in  a  wide  uneven 
cavity,  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin  green  when 
first  gathered,  with  numerous  small  russetty  specks  on 
the  shaded  side ;  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  covered 
pretty  thickly  with  a  scabrous  warty  russet,  and  tinged 
a  little  with  pale  brown.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  firm, 
crisp,  juicy,  saccharine  mixed  with  a  brisk  acid,  and  of 
an  agreeable  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March. 

This  is  a  new  variety,  and  appears  to  be  a  very  valu- 
able apple,  the  description  of  which  was  taken  from  a 
fruit  grown  in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick 
in  1830. 

179.  PILE'S  RUSSET.     Miller,  Ed.  8.  No.  17- 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  irregularly  formed,  with 

broad  ribs  extending  from  the  base  to  the  crown,  where 
it  is  rather  narrow,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in 
diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep.  Eye 


94  APPLES. 

closed,  with  a  somewhat  long  leafy  calyx,  seated  in  a 
narrow,  oblique,  angular  basin.  Stalk  short,  deeply  in- 
serted in  a  wide  uneven  cavity,  not  protruding  beyond 
the  base.  Skin  pale  green,  covered  with  a  good  deal 
of  russet,  and  tinged  with  muddy  orange  or  dull  brown 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  very  firm,  crisp.  Juice 
saccharine,  with  a  sub-acid  briskness  and  aromatic 
flavour. 

A  dessert  as  well  as  culinary  apple  from  November 
till  March  or  April,  Towards  the  spring,  when  the 
fruit  begins  to  shrivel,  the  Pile's  Russet  is  an  excellent 
table  fruit. 

180.  PINE- APPLE  RUSSET.  G.  Lindl.  Plan  of  an 
Orchard,  1796, 

Hardingham's  Russet,  of  the  Norwich  Gardens. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  roundish  ovate,  with  broad 
obtuse  angles  on  its  sides,8  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  in  diameter^  and  two  inches  and  a  half  deep. 
Eye  small,  with  a  very  short  connivent  calyx,  placed  in 
a  shallow  depression,  surrounded  by  ten  rather  unequal 
plaits.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  an  uneven  cavity, 
one  half  of  which  protrudes  beyond  the  base.  Skin  pale 
greenish  yellow,  almost  covered  with  white  specks  on 
one  part,  and  a  thick  scabrous  yellowish  russet  on  the 
other,  which  extends  round  the  stalk.  Flesh  very  pale 
yellow,  crisp,  very  short  and  tender.  Juice  more 
abundant  than  in  any  apple  I  have  ever  met  with,  as  it 
generally  runs  very  copiously  as  soon  as  cut  open,  $ac- 
charine,  with  that  just  proportion  of  acid  which  charac- 
terises our  most  valuable  fruits,  and  of  a  spicy  aromatic 
flavour,  with  a  high  perfume. 

A  dessert  apple  from  the  end  of  September  to  the 
middle  of  October. 

This  most  valuable  apple  has  taken  its  name  from  its 
abundance  of  juice,  which  somewhat  resembles  that  of  a 
Pine-apple.  ^  The  oldest  tree  remembered  in  Norwich 
was  growing  a  century  ago  in  a  garden  belonging  to 


APPLES.  95 

Mr.  Hardingham,  who  died  but  a  few  years  ago.  The 
garden  now  belongs  to  Mr.  William  Youngman.  It  is 
undoubtedly  one  of  the  best  apples  of  its  season,  and  is 
highly  deserving  of  cultivation. 

181.  PITM ASTON  NONPAREIL.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  267.  1. 10.  f.  4. 

Pitmaston  Russet  Nonpareil.     Id. 

Saint  John's  Nonpareil.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  669. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  flatly  compressed,  rather  nar- 
rowest at  the  crown,  near  three  inches  in  its  widest,  and 
two  inches  and  a  half  in  its  shortest  diameter.  Eye 
rather  open,  in  a  broad  shallow  basin,  surrounded  by 
slight  irregular  plaits.  Stalk  short,  not  deeply  inserted. 
Skin  of  a  dull  green,  nearly  covered  with  russet,  a  little 
mixed  with  yellow,  and  faint  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  greenish,  rather  more  inclined  to  yellow  than 
that  of  the  Nonpareil.  Juice  rich,  with  a  high  aromatic 
flavour,  and  the  peculiar  perfume  of  the  Nonpareil. 

A  dessert  apple  of  great  merit  in  November  and  De- 
cember. 

Raised  by  John  Williams,  Esq.  in  his  garden  at 
Pitmaston,  Saint  John's,  near  Worcester. 

182.  POWELL'S  RUSSET.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  994. 
Fruit  rather  small,  about  two  inches  in  diameter, 

and  an  inch  and  three  quarters  deep,  somewhat  flat  at 
both  ends,  and  quite  free  from  angles  on  its  sides.  Eye 
small,  open,  slightly  sunk  in  a  shallow  narrow  bason. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  very  regular 
round  cavity,  twice  as  deep  as  the  crown.  Skin  pale 
yellowish  green,  partially  covered  with  a  thin  pale 
russet,  but  wholly  covered  round  the  crown,  and  shaded 
with  brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  of  a  clear 
pale  yellow.  Juice  plentiful,  saccharine,  and  approach- 
ing in  flavour  to  a  well-ripened  Nonpareil. 

A  very  neat  dessert  apple  from  November  till  January. 

This  a  good  deal  resembles  the  Acklam's  Russet, 
except  in  the  crown,  which  is  narrower,  and  the  depres- 


96  APPLES. 

sion  not  quite  so  deep.  It  is  a  very  neat  and  excellent 
little  apple,  and  may  be  justly  reckoned  one  of  our  best 
Russets. 

183.  REINETTE    DE    HONGRIE.      Hort.    Soc.   Cat. 
No.  908. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  and  somewhat  flat,  without 
any  angles  on  its  sides,  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and 
two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  rather 
small,  with  a  connivent  calyx,  seated  in  a  deep  basin, 
surrounded  by  a  few  slight  plaits.  Stalk  short,  deeply 
inserted  in  a  knobby  cavity.  Skin  a  completely  thick, 
rough,  grey  russet,  with  a  little  faint  orange  on  the 
sunny  side,  the  whole  covered  with  numerous  warty 
specks,  more  or  less  prominent.  Flesh  greenish  white, 
intermixed  with  green,  firm,  crisp.  Juice  saccharine, 
of  a  rich  aromatic  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  April. 

184.  Ross  NONPAREIL.     Hort.    Trans.    Vol.  iii. 
p.  454.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  90. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish,  not  at  all  angular, 
about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  the  same  in 
diameter,  but  having  one  of  its  sides  a  little  longer  than 
the  other.  Eye  small,  placed  in  a  shallow  depression. 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted,  protruding  beyond 
the  base.  Skin  russetty,  and  stained  with  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  greenish  white,  sweet  and  rich, 
with  an  agreeable  perfumed  fennel  flavour. 

A  dessert  fruit  from  November  till  April.  ^ 

This  is  of  Irish  origin,  and  is  one  of  the  few  fennel- 
flavoured  apples  which  are  cultivated  among  us.  It  is 
a  great  bearer,  and  healthy  on  all  soils,  and  deserves  an 
extended  cultivation. 

185.  ROYAL    RUSSET.       Miller,  Ed.  8.    No.  15. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  125. 

Passe- Pomme  de  Canada,     1    of  the  French,  accord- 
Reinette  de  Canada  grise,   J   ing  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 


APPLES.  97 

Fruit  large,  broad  at  the  base,  enlarged  in  the  middle, 
and  narrowed  at  the  crown,  about  three  inches  and  three 
quarters  in  diameter,  and  nearly  three  inches  deep,  its 
form  being  rather  flat  than  oblong.  Eye  rather  small, 
with  a  long,  closed  calyx,  placed  in  a  narrow,  and  rather 
deep,  unequally  plaited  basin.  Stalk  very  short,  deeply 
inserted  in  a  widely  formed  hollow.  Skin  dull  yel- 
lowish green,  nearly  covered  with  a  somewhat  thick 
grey  russet,  tinged  with  a  little  orange-brown  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  greenish  white,  with  a  tinge 
of  yellow.  Juice  saccharine,  with  a  good  deal  of  acid, 
and  a  slight  aromatic  flavour. 

A  culinary  apple  from  November  till  May. 

This  is  the  Royal  Russet  of  the  London  markets ; 
but  several  other  Russets  go  by  this  name  in  different 
parts  of  England.  What  is  understood  in  many  parts 
of  the  country  as  the  Royal  Russet,  is  described  under 
the  name  of  Old  Royal  Russet,  which  may  serve  to 
distinguish  it  from  the  present  one. 

186.  SAM  YOUNG.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  324. 
and  454.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  130. 

Irish  Russet.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  985,  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  of  a  smallish  size,  somewhat  globular,  flattened, 
about  one  inch  and  three  quarters  deep,  and  two  inches 
and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  remarkably  wide  and  open, 
in  a  broad  depression.  Stalk  short.  Skin  bright 
yellow,  with  minute  brown  spots,  and  a  considerable 
quantity  of  russet,  especially  round  the  stalk;  in  some 
specimens  red  on  the  sunny  side,  usually  cracking. 
Flesh  inclining  to  yellow,  mixed  with  green ;  tender, 
and  melting.  Juice  plentiful,  sweet,  with  a  delicious 
flavour,  scarcely  inferior  to  that  of  the  Golden  Pippin. 

An  Irish  dessert  apple,  of  high  reputation,  ripe  in 
November,  and  will  keep  good  for  two  months. 

The  merits  of  this  very  valuable  apple  were  made 

H 


98  APPLES. 

known  in  1818  by  Mr.  Robertson,  of  Kilkenny.  It  is 
certainly  one  of  the  best  of  our  modern  apples,  and 
cannot  have  too  general  a  cultivation. 

187.  SCARLET  NONPAREIL.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  670. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  87. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  larger  than  the  old  Nonpareil, 
about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  three  inches  in 
diameter,  roundish,  without  any  angles  on  its  sides. 
Eye  shallow,  placed  in  a  regularly-formed  depression, 
surrounded  with  very  small  plaits.  Stalk  variable  in 
length,  sometimes  nearly  an  inch  long,  sometimes  a  thick 
fleshy  knob.  Skin  deep  red  next  the  sun,  sprinkled 
with  pale  brown  dots  ;  the  shaded  part  yellowish  green, 
passing  off  into  streaks  towards  the  junction  of  the  two 
colours.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  juicy,  rich,  and 
very  excellent. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  March. 

The  Scarlet  Nonpareil  was  raised  in  a  garden  belong- 
ing to  a  public  house  at  Esher,  in  Surrey,  about  1773, 
from  a  seed  of  the  old  Nonpareil.  Mrs.  Grimwood  pur- 
chased the  original  stock,  from  which  some  plants  were 
obtained  by  Mr.  Kirke,  whose  annual  exhibitions  in  his 
garden  of  large  quantities  of  its  beautiful  fruit  have 
caused  its  cultivation  now  to  be  extended  to  almost 
every  part  of  England,  where  it  cannot  fail  of  being  uni- 
versally admired.  It  is  a  very  hardy  sort,  and  a  great 
and  constant  bearer.  The  Schafer  apple  of  the  Ger- 
mans, quoted  in  the  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  as  a  synonym^to 
this,  is  found  to  be  a  distinct  variety. 

188.  SIELY'S  MIGNONNE.      G.  Lind.  Cat.  1805. 
Pride  of  the  Ditches.     Local,  in  Norwich. 

Fruit  rather  small,  about  one  inch  and  three  quarters 
deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter.  It  is  not  quite  cir- 
cular, in  consequence  of  one  of  its  sides  being  occa- 
sionally a  little  flattened,  but  is  without  any  angles. 
Eye  small,  with  a  closed  calyx,  placed  somewhat  deeply 


APPLES.  99 

in  a  rather  irregularly  formed  narrow  basin,  surrounded 
by  a  few  small  plaits.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender, 
about  one  half  within  the  base,  in  a  narrow  cavity,  and 
occasionally  pressed  towards  one  side,  by  a  protuberance 
on  the  opposite  one.  Skin,  when  clear,  of  a  bright 
yellow,  but  mostly  covered  with  a  grey  netted  russet, 
rendering  the  skin  scabrous.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
firm,  crisp,  and  tender.  Juice  saccharine,  highly  aro- 
matic, and  of  a  most  excellent  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  November  till  February. 

This  neat  and  very  valuable  little  apple  was  intro- 
duced into  notice  about  thirty  years  ago  by  the  late  Mr. 
Andrew  Siely,  of  Norwich,  who  had  it  growing  in  his 
garden  on  the  Castle  Ditches,  and  being  a  favourite 
with  him,  he  always  called  it  the  Pride  of  the  Ditches. 
The  tree  is  a  weak  grower,  and  somewhat  tender.  It 
is,  therefore,  advisable  to  graft  it  upon  the  Doucin 
stock,  and  train  it  either  as  a  dwarf,  or  as  an  espalier  in 
the  garden.  .  Its  name  of  Siely's  Mignonne  was  first 
published  in  my  Nursery  Catalogue  of  1805. 

189.  SWEENEY  NONPAREIL.  Hart.  Trans.  Vol.  iv. 
p.  526. 

Fruit  somewhat  of  the  form  of  the  old  Nonpareil, 
but  more  irregular  in  its  outline,  and  larger,  about  two 
inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  three  inches  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  perfectly  closed  by  the  short  segments  of  the 
calyx,  seated  in  a  narrow  and  shallow  depression,  sur- 
rounded by  a  few  wrinkled  plaits.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
slender,  inserted  in  a  wide  but  shallow  cavity  ;  and,  like 
the  old  Nonpareil,  it  protrudes  considerably  beyond  the 
base.  Skin  green,  with  white  spots,  which  become  oval 
round  the  stalk,  and  patches  of  russet  all  over  it,  having 
sometimes  the  brilliant  colour  of  a  fine  Nonpareil. 
Flesh  firm  and  crisp,  with  abundance  of  juice,  in  which 
a  powerful  acid  is  combined  with  much  sugar. 

H  2 


100  APPLES. 

A  dessert  apple  from  the  middle  of  November  till 
March. 

This  very  fine  apple  was  raised  by  J.  N.  Parker,  Esq. 
in  1807,  at  Sweeney,  in  Shropshire.  The  tree  is  an 
abundant  bearer,  and  the  fruit  sometimes  grows  to  a 
large  size ;  the  largest  it  ever  produced  was  in  1818, 
measuring  eleven  inches  and  a  quarter  in  circumference, 
and  weighing  nine  ounces  and  a  quarter.  Twenty  of  its 
fruit,  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1820, 
weighed  seven  pounds  thirteen  ounces  avoirdupoise. 

190.  SYKEHOUSE  RUSSET.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond. 
t.  40.  Pom.  Mag.  t.Sl. 

Prager,  of  some  Dutch  Collections,  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  flat,  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish  figure,  and 
much  flattened  at  both  extremities,  nearly  three  inches 
in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep.  Eye 
open,  deeply  sunk  in  an  open  even  basin.  Stalk  vari- 
able in  length,  and  not  deeply  inserted.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  more  or  less  covered  with  a  thin  grey  russet, 
which  in  some  seasons  almost  entirely  disappears ;  on 
the  sunny  side,  of  a  deep  rich  brown,  interspersed  with 
small  russetty  patches.  Flesh  greenish  white,  approach- 
ing to  yellow  when  fully  matured,  firm,  juicy,  with  a 
fine  subacid  flavour. 

A  dessert  apple  from  December  till  March. 

This  most  excellent  apple  derives  its  name  from  the 
village  of  Sykehouse,  in  Yorkshire.  Its  young  wood  \s 
somewhat  long-jointed,  very  straight  and  erect,  and 
grows  to  a  greater  length  in  one  season  than  any  other 
apple  I  have  ever  propagated.  It  is  a  hardy  tree,  and  a 
good  bearer,  but  best  grafted  on  the  Doucin  stock,  and 
trained  in  the  garden  as  an  espalier. 

191.  WHEELER'S  RUSSET.     Miller,  Ed.  8.  No.  16. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  irregularly  shaped  and  somewhat 

flat,  from  two  inches  and  a  half  to  two  inches  and  three 


APPLES. 


quarters  in  diameter,  and  two  to  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  deep.  Eye  rather  small,  with  a  closed  calyx, 
placed  in  a  rather  shallow,  uneven,  broad-plaited 
basin.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow  funnel-shaped 
cavity,  seldom  protruding  beyond  the  base.  Skin 
pale  yellowish  grey  russet  quite  round  the  fruit,  and 
on  the  sunny  side  of  a  lively  brown,  sprinkled  with 
russetty  specks.  Flesh  firm,  greenish  white.  Juice 
not  plentiful,  but  of  a  brisk,  saccharine,  aromatic  flavour, 
charged  with  acid. 

A  dessert  and  culinary  apple  from  November  till 
May. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  winter  apple  ;  and  when  highly 
ripened  and  beginning  to  shrivel,  is  one  of  the  best  rus- 
sets of  its  season.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  grows  hand- 
somely, and  is  an  excellent  bearer. 

192.  WHITE  RUSSET.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  454. 

Fruit  rather  large,  angular  on  its  sides,  about  three 
inches  in  diameter,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
deep.  Eye  wrinkled.  Stalk  short.  Skin  yellowish 
russetty  green,  intermixed  with  white,  and  having  a 
little  light  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  and 
highly  flavoured  when  in  perfection,  but  apt  to  grow 
mealy  when  too  ripe. 

An  Irish  dessert  apple,  and  in  use  there  in  Novem- 
ber and  December. 


SECT.  VIII.  —  Cider  Apples* 

193.  BENNET  APPLE.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  21. 

Fruit  somewhat  long,  irregularly  shaped,  broad  at  its 
base,  and  narrowing  to  the  crown ;  but  sometimes 
broader  in  the  middle  than  at  either  of  its  extremities. 
A  few  obtuse  angles  terminate  at  the  eye,  which  is 
small,  with  very  short  segments  of  the  nearly  closed 

H  3 


•••  APPLES. 

calyx.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  very  slender.  Skin, 
on  the  shady  side,  a  dull,  dingy-coloured,  russetty  grey, 
shaded  on  the  sunny  side  with  numerous  streaks  and 
patches  of  orange  colour  and  muddy  red. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1073. 

This  apple  has  been  chiefly  cultivated  in  the  deep  and 
strong  soils  of  the  south-west  part  of  Herefordshire.  It 
affords  excellent  cider,  when  mixed  with  other  varieties. 

Many  of  the  trees  are  of  great  bulk,  which  prove  it 
to  have  been  known  in  the  seventeenth  century.  Its 
name  has,  no  doubt,  been  derived  from  the  person  who 
first  raised  it  from  seed. 

194.  BEST  BACHE.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  16. 
Bache's  Kernel.     Jb. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oblong  shape,  with  two  or 
three  obtuse  angles,  terminating  at  the  crown.  Eye 
small ;  segments  of  the  calyx  short  and  flat.  Stalk  short, 
very  stiff,  so  that  the  fruit  is  always  in  the  direction  of 
the  bud  from  which  it  sprang.  Skin  yellow,  shaded 
and  streaked  with  light  and  deeper  red,  with  now  and 
then  a  few  black  specks  :  these,  however,  are  more  to  be 
attributed  to  a  crowded  state  of  old  trees,  than  a  natural 
appearance  of  healthy  fruit  from  young  trees  in  a  state 
of  vigour,  and  in  a  kind  season. 

This  observation  may  be  understood  to  hold  good  in 
every  description  of  our  orchard  fruit. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1073. 

The  origin  of  its  name  cannot  be  ascertained  ;  but  ks 
it  has  sometimes  been  called  Bache's  Kernel,  it  probably 
has  originated  from  the  name  of  the  person  who  first 
raised  it  from  seed.  It  is  principally  cultivated  in  the 
south-east  part  of  Herefordshire. 

195.  COCCAGEE.     Hort.  Soc.Cat.  167, 
Cockagee.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  22. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  conical,  two  inches  and  a  half 
deep,  and  two  inches  and  thre'e  quarters  in  diameter,  a 


APPLES.  103 

little  angular  on  its  sides,  which  terminate  irregularly  in 
the  crown.  Eye  small,  with  a  closed  calyx,  rather 
deeply  sunk  in  an  uneven,  irregularly  plaited  basin. 
Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow,  shallow  cavity,  not 
protruded  beyond  the  base.  Skin  smooth*  pale  lemon 
colour  quite  round  the  fruit,  with  a  few  greenish  specks 
interspersed.  Flesh  rather  soft,  yellowish  white.  Juice 
sharp  acid,  with  an  unpleasant  astringency. 

This  apple  produces  the  well  known,  and  by  some 
highly  esteemed,  Coccagee  Cider.  Mr.  Forsyth  de- 
scribes it  as  of  a  red  colour  next  the  sun  ;  but  those 
which  were  given  me  by  Mr.  Kirke  were  perfectly  free 
from  red  in  every  part.  I  had  no  means  of  ascertaining 
the  specific  gravity  of  its  juice* 

196.  COWARNE  RED.     Pom.  Heref  t.  28. 

Fruit  of  a  pretty  good  size,  a  little  more  long  than 
broad,  but  narrow  at  the  crown,  in  which  appear  a  few 
obtuse  and  undefined  plaits.  Eye  small,  with  very 
short  converging  segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  hardly 
half  an  inch  long,  very  stiff  and  straight.  Skin,  a  small 
part  of  it  pale  gold  on  the  shady  side  and  round  the 
base,  but  of  a  bright  red  over  a  great  part,  and  where 
fully  exposed  to  the  sun  of  an  intense  deep  purplish  crim- 
son :  there  are  numerous  short  streaks  which  mark  the 
shady  side  of  the  fruit. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1069- 

The  trees  of  this  sort  grow  to  a  large  size,  and  are 
great  bearers.  Its  name  arises  from  the  parish  of  Cow*, 
arne,  near  Bromyard,  in  Herefordshire,  where  it  was 
first  raised  something  more  than  a  century  ago.  This 
name  does  not  occur  in  the  old  catalogues. 

—  DOWNTON  PIPPIN.     See  No.  50. 

This  apple  sprang  like  the  Grange  Apple,  and  in  the 
same  year,  from  a  seed  of  the  Orange  Pippin,  and  the 
pollen  of  the  Golden  Pippin.  The  original  tree,  with 
that  of  the  Grange  Apple,  is  growing  at  Wormsley 

H  4 


104  APPLES. 

Grange,  in  Herefordshire.    The  young  trees  very  soon 
come  into  bearing,  and  the  fruit  is  excellent. 
Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1080. 

197.  FOREST  STYRE.     Pom.  Heref.  t.1%. 
Red  Styre.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  globular,  not  much  unlike  the 
Orange  Pippin,  except  its  being  deeper,  and  sunk  at  the 
eye,  which  is  nearly  closed  by  the  short,  blunt  seg- 
ments of  the  calyx.  The  crown  is  regularly  marked 
quite  into  the  eye  by  ten  regularly  marked  obtuse  plaits. 
Stalk  short,  causing  the  fruit  to  sit  pretty  close  to  the 
branches.  Skin  soft  yellow,  shaded  and  marbled  with 
deepish  orange. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1076  to  1081. 

The  Styre,  or  Stire,  is  a  native  of  Gloucestershire, 
and  is  planted  principally  in  the  light  soils,  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  the  Forest  of  Dean,  where  it  affords  a 
stronger  cider  than  the  deeper  soils  of  Herefordshire. 
Styre  cider  may  be  found  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Chep- 
stow  of  thirty  and  forty  years  old.  In  Phillips's  Poem 
on  Cider  he  calls  this  the  Stirom,  a  name  which  is  now 
become  obsolete. 

198.  FOXLEY  APPLE.    Pom.  Heref.  t.  14. 

Fruit  very  small,  growing  in  clusters  of  two  or  three 
together,  somewhat  globular,  but  a  little  narrowed  at 
the  crown.  Eye  not  sunk,  the  segments  of  the  calyx 
strong,  narrow,  and  diverging.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
slender.  Skin  bright  gold,  very  full  of  minute  dots; 
and  shaded  with  slight  dashes  and  streaks  of  deep  orange. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1080. 

Raised  by  Mr*  Knight,  at  Wormsley  Grange,  from  a 
seed  of  the  Siberian  Crab,  which  had  been  fertilised  by 
the  pollen  of  the  Golden  Pippin.  Mr*  Knight  is  in- 
duced to  believe  that  no  situation  can  be  found  in  which 
our  native  Crab  will  grow  and  produce  fruit,  where  the 
Foxley  Apple  will  not  afford  a  fine  cider.  It  derives 


APPLES.  105 

its  name,  Foxley,  from  the  seat  of  the  late  Uvedale  Price, 
Esq.,  in  whose  garden,  on  a  grafted  tree,  it  acquired  ma- 
turity. It  obtained  the  premium  of  the  Herefordshire 
Agricultural  Society  in  1808. 

199-  Fox- WHELP.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  3. 

Fruit  irregular,  somewhat  oval-shaped,  with  two  or 
three  prominent  angles  which  terminate  in  the  eye  : 
crown  rather  narrow  and  pointed,  and  the  base  uneven. 
Skin  yellow  and  red  mixed,  with  a  good  deal  of  deeper 
red  streaked  all  over  the  fruit. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1076  to  1080. 

The  expressed  juice  of  this  is  extremely  rich  and  sac- 
charine, and  enters,  in  a  greater  or  less  proportion,  into 
the  composition  of  many  of  the  finest  ciders  now  made 
in  Herefordshire,  to  which  it  communicates  both  strength 
and  flavour.  It  has  been  known  ever  since  the  time  of 
Ray,  in  1688;  and  Mr.  Knight  believes  it  to  be  a  native 
of  Herefordshire. 

200.  FRIAR  APPLE.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  30. 

Fruit  of  a  good  size,  somewhat  conical,  being  broad 
at  its  base,  and  tapering  to  the  crown,  which  is  very 
narrow  and  pointed.  Eye  sunk,  and  surrounded  by 
four  or  five  obtuse,  but  prominent  plaits.  Stalk  short 
and  stiff,  notwithstanding  which  the  fruit  are  generally 
pendent.  Skin  dull  grass  green  on  the  shaded  side ; 
but  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  of  a  very  dark,  muddy, 
livid  red. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1073. 

This  apple  is  cultivated  principally  in  the  north-west 
parts  of  Herefordshire.  The  trees  are  generally  vigorous 
and  productive,  and  in  kind  seasons  its  cider  is  veiy 
good.  It  is  difficult  to  say  from  what  its  name  has  ori- 
ginated, as  nothing  more  can  be  traced  of  its  history. 

201.  GARTER  APPLE.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  26. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  tapering  from  the  base  to 

its  crown,  perfectly  round  in  its  circumference,  and  free 


106  APPLES. 

from  angles.  Eye  a  little  sunk,  and  closed  by  the  short 
segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  short.  Skin  pale  yellow 
on  the  shaded  side,  but  where  exposed  to  the  sun  of  a 
bright  lively  red,  shaded  with  darker  streaks  and  patches 
quite  into  the  crown. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1066. 

The  Garter  Apple  has  been  much  cultivated  during 
the  decay  of  the  older  and  more  valuable  varieties  ;  and 
in  mixing  with  those,  though  it  contains  but  a  small 
portion  of  saccharine  matter,  it  contributes  to  afford 
excellent  cider.  The  origin  of  its  name  is  quite  un- 
certain. 

—  GOLDEN  HARVEY.     See  No.  91. 

The  cider  produced  from  the  Golden  Harvey,  or 
Brandy  Apple,  is  of  very  great  strength,  with  little 
richness  ;  it  has  thence  been  called  the  Brandy  Apple : 
in  a  very  warm  situation  and  season,  it,  however, 
sometimes  affords  a  most  exceedingly  rich  cider. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1085. 

There  are  different  varieties  of  the  apple  cultivated  in 
Herefordshire  under  the  name  of  Harvey  :  the  Golden 
Harvey  derives  its  name  from  the  bright  yellow  colour 
of  its  pulp. 

—  GOLDEN  PIPPIN.     See  No.  26. 

The  Golden  Pippin,  although  one  of  our  very  finest 
dessert  apples,  is  likewise  one  which  has  ever  been  the 
most  esteemed  for  its  cider. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1078. 

202.  GRANGE  APPLE.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  7< 

Fruit  of  small  size,  globular,  round  at  the  crown. 
Eye  very  little  sunk,  the  segments  of  the  calyx  strong, 
acute,  reflexed.  Stalk  short  and  thick.  Skin  yellowish 
green,  a  little  russetted  near  the  base  with  a  darker 
greyish  green,  and  more  inclined  to  yellow  on  the 
sunny  side. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1079. 


APPLES.  107 

Raised  at  Wormsley  Grange  by  Mr.  Knight,  from  a 
seed  of  the  Orange  Pippin,  which  had  been  fertilised  by 
the  pollen  of  the  Golden  Pippin,  in  1791.  It  is  a  very 
excellent  cider  fruit,  and  obtained  the  premium  given 
by  the  Agricultural  Society  of  Herefordshire,  in  1802, 
for  the  best  cider  apple  recently  raised  from  seed. 

203.  HAGLOE  CRAB.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  5. 

Fruit  small,  ill-shaped,  something  between  an  apple 
and  a  crab,  more  long  than  broad,  wide  at  the  base,  and 
narrower  at  the  crown,  which  is  a  little  sunk,  and  the  eye 
flat.  Skin  pale  yellow,  a  little  marbled  in  different 
directions  with  a  russetty  grey,  and  having  a  few  red 
specks  or  streaks  on  the  sunny  side.  Eye  flat,  with  a 
spreading  calyx.  Stalk  short. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1081. 

The  Hagloe  Crab,  when  planted  on  a  dry  soil,  with 
a  calcareous  bottom,  in  a  warm  situation  and  season, 
produces  a  most  excellent  cider,  both  of  strength  and 
body.  Mr.  Marshall  states  it  to  have  been  raised  by 
Mr.  Bellamy,  of  Hagloe,  in  the  parish  of  Awre,  in 
Gloucestershire,  towards  the  end  of  the  seventeenth 
century  ;  but  Mr.  Knight  thinks  it  existed  long  pre- 
vious to  that  time,  as  long  ago  the  original  tree  could 
not  be  found  at  Hagloe. 

204.  LOAN  PEARMAIN.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  6. 
Fruit  rather  small,  somewhat  globular  ;  the  crown  is 

rather  narrow ;  the  Eye>  and  the  segments  of  the  calyx 
flat.  Skin  pale  yellow,  marbled  all  over  with  orange- 
coloured  specks  and  streaks.  Stalk  about  half  an  inch 
long,  fleshy  next  the  fruit. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  Juice  1072. 

As  a  cider  apple,  the  Loan  Pearmain  possesses  much 
merit,  and  contains  a  considerable  proportion  of  saccha- 
rine matter,  combined  with  a  good  deal  of  astringency. 
The  tree  is  a  weak  grower,  and  is  frequently  encum- 
bered with  a  multiplicity  of  slender  shoots.  It  does  not 


108  APPLES. 

appear  to  have  been  known  in  the  seventeenth  century, 
nor  can  its  origin  now  be  satisfactorily  ascertained. 

This  pretty  little  fruit  is  not  the  Loan's  Pearmain  of 
the  nurseries  about  London. 

205.  OLD  QUINING.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  19- 

Fruit  oblong,  having  obtuse  but  prominent  angles, 
extending  from  the  base  to  the  crown,  where  they  cor- 
respond to  the  number  of  the  divisions  of  the  calyx. 
Eye  small,  with  erect  segments,  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  slender.  Skin  dull,  dingy  yellow,  very  much 
shaded  with  red,  and  of  a  very  high  dark  colour  on  the 
sunny  side. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1073. 

Hay,  who  wrote  in  the  sixteenth  century,  mentions 
the  Queening  Apple,  and  it  has  also  been  called  Queen- 
ing by  other  writers  ;  but  there  seems  to  be  no  authority 
for  this  orthography.  It  appears  more  probably  to  have 
originated  from  Coin  (often  called  Quoin),  from  its 
angular  sides.  The  fruit  is  very  good  for  table  when 
first  gathered  from  the  tree.  As  a  cider  apple  it  was 
formerly  held  in  esteem  ;  but  more  modern  kinds  seem, 
at  the  present  day,  to  have  usurped  its  place. 

206.  ORANGE  PIPPIN.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  8. 
Marygold.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  593. 

Isle  of  Wight  Orange.     Ib.  484. 

Isle  of  Wight  Pippin.     Ibid. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  globular.  Eye  but  little  sunk, 
with  broad,  acute  segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  vefy 
short.  Skin  a  yellowish  golden  grey,  with  a  russetty 
epidermis,  highly  coloured  with  orange  and  red  on  the 
sunny  side. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1074. 

This  very  beautiful  apple  is  cultivated  in  Hereford- 
shire, both  as  a  dessert  and  cider  apple.  Its  yellow 
pulp  communicates  a  fine  golden  tinge  to  the  juice 


APPLES.  109 

of  other  varieties,  and  it  is  of  itself  an  excellent  cider 
fruit. 

Its  name  has  originated,  no  doubt,  from  the  appear- 
ance of  its  fruit  when  highly  ripened,  resembling  that  of 
a  crop  of  very  ripe  Seville  Oranges.  There  are  trees 
now  to  be  found  100  years  old  ;  but  where  it  originated 
cannot  be  ascertained. 

It  has  been  supposed  by  some  that  the  Orange  Pippin 
was  brought  from  Normandy  to  the  Isle  of  Wight,  and 
that  the  first  of  the  kind  was  planted  in  the  garden  of 
Wraxhall  Cottage,  near  the  under  cliff,  where  it  was 
growing  in  18 17. 

207.  PAWSAN.     Pom.  Here/,  t.  15. 

fruit  above  the  middle  size,  pretty  round,  without 
angles  ;  but  sometimes  it  is  rather  oval.  Crown  but 
little  hollow.  Eye  small,  with  short  reflexed  segments 
of  the  calyx.  Skin  dull  muddy  olive-green,  a  good  deal 
reticulated  with  a  fine  network.  Stalk  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  long,  slender,  causing  the  fruit  to  be  pen- 
dent. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1076. 

Many  trees  of  the  Pawsan  are  found  in  the  south- 
east or  Ryeland  district  of  Herefordshire,  which  have 
apparently  stood  more  than  a  century.  Its  pulp  is  ex- 
ceedingly rich  and  yellow,  and  in  some  seasons  it  affords 
cider  of  the  very  finest  quality.  Its  name  cannot  be 
traced  to  any  probable  source. 

208.  RED  MUST.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  4. 

Fruit  nearly,  if  not  quite,  the  largest  cider  apple  cul- 
tivated in  Herefordshire.  It  is  rather  broad  and  flattish, 
a  little  irregular  at  its  base,  which  is  hollow.  Stalk 
slender.  Crown  sunk.  Eye  deep,  with  a  stout  erect 
calyx.  Skin  greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  with 
a  deep  rosy  colour  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  shaded 
with  a  darker  red. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1064. 


110  APPLES. 

Ray  has  both  a  Red  and  a  White  Must  apple  among 
his  cider  fruit.  The  Red  Must  has  been  more  exten- 
sively cultivated  in  Herefordshire  than  it  is  at  present. 
Its  cider  has  always  been  held  in  estimation  ;  and 
although  frequently  thin  of  itself,  when  its  fruit  have 
been  pressed  with  others,  the  cider  has  been  much 
superior  to  that  which  could  have  been  obtained  from 
those  sorts  if  pressed  alone.  It  appears  to  be  a  native 
of  Herefordshire,  the  deep  soils  of  which  produce  trees 
of  considerable  magnitude. 

209.  REDSTREAK.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  1. 

Fruit  nearly  globular,  but  narrowed  at  the  crown. 
Eye  small,  with  a  converging  calyx.  Stalk  slender. 
Skin  yellowish  gold  colour,  but  of  a  vermillion  red 
where  exposed  to  the  sun,  with  deeper  streaks,  which 
are  more  or  less  marked  all  around  the  fruit. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1079. 

Mr.  Knight,  the  author  of  the  very  interesting 
Pomona  Heref  or  densis,  is  of  opinion  that  the  Red- 
streak  was  the  first  fine  cider  apple  that  was  cultivated 
in  Herefordshire,  or  probably  in  England  ;  arid  thinks 
it  may  be  doubted,  whether  excellent  cider  was  ever 
made  in  any  country  previous  to  the  existence  of  this 
apple. 

It  is  unquestionably  a  native  of  Herefordshire,  and  is 
supposed  to  have  been  raised  from  seed  by  Lord  Scuda- 
more  in  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century.  When 
it  began  to  be  first  cultivated,  it  was  called  Scudamortfs 
Crab,  and  he  certainly  first  pointed  out  its  excellence 
to  the  Herefordshire  planters.  Lord  Scudamore  was 
ambassador  to  the  court  of  France  in  the  time  of  King 
Charles  the  First. 

£10.  SIBERIAN  BITTER-SWEET.  Hort.Trans.Vol.vi. 
p.  547- 

Fruit  rather  more  than  twice  the  size  of  the  Siberian 
Crab,  and  not  unlike  it  in  shape,  but  with  more  colour 


APPLES.  Ill 

on  its  sunny  side.  Mr.  Knight,  who  raised  it  from  a 
seed  of  the  Siberian  Crab,  which  had  been  fertilised  by 
the  pollen  of  the  Golden  Harvey,  says  it  is  wholly 
worthless,  except  for  the  press  ;  for  this  purpose  it  is 
highly  valuable,  when  crushed  with  the  more  austere 
sorts,  as  it  contains  a  larger  portion  of  saccharine  matter 
than  any  other  apple  known.  I  have  tasted  it  at  Mr. 
Knight's,  and  could  compare  it  to  nothing  so  much  as 
to  a  sweet  apple  sliced  and  dipped  in  moist  sugar.  It 
obtained  the  premium  awarded  by  the  Agricultural  So- 
ciety of  Herefordshire  in  1826,  for  the  best  new  variety 
of  cider  apple. 

The  tree  is  a  most  abundant  bearer,  and  possesses  the 
valuable  property  of  resisting  the  attacks  of  the  white 
mealy  insect,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  Winter  Majitin 
of  Norfolk.  The  Siberian  Bitter- Sweet  appears  to  have 
produced  its  first  fruit  in  1818,  as  Mr.  Knight  says  in 
a  letter  to  me  (September,  1830),  "The  original  tree  has 
borne  thirteen  successive  crops,  in  defiance  of  several 
very  severe  and  destructive  frosts ;  and  all  heavy  ones  : 
the  quality  of  the  fruit  consequently  is  apt  to  suffer 
greatly,  and  this  takes  off  much  from  its  value,  as  over- 
loaded trees  never  afford  rich  fruit,  or  fine  cider." 

211.  SIBERIAN  HARVEY.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  23. 

Fruit  small,  and  nearly  globular.  Eye  small,  with 
short  connivent  segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  short. 
Skin  of  a  bright  gold  colour,  tinged  with  faint  and 
deeper  red  on  the  sunny  side.  The  fruit  grows  a  good 
deal  in  clusters  on  slender  wing  branches. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1091. 

This  was  raised  by  Mr.  Knight  from  a  seed  of  the 
Siberian  Crab,  which  had  been  fertilised  by  the  pollen 
of  the  Golden  Harvey.  It  produced  blossoms  first  in 
1807,  and  that  year  obtained  the  premium  of  the  Agri- 
cultural Society  of  Herefordshire.  Its  juice  is  intensely 
sweet.  The  fruit  becomes  ripe  the  middle  of  October, 


112  APPLES. 

but  will  remain  on  the  tree  long  after  it  is  ripe,  and  after 
its  leaves  are  fallen. 

21 2.  STEAD'S  KERNEL.     Pom.  fferef.  t.  25. 
Fruit  a  little  turbinate,    or   top- shaped,   something 

resembling  a  quince.  Eye  small,  flat,  with  a  short 
truncate,  or  covered  calyx.  Stalk  short.  Skin  yellow, 
a  little  reticulated  with  a  slight  greyish  russet,  and  a 
few  small  specks  intermixed. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1 074. 

As  a  cider  apple,  this  appears  to  possess  great  merit, 
combining  a  slight  degree  of  astringency  with  much 
sweetness.  It  ripens  in  October,  and  is  also  a  good 
culinary  apple  during  its  season. 

It  was  raised  from  seed  by  the  late  Daniel  Stead,  at 
Brierly,  near  Leominster,  in  Herefordshire. 

—  WINTER  PEARMAIN,  see  No.  161.     Ray,  1688. 

Parmain  d'Hiver.     Knoof.  Pom.  p.  64.  t.  11. 

Old  Pearmain.     Pom.  fferef.  t.  29. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  regular  in  shape,  and  about  one- 
fourth  part  more  long  than  broad.  Crown  a  little  nar- 
rowed. Eye  small,  and  closed  by  the  shut  segments  of 
the  calyx.  Stalk  short.  Skin  grass  green,  with  a  little 
colour  of  a  livid  red  on  the  sunny  side,  interspersed  with 
a  few  dark  specks. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1079. 

This  was  extensively  cultivated  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  and  is  called  by  Evelyn  and  Worlidge  the 
Winter  Pearmain.  Knoop  also  calls  it  Pepin  Parmatn 
d'Angleterre,  from  which  it  would  appear,  that  on  the 
Continent  it  was  considered  of  English  origin.  It  is  a 
very  good  apple,  and  in  a  fine  season  is  equally  calculated 
for  the  press  or  the  dessert. 

213.  WOODCOCK  APPLE.     Pom.  fferef.  1. 10. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oval  shape,  tapering  a  little 

to  the  crown,  which  is  narrow.  Eye  flat,  with  broad 
segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch 


APPLES.  113 

long,  thick,  and  fleshy,  and  curved  inwards  towards  the 
fruit.  Skin  yellow,  nearly  covered  with  a  soft  red,  and 
much  deeper  colour  on  the  sunny  side. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  Juice  1073. 

The  Woodcock  apple  has  been  frequently  mentioned 
by  writers  of  the  seventeenth  century,  as  a  cider  apple 
of  great  excellence ;  but  its  cultivation  seems  on  the 
decline.  Its  name  is  generally  supposed  to  have  been 
derived  from  an  imaginary  resemblance  of  the  form  of 
the  fruit  and  fruit-stalk,  in  some  instances,  to  the  head 
and  beak  of  a  woodcock, 

214.  YELLOW  ELLIOT.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  YJ. 

Fruit  of  a  good  size,  rather  more  flat  than  long,  having 
a  few  obtuse  angles  terminating  in  the  crown.  Eye 
small,  with  short  diverging  segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk 
short.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly  shaded  with  orange 
on  the  sunny  side. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  juice  1076. 

The  Yellow  Elliot  was  well  known  by  planters  of  the 
seventeenth  century.  The  cider  in  a  new  state  is  harsh 
and  astringent ;  but  it  grows  soft  and  mellows  with  age. 
It  is  supposed  to  have  derived  its  name  from  the  person 
who  raised  it  from  seed,  as  we  find  it  mentioned  by 
Phillips  in  his  poem  on  cider. 

A  Selection  of  Apples  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 

SUMMER    APPLES. 


Early  Red  Margaret          -     13     Spring  Grove  Codlin 
Margaret                              -       5     Summer  Golden  Pippin 

AUTUMNAL   APPLES. 

Early  Nonpareil         -        -168     King  of  the  Pippins 
Franklin's  Golden  Pippin  -     24     Old  Golden  Pippin 
Hughes's  Golden  Pippin    -     29     Padley's  Pippin 
Keswick  Codlin                  .    56     Pine  Apple  Russet 

I 

-       9 
-     10 

-     24 
-     26 
-     34 
-  180 

APPLES. 


Acklam's  Russet 
Ashmead's  Kernel 
Barcelona  Pearmain 
Canadian  Reinette 
Cornish  Aromatic 
Court  of  Wick 
Dutch  Mignonne 
Fearn's  Pippin 
Golden  Harvey 


WINTER  APPLES. 

-  163  Hanwell  Souring     -  -  139 

-  165  Hubbard's  Pearmain  -  -  142 

-  118  Margil                      -  -  100 

-  76  Martin  Nonpareil         -  -  174? 

-  78  Norfolk  Beaufin  .      -  -  105 

-  79  Northern  Greening      -  -  149 

-  82  Old  Nonpareil  -  175 

-  87  Ribston  Pippin  ••  155 

-  91  Royal  Pearmain        -  -  156 


Northern  Counties  of  England,  and  Southern  of  Scotland. 

SUMMER    APPLES, 


Early  Red  Margaret 
Margaret 


13     Oslin       j> 
5     Red  Quarendon 


AUTUMNAL    APPLES. 


Early  Nonpareil  -  -  168 
English  Codlin  -  53 

Franklin's  Golden  Pippin  24 
Hughes's  Golden  Pippin  29 
Keswick  Codlin  -  -  56 


King  of  the  Pippins  -     24 

Old  Golden  Pippin     -  -     26 

Padley's  Pippin      ;^  -     34 

Pine  Apple  Russet  -  180 

Wormsley  Pippin      -  -     43 


Acklam's  Russet 
Adams's  Pearmain 
Blenheim  Pippin 
Canadian  Reinette 
Cornish  Aromatic     - 
Dutch  Mignonne 
Margil 
Martin  Nonpareil 


WINTER  APPLES. 

-  163  Minchal  Crab  .V;  ...,,,  -  101 
-115  New  York  Pippin         -  -147 

-  72  Norfolk  Colman         -  -110 
•''^'    76  Northern  Greening     -  -  149 

-  78  Old  Nonpareil  -  175 

-  82  Ribston  Pippin         -  -  1^5 

-  100  Royal  Pearmain     -  -  156 

-  174  Scarlet  Nonpareil       -  -  187 


Early  Julien 

Early  Red  Margaret 

Hawthornden 


Highlands  of  Scotland. 

SUMMER    APPLES. 

2     Oslin 

-  13     Rivelstone  Pippin 

-  27     Summer  Pearmain 


-  6 

-  15 

-  64 


APPLES.  115 

WINTER    APPLES. 

Blenheim  Pippin  -       -     72  Northern  Greening         -  149 

Canadian  Reinette       -      -     76  Old  Nonpareil  -  175 

Contin  Reinette  -  77*  Piles  Russet  -  179 

Coul  Blush  130*  Ribston  Pippin  -  155 

Fulwood  -     89  Royal  Russet  -  185 

Golden  Reinette       ;W      '•    93  Scarlet  Nonpareil     -  -  187 

Kinellan  Apple  144*  Sweeny  Nonpareil    ff .--;     -  189 

Lemon  Pippin         -  -  145  Tarvey  Codlin         -         -  158* 

Margil         .    •  -          100  Yorkshire  Greening     -  -  114 

In  the  Highlands  of  Scotland  winter  apples  can 
hardly  be  expected  to  arrive  at  perfection,  unless  when 
planted  against  walls. 


The  variety  of  apples  cultivated  in  this  country  is  by 
far  too  numerous  to  attempt  any  thing  like  a  complete 
description :  even  to  enumerate  them  would  be  a  most 
difficult  task,  owing  to  the  great  uncertainty  of  their  names 
among  nurserymen,  gardeners,  and  orchardists,  and  the 
multiplicity  of  names  under  which  they  are  known  in 
different  parts  of  the  kingdom. 

In  apples,  a  greater  confusion  exists  in  this  respect 
than  in  any  other  description  of  fruit.  This  arises  not 
so  much  from  the  great  number  of  varieties  which  are 
grown,  as  from  the  number  of  growers,  some  of  whom 
seek  to  profit  by  their  crops  alone,  regarding  but  little 
their  nomenclature.  Nurserymen,  who  are  more  anxious 
to  grow  a  large  stock  for  sale  than  to  be  careful  as  to  its 
character,  are  led  into  error  by  taking  it  for  granted  that 
the  name  of  a  fruit  they  propagate  is  its  correct  name, 
and  no  other :  hence  arises  the  frequency  of  so  many  of 
our  fruits  being  sold  under  wrong  names.  Gardeners, 
who  purchase  trees,  become  deceived  by  this  procedure, 
and  do  not  discover  the  error,  unless  they  have  been 
imposed  upon  by  the  substitution  of  something  worthless, 
wholly  and  obviously  at  variance  with  the  character  of 
the  fruit  that  was  sold  them.  This  is  a  serious  evil, 


116  APPLES. 

to  say  nothing  of  the  disappointment  to  the  purchaser ; 
for,  unless  the  mistake  be  detected  at  first,  the  longer  the 
tree  grows  before  it  is  discovered,  the  more  time  will 
have  been  lost  in  its  cultivation  ;  and,  be  it  remem- 
bered, this  time  is  irrecoverable. 

The  foregoing  descriptions  of  many  of  our  most  po- 
pular apples,  it  is  presumed,  will  be  found  sufficiently 
clear,  to  enable  the  pomologist  to  detect  these  egre- 
gious and  every-day  blunders,  and  to  ascertain  whether 
he  cultivates  those  fruits  that  have  been  sold  him,  or 
whether  he  has  had  others  substituted  for  them. 


Propagation. 

There  are  only  two  kinds  of  stocks  on  which  it  is 
desirable  to  propagate  the  apple  in  this  country:  the 
Wild  Crab,  from  which  our  verjuice  is  obtained,  and 
the  Doucin  stock.  The  first  is  that  for  our  most  vigor- 
ous and  hardy  sorts  for  orchard  planting  ;  the  second 
for  our  more  tender  and  delicate  dessert  apples,  for 
dwarf  trees,  and  espaliers  for  the  garden.  This  last  is 
most  generally,  in  our  nurseries,  called  the  Paradise 
stock,  although  widely  different  from  the  Pomme  Pa- 
radis  of  the  French,  a  sort  not  worth  growing  in  this 
country. 

In  the  cider  counties,  the  crab  is  generally  trained 
up  standard  high,  and  when  grown  sufficiently  large  for 
the  purpose,  it  is  grafted  the  height  at  which  it  is  in* 
tended  the  head  of  the  tree  should  be  formed  :  this  is 
generally  from  seven  to  eight  feet  from  the  ground.  In 
the  nurseries,  all  the  apples  intended  for  standards  are 
grafted  about  nine  inches  high  only,  allowing  them  to 
grow  up  standard  high,  and  forming  the  head  upon  the 
second  year's  shoot ;  but,  instead  of  grafting  them,  a 
much  better  method  is  to  bud  them,  as  they  make  much 
better  trees  in  the  same  length  of  time. 


APPLES.  117 

This  latter  practice  is  recommended  for  standards 
only,  as  I  have  always  found  grafted  plants  of  apples, 
and  also  those  of  pears,  plums,  and  cherries,  far  superior 
for  dwarfs  to  those  which  have  been  raised  from  buds. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

With  regard  to  pruning,  training,  and  general  ma- 
nagement of  fruit  trees  of  every  description,  I  wish 
it  to  be  fully  understood,  that  they  cannot  be  removed 
from  the  nursery  too  soon  after  the  wood  has  become 
ripe,  and  the  leaves  fallen  off;  for  between  this  time 
and  the  winter  many  of  them  will  make  fresh  roots, 
and  be  prepared  to  push  forth  their  young  shoots  with 
much  more  vigour  in  the  spring,  than  those  whose 
transplanting  has  been  deferred  till  a  late  period  of  the 
season. 

It  should,  therefore,  be  constantly  borne  in  mind, 
that  where  the  greatest  success  is  desired  in  forming 
new  plantations  of  trees,  whether  in  the  orchard  or  the 
garden,  such  necessary  precautions  should  not  be  lost 
sight  of  in  order  to  secure  it. 

The  first  step  to  be  taken,  in  order  to  the  accomplish- 
ment of  this  object,  is  an  early  and  effectual  preparation 
of  the  soil ;  and  the  next,  an  early  transplanting  of 
the  trees ;  the  rest  will  depend  upon  their  subsequent 
management.  On  this  latter  subject  I  shall  give  a  few 
short,  and,  I  hope,  intelligible  directions,  under  the  dif- 
ferent heads  as  they  occur,  in  addition  to  what  has  been 
said  when  treating  of  their  propagation. 


Open  Standards* 

Such  trees  as  are  intended  for  open  standards  should 
be  young,  clean,  and  healthy  5  their  stems  should  be 

i  3 


118  APPLES. 

straight,  and  their  heads  should  consist  of  not  less  than 
three  nor  more  than  four  branches,  equal  in  strength, 
and  regularly  placed  :  these  will  be  sufficient  to  form 
the  principal  limbs,  for  the  support  of  the  largest  heads 
that  can  be  required. 

The  trees  should  be  staked  as  soon  as  planted,  in 
order  to  keep  them  upright,  and  to  secure  them  against 
violent  winds.  They  should  not  be  headed  down  the 
first  year,  nor  will  they  require  to  be  headed  down  after- 
wards, in  such  trees  whose  growth  is  upright ;  but  such 
as  are  of  a  pendent  growth  should  remain  till  they  are 
well  established  in  the  ground  ;  and  may  then  be  headed 
down,  leaving  the  branches  nine  or  twelve  inches  long, 
when  the  young  shoots  will  assume  a  more  upright  di- 
rection. At  the  end  of  the  year  these  should  be  thinned 
out,  selecting  those  which  are  the  best  placed  and  most 
regular  in  their  growth  for  forming  the  future  head. 
After  this,  nothing  more  will  be  necessary  than  to  look 
them  over  from  time  to  time,  cutting  out  carefully  any 
superabundant  branches  which  may  appear,  particularly 
those  which  have  a  tendency  to  injure  the  proper  figure 
of  the  head,  or  are  likely  to  become  stronger  than  the 
rest :  these  latter,  if  suffered  to  remain,  will  injure  any 
description  of  tree,  whether  it  be  a  standard,  an  espalier, 
or  whether  it  be  trained  against  a  wall. 


Open  Dwarfs. 


v 


Open  dwarfs  are  such  as  are  generally  planted  on  the 
borders,  or  in  the  quarters  of  the  garden,  and  consist  of 
such  as  are  intended  to  furnish  fruit  for  the  dessert  only  : 
those  for  the  kitchen  more  properly  belong  to  the 
orchard  department.  Besides,  open  dwarfs  should  con- 
sist of  those  kinds  whose  wood  is  short^  slender,  and 
easily  kept  within  a  moderate  compass  j  this  latter  object 


APPLES.  119 

is  accomplished  more  effectually  by  grafting  them  upon 
the  Doucin  stock ;  the  crab  being  destined  to  the  sup- 
port of  orchard  standards,  or  dwarfs  for  large  gardens, 
where  the  trees  can  be  allowed  plenty  of  room.  And 
here  it  may  be  observed,  that  dwarfs  on  crab- stocks  are 
much  more  adapted  for  large  and  ponderous  fruit  than 
standards,  as  they  not  only  produce  larger  fruit,  but  are 
less  likely  to  be  blown  down  by  high  winds.  Trees  for 
this  purpose  should  have  their  branches  of  an  equal 
strength  :  those  which  have  been  grafted  one  year,  or 
what  are  termed  by  nurserymen  maiden  plants,  are  the 
best ;  they  should  not  be  cut  down  when  planted,  but 
should  stand  a  year,  and  then  be  headed  down  to  the 
length  of  four  or  six  inches,  according  to  their  strength; 
these  will  produce  three  or  four  shoots  from  each  cut- 
down  branch,  which  will  be  sufficient  to  form  a  head. 
At  the  end  of  the  second  year,  two  or  three  of  the  best 
placed  of  these  from  each  branch  should  be  selected,  and 
shortened  back  to  nine,  twelve,  or  fifteen  inches  each, 
according  to  their  strength,  taking  care  to  keep  the  head 
perfectly  balanced  (if  the  expression  may  be  allowed),  so 
that  one  side  shall  not  be  higher  nor  more  numerous  in 
its  branches  than  the  other,  and  all  must  be  kept  as  near 
as  may  be  at  an  equal  distance  from  each  other.  If  this 
regularity  in  forming  the  head  be  attended  to  and  effected 
at  first,  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  keeping  it  so  after* 
wards,  by  observing  either  to  prune  to  that  bud  imme- 
diately on  the  inside  next  to  the  centre  of  the  tree,  or 
that  immediately  on  the  outside.  By  this  means,  view- 
ing it  from  the  centre,  the  branches  will  be  produced 
in  a  perpendicular  line  from  the  eye  ;  whereas,  if  pruned 
to  a  bud  on  the  right  or  left  side  of  the  branch,  the 
young  shoot  will  be  produced  in  the  same  direction  : 
so  that  if  the  branches  formed  round  a  circle  be  not 
thus  pruned  to  the  eyes  on  the  right  successively,  or  the 
left  successively,  a  very  material  difference  will  be  found, 

1  4- 


120  APPLES. 

and  the  regularity  of  the  tree  will  be  destroyed,  in  one 
single  year's  pruning ;  which  may  be  readily  illustrated 
thus  : — Fix  four  branches,  either  in  a  direct  line,  or  to  a 
circular  hoop,  at  the  distance  of  eight  inches  from  each 
other :  let  the  first  branch  on  the  left  be  called  a,  the 
second  b,  the  third  c,  the  fourth  d ;  head  down  a  to 
the  left  hand  bud  ;  b  to  the  right ;  c  to  the  left ;  and 
d  to  the  right.  When  these  have  grown  a  year,  those 
between  b  and  c  will  be  only  six  inches  apart,  while 
those  between  a  and  b  and  between  c  and  d  will  be 
ten  inches :  thus  the  distances  now  are  not  as  eight  to 
to  eight,  but  as  six  to  ten ;  which  would  require  two 
years'  pruning  in  a  contrary  direction  to  restore  the  head 
to  its  former  regularity :  and  it  must  not  be  forgotten 
that  this  system  of  pruning  will  hold  good  in  every 
other  case. 

What  has  just  been  said,  has  reference  only  to  the 
leading  shoots,  which  are  always  produced  from  the  ter- 
minal buds  when  pruned,  and  which  alone  form  the 
figure  and  beauty  of  the  tree.  The  intermediate  space 
must  of  course  be  provided  for  at  the  same  time,  having 
a  regard  to  the  number  of  branches  thus  employed, 
that  they  do  not  crowd  each  other.  On  the  contrary, 
they  must  be  kept  thin,  and  perfectly  open,  so  as  to  ad- 
mit plenty  of  sun  and  air,  without  which  the  fruit 
produced  will  be  small  and  good  for  but  little :  the 
middle  of  the  tree,  indeed,  must  be  kept  quite  open  from 
the  first  to  the  last,  taking  care  that  all  the  surrounding 
branches  lead  outwards,  and  preserving  a  regular  dis- 
tance from  each  other. 

In  pruning  the  supernumerary  shoots,  they  should  be 
cut  down  to  within  an  inch  of  the  bottom,  which  will 
generally  cause  the  surrounding  eyes  to  form  natural 
blossom  spurs  ;  but  where  the  tree  is  in  a  vigorous  state 
of  growth,  branches  will  probably  be  produced  instead 


APPLES.  121 

of  spurs :  if  so,  they  must  all  be  cut  out  close,  except 
one,  which  must  be  shortened  as  before. 

In  all  the  winter  prunings,  care  must  be  taken  to 
keep  the  spurs  short  and  close,  none  of  which  should 
at  any  time  exceed  three  inches  ;  cutting  out  clean  all 
the  blank  spurs,  which  have  produced  fruit  the  previous 
summer,  to  the  next  perfect  bud  below. 

Should  canker  be  perceived  in  any  of  the  branches, 
or  older  limbs,  if  of  a  formidable  nature,  they  should, 
at  this  pruning,  be  cut  out  to  the  sound  wood,  where,  in 
general,  nature  will  have  provided  some  young  shoots 
of  more  than  usual  strength,  for  the  purpose  of  remedy- 
ing the  defect.  When  canker  arises  from  some  acci- 
dental cause,  such  as  wounds,  by  early  attention  it  may 
be  overcome ;  but  when  it  arises  from  a  constitutional 
disease,  amputation  is  the  only  remedy  for  the  affected 
part.  Should  it  break  out  on  an  extended  scale,  an 
efficacious  remedy  will  be  sought  in  vain — the  shortest, 
and  the  least  expensive,  will  be  to  root  up  the  tree. 

These  appear  to  me  to  be  all  the  instructions  necessary 
to  be  observed  in  the  management  of  open  dwarfs : 
they  are,  at  least,  such  as  I  have  myself  pursued  for 
many  years  ;  and  I  have  found  ample  compensation, 
not  only  in  abundant  crops,  but  in  fine  and  perfect 
specimens  of  fruit. 

Espaliers. 

Espalier  trees  are  of  old  standing  in  this  coun- 
try, and  are  admirably  adapted  for  small  gardens,  where 
every  yard  of  room  is  of  consequence  ;  and  in  large 
gardens  they  are  equally  valuable  with  the  open  dwarf. 

There  are  two  ways  of  forming  espaliers  :  the  most 
common  is  that  of  training  the  two  sides  in  the  manner 
of  horizontal  wings :  this  method  always  leaves  the 
centre  open,  from  the  curvature  of  the  inner  branches, 


APPLES. 

which  gives  the  tree  an  awkward  and  vacant  appearance. 
The  other  method  is  to  train  a  perpendicular  shoot  from 
the  centre,  and  furnish  the  sides  with  branches  at  right 
angles  from  the  main  stem  :  this  last  appears  to  me  the 
most  simple,  and  the  best ;  because  it  leaves  no  blank  in 
the  tree,  and  is  the  most  easy  to  be  accomplished. 

In  proceeding  to  form  a  tree  of  this  description, 
select  a  plant  of  one  year  old  from  the  graft,  with  three 
even  shoots  if  possible :  when  planted,  place  five  short 
stakes  in  the  line  the  espalier  is  intended  to  be  trained, — 
one  in  the  centre,  and  two  on  each  side,  —  at  a  foot 
distance  from  each  other ;  training  the  centre  shoot 
perpendicularly  to  the  centre  stake,  and  the  two  side 
shoots  horizontally  to  the  four  others :  these  must  be 
kept  at  their  full  length  till  the  plant  has  been  esta- 
blished a  year.  If  then  it  appears  to  be  in  a  state  of 
vigour,  cut  back  the  three  branches  ;  the  two  side  ones 
to  six  inches,  and  the  centre  one  to  nine  or  ten.  When 
the  young  shoots  are  produced  from  these,  train  the 
extreme  or  strongest  one  from  each  of  the  side  branches 
horizontally.  The  centre  shoot  will  have  produced 
three  shoots  at  least ;  the  uppermost  of  which  must  be 
continued  perpendicularly,  and  the  two  next  beneath 
trained  horizontally,  one  on  each  side.  This  will  then 
form  the  espalier.  This  process  must  be  continued 
from  year  to  year  till  the  tree  has  arrived  at  its  intended 
height,  which  is  generally  about  five  feet. 

If  the  centre  shoot  produces  three  others  annual!^ 
when  cut  down  to  nine  inches,  it  will  require  seven 
years  to  complete  the  seven  series  of  horizontal  branches: 
but  sometimes  it  happens  that  the  centre  shoot  possesses 
sufficient  vigour  to  produce  two  series,  or  five  branches, 
by  shortening  it  to  eighteen  inches  instead  of  nine ;  if 
so,  this  advantage  may  be  seized. 

Should  the  tree,  after  having  been  planted  a  year, 
not  possess  sufficient  vigour  to  throw  *  out  three  shoots 


APPLES.  123 

From  the  centre  branch,  all  the  three  branches  must 
be  cut  back  to  two  or  three  eyes,  and  a  single  shoot 
trained  from  each :  the  year  following  proceed  as  directed 
at  first :  this  will  cause  a  delay  in  forming  the  tree. 

After  this,  the  horizontal  shoots  must  be  trained  at 
length,  shortening  the  supernumerary  ones  so  as  to  form 
natural  spurs,  as  directed  for  the  open  dwarfs :  the 
spurs,  also,  must  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

In  training  the  espalier,  it  will  of  course  have  been 
found  necessary,  after  the  second  year,  to  increase 
the  number,  as  well  as  the  size,  of  the  stakes :  they 
should  be  clean  and  straight,  regularly  placed,  and 
supplied  to  the  extent  required  by  the  tree. 

If  the  large-fruited  kitchen  apples,  upon  crab- 
stocks,  are  intended  to  be  grown  as  espaliers,  the 
branches  should  be  trained  at  twelve  inches  distance 
from  each  other,  instead  of  nine. 

INDEX  TO  APPLES. 

Acklam's  Russet       .-,  -  1G3  Belle  Bonne  -121 

Adams's  Pearmain     *.,  -  115  Belledge             -  -     68 

^Esopus  Spitzemberg    -  -  116  Belle  Gricleline  -     69 

Alexander  .-  22  •  Belle  Grisdeline  -     69 

Alfriston  -  -  46  Bell's  Scarlet  -         -     62 

American  Neivtotvn  Pippin  103  Belvoir  Pippin  -  69* 

Anis  -  169  Bennett  Apple  -  193 

Aporta      -.  *  22  Ben  well's  Pearmain  -         -  122 

Arbroath  Pippin          -  -       6  Bere  Court  Pippin  -     17 

Aromatic  Russet         -  -  164-  Best  Bache  -  194? 

Asbmead's  Kernel         •  -  165  Biggs's  Nonesuch  -~    .     70 

Aurore                          -  -  93  Birmingham  Pippin  -     71 

Baches  Kernel  -  194?  Blenheim  Orange  *       -     72 

Baltimore  -  117  Blenheim  Pippin  -         -     72 

Barcelona  Pearmain  -  118  Bonnet  Carre  -       -  113 

Bardin  •  88  Borovitsky  *       1 

Baxter's  Pearmain    -  -  119  Borsdorff  -     73 

Beachamwell  Seedling  -  67  Borsdorjfer  -     73 

Beauty  of  Kent  -  47  Bossom  -  123 

Bedfordshire  Foundling  -  120  Bowyer's  Russet  -    •  -  166 


APPLES, 


Braddick's  Nonpareil  -  167 

Brandy  Apple  -  -     91 

Breedon  Pippin     -  -  124 

Brickley  Seedling  -     74 

Bringewood  Seedling  -     75 

Broad-end  -  -  109 

Brown.  Apple  of  Burnt  Island  1 69 

B rummage  Pippin       -  -     71 

Bursdoff  -     73 
Calmlle  Blanche  d'Hiver   -  113 

Calmlle  d'Angleterre  -  130 

Calmlle  d'Ete  -     14 

Calmlle  Rouge         -  -  162 

Calmlle  Rouge  d'Ete  -     14 

Calmlle  Rouge  d'Hiver  -  162 
Calville  Rouge  de  Micoud     18 

Cambridge  Pippin         -  -  120 

Canadian  Reinette  -     76 

Capendu  -     80 

Caraway  Russet         -  -  169 

Carrel's  Seedling         -  -  154 

Caroline  Apple          -  -     77 

Catshead  -  125 

Cat's- Head  -  125 

Charles  Apple  -     99 

Chester  Pearmain  -  126 

Christ's  Golden  Reinette  -     82 

Christie's  Pippin        -  -     19 

Claremont  Pippin      *  -     83 

Claygate  Pearmain  -  127 

Cobbett's  Fall  Pippin  -  159 

Cobham  Apple          -  -     20 

Coccagee  -  -  195 

Cockagee  -  -  195 

Cockle  Pippin  -  128 

Codling         -  -  -     53 

Cole  Apple  -     21 

Col.  Harbord's  Pippin  -  129 

Concombre  ancien    -  -  159 

Contin  Reinette         -  -  77* 

Cornish  Aromatic     -  -     78 

Cornish  Gilliflower   -  -  130 

Cornish  July  Flower  -  130 

Costard  -  -  125 


Coul  Blush  -v^  -  130* 
Court  de  Wick  "'•-  .'  -  79 
Court  of  Wick  Pippin  -  79 
Courtpendu  -  -  80 
Courtpendu  de  la  Quintinye  88 
Courtpendu  plat  -  -  80 
Coustard  -  -  125 
Cowarne  Red  -  -  196 
Cray  Pippin  -  48 
Dainty  -  -  28 
Darling  Pippin  *>i  -  131 
D'Espagne  -  159 
DeRatteau  -  -  159 
Devonshire  Quarendon  -  8 
Ditchingham  Pippin  -  35 
Dr.  Ashmead's  Kernel  -  165 
Dr.  Harvey's  Apple  -  140 
Dr.  Helsham's  Pippin  -  12 
Dolgoi  Squosnoi  -  -  16 
Dowell's  Pippin  -  -  49 
Downton  Pippin  -  -  50 
Drap  d'Or  -  -  84 
Duke  of  Beaufort's  Pippin  51 
Dumelow's  Crab  -  -  81 
Dumelow's  Seedling  -  81 
Dutch  Codlin  -  -  52 
Dutch  Mignonne  -  82 
Earl  of  Yarmouth's  Pear- 
main  -  152 
Early  Crofton  -  .-  $ 
Early  Julian  -  *•  9 
Early  Nonpareil  -  -  168 
Early  Red  Juneating  -  13 
Early  Red  Margaret  -  is 
Early  Striped  Juneating  -  13 
Easter  Pippin  -  -  83 
Elton  Golden  Pippin  -  50 
Elton  Pippin  -  50 
Embroidered  Pippin  -  84 
Emperor  Alexander  -  22 
Engelsche  Konings  of 

Kings-Pepping       -  -  156 

English  Codlin  -     53 

English  Pippin         -  -     93 


APPLES. 


125 


Eve  Apple 

Eyer's  Greening    - 

Fail-me-never 

Fall  Pippin 

Fall  Pippin,  Cobbett's 

Fall  Pippin,  Sudlow's 

Fameuse 

Farleigh  Pippin 

Farley  Pippin 

Fearn's  Pippin 

Fenouillet  Gris 

Fenouillet  Jaune    - 

Fenouillet  Rouge 

Five-crowned  Pippin 

Flower  of  Kent     - 

Forest  Styre 

Forman's  Crew 

Formosa  Pippin 

Foul  don  Pearmain     - 

Foxley  Apple 

Fox  Whelp 

Franklin's  Golden  Pippin 

Frank  Rambour 

French  Codlin 

French  Crab 

Frith  Pitcher 

Friar     •   -  - 

Fry's  Pippin 

Fulwood 

Ganges 

Garnon's  Apple 

Garter         -*  •  •' ' 

Glace  de  Zelande     *- 

Glace  Rouge 

Glory  of  the  West      - 

Glory  of  York         - 

Gogar  Pippin 

Golden  Drop 

Golden  Harvey     - 

Golden  Lustre  • 

Golden  Noble 

Golden  Pearmain 

Golden  Pippin 

Golden  Reinette 


-  13  Golden  Russet  -  170 

-  85  Golden  Vining  -  142 

-  86  Grange  Apple             -  -  202 

-  159  Gravenstein  -  138 

-  159  Grey  Leadington      rl^.-;:-     54? 

-  24?  Green  Newtown  Pippin  -     94* 

-  36  Gricne  Reinette  -  175 
-132  Grummage  Pippin         -  -     71 

-  1 32  Grosse  Reinette  d'Angleterre  76 

-  87  Hagloe  Crab  -  203 
-169  Hampshire  Yellow     -  -     57 

-  84  Hanwell  Souring      -  -  139 

-  88  Hardingham's  Russet  -  180 

-  97  Harvey  Apple  -  14-0 

-  23  Hawthornden  -     27 
-197  Herefordshire  Pearmain  -  156 

-  133  Hicks  s  Fancy  -  168 
-155  Hoary  Morning  -     28 

-  134  Holland  Pippin      -  -     95 
-198  Hollow-crowned  Pippin  -  141 

-  199  Horrex's  Pearmain  -  134 

-  24  Horsham  Russet         -  -  171 

-  25  Hubbard's  Pearmain  -  142 

-  52  Hughes's  Golden  Pippin  -     29 

-  83  Hughes's  New  Golden  Pippin  29 

-  59  Hunt's  Duke  of  Gloucester  172 
-200  Hunt's  Nonpareil     —  -  -172 

-  79  Irish  Peach  Apple  -       3 

-  89  Irish  Pitcher         :v. -- ''  .     59 
-135  Irish  Russet  -  186 

-  80  Iron-stone  Pippin     -  -     83 

-  201  Isle  of  Wight  Orange  -  206 

-  1 1  Isle  of  Wight  Pippin  -  206 
-118  Janurea                 -  -     76 

-  52  Jubilee  Pippin       V  -     55 
-155  July  Flower    -  -  130 

-  90  Juneating         *  -       4 

-  79  Kentish  Pippin           -  -  143 

-  91  Kerry  Pippin  -     30 

-  136  Keswick  Codlin  -     56 

-  92  Kinellan  Apple  -144* 

-  137  King  of  the  Pippins  -     57 

-  26  Kirke's  Golden  Pippin  -     31 

-  93  Kirke's  Lord  Nelson  -     96 


126 


APPLES, 


Kleiner  Casseler  Reinette  -  118 

Knights  Codlin         -  -     43 

Knight's  Golden  Pippin  -     50 

Knight's  Pippin         -  -     50 

Knightivick  Pippin         -  -     79 

Knobby  Russet        -  -  173 

Lamb  Abbey  Pearmain  -  144? 

Langton  Nonesuch  -     32 

Large  Fall  Pippin     -  -  159 

Lemon  Pippin          -  -  145 

Loan  Pearmain          «  -  204 

London  Pippin         -  97 

Longville's  Kernel  -     58 

Lucombe's  Seedling  -     98 

Magdalene              -  5 

Malcarle         ,v*  v  •     99 

Mank's  Codlin         -  -     59 

Margaret              -  -     13 

Margaret              -  5 

Margaretha  Apfel         -  -     1 3 

Margil       -  -  100 

Martin  Nonpareil  -  174 

Marygold  -  206 

Matchless             ~  .;  -  104 

Mela  Carla         ,  <-'*.  ~     99 

Mela  Janurea       ,  ^s  -     76 

Mincer's  Dumpling  -  102 

Minchall  Crab         '<(-.,,  -  101 

Minshul  Crab         ^  -  101 

Motteuxs  Seedling  -     67 

Nelson's  Codling        -,,  -     60 

Never:fail             -  -     86 

New  Rock  Pippin  -  146 

Newtown  Pippin         -  v  -   103 

Newtown  Spitzemberg  -  104 

New  York  Pippin  -  147 

Nom-pareil        -  -  175 

Nonesuch  -     32 

Nonsuch                -]  -     32 

Nonpare.il             -  -  175 

Non-pareille           -  -  175 

Norfolk  Beaufin        -  -  105 

Norfolk  Beefin         -  -  105 

Norfolk  Colman         -  -110 


Norfolk  Paradise  -  148 

Norfolk  Pippin  r  ;*vi  -  115 

Norfolk  Storing  ,».  -110 

Northern  Greening  -  149 

Nutmeg  Cockle  Pippin  -  128 

Nutmeg  Pippin  \  ..*".  .  -  128 

Oake's  Apple  -  -  33 

Old  Nonpareil  -  -  175 

Old  Pearmain  -  161 

Old  Quining  205 

Old  Royal  Russet  -  176 

Orange  Pippin  ,\>%  -  206 

Ord's  Apple  .,K  j.  -  150 

Orgeline  -  -.,»  --  6 

Orjeline  -  >*  ?  -\  $ 

Ortley  Apple  *  -  151 

Oslin  Apple  -  6 
Oslin  Pippin  ,#?ftr<'  '^ 

Oxnead  Pearmain  -  152 

Padley's  Pippin  -  -  34 

Parmain  d'Ete*  -  •  64 

Parmain  d'Hiver  -  161 

Parmain  Double  "-  -  156 

Parmain  Royal  ,..».  -  156 
Parmain  Royal  de  long 

duree  •,  -  156 

Passe  Pomme  de  Canada  -  185 

Patch's  Russet  <*  v  -  177 

Paternoster  Appel  82 

Pawsan  -  207 

Pennington's  Seedling  -  178 

Pepin  d'Or  -  -  26 
Pepin  Parmain  d' Angle- 

terre  -  W>1 

Petit  Jean  -  -  153 

Philadelphia  Pippin  -  35 

Phillip's  Reinette  -  79 

Pile's  Russet  -  179 

Pine  Apple  Russet  -  180 

Pinner  Seedling  -  -  154 

Pitmaston  Nonpareil  -  181 
Pitmaston  Russet  Nonpareil  181 

Pomme  de  Caractere  -  84 

Pomme  de  Laak  -  82 


APPLES. 


127 


Pomme  de  Neige  -     36 

Portugal  Apple         -  -     76 

Postdoff  -     73 

Postophe  cfHiver  -     73 

Potter's  Large     -—  -     37 

Powell's  Russet  -  182 

Prager  -  190 

Prideof  the  Ditches  -  188 

Pyrus  Asiracanica  -     11 

Queens  Apple          -  -73 

Rambour  Franc     -  -25 

Rambour  Gros        .~  -     25 

Red  Astracan         -  -       7 

Red  Cajville  -     14 

Red  Ingestrie  -     38 

Red  Ingestrie  Pippin  -     38 

RedJuneating  -     13 

Red  Must             -  -  208 

Red  Quarenden  -       8 

Redstreak             -  -  209 

Red  Styre             -  -  197 

Reinette  Batarde  -  -  73 
Reinette  Blanche  d'Espagne  159 

Reinette  de  Caen  -     76 

Reinette  de  Canada  -  76 
Reinette  de  Canada  a  Cotes  76 
Reinette  de  Canada  Blanche  76 
Reinette  de  Canada  Grise  -  185 

Reinette  des  Cannes  -   118 

Reinette  d'Hongrie  -  183 

Reinette  Dor^e         -  -     82 

Reinette  Tranche  -  106 
Reinette  Grosse  de  Canada  76 

Reinette  Nompareille  -  175 

Reinette  Rouge  -  118 

Reinette  Rousse  -  118 

Revelstone  Pippin  -     15 

Ribston  Pippin     '-'}*•'**  -  155 

Robinson  Pippin  -  107 

Rode  Wyn  Appel  -  63 

Holland  Apple  -  121 

Rook's  Nest  -  169 

Ross  Nonpareil         -  -  184? 

Rother  Jacobs  Apfel  -     13 


Royal  Pearraain  -  156 

Royal  Pearmain  -     64 

Royal  Reinette  -  157 

Royal  Russet  -   185 

Ruckmans  Pearmain  -  137 

Rymer           -             9  -     61 

Sack  Apple  -r     "8 

St.  Johns  Nonpareil  -  181 

Sam  Young  -  186 

Sams  Crab              -  -     58 

Scarlet  Crofton  -     39 

Scarlet  Nonpareil  -  187 

Scarlet  Pearmain  -     62 

Scarlet  Perfume  -     21 

Siberian  Bittersweet  -  210 

Siberian  Harvey  -  211 

Siely's  Mignonne  -  188 

Simpson's  Pippin  -  150 

Simpson's  Seedling  -  150 

Sops  in  Wine            -  -     63 

Sops  of  Wine  -     63 

Speckled  Golden  Reinette  -  118 

Spice  Apple  -  169 

Spring  Grove  Codlin  -       9 

Staggs  Nonpareil  -  168 

Stead's  Kernel  -  212 

Stone  Pippin             -  -  158 

Striped  Beaufin  -  108 

Striped  Holland  Pippin  -     40 

Sudlow's  Tall  Pippin  -     24 

Sugarloaf  Pippin     -  -     16 

Summer  Broaden  -     41 

Summer  Colman  -     41 

Summer  Golden  Pippin  -     10 

Summer  Nonpareil  -  168 

Summer  Pearmain  -     64 

Sweeney  Nonpareil  -  189 

Sykehouse  Russet  -  190 

Tarvey  Codlin         .  *  _,/  158* 

Transparent  Codlin  -     65 

Transparent  de  Moscovie  -     11 

Travels  Apple  .  155 
Waltham  Abbey  Seedling      42 

Wellington          •_'•'! -3  -    81 


128 


APRICOTS. 


Wheeler's  Russet  -  191 

White  Astracan     -  -     11 

White  Cockle  -  128 

White  Hawthornden  -     27 

White  Pippin  -  158 

White  Russet        -  -  192 
White  Spanish  Reinette    -  159 

White  Stone  Pippin  -  158 

Whitmore's  Pippin  -  160 

William's  Pippin     -  -     66 

Winter  Broaden  -  109 

Winter  Colman  -  110 

Winter  Majetin      -  -  111 

Winter  Pearmain  -  161 

Winter  Queening  -  112 


Winter  Red  Calville  -  162 

Winter  White  Calville  -  113 

Woodcock          -  -  213 

Wood's  Huntingdon  -     79 
Wood's  Transparent  Pippin     79 

Woodstock  Pippin         -  -     72 

Wormsley  Pippin  -     43 

Wyken  Pippin        -  -44 

Wyher  Pippin        -  -     93 

Yellow  Elliot  -  214 

Yellow  German  Reinette  -     93 

Yellow  Ingestrie      -  -     45 

Yorkshire  Greening  -  114 

Young's  Long  Keeping  -  -     83 


CHAP.  III. 
APRICOTS. 


1.  BLOTCHED-LEAVED  ROMAN. 

Blotched-leaved  Turkey.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  27. 

Variegated  Turkey.     Ib. 

Abricot  Macule,  of  the  French. 

The  Blotched-leaved  Roman  Apricot  differs  in  no 
respect  from  the  Roman  Apricot,  No.  11.,  except  iij  its 
blotched  leaves ;  more  than  one  half  of  the  plants  budded 
annually  in  the  nurseries  becoming  plain  the  first  year  of 
their  growth  from  the  bud.  When  the  leaves  retain  their 
blotched  character,  the  wood  which  produces  them  is 
always,  more  or  less,  striped  and  mottled  with  yellow, 


green, 


and  brown. 


DUHAMEL,  Vol.  i.  p.  145.,  particularly  mentions  this 
variety  of  Abricot  commun,    indicating    clearly  that 


APRICOTS.  129 

those  who  have  Considered  it  as  a  Turkey  Apricot  have 
been  decidedly  wrong. 

2.  BREDA.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.    No.  2.     Pom.  Mag. 
t.  146. 

Abricot  de  Hollande,  1  Duhamel,  Vol.  i.  p.  138.  t.4. 
or  Amande  Aveline.  J  according to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Royal  Persian.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  23. 

Fruit  rather  small,  its  general  form  roundish,  but 
often  approaching  to  be  somewhat  four-sided.  The 
Suture  is  moderately  deep,  with  a  depression  at  its 
termination  on  the  summit.  The  Skin,  where  exposed 
to  the  sun,  is  of  a  deep  brownish  orange.  Flesh  deep 
orange,  parting  freely  from  the  stone,  juicy,  rich,  and 
high  flavoured.  Stone  rather  small,  roundish,  com- 
pressed, but  not  so  much  as  in  some  others.  Kernel 
sweet,  like  a  hazel-nut :  hence  the  synonym  of  Amande 
Aveline,  in  France. 

Ripens  from  the  beginning  to  the  middle  of  August 
on  walls,  and  its  perfection  is  considerably  prolonged  on 
standards. 

There  is  very  little  doubt  that  this  is  the  true  Breda 
Apricot,  as  has  been  satisfactorily  ascertained  in  the 
Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick,  and  explained  in 
the  Pomological  Magazine ;  but  it  is  not  the  one  men- 
tioned by  Miller.  The  Breda,  Turkey,  and  Orange  are 
the  only  varieties  cultivated  in  our  gardens,  which  have 
sweet  kernels.  There  is  a  very  fine  open  standard  of 
this  Apricot  in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick, 
which  last  year  (1830)  produced  a  fine  crop  of  most 
excellent  fruit. 

3.  BRUSSELS.    Miller,  No.  7- 

Fruit  of  a  middling  size,  of  a  somewhat  oval  figure, 
and  a  good  deal  compressed  on  its  sides.  Suture  deep 
at  the  base,  shallow  at  the  apex.  Skin  pale  yellow,  full 
of  white  specks;  on  the  sunny  side  red,  marked  with 
dark-brown  specks  and  spots.  Flesh  yellow,  firm,  of  a 

K 


130  APRICOTS. 

high  brisk  flavour,  readily  separating  from  the  stone. 
Kernel  bitter,  very  different  to  that  of  the  Breda,  which 
is  sweet. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

In  a  sheltered  situation,  exposed  to  the  south,  the 
Brussels  Apricot  bears  and  ripens  well  upon  an  open 
standard.  In  this  case,  the  fruit  is  not  so  large,  but  of 
a  very  deep  colour,  a  little  russetty  where  exposed  to  the 
sun,  and  of  a  very  high  flavour.  Thirty  years  ago  there 
were  four  of  these  trees  growing  in  a  gentleman's  garden 
at  Colchester,  the  largest  of  which  in  some  seasons  pro- 
duced two  hundred  dozen  of  fine  fruit. 

There  are  also  at  this  time  three  or  four  very  large 
trees  growing  as  open  standards  in  the  Duke  of  Devon- 
shire's gardens  at  Chiswick,  which  produce  abundance 
of  very  fine  fruit  annually. 

4.  HEMSKIRKE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  11. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish,  slightly  compressed,  very 
like  a  small  Moorpark,  from  which  it  is  only  distinguished 
externally  by  its  size.  Flesh  very  bright,  deep,  clear 
orange,  more  tender  and  juicy  than  the  Moorpark,  with 
a  particularly  rich  delicate  flavour,  resembling  that  of  an 
excellent  Green  Gage  Plum.  Stone  much  smaller  than 
that  of  the  Moorpark,  without  a  pervious  passage. 
Kernel  nearly  sweet. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  and  beginning  of  August. 

We  are  indebted  to  the  late  Mr.  Lee  for  the  intro- 
duction of  this  Apricot :  it  is  a  most  excellent  early 
fruit,  and  highly  deserving  of  attention. 

It  bears  freely  on  an  east  wall,  where  it  ripens  tho- 
roughly by  the  end  of  July,  acquiring  a  high  luscious 
flavour,  superior  even  to  that  of  the  Moorpark. 

5.  LARGE  EARLY  APRICOT.    Pom.  Mag.  t.  14-2. 
Abricot  Gros  Precoce,  1  of  the  French,  according  to 
Abricot  de  St.  Jean,    J      the  Pom.  Mag. 
Abricot  de  St.  Jean  rouge,  in  Languedoc.     Ib. 


APRICOTS.  131 

Abricot  gros  d' Alexandria,  in  Provence.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
long  and  two  inches  in  diameter,  somewhat  oblong, 
compressed,  projecting  considerably  on  the  side  of  the 
suture,  which  is  deep,  and  terminates  in  a  projecting 
point  situated  towards  the  back,  beyond  the  axis  of  the 
fruit ;  back  nearly  straight.  Skin  downy,  of  a  fine 
bright  orange,  and  next  the  sun  with  spots  of  deeper 
red,  pale  orange  on  the  other  side.  Flesh  parting  from 
the  stone,  orange-coloured,  juicy,  rich.  Stone  brown, 
much  flattened,  oval,  sharp  in  the  front,  perforated  along 
the  back  from  the  base  to  the  apex.  Kernel  bitter. 

Ripe  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  earlier  than  the  Roman. 
In  France  it  ripens  on  Midsummer-day,  whence  its  name 
of  A.  de  St.  Jean. 

6.  MOORPARK.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  9. 

Anson's,  l 

Temple's,  I  of  different  Collections. 

Dunmore's  Breda,     J 

Fruit  large,  of  a  roundish  figure,  about  seven  inches 
and  a  half  in  circumference  each  way,  deeply  hollowed 
at  the  base,  and  compressed  on  its  sides,  one  of  which  is 
swelled  considerably  more  than  the  other  at  the  suture, 
which  gives  it  an  oblique  appearance.  Skin  pale  yellow 
on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  deep  orange  colour,  shaded 
and  marbled  with  brownish  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun, 
and  full  of  dark  specks.  Flesh  very  firm,  bright  orange, 
separating  clean  from  the  stone.  Juice  plentiful  and 
excellent.  Stone  rather  rugged,  with  a  pervious  pas- 
sage, containing  a  bitter  kernel. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

The  Moorpark  Apricot,  now  so  universally  known 
throughout  England,  is  said  to  have  been  brought  into 
this  country  by  Sir  William  Temple,  and  planted  in  his 
garden  at  Moorpark :  if  so,  it  must  have  been  an  inha- 

K  2 


132  APRICOTS. 

bitant  here  for  more  than  130  years,  as  Sir  William  died 
in  1700,  at  the  age  of  72.  An  old  workman  is  now 
(1830)  employed  in  the  gardens  at  Moorpark,  who  re- 
members quite  well  what  had  always  been  considered  as 
the  original  tree,  and  he  points  out  the  place  where  it 
stood  ;  but  this  tree  has  been  dead  some  years,  and  its 
place  is  now  occupied  by  an  Orange  Apricot,  which  ap- 
pears to  have  been  planted  ten  or  twelve  years  ago. 

Mr.  Hooker,  in  his  Pomona  Londinensis,  says  it  was 
introduced  by  Lord  Anson,  and  cultivated  in  his  garden 
at  Rickmansworth  in  Hertfordshire :  the  former  account, 
however,  would  appear  to  be  most  correct ;  as  the  fruit  in 
question  is  known  in  almost  every  county  in  England  by 
the  name  of  Moorpark,  whilst  the  name  of  Anson's  ap- 
pears to  be  prevalent  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  principally. 

The  pervious  passage  in  its  stone  has  not  been  noticed 
by  any  of  our  writers  till  lately,  nor  is  it  readily  disco- 
vered ;  its  aperture  is  in  a  small  groove  on  the  thin  side 
near  its  base,  a  pin  inserted  into  which  and  pushed  for- 
ward will  open  its  further  orifice,  and  thus  effect  its 
passage  through  the  stone. 

7.  ORANGE.     Miller,  No.  2. 

Early  Orange.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  14. 

Royal  George.     Ib.  21. 

Royal  Orange.     Ib.  15. 

.  Fruit  larger  than  the  Masculine,  about  five  inches  in 
circumference  each  way,  and  of  a  roundish  figure.  Su- 
ture with  a  considerable  swelling  on  one  of  its  sides, 
and  having  a  deep  hollow  base.  Skin  pale  orange,  on 
the  side  next  the  wall,  and  when  fully  ripe,  of  a  deep 
orange  tinged  with  red,  and  spotted  with  dark  purple 
next  the  sun.  Flesh  deep  orange,  succulent,  and  well 
flavoured.  Stone  small,  orbicular,  thick  in  the  middle, 
and  nearly  smooth,  not  separating  clean  from  the  flesh. 
Kernel  sweet,  like  that  of  the  Breda  and  Turkey. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 


APRICOTS.  133 

8.  PEACH  APRICOT.     Forsyth.  Ed.  3.  No.  9. 
Abricot  Peche.     Pom.  Franc,  t.  ?.  f.  10. 
Abricot  Peche.     Duhamel.  Vol.  i.  p.  145. 
Abricot  de  Nancy.     Ib.  No.  10.  t.  6. 
Imperial  Anson's.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  5. 

Fruit  very  large,  frequently  from  eight  to  nine  inches 
in  circumference,  deeply  hollowed  at  its  base,  and  com- 
pressed on  its  sides.  Suture  well  defined,  with  a  thick- 
ening on  one  of  its  sides.  Skin  pale  yellow  in  the 
shade ;  but  of  a  deep  orange,  shaded,  and  mottled  with 
dark  brown,  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  deep  orange, 
and  full  of  a  very  high-flavoured  juice.  Stone  with  a 
pervious  passage,  and  a  bitter  kernel. 

Ripe,  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

The  Peach  Apricot  is  supposed  by  some  to  be  the 
same  as  the  Moorpark  ;  and,  indeed,  it  has  all  its  lead- 
ing characters  ;  but  an  extensive  cultivation  of  it  for 
more  than  twenty  years  has  convinced  me  to  the  con- 
trary. Its  wood  is  similar,  but  more  gross,  less  firm, 
and  the  tree  more  tender.  Mr.  Forsyth  says  it  was 
introduced  from  Paris,  by  his  Grace  the  Duke  of  North- 
umberland, in  1767*  It  is  the  largest  and  the  best  of 
all  the  apricots.  A  tree  of  this  sort  was  planted  in  the 
gardens  at  Holkham  forty  years  ago,  where  I  have  seen 
fruit  of  an  extraordinary  size  under  the  management  of 
Mr.  Sandys,  who  has  frequently  had  them  of  six  ounces 
and  a  half  in  weight,  and  in  any  season  three  of  them 
would  weigh  a  pound  avoirdupois. 

9.  PURPLE.     Pom.  Franc.  1 .  p.  36.  t.  5.  f.  8. 
Alexandrian  Apricot.     Ib. 

Abricot  Angoumois.     Duhamel,  No.  4.  t.  3. 
Abricot  Violet,  of  the  Luxembourg  Cat. 
Black  Apricot.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  10. 
Fruit  nearly  spherical,  about  five  inches  in  circum- 
ference^.    Suture  deep,  extending  from  the  base  to  its 

K  3 


134>  APRICOTS. 

apex.  Skin  covered  with  a  very  fine  velvety  down,  of 
a  pale  red  on  the  shaded  side,  of  a  deep  red  or  purple 
on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  pale  red,  except  near 
the  stone,  where  it  is  of  a  deep  orange  colour,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  subacid,  with  a  somewhat 
astringent,  but  pleasant  flavour.  Kernel  sweet. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  singular  little  Apricot  is  highly  esteemed  in 
France,  from  whence  it  was  introduced  by  Sir  Joseph 
Banks,  and  bore  fruit  for  the  first  time  in  this  country, 
in  his  garden  at  Spring  Grove,  in  1799.  At  a  short 
distance  it  has  more  the  appearance  of  an  Orleans  Plum 
than  an  Apricot. 

10.  RED  MASCULINE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  9. 
Masculine.     Langley,  p.  88.  t.  15.  fig.  1.     Miller ', 

No.  1. 

Abricot  Precoce.     Duhamel,  No.  1.  t.  1. 

Abricot  Hatif  Musque.     Ib. 

Fruit  small,  of  a  roundish  figure,  about  four  inches 
and  a  half  in  circumference  each  way.  Suture  rather 
rather  deep,  and  considerably  swelled  on  one  of  its  sides. 
Skin  pale  orange  next  the  wall  ;  when  fully  exposed,  of 
a  red  colour  next  the  sun,  marked  with  dark  red  or 
purplish  spots.  Flesh  pale  or  orange,  full  of  a  sweet 
musky  juice.  Stone  obtuse,  thick,  smooth,  and  separates 
clean  from  the  flesh.  Kernel  bitter. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  July. 

The  Masculine  Apricot  ripened  at  Twickenham  «•  in 
1727,  on  a  south  wall,  May  21st Langley. 

This  is  the  earliest  Apricot  cultivated  in  England. 
The  tree  is  tender,  and  requires  to  be  planted  on  a 
south,  or  south-east  aspect,  in  a  warm  and  sheltered  si- 
tuation, without  which  the  crops  are  seldom  abundant. 

11.  ROMAN.      Langley,   Pom.   p.  89.   t.  15.   f.  9* 
Pom.  Mag.  1. 13.  • 

Abricot  Commun,     Duhamel,  1.  p.  135.  t.  2. 


APRICOTS.  135 

Fruit  middle-sized,  in  form  slightly  compressed,  in- 
clining to  oval.  Skin  dull  straw  colour,  with  a  little 
dotting  of  orange  or  red  on  the  sunny  side,  but  in  such 
small  quantity,  that  the  skin  has  always  a  pallid  appear- 
ance. Suture  shallow.  Flesh  dull  pale  straw  colour, 
soft,  dry,  rather  meally,  with  a  little  sweetness  and 
acidity.  Stone  flat,  oblong,  rather  obtuse  at  each  end, 
with  a  very  even  surface,  separating  from  the  flesh. 
Kernel  very  bitter. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

The  Roman  Apricot  is  the  most  common  in  our  gar- 
dens ;  its  principal  recommendations  are  its  hardiness 
and  plentiful  bearing.  It  is  best  before  fully  ripe. 

12.  ROYAL.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  2. 

Abricot  Royale.     Bon.  Jard.  1827.  p.  288. 

Fruit  next  in  size  to  the  Moorpark,  rather  oval, 
slightly  compressed.  Skin  dull  yellow,  slightly  coloured 
with  red  on  a  small  space.  Suture  shallow.  Flesh  pale 
orange,  very  firm,  sweet,  juicy,  and  high-flavoured,  with 
a  slight  degree  of  acidity.  Stone  large,  oval,  not  ad- 
hering to  the  flesh,  blunt  at  each  end,  with  scarcely  any 
passage  in  the  edge.  Kernel  slightly  bitter ;  much  less 
so  than  in  the  Moorpark. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August,  a  week  or  ten  days 
before  the  Moorpark.  Raised  a  few  years  ago  in  the 
royal  garden  of  the  Luxembourg,  and  first  noticed  in 
the  Bon  Jardinier  of  1826,  where  it  is  considered  as  a 
better  fruit  than  that  of  the  Moorpark. 

13.  TURKEY.      Miller,   No.  5.     Pom.  Mag.  t.%5. 
Large  Turkey.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  26. 

Fruit  about  the  middle  size,  in  form  nearly  spherical, 
not  compressed  like  the  Moorpark.  Skin  very  hand- 
some deep  yellow,  with  a  number  of  rich,  brownish,  orange- 
red  spots  and  blotches  next  the  sun.  Flesh  pale  yellow, 
firm,  juicy,  sweet,  with  a  little  acid,  very  rich  and  ex- 
it 4 


136  APRICOTS. 

cellent.  Stone  separating  freely,  in  figure  like  that  of 
the  Moorpark,  but  without  the  pervious  passage.  Kernel 
quite  sweet,  like  that  of  an  almond. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  or  latter  end  of  August. 

The  Turkey  and  Roman  Apricots  are  continually 
confounded  with  each  other,  and  yet  their  characters  are 
obviously  and  clearly  distinct.  The  Turkey  is  spherical, 
more  deeply  coloured,  with  a  sweet  kernel ;  the  Roman 
is  somewhat  oval,  slightly  compressed,  dull  straw-coloured, 
and  has  a  very  bitter  kernel,  it  also  ripens  a  few  days 
sooner. 

The  Abricot  de  Nancy  of  Duhamel  (fructu  maxima 
compresso,  as  he  defines  it)  has  been  quoted  in  the  Pom. 
Mag.  as  a  synonym  of  the  Turkey  ;  but  the  well-known 
globular,  uncompressed  character  of  the  latter,  leads  me 
to  consider  it  as  an  accidental  mistake. 

14.  WHITE  MASCULINE.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  5. 

Abricot  Bknc.     Duhamel,  No.  2. 

Fruit  similar  to  that  of  the  Red  Masculine  in  size 
and  figure.  Skin  nearly  white ;  a  pale  straw  colour  on 
the  side  next  the  wall,  but  of  a  pale  yellow,  shaded  and 
mottled  with  a  reddish  brown,  on  the  side  next  the  sun. 
Flesh  white,  very  delicate,  and  adheres  slightly  to  the 
stone.  Juice  sweet,  with  an  agreeable  peach-like  flavour. 
Kernel  bitter. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July. 

This  succeeds  the  Red  Masculine  in  its  time  of  ripen- 
ing, and  in  France  it  is  considered  the  better  fruit  of 
the  two ;  but  like  that,  it  is  tender,  and  requires  to  be 
planted  against  a  south,  or  south-east  wall,  and  to  have 
a  warm  sheltered  situation,  to  insure  productive  crops. 

A  Selection  of  Apricots  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 

Breda  -  -          *       2     Hemskirke       *  **••'  *  4? 

Brussels  -  3     Large  Early  -  5 


APRICOTS.  137 

Moorpark                      -     -       6     Roman  -     11 

Peach  Apricot                    -       8     Royal  -     12 

Red  Masculine                    -     10     Turkey  -     13 

Northern  Counties  of  England,  and  Southern  of  Scotland. 

Brussels        -                              3     Orange               -  7 

Hemskirke                           -       4?     Peach  Apricot  8 

Large  Early                        *       5     Roman      -             *  -11 

Moorpark                             -      6     Royal  -     12 

Highlands  of  Scotland. 

Brussels                               -       3     Breda  *       2 

Apricots  will  not  succeed  in  the  Highlands  of  Scotland, 

except  in   the   most   favourable  situations,   and  when 
planted  against  a  south  wall. 


Propagation. 

The  Apricot  is  budded  principally  upon  two  sorts  of 
stocks;  the  Muscle,  and  the  Common  Plum.  The  Breda, 
Orange,  Peach  Apricot,  Purple,  and  Royal,  are  those 
generally  budded  upon  the  Muscle ;  and  although  the 
Moorpark  is  for  the  most  part  budded  upon  the  Common 
Plum,  on  which  it  takes  freely,  yet  I  am  persuaded 
that  if  it  were  budded  upon  the  Muscle,  the  trees  would 
be  better,  last  longer  in  a  state  of  health  and  vigour,  and 
produce  their  fruit  superior  both  in  size  and  quality. 
The  other  sorts  are  of  course  budded  upon  the  common 
stock,  a  sort  well  known,  and  propagated  by  all  the  stock 
growers  in  the  county  of  Surrey. 

Apricots  are,  however,  by  many  nurserymen,  budded 
upon  the  Brussels,  and  another  by  the  name  of  the 
Brompton  stock.  When  standard  trees  are  wanted  for 
a  temporary  covering  for  the  upper  part  of  high  walls, 


138  APRICOTS. 

till  intermediate  dwarfs  are  large  enough  to  occupy  their 
place,  the  practice  of  budding  standard  high  upon  the 
Brussels  stock  may  be  allowed  ;  but  to  bud  Apricots,  or 
any  other  fruit,  upon  the  Brompton  stock,  is  a  practice 
which  ought  to  be  discontinued,  even  for  a  temporary 
purpose.  Where  trees  of  a  more  permanent  character 
are  required,  the  substitution  of  such  a  stock  cannot  be 
too  strongly  condemned.  Indeed,  I  hope  the  day  is 
not  far  distant  when  so  worthless  a  stock  will  be  banished 
from  every  nursery  in  the  kingdom.  I  speak  thus 
forcibly,  having  been  compelled  to  burn  many  hundreds 
of  beautiful-looking  trees,  of  Peaches,  Nectarines,  and 
Apricots,  of  two  and  three  years  training,  which  had 
become  wholly  worthless,  in  consequence  of  their  having 
been  budded  upon  the  Brompton  stock. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

In  proceeding  to  the  priming  and  training  of  Apri- 
cots, I  must  refer  to  what  is  said  in  the  propagation  of 
Peaches  and  Nectarines,  so  far  as  regards  the  choice  of 
trees,  and  their  heading  down,  it  being  equally  appli- 
cable to  the  Apricot. 

If  a  maiden  plant  breaks  well,  it  will  furnish  two  or 
three  shoots  on  each  side,  which  number  in  all  cases 
must  be  equal,  in  order  to  form  a  handsome  tree  :  the 
lowest  shoot  on  each  side  must  be  trained  horizontally, 
and  the  others  in  an  oblique  or  rising  direction. 

In  the  following  winter,  if  the  branches  on  each  side 
be  two  or  three,  they  must  be  shortened  to  six  inches 
each :  these  will  furnish  three  each  for  the  following 
summer.  In  May  or  June,  as  soon  as  the  shoots  are  of 
a  sufficient  length,  those  which  are  the  best  placed  must 
be  trained  at  five  or  six  inches  distance  from  each  other, 
removing  at  the  same  time  such  others  as  are  not  wanted. 


APRICOTS.  139 

In  the  next  winter's  pruning  these  must  be  shortened 
according  to  their  strength ;  the  leading  shoot  from  each 
branch  is  usually  the  strongest:  these  may  be  cut  back 
to  nine  or  twelve  inches,  and  the  others  to  six  or  nine. 
In  the  summer,  care  must  be  taken  to  select  and  train 
as  many  of  the  best-placed  young  shoots  as  are  wanted 
to  form  the  figure  of  the  tree,  proceeding  thus  from 
year  to  year  till  it  is  completely  furnished,  both  in  its 
sides  and  middle,  for  there  ought  not  then  to  be  a  blank 
space  in  any  part  within  its  extent. 

The  commencement  of  summer  pruning  of  Apricots 
always  takes  place  in  May,  as  soon  as  the  young  shoots 
are  two  or  three  inches  long :  this  is  generally  termed 
by  gardeners  the  disbudding  season ;  because  the  super- 
fluous shoots  are  at  this  time  removed,  leaving  those  only 
which  are  required  to  elongate  the  branches,  and  to  fur- 
nish fruit  for  the  succeeding  season. 

The  disbudding  of  the  young  shoots  is  by  many  gar- 
deners performed  by  pinching  them  off  with  the  finger 
and  thumb  :  this  may  be  done  tolerably  well  with  care ; 
but  I  have  seen  some,  who  have  been  gardeners  for  years, 
and  who  have  torn  them  off,  lacerating  the  bark,  and 
leaving  holes  in  the  branches  whence  they  were  taken  \ 
the  consequence  has  been  a  diseased  state  of  the  tree, 
with  gum  flowing  from  almost  every  limb.  A  man 
possessing  a  reflecting  mind  must  ever  be  incapable  of 
practising  such  a  barbarous  method.  Instead,  there- 
fore, of  disbudding  by  either  of  the  former  methods, 
I  would  recommend  a  small,  sharp,  thin-bladed  knife 
to  be  made  use  of,  cutting  off  the  supernumerary 
shoots,  close  to  the  bark  of  the  branch,  but  not  into  it, 
and  shortening  the  smaller  ones  to  half  an  inch,  which 
will  occasion  many  of  them  to  form  natural  spurs  for 
blossoms  at  the  base. 

In  the  winter  pruning  of  Apricots,  every  shoot  should 
be  shortened  according  to  its  strength  :  no  one  should 


140  APRICOTS* 

ever  exceed  eighteen  inches,  and  few  will  ever  require 
to  be  less  than  six  :  in  a  general  way,  from  ten  to  four- 
teen inches,  in  full-grown  trees,  appears  to  be  the  most 
proper  length  to  be  allowed* 

By  pruning  thus  short,  and  training  the  branches 
thin,  the  trees  will  be  kept  in  vigour,  the  fruit  will 
always  attain  its  full  size  under  favourable  circumstances, 
and  its  quality  will  be  good. 

The  Moorpark  Apricot,  in  some  situations,  is  apt  to  be 
affected  by  canker  in  different  parts  of  the  tree,  thereby 
occasioning  a  partial  loss  of  its  limbs.  When  this  takes 
place  in  old  trees,  it  is  too  late  to  apply  a  remedy  ;  but 
its  occurrence  may  be  prevented  by  taking  up  the  young 
tree  after  it  has  been  trained  three  or  four  years,  cutting 
off  close  those  roots  which  have  a  perpendicular  direc- 
tion, and  spreading  out  the  others  horizontally,  and 
re-planting  it  again  ;  taking  care  that  the  part  where  it 
had  been  budded,  be  kept  six  or  eight  inches  above  the 
surface  of  the  ground.  If  this  be  carefully  performed, 
without  shaking  the  mould  off  the  roots,  the  progress 
of  the  tree  will  be  but  little  impeded  by  the  operation. 
At  the  end  of  three  years  more  this  should  be  repeated 
in  the  same  manner,  after  which  it  will  rarely  happen 
that  any  of  those  local  injuries  will  take  place. 

INDEX  TO  THE  APRICOTS. 

Abricot  Angoumois              -  9  Abricot  P$cke           -            -  t  § 

Abricot  Blanc         -             -  14?  Abricot  Precoce      -              -  10 

Abricot  Commun                  -  11  Abricot  Royal             -         -  12 

Abricot  de  Hollands           •  2  Abricot  Violet                      -  9 

Abricot  de  St.  Jean             -  5  Alexandrian                         -  9 

Abricot  de  St.  Jean  Rouge  5  Amande  Aveline              '*"-  -    2 

Abricot  de  Nancy                -  8  Ansons         -             -       .•••-  .\,% 

Abricot  Gros  d" Alexandrie  5  Black         ^  .  ,      ...^         .  9 

Abricot  Gros  Precoce          -  5  Blotched-leaved  Roman    -  1 

Abricot  HatifMusque         -  10  Blotched-leaved  Turkey      -  1 

Abricot  Mamie                   -  1  Breda         -             -            ••  2 


CHERRIES.  14-1 

Brussels  -       3  Purple       -  -  9 

Dunmores  Breda  -       6  Red  Masculine  -  10 

Early  Orange  -       7  Roman         -  -  11 

Hemskirke  -       4  Royal  -  12 

Imperial  Ansons  -       8  Royal  Persian         -  2 

Large  Early  Apricot  -       5  Temples             -  6 

Large  Turkey  -     13  Turkey      -  -  13 

Masculine  -     10  Variegated  Turkey  -  1 

Moorpark     -  '-^6  Violet  -  9 

Orange               -  7  White  Masculine  -  14? 

Peach  Apricot       V-  8 


CHAP.  TV. 

CHERRIES. 

SECT.  I.  —  Fruit  Hound. 

1.  AMBREE.     Forsyth  Ed.  7.  p.  79- 
Cerise  Ambree.     Duhamel,  No.  14.  t.  11. 

Fruit  large,  round  at  the  head,  but  flattened  next 
the  stalk,  which  is  about  two  inches  long.  Skin  rather 
thick,  of  a  fine  amber  colour,  mottled  with  light  red 
and  yellow,  and  of  a  bright  red  where  exposed  to  the 
sun.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  somewhat  transparent,  with 
white  veins,  and  slightly  tinged  with  red  under  the 
skin  next  the  sun.  Juice  plentiful,  sugary,  and  when 
fully  ripe  very  excellent.  Stone  with  a  very  sharp 
point. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July,  and  beginning  of  August. 
This  is  rather  too  tender  for  an  open  standard,  unless 
in  a  warm  sheltered  situation ;  but  does  remarkably 
well  when  trained  against  an  east  wall. 

2.  ARCHDUKE.     Forsyth.  Ed.  7-  No.  4. 
Griotte  de  Portugal.     Duhamel,  No.  18.  t.  13. 
Portugal  Duke.     Pom.  Franc.  2.  p.  40.  t.  27.  f.  21. 


CHERRIES. 

Fruit  clustered  like  the  May  Duke,  and  much  of  the 
same  colour ;  but  larger,  with  a  shorter  stalk,  and  in- 
serted in  a  deeper  hollow,  ripening  at  least  a  fortnight 
later.  The  Arch  Duke  is  a  much  more  vigorous  grower 
than  the  May  Duke,  with  longer  diverging  branches, 
and  larger  leaves.  It  is  equally  hardy  as  an  open 
standard,  and  may  be  planted  to  advantage  among 
Morellos  on  a  north  wall. 

3.  BELLE  DE  CHOISY.     Jard.  Fruit.  Vol.  ii.  p.  21. 
t.  7.     Pom.  Mag.  i.  42. 

Cerise  de  la  Palembre,  1  of  the  French  Gar  dens ,  ac- 

Cerise  Doucette,  J    cording  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  growing  by  pairs,  middle-sized,  roundish,  de- 
pressed at  the  apex.  Stalk,  from  the  forks  an  inch, 
neck  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  transparent,  red,  mottled 
with  amber  colour,  especially  on  the  shaded  side.  Flesh 
amber-coloured,  tender,  and  sweet.  Stone  middle-sized, 
round. 

Ripe  in  July,  rather  before  the  May  Duke. 

This  cherry  is  of  French  origin,  and  is  said  to  have  been 
raised  at  Choisy,  near  Paris,  about  the  year  1760.  The 
general  habit  of  the  tree  is  that  of  the  the  May  Duke ; 
but  the  branches  are  rather  more  spreading  than  the 
common  one,  and  the  leaves  more  evenly  serrated. 

It  bears  well  on  an  open  standard,  and  is  very  de- 
serving of  cultivation. 

4.  CARNATION.     Langley,  1. 16.  f.  3. 

Fruit  large,  round,  almost  the  colour  of  the  Kentish, 
but  more  marbled  with  red.  Flesh  firm,  with  a  very 
good-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  in  August. 

The  branches,  as  well  as  the  trees,  have  a  good  deal 
of  the  character  of  the  Kentish ;  but  they  are  stronger, 
the  leaves  larger,  deeply  and  doubly  serrated. 

The  Carnation  Cherry,  is  a  shy  bearer  generally,  on 
an  open  standard ;  but  when  trained  as  an  espalier,  in  a 


CHERRIES.  143 

warm  garden,  where  it  has  plenty  of  sun,  it  bears  ex- 
tremely well,  and  the  fruit  is  much  finer. 

5.  EARLY  MAY.     Miller,  No.  2. 
Small  Early  May.    Langley,  1. 17-  f.  2. 

Cerisier  Noir,  a  fruit  rond  precoce.  Duh.  1.  p.  168. 
t.3. 

Fruit  small,  round,  a  little  flattened  at  both  extre- 
mities. Stalk  one  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  slender, 
deeply  inserted.  Skin  of  a  pale  red  colour.  Flesh 
soft,  juicy,  but  not  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  in  June  before  any  of  the  Dukes. 

This  cherry  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7>  on  the 
25th  of  April,  O.  S.,  or  the  6th  of  May,  N.  S.,  according 
to  Langley. 

The  wood  of  this  sort  is  very  slender  and  wiry,  with 
small  shining  leaves.  Its  only  merit  is  that  of  ripening 
before  any  other.  It  requires  a  south  or  south-east  wall, 
being  too  tender  for  an  open  standard. 

6.  HOLMAN'S  DUKE.     Langley,  t.  17*  f.  !• 
Fruit  round,   flattened  at  both  ends,  of  a  very  deep 

red;  and  when  highly  ripened  in  the  sun,  it  is  almost 
black.  Flesh  very  melting,  juicy,  and  of  a  most  excel- 
lent flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

The  Holman's  Duke  is  a  very  distinct  variety  of  the 
Duke,  and  cannot  well  be  confounded  with  any  other. 
Its  shoots  are  short,  erect,  straight,  short-jointed,  and 
more  slender  than  any  of  the  other  varieties ;  and  when 
the  May  Duke  is  fully  ripe,  the  fruit  of  this  is  quite 
green,  and  ripening  at  least  a  month  later  in  all  situations. 
It  is  one  of  our  most  hardy  sorts,  and  when  planted 
against  a  north  wall  is  highly  valuable ;  not  only  as 
affording  a  most  certain  crop,  but  as  prolonging  the 
season  of  the  Duke  to  a  late  period,  and  as  a  connecting 
link  between  all  the  rest  and  the  Morello. 


144  CHERRIES. 

7.  JEFFREY'S  ROYAL.  Q.  Lindl  Plan  of  an  Orchard, 
1796. 

Royale.     Duhamel,  20,  t.  15. 

Cherry  Duke.     Ib. 

Fruit  round,  nearly  as  large  as  a  May  Duke,  a  little 
hollowed  at  the  base,  in  clusters,  some  of  which  have 
four  cherries  on  a  common  peduncle.  Stalk  an  inch 
from  the  fork,  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  above  it.  Skin 
of  a  fine  deep  red,  which  becomes  almost  black  when 
fully  ripe.  Flesh  pale  red,  firm,  succulent.  Juice  plen- 
tiful, rich,  and  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  July. 

This  cherry  was  introduced  into  notice  about  fifty 
years  ago  by  a  Mr.  Jeffrey,  a  nurseryman  at  Brompton 
Park.  The  tree  is  the  most  compact  grower  of  all  the 
sorts  in  our  collections,  its  branches  seldom  shooting 
more  than  six  or  nine  inches  in  a  year :  the  buds  are  so 
close  together,  and  the  spurs  so  numerous  and  crowded, 
that  the  fruit  forms  most  dense  bunches.  It  can 
scarcely  be  propagated  otherwise  than  by  budding. 

8.  KENTISH.     Miller,  No.  1. 
Flemish.     Langley,  1. 18.  f.  1. 

.  Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  flattened  at  both  ends. 
Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  and  sunk  in  a 
rather  deep  hollow.  Skin  of  a  dingy  red,  slightly 
marbled  with  dull  brown,  and  having  occasionally  a  few 
both  opaque  and  transparent  spots.  Flesh  rather  firm, 
but  succulent,  with  a  somewhat  astringent  but  sacc^a- 
rine  juice. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  August. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  common  and  most  hardy 
cherries  cultivated  in  this  country,  the  May  Duke  ex- 
cepted.  It  is  very  probably  one  of  those  which  were 
brought  from  Flanders  by  Richard  Haines,  about  three 
hundred  years  ago.  EVELYN  says,  "  It  was  the  plain 
industry  of  one  Richard  Haines,  a  fruiterer  to  King 


CHERRIES.  145 

Henry  VI II.,  that  the  fields  and  environs  of  about 
thirty  towns,  in  Kent  only,  were  planted  with  fruit  trees 
from  Flanders,  to  the  unusual  benefit  and  general  im- 
provement of  that  county  to  this  day." 

The  trees  grow  like  those  of  the  Morello,  with  slender 
branches  and  shining  leaves.  The  stone  is  so  strongly 
attached  to  the  stalk,  as  to  be  withdrawn  by  it  from  the 
pulp  with  facility,  leaving  the  fruit  apparently  whole :  a 
property,  I  believe,  not  possessed  by  any  other  cherry. 
In  this  state  it  is  laid  on  hair  sieves  and  exposed  to  the 
sun,  where  it  dries  and  becomes  a  delicious  sweetmeat, 
similar  in  appearance  to  that  of  a  large  sultana  raisin, 
and  will  keep  thus  for  twelve  months. 

9.  LATE  DUKE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  45. 

Cerise  Angloise  tardive.  HorL  Soc.  Cat .  No.  22. 
according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  large,  above  the  size  of  a  May  Duke,  bluntly 
heart-shaped,  somewhat  compressed,  with  a  shallow  de- 
pression on  one  side.  Skin  a  rich  shining  red.  Flesh 
tender,  amber-coloured,  juicy,  and  rich,  of  the  same 
quality  as  a  May  Duke,  Stone  rather  large,  roundish, 
ovate,  compressed. 

Ripe  on  a  standard  in  August. 

This  cherry  has  a  great  affinity  to  the  Arch  Duke, 
if  not  absolutely  the  same.  It  appears,  however,  to  be 
scarce  in  our  gardens,  and  to  be  better  known  among 
the  French  than  with  us,  although  its  name  indicates  its 
being  of  English  origin.  The  branches  are  of  vigorous 
growth,  but  more  spreading  than  those  of  the  May  Duke, 
and  the  leaves  are  larger. 

10.  MAY  DUKE.      Langley,  1. 17.  fig.  3.      Miller, 
No.  3.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  28. 

Fruit  roundish,  flattened  at  both  ends,  of  a  deep  red 
colour,  and  growing  in  clusters :  when  fully  ripe,  the 
flesh  is  soft,  juicy,  and  tender,  with  a  very  pleasant  acid, 
and  a  rich  agreeable  flavour. 


146  CHERRIES. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  July. 

This  cherry  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  17^7*  °n 
May  20.  O.  S.,  or  on  May  31,  N.  S.,  according  to 
Langley. 

The  common  May  Duke,  as  an  open  standard,  is 
more  extensively  planted  in  every  county  in  England 
than  any  other  cherry,  a  sufficient  indication  of  its 
utility  and  value  to  the  orchardist.  Although  it  has 
been  cultivated  a  considerable  time  in  this  country,  I 
do  not  find  it  mentioned  previously  to  Ray,  in  1688. 

11.  MONTMORENCY.     Hort*  Soc.  Cat.  No.  148. 
Montmorency,  a  gros  fruit.     Duhamel,  10.  t.  8. 
Gros  Gobet.     Ib. 

Gobet  a  courte  queue.     Ib. 

Cerise  a  courte  queue,  of  the  French. 

Cerise  a  courte  queue  de  Provence.     Ib. 

Fruit  large,  round,  very  much  flattened  at  both  the 
base  and  the  apex,  generally  growing  in  pairs.  Stalk 
stout  and  stiff,  an  inch  long,  deeply  inserted  in  a  wide 
cavity.  Skin  smooth,  shining,  of  a  beautiful  soft  but 
lively  red  colour.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white.  Juice 
plentiful,  with  a  rich  and  very  agreeable  slight  acid. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  July. 

The  Montmorency  cherry  is  but  little  cultivated  at 
present  in  this  country,  although  very  common  through- 
out Normandy  and  other  parts  of  France. 

12.  MORELLO.     Langley,  1. 16.  f.  2. 

Milan.     Ib.  \ 

Cerise  du  Nord.     Nois.  Arb.  fruit,  p.  19. 

Fruit  large,  round,  of  a  dark  red  colour,  turning 
almost  black  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  deep  red  or  purple, 
tender,  juicy,  and  blended  with  an  agreeable  acid. 

Ripe  in  August  and  September. 

This  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  1727>  on  the  21st  of 
June,  according  to  Langley. 


CHERRIES. 

The  Morello  cherry,  one  of  the  most  useful  in  our 
collections,  is  mentioned  by  Parkinson  in  1629,  who 
says  it  is  so  called  from  its  juice  being  like  that  of  the 
Morus  or  Mulberry.  In  a  favourable  situation  it  will 
ripen  its  fruit  well  on  a  standard,  but  the  crop  is  pre- 
carious. On  an  espalier,  where  it  has  plenty  of  sun,  it 
succeeds  perfectly ;  and  on  a  north  wall  it  ripens  well 
and  bears  abundantly ;  but  in  this  situation  its  fruit  is 
too  austere  to  be  eaten  raw,  and  consequently  it  is  ge- 
nerally used  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  in  brandy. 

I  would  strongly  recommend  the  Morello  cherry  to 
be  planted  against  an  east,  south-east,  or  south  wall, 
trained  thinly,  the  branches  at  least  six  inches  apart,  not 
suffering  them  to  be  overloaded  with  fruit ;  which  should 
be  kept  on  the  trees  till  it  is  perfectly  ripe,  or  begin- 
ning to  shrivel.  It  will  then  be  found  most  excel- 
lent in  the  dessert.  This  is  not  the  Cerisier  tr£s-fer- 
tile  of  Duhamel,  nor  do  I  find  it  in  his  collection.  M. 
Noisette  says  he  brought  it  to  Paris  from  Brabant  in 
1807. 

13.  WATERLOO.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  302.  t.21. 

Fruit  large,  somewhat  round,  hollow  at  the  base, 
mostly  round  at  the  apex,  but  some  are  a  good  deal  flat- 
tened. Stalk  long  and  slender.  Skin  of  a  dark  lurid 
appearance  ;  but  when  quite  ripe  it  changes  to  a  dusky 
red,  approaching  to  black.  Flesh  firm,  with  a  high 
flavoured  juice. 

It  ripens  some  days  later  than  the  Black  Eagle,  the 
beginning  or  middle  of  August. 

This  originated  from  a  seed  of  the  Bigarreau,  impreg- 
nated with  the  pollen  of  a  May  Duke,  and  its  fruit  was 
first  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1815, 

It  was  named  by  Mr.  Knight,  from  the  circumstance 
of  its  first  perfecting  its  fruit  after  the  memorable 
battle  of  Waterloo.  Mrs.  Thomas  Pendarves  Stack- 


148  CHERRIES. 

house,  a  daughter  of  Mr.  Knight's,  was  presented  with 
the  Society's  silver  medal,  January  21.  1817,  for  having 
raised  it. 

SECT.  II, — Fruit  Heart-shaped. 

14.  BIGARREAU.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  46. 
Graffion.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  Nos.  18  and  19. 
Turkey  Bigarreau.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  17» 
Fruit  large,   of  an  irregular,   obtuse,  heart-shaped 

figure,  flattened  at  its  base.  Stalk  two  inches  long, 
inserted  in  a  very  shallow  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
becoming  amber-coloured  when  matured,  and  of  a  fine 
red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  pale  yellow,  slightly 
adhering  to  the  stone,  which  is  large  and  round.  Juice 
sweet  and  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  usually  the  end  of  July  or  beginning  of  August. 
Young  shoots  very  strong,  with  a  white  epidermis. 

The  Bigarreau,  or  Graffion,  cherry  is  sold  in  many 
nurseries  under  both  appellations,  as  distinct  sorts  ;  but 
I  could  never  discover  any  difference,  after  cultivating 
them  for  years.  The  Bigarreau  cherry  is  the  strongest 
upright  grower  in  its  young  shoots  of  all  the  cherries 
now  cultivated  ;  and  it  has  also  the  largest  leaves,  ex- 
cepting the  Tobacco-leaved.  It  is  too  tender  for  an 
open  standard,  except  in  a  warm  sheltered  situation.  It 
is  best  to  plant  it  against  an  east  or  south-east  wall. 

15.  BLACK  EAGLE.      Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  13^. 
t.9. 

Fruit  large,  growing  generally  by  pairs  or  threes, 
many  of  which  are  flattened  both  at  the  apex  and  the 
base.  Stalk  long,  slender.  Skin  deep  purple,  or 
nearly  black.  Flesh  tender  and  bleeding.  Juice  very 
rich  and  high  flavoured.  Shoots  very  strong,  with  large 
leaves. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  or  beginning  of  August. 


CHERRIES.  149 

Raised  by  Miss  Elizabeth  Knight,  of  Dounton  Castle, 
about  the  year  1806,  from  a  seed  of  the  Bigarreau,  which 
had  been  fertilised  by  the  pollen  of  the  May  Duke. 

The  spurs  of  the  Black  Eagle  produce  bunches  of  ten 
or  twelve  cherries  each.  The  trees  succeed  best  against 
an  east  or  south-east  wall.  The  specimen  for  the  plate 
in  the  Hort.  Trans,  was  taken  from  a  north-east  aspect 
when  the  tree  was  eight  years  old. 

16.  BLACK  HEART.     Miller,  No.  8. 

Guignier  a  fruit  noir.  Duhamel,  Vol.  i.  p.  158. 
t.  1.  f.  1. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  growing,  for  the  most  part,  singly, 
heart-shaped,  a  little  flattened  at  the  apex,  compressed 
on  one  side,  with  a  slight  suture.  Stalk  one  inch  and 
a  half  long,  slender.  Skin  of  a  dark  purple  approaching 
to  black  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  pale  red,  rather  firm, 
but  mellow,  with  a  rich  well  flavoured  Juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  or  beginning  of  August. 

The  young  shoots  are  erect,  with  a  white  epidermis. 

17-  BLACK  TARTARIAN.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  44. 

Black  Circassian.     Hooker y  t.  31. 

Eraser's  Black  Tartarian.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  15. 

Ronalds's  large  Black  Heart.     Ib.  No.  14. 

Black  Russian,  1 

Eraser's  Black  Heart,    \  °fs(mf  ^dens accordmg 

Superb  Circassian,         J       tO  the  Pom'  Ma^ 

Fruit  large,  usually  growing  singly,  heart-shaped, 
with  an  uneven  surface,  and  of  a  shining  purplish  black 
colour.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  or  more,  slender. 
Flesh  purplish,  juicy  and  rich.  Stone  middle-sized, 
roundish  ovate. 

Ripe  end  of  July  to  the  middle  of  August. 

This  cherry  is  generally  considered  to  have  been 
brought  into  this  country  from  Russia,  by  the  late  Mr. 
John  Eraser,  in  the  autumn  of  1796.  In  the  Pomona 
Londinensis,  it  is  stated  to  have  been  introduced  from 

L  3 


150  CHERRIES. 

Circassia  by  Mr.  Hugh  Ronalds,  of  Brentford,  in  1794. 
And  it  is  also  said  to  have  originated  in  Spain,  whence 
it  was  transmitted  to  the  Russian  gardens,  and  through 
them  into  England. 

It  is  a  cherry  of  great  excellence,  bearing  well  on  a 
standard,  but  doing  best  on  an  east  or  west  wall,  on 
which  its  branches  are  usually  loaded  with  a  profusion 
of  rich  and  handsome  fruit.  In  the  nursery  quarters 
the  young  shoots  are  the  most  erect  of  this  class  of 
cherries,  with  a  white  epidermis,  short  joints,  and  plump 
eyes ;  readily  recognised  from  every  other  kind. 

L8.  BLEEDING  HEART.     Miller,  No.  15. 

Gascoign's  Heart.     Langley,  1. 17»  f-  45. 

Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  having  the  appearance  of  a 
small  drop  or  tear  at  the  end.  Skin  of  a  dark  red  co- 
lour. Flesh  firm,  mellow.  Juice  plentiful,  and  of  an 
excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  in  August. 

The  young  shoots  are  diverging  with  a  brown  epi- 
dermis. 

19.  COURONNE, 

Coroun.     Langley,  t.  16.  f.l. 

Corone.     Forsyth,  F,d.  3. 11. 

Hertfordshire  Cherry.     Ib.  5. 

Merisier  a  gros  fruit  noir.     Duhamel.Vol.i.  p.  158. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  heart-shaped,  generally  growing 
in  pairs,  sometimes  in  threes.  Stalk  two  inches  long, 
slender,  inserted  in  a  narrow,  deep,  round  cavity.  ShiA 
deep  purple,  or  dingy  black.  Flesh  firm,  with  a  deep 
purple  juice,  sweet,  and  of  a  pretty  good  flavour. 

Ripe  end  of  July  and  beginning  of  August. 

The  Couronne  Cherry  reproduces  itself  from  seed, 
and  the  trees  attain  the  largest  size.  They  grow  in  a 
wild  state,  and  are  also  cultivated  in  several  parts  of 
England,  particularly  in  some  parts  of  Hertfordshire ; 
and  at  Framingham  and  Brooke,  in  Norfolk,  whence 


-  CHERRIES. 

they  are  sent  in  large  quantities  to  the  neighbouring 
markets. 

20.  DOWNTON.     Hort.Trans.Vol.v.  p.  262.    Pom. 
Mag.  1. 138. 

Fruit  usually  growing  singly,  very  blunt,  heart-shaped, 
nearly  round,  a  little  flattened  on  one  side,  with  a  very 
small  suture  extending  from  the  stalk  to  the  apex.  Stalk 
about  two  inches  long,  slender,  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
pale  yellowish,  sprinkled  with  numerous  red  spots,  with 
larger  patches  of  dull  red  or  morone  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  pale  amber,  transparent,  tender,  without  any  stain 
of  red,  adhering  slightly  to  the  stone.  Juice  very  sweet 
and  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  July. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Knight  from  a  seed  either  of  the  Wa- 
terloo or  Elton,  but  from  which  is  not  certain.  Its  fruit 
was  first  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  July  16. 
1822.  It  bears  well  as  a  standard,  and  in  richness  of 
juice  it  is  equal  to  any  cherry  cultivated. 

21.  ELTON.    Hooker,  t.y.    Pom.  Mag.  t.  92.    Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  ii.  pp.  157.  301. 

Fruit  usually  growing  singly,  pretty  large,  heart- 
shaped,  much  resembling  the  Bigarreau,  but  much 
earlier.  Stalk  two  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  slender. 
Skin  pale  waxy  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  mottled  and 
dashed  with  rich  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  firm,  but 
less  so  than  the  Bigarreau ;  very  sweet  and  rich. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  July,  about  the 
time  of  the  May  Duke,  or  soon  after. 

This  very  excellent  cherry  was  raised  by  Mr.  Knight 
in  1806  from  a  seed  of  the  Graffion,  which  had  been 
fertilised  by  the  pollen  of  the  White  Heart.  It  bears 
well  upon  an  open  standard,  but  is  much  finer  when 
grown  against  a  wall,  and  is  highly  deserving  of  cul- 
tivation. 

L  4 


152  CHERRIES. 

22.  FLORENCE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  229. 1. 14, 
Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  flat  at  the  base,  and  obtuse 

at  the  apex,  compressed  on  one  side,  with  a  shallow 
suture.  Stalk  long,  slender,  seated  in  a  deep,  cup- 
shaped  cavity.  Skin  pale  amber,  very  much  marbled 
with  pale  red,  and  of  a  very  bright  lively  red  where  ex- 
posed to  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  firm,  but  not  hard. 
Juice  plentiful,  rich  and  sweet. 

Ripe  end  of  July  or  beginning  of  August. 

This  very  fine  cherry  was  imported  from  Florence 
some  years  ago  by  the  late  Mr.  Houblon,  of  Hallingbury 
Place,  in  Essex.  The  original  plant  is  now  dead. 

It  succeeds  best  trained  against  an  east,  or  south-east 
wall. 

23.  HARRISON'S  HEART.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7«  No.  9- 
Fruit  large,  heart-shaped,  of  a  pale  yellowish  or  am- 
ber colour,  slightly  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  tender,  with  a  rich  high-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  and  beginning  of  August. 

Mr.  Forsyth  says  this  Cherry  was  introduced  from 
the  East  Indies  (?)  by  Governor  Harrison,  who  went  out 
as  Governor  of  Fort  Saint  George,  in  December,  1710, 
and  returned  in  1719.  It  was  first  cultivated  at  his 
seat  at  Balls,  in  Herefordshire.  Some  of  the  trees 
which  he  presented  to  George  I.  were  in  a  flourish- 
ing state,  in  Kensington  Gardens^  in  1800.  This,  like 
the  Bigarreau,  ought  to  be  trained  against  an  east  or 
south-east  wall.  % 

24.  KNIGHT'S  EARLY  BLACK.     Hort.    Trans.  Vol. 
iii.  p.  211.  VoL  iv.  p.  510.     Pom.  Mag.  93. 

Fruit  large,  blunt,  heart-shaped,  with  an  uneven 
surface  like  that  of  the  Black  Tartarian.  Stalk  two 
inches  long,  deeply  inserted  in  a  hollow,  cup-shaped  cavity, 
Skin  of  a  dark  dull  red,  when  fully  ripe  almost  black. 
Flesh  firm,  juicy,  very  deep  purple,  rich  and  high  fla- 
voured. 


CHERRIES.  153 

Ripe  a  week  or  ten  days  earlier  than  the  May  Duke. 
On  a  south  aspect,  it  will  be  ripe  by  the  middle  of  June. 

This  very  valuable  and  early  cherry  was  raised  by 
Mr.  Knight,  about  1810,  from  a  seed  of  the  Bigarreau, 
which  had  been  impregnated  by  the  May  Duke.  It  is 
sufficiently  hardy  to  bear  on  an  open  standard  ;  but  it 
would  be  more  desirable  to  train  it  against  a  south  or 
south-east  wall,  as  its  fruit  would  then  be  a  great  acqui- 
sition to  the  dessert,  along  with  our  early  scarlet  straw- 
berries. 

25.  LUKE  WARD.     Miller,  No.  11.      Hitt,  p.  299. ; 
Switzer,  140. 

Fruit  heart-shaped,  somewhat  rounder,  and  not 
quite  so  large  as  a  Black  Heart ;  of  a  dark  brown,  or 
nearly  black  colour,  and  possessing  a  most  excellent 
juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

This  is  an  old  inhabitant  of  our  orchards,  although 
but  little  known,  or  cultivated,  at  present. 

Parkinson,  in  1629,  calls  it  Luke  Wards :  Raye  in 
1688,  Luke  Ward's,  and  Rea,  in  1702,  appears  to  be 
the  first  who  has  given  it  the  name  of  Lukeward.  It 
is  highly  spoken  of  by  the  old  gardeners,  and  therefore 
ought  to  be  brought  into  notice  and  cultivated. 

26.  SMALL  BLACK. 

Black  Mazzard.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  4. 

Common  Black  of  Buckinghamshire.     Ib.  No.  5. 

Merry  Cherry  of  Cheshire.     Ib.  No.  2. 

Small  Wild  Black.     Ib.  No.  7. 

Black  Polstead,  in  some  places. 

Merisier  a  petit  fruit.     Duhamel,  Vol.  i.  p.  156. 

Fruit  small,  heart-shaped,  flattened  a  little  on  both 
sides,  and  without  suture.  Stalk  one  inch  and  three 
quarters  long,  very  slender,  inserted  in  a  small  round 
cavity  ;  at  its  apex  it  has  a  small,  round,  deepish  dimple. 
£&mthin,ofajet  black  colour.  Flesh  succulent,  very  deep 


154+  CHERRIES. 

purple.     Juice  purple,  sweet,  accompanied  with  a  slight 
bitter  but  agreeable  taste. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  Cherry  grows  wild,  and  is  cultivated  also,  in 
abundance,  in  several  parts  of  England,  particularly  in 
the  Chiltern  part  of  Buckinghamshire  ;  in  Cheshire,  and 
about  Polstead  in  Suffolk,  where  the  fruit  is  called 
Merries,  from  the  French  Merise.  In  the  season  they 
are  to  be  found  in  almost  every  principal  market  town 
in  England,  where  they  always  find  a  ready  sale.  It 
is  the  principal  fruit  employed  for  the  making  of  Cherry 
brandy,  and  it  is  the  only  sort  which  ought  to  be  used 
by  nurserymen  for  their  stocks,  on  which  to  bud  and 
graft  the  better  kinds. 

27*  TOBACCO  LEAVED. 

Bigarreautier  a  feuilles  deTabac.  Bon.  Jard.  1827- 
p.  296. 

Cerisier  de  4  a  la  livre.     Ib.  1825.  p.  239- 

Four  to  the  pound.      Of  some  Nurseries. 

Quatre  a  la  livre.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  511. 

Fruit  small,  heart  shaped,  of  a  pale  transparent  yellow 
colour,  with  a  faint  stain  of  red  on  the  exposed  side. 
Flesh  of  firm  consistence,  sweet  and  pleasant,  but  with- 
out any  particular  richness.  Stalk  long  and  the  stone 
large,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  fruit. 

Ripe  in  August. 

The  young  branches,  in  the  Nursery,  are  very  strong, 
and  crooked ;  and  the  leaves  of  the  very  largest  size.  * 

How  this  Cherry  should  have  obtained  its  name  of 
four  to  the  pound,  I  am  at  a  loss  to  conceive :  its  fruit 
is  not  half  the  size  of  our  Kentish  Cherry,  and  not  of 
one  fiftieth  part  of  its  value  for  any  purpose  what- 
ever. Nurserymen  will  do  well  to  get  rid  of  it  alto- 
gether. 

28.  WHITE  HEART.     Langley.  1. 18.  f.4. 

Guignier  a  gros  fruit  Wane.     Duhamel,  1. 1.  f.3. 


CHERRIES. 

Fruit  growing  in  pairs  or  threes,  middle-sized, 
heart-shaped,  of  a  dull  whitish  yellow  colour,  tinged  and 
mottled  with  dull  muddy  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun. 
Stalk  two  inches  long,  very  slender,  inserted  in  a  hollow 
round  basin.  Flesh  melting,  juicy,  of  a  rich  and  plea- 
sant flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  and  beginning  of  August. 

The  branches  of  this  sort  are  slender,  diverging,  with 
a  reddish-brown  epidermis. 


A  Selection  of  Cherries  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 

Arch  Duke         -                        2     Florence         -             -  -  22 

Belle  de  Choisy                   -       3     Holman's  Duke         -  -  6 

Bigarreau             -               -     14     Kentish         -  -  8 

Black  Eagle                        -     15     Knight's  Early  Black  -  24? 

Black  Tartarian     -             -     17     May  Duke  -  10 

Dovvnton                              -     20     Morello  -  12 

Elton         -            -             -21     Waterloo              -    .  -  13 


Northern  Counties  of  England,  and  Southern  of  Scotland. 

Arch  Duke  -  2  Holman's  Duke      -  -  6 

Belle  de  Choisy  3  Kentish                        -  8 

Black  Eagle  -  15  Knight's  Early  Black  -  24 

Black  Tartarian  -  17  May  Duke  -  10 

Downton  -  20  Morello              -  -  12 

Elton             -  -  21  Waterloo               -  -  13 


Highlands  of  Scotland. 

Black  Tartarian  -     17     May  Duke  -     10 

Kentish  -  8     Waterloo  -  -     13 


Cherries  in  the  Highlands  of  Scotland  must  be  trained 
against  walls,  and  have  the  best  aspect. 


156  CHERRIES. 


Propagation* 

Cherries  are  propagated  by  budding  and  grafting 
upon  the  small  Black  Cherry  stock.  Those  intended 
for  standards  are  always  worked  standard  high. 

In  the  nursery  it  ought  not  to  be  attempted  to  work 
dwarfs  among  standards,  except  on  those  stocks  which 
have  not  grown  up  sufficiently  high  for  the  purpose  of 
standards,  as  they  never  make  good  plants  when  over- 
grown by  the  upper  crop.  Dwarfs  are  at  all  times  the 
best  when  grown  by  themselves  ;  and  if  good  bedded 
stocks  have  been  quartered  out,  they  will  generally  be 
fit  to  graft  when  they  have  been  planted  a  year. 

As  I  have  observed  before,  when  speaking  of  apples, 
budding  is  not  to  be  recommended  for  dwarfs,  as  they 
never  make  such  good  plants  as  those  which  have  been 
grafted. 

In  order,  therefore,  to  preserve  a  uniformity  in  a 
quarter  of  cherries,  and  to  grow  them  with  the  least  pos- 
sible waste,  it  is  necessary  the  stocks  should  be  assorted 
previously  to  their  being  planted  out,  selecting  the  hand- 
somest and  best,  and  as  nearly  of  a  size  as  possible  for 
standards ;  the  smaller  and  less  handsome  ones  may  follow 
in  the  quarter  to  be  employed  for  dwarfs.  By  pursuing 
this  method  the  crop  of  both  standards  and  dwarfs  will 
be  regular,  and  much  better  than  when  the  weak  plants 
have  to  contend  with  the  strong,  and  the  least  waste  witl 
in  all  cases  be  occasioned. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

Standard  cherries  for  the  orchard  require  the  same 
management,  generally,  as  standard  apples,  and  the  same 
method  may  be  pursued  as  directed  under  that  head  j 


CHERRIES. 

but  as  the  former  of  these  are  more  generally  raised  from 
buds  than  from  grafts,  they  will  at  first  require  a  dif- 
ferent treatment,  namely,  that  of  heading  them  down 
the  first  year.  On  this  account  they  ought  never  to 
be  planted  later  than  the  end  of  October,  or  the 
middle  of  November  :  this  early  planting  will  enable 
the  trees  to  make  fresh  roots  previously  to  the  spring, 
when,  in  April,  as  soon  as  the  buds  begin  to  break  out, 
they  should  be  headed  down  to  within  three  or  four 
inches  of  the  place  where  they  had  been  budded.  If  the 
trees  be  good,  there  will  be  a  sufficient  number  of  eyes 
to  produce  as  many  shoots  as  will  be  required  to  furnish 
the  head:  should  more  than  four  be  produced,  they 
should  be  reduced  to  this  number,  of  such  as  are  the 
best  placed.  These  must  be  allowed  to  extend  at  length 
without  being  shortened,  nothing  further  being  required 
than  to  cut  out  superfluous  shoots,  so  as  to  keep  the 
head  uniform  and  handsome.  If  the  heads  of  young 
trees  be  carefully  attended  to  the  first  three  or  four 
years,  they  will  rarely  get  into  confusion  afterwards ; 
they  must,  nevertheless,  be  looked  over  frequently,  as 
shoots  are  occasionally  produced,  through  a  local  injury 
of  the  branch,  which  may  require  to  be  removed. 

Espalier  cherries,  and  those  trained  against  the  wall, 
require  precisely  the  same  management,  both  as  to 
pruning  and  training.  For  this  purpose,  trees  which 
have  been  grafted  are  always  to  be  preferred  to  those 
which  have  been  raised  from  buds  :  they  must  be  cut 
back  at  the  commencement,  as  directed  for  Apricots ; 
but  the  branches,  except  in  Morellos,  must  be  trained 
horizontally  instead  of  obliquely,  and  always  continued 
at  their  full  length.  In  Dukes  and  Hearts  the  branches 
should  be  eight  or  nine  inches  apart,  beginning  at  the 
bottom  of  the  tree,  and  continuing  each  additional  shoot 
in  a  parallel  direction,  till  the  number  of  series  the  wall 
will  permit  be  completed. 


158  CHERRIES. 

This  mode  of  training  will  give  a  curved  direction, 
more  or  less,  after  the  first  two  or  three  on  each  side 
have  been  formed,  to  every  additional  shoot  before  it 
gains  its  horizontal  direction  ;  in  consequence  of  which, 
lateral  shoots  must  be  secured  from  the  last  series  in 
their  ascent,  in  order  to  fill  up  the  middle  of  the  tree. 

After  this  there  will  be  nothing  further  required  than 
to  cut  off  all  additional  shoots  as  they  are  produced,  to 
within  half  an  inch  from  whence  they  sprang :  the 
month  of  May  will  be  soon  enough  for  the  first  pruning, 
and  July  for  the  second  ;  after  which  there  will  seldom 
be  any  more  produced  in  that  year.  As  the  trees  ac- 
quire age,  the  spurs  will  advance  in  length ;  but  these 
must  be  kept  within  due  bounds  by  cutting  them  out 
whenever  they  exceed  three  or  four  inches  :  by  this 
means  full  sized  and  perfect  specimens  of  fruit  will 
always  be  obtained. 

Morello  Cherries  require  a  different  mode  of  treat- 
ment :  they  are  best  trained  obliquely,  in  the  fan  manner, 
the  same  as  Apricots :  their  fruit  is  produced  from  the 
last  year's  shoots,  and  upon  spurs  from  the  older 
branches  ;  but^  the  younger  those  spurs  the  finer  the 
fruit ;  so  that  all  spurs  above  two  years  old  ought  to 
be  removed. 

The  Morello  Cherry  produces  a  greater  number  of 
shoots  than  any  other  variety  under  similar  treatment. 
This  induces  many  gardeners  to  crowd  their  trees  with 
double,  and  sometimes  triple,  the  number  of  brandies 
which  they  ought  to  have,  to  the  great  injury  of  the 
fruit,  without  adding  in  the  least  either  to  the  bulk  or 
weight  of  the  crop. 

In  assigning  some  limit  to  this  practice,  I  would 
recommend,  that  none  of  the  branches  should  be  trained 
nearer  to  each  other  than  three  inches,  and  from  that 
to  four  and  five,  continuing  the  out-leaders  at  full 
length,  as  also  those  which  follow  at  different  distances ; 


CHERRIES. 


1.59 


insuring  at  intervals  in  every  part  of  the  tree  a  supply 
of  young  wood  to  succeed  the  extreme  leaders.  When 
the  trees  have  attained  their  full  size,  these  leaders 
should  be  cut  out  annually,  in  the  winter  pruning,  in 
order  to  make  room  for  the  next  succeeding  branches. 
By  this  means  the  tree  will  always  be  kept  within  its 
proper  limits,  and  possess  strength  and  vigour  to  sup- 
port and  mature  a  heavy  and  abundant  crop.  Other 
particulars  will  be  found  where  the  Morello  Cherry  is 
described. 


INDEX  TO  THE  CHERRIES. 


Ambrce         •  1 

Arch  Duke  -  2 

Belle  de  Choisy  -  3 

Bigarreau               -  -14- 

Bigarreauafeuilles  de  Tabac  27 

Black  Circassian  -  17 

Black  Eagle     -  -  15 

Black  Heart             -  -  16 

Black  Mazzard  -      -  26 

Black  Polstead         -  -  26 

Black  Russian         -  -  17 

Black  Tartarian      »  -  17 

Bleeding  Heart  -  18 

Carnation              -  -  4- 

Cerise  b  courte  queue  -  11 
Cerise   a   courte   queue   de 

Provence             -  1 1 

Cerise  Ambree  -  1 

Cerise  Angloise  tardive       -  9 

Cerise  de  la  Palembre  -  3 

Cerise  Doucette      -  -3 

Cerise  du  Nord  -  12 

Cerise  de  quatre  a  la  livre  27 

Cerisier  noir  a  fruit  rond 

prtcoce         -  5 
Cherry  Duke  -  7 
Common  Black  of  Bucking- 
hamshire            -  -  26 


Corone         -  -  19 

Coroun  -  19 

Couronne         -           -  -  19 

Downton               -  -  20 

Early  May              -  5 

Elton                           -  -  21 

Flemish               -  -  8 

Florence                       -  -  22 

Four  to  the  Pound     -  -  27 

Frasers  Black  Heart  -  17 

Frasers  Black  Tartarian   -  17 

Gascoigns  Heart       -  -  18 

Gobet  a  courte  queue  -  11 

Grqffion  -  14 

Griotte  de  Portugal  -  2 

Gros  Gobct  -  11 

Guignier  a  fruit  noir  -  16 

Guignier  a  gros  fruit  blanc  28 

Harrison's  Heart     -  -  23 

Hertfordshire  -  19 

Holman's  Duke     -  6 

Jeffrey's  Royal  7 

Kentish         -  8 

Knight's  Early  Black  -  24 

Late  Duke  -  9 

Lukeward          -         -  -  25 

May  Duke  -  10 

Merisier  ft  gros  fruit  noir  1£ 


160  CURRANTS. 

Merisier  a  petit  fruit          -     26  Ttoyale         -  7 

Merry  Cherry  of  Cheshire      26  Small  Black  -  26 

Milan                          -         -     12  Small  Early  May  .-         -  5 

Montmorency         -            -     1 1  Small  Wild  Black  -         -  26 

Montmorency  a  gros fruit         11  Superb  Circassian  -         -  17 

Morello                                -     12  Tobacco-leaved  -           -  27 

Portugal  Duke         -                   2  Turkey  Bigarreau  -         -  14? 

Quatre  a  la  livre    -             -     27  Waterloo  -  13 

Ronalds  s  large  Black  Heart  17  White  Heart  -          -  28 


CHAP.  V. 

CURRANTS. 

The  Currants  most  deserving  of  cultivation  are  the 
following :  — 

1.  BLACK  NAPLES.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  43. 

The  superiority  of  this  consists,  not  only  in  the 
larger  size  of  the  fruit,  but  in  the  clusters  being  more 
numerous  on  the  bushes,  as  well  as  in  each  cluster  bear- 
ing a  greater  number  of  berries.  Cultivated  in  the 
Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick. 

2.  COMMON  BLACK.     Eng.  Bot.t.\2Q\. 

3.  CHAMPAGNE,  with  pale  red  fruit. 

4.  LARGE  RED,  or  RED  DUTCH. 

.5.  WHITE  CHRYSTAL,  with  white  fruit  and  large 
bunches. 

6.  WHITE  DUTCH,  with  yellow  fruit  and  footstalks. 

The  nurserymen's  catalogues  contain  other  names, 
some  of  which  are  probably  a  repetition  of  the  same 
fruit.  There  are  indeed  several  worthless  varieties  of 
the  Red  Currant  to  be  found  in  gardens,  which  ought 
to  be  rooted  up,  and  replaced  by  the  larger  fruited. 
Where  the  currant  is  cultivated  for  the  purpose  of  making 
wine,  the  White  Dutch  is  to  be  preferred,  as  it  is  by  far 


CURRANTS.  161 

the  sweetest :  and  it  is  also  superior  in  the  dessert ;  but 
its  bunches  are  not  so  large  as  those  of  the  White 
Chrystal. 

When  it  is  grown  for  the  dessert,  the  size  of  the 
bunches  should  be  increased  to  the  utmost  extent  of 
which  they  are  capable.  This  can  only  be  accomplished 
by  management.  Where  bushes  are  injudiciously  planted, 
and  where  they  are  suffered  to  become  mossy  and 
crowded  with  branches,  the  bunches  are  always  small, 
and  the  fruit  inferior  in  quality.  On  the  contrary,  where 
bushes  are  advantageously  planted,  and  have  plenty  of 
room  ;  pruned  annually,  divesting  them  of  their  old 
spurs,  removing  the  young  ones  where  they  are  too 
numerous,  and  keeping  them  thin  of  branches  so  as  to 
admit  plenty  of  sun  and  air,  the  bunches  wrill  be  larger, 
and  the  fruit  superior  in  size  and  flavour,  in  proportion 
to  the  care  and  judgment  bestowed  upon  their  manage- 
ment. 


Propagation. 

Currants  are  propagated  by  cuttings  only,  where  good 
and  handsome  bushes  are  required ;  for  this  purpose, 
strong  vigorous  young  shoots  should  be  selected,  which 
are  straight,  and  about  twelve  inches  of  the  lowest  part 
of  each  made  use  of.  The  eyes  from  six  or  eight  inches 
of  each  cutting  should  be  cut  out  previously  to  planting, 
wrhich  will  prevent  suckers  from  being  thrown  up  from 
the  roots.  When  they  have  been  two  years  in  the 
nursery-bed,  and  have  formed  heads  of  four  or  five 
shoots,  they  may  be  planted  where  they  are  intended  to 
remain,  taking  care  to  have  a  stem  of  eight  inches, 
clear  above  ground,  to  each  plant. 

Its  cultivation  is  the  same  as  the  Gooseberry,  which 
see. 

M 


FIGS. 

CHAP.  VI. 

FIGS, 
SECT.  I. —  Fruit  blue  or  black. 

1.  BLACK  GENOA.     Miller,  No.  2. 

Fruit  long,  swelling  pretty  large  at  the  apex,  where 
it  is  rather  obtuse  :  the  lower  part  is  very  slender  next  the 
stalk.  Skin  of  a  dark  purple  colour,  almost  black, 
covered  with  a  purple  bloom.  Pulp  bright  red  and 
highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  in  August. 

2.  BLACK  ISCHIA.     Miller,  No.  5. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  a  little  flattened  at  the 
apex.  Skin  almost  black  when  ripe.  Pulp  deep  red, 
and  very  highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  in  August. 

This  is  a  very  productive  fig  ;  but  the  birds  are  great 
devourers  of  it,  if  the  fruit  is  not  protected. 

3.  BLACK  ITALIAN.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  9- 
Fruit  small  and  round.     Pulp  very  delicious. 

An  abundant  bearer  in  pots.  Mr.  Forsyth,  from 
whom  this  is  taken,  says  he  has  gathered  from  one 
plant,  in  a  twenty-four  pot,  two  dozen  figs  at  one  ga- 
thering. 

4.  LARGE  BLUE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  11. 
Common  Blue  or  Purple.     Miller,  No.  10. 
Great  Blue.     Hanbury. 

Large  Purple.     Nurs.  Catalogues. 

Fruit  large,  oblong.  Skin  purple,  or  dark  brown, 
covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Pulp  deep  red,  of  a 
very  good  flavour. 

Ripe  in  August. 

This  is  a  very  hardy  sort,  and  a  most  excellent  bearer. 


FIGS.  163 

5.  SMALL  BLUE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  12. 

Little  Blue.     Hanbury. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  with  a  short  footstalk. 

blue,  thin.     Pulp  red,  of  very  good  flavour. 
Ripe  in  August. 


SECT.  II.  —  Fruit  red  or  purple. 

6.  BOURDEAUX.     Duliamel,  t.  2.  f.  2. 
Figue-Poire.     Ib.  Vol.  i.  p.  213. 

Violette  de  Bourdeaux.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  70. 

Fruit  pretty  long,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  rounded 
at  the  apex,  and  a  little  pinched  in  towards  the  stalk, 
about  three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  in  diameter. 
Skin  brownish  red,  becoming  deep  violet  when  fully 
matured,  slightly  mottled  with  a  few  greenish  specks. 
Pulp  deep  red  or  purple,  succulent  and  sweet. 

This  is  cultivated  throughout  France,  and  produces 
two  crops  annually,  both  of  which  in  a  warm  season  are 
good,  although  not  possessing  veiy  high  flavour. 

7.  BROWN  TURKEY.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  64. 
Brown  Italian.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  9. 
Fruit  small  and  round.    Pulp  very  delicious. 

This  and  the  Black  Italian  are  mentioned  by  Mr. 
Forsyth,  as  being  cultivated  by  him  in  pots,  and  each 
possessing  equal  merit. 

8.  BRUNSWICK.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  48. 
Madonna.     Miller,  9. 

Hanover.  Of  some  Gardens,  according  to  the  Pom. 
Mag. 

Fruit  very  large,  obovate,  fleshy,  with  an  oblique 
apex.  Eye  rather  depressed.  Stalk  short  and  thick. 
Skin  pale  green  on  the  shaded  side,  with  a  tinge  of 
yellow  ;  next  the  sun,  dull  brownish  red,  sprinkled  with 
small  pale  brown  specks.  Flesh  pinkish  in  the  interior, 

M  2 


164  FIGS, 

nearly  white  next  the  skin,  but  chiefly  semi-transparent 
reddish  brown,  extremely  rich,  sweet,  and  high-flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  useful  of  the  hardy  figs.  In 
a  south-eastern  corner,  trained  against  a  wall,  it  ripens 
by  the  middle  of  August,  in  even  unfavourable  seasons. 
In  an  ordinary  summer,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Lon- 
don, it  begins  to  mature  by  the  beginning  of  that  month. 
It  is,  perhaps,  the  largest  purple  fig  we  have,  and  the 
most  useful  variety  that  can  be  selected  for  a  small 
garden. 

9.  CHESTNUT.     Miller,  No.  1. 
Chestnut-coloured  Ischia.     /£. 
Brown  Ischia.     Ib. 

Fruit  of  a  large  size,  globular.  Eye  pretty  large, 
and  pinched  in  at  the  stalk.  Skin  of  a  brown  or  chest- 
nut colour.  Pulp  purple,  sweet  and  high  flavoured. 
Seeds  large. 

This  sort  often  bursts  open  when  it  ripens,  which  is 
generally  in  the  beginning  or  middle  of  August.  It 
will  also  ripen  well  frequently  on  an  open  standard, 
when  planted  on  a  warm  soil  ;  and  if  planted  against  a 
hot  wall  two  crops  may  be  obtained  annually. 

10.  LONG  BROWN  NAPLES.     Miller,  11. 
Long  Naples.     Hanbury. 

Fruit  long,  somewhat  compressed  at  the  apex.  Stalk 
pretty  long.  Skin  dark  brown  when  fully  ripe.  Pulp. 
inclining  to  red,  and  well  flavoured.  Seeds  large> 

Ripe  in  September. 

11.  MALTA.     Miller,  4. 
Small  Brown,  of  some  Gardens. 

Fruit  small,  much  compressed  at  the  apex,  and  very 
much  pinched  in  towards  the  stalk.  Skin  pale  brown. 
Pulp  the  same  colour  as  the  skin,  very  sweet  and  well 
flavoured. 

Ripe  towards  the  end  of  August. 


FIGS.  165 

'  "  If  this  sort  is  permitted  to  hang  upon  the  tree  till  the 
fruit  is  shrivelled  it  becomes  a  fine  sweetmeat. 

1C2.  MINION.     Hitt,  p.  306. 

Fruit  small.     Skin  brown.     Pulp  high  flavoured. 

Hitt  says  the  tree  is  always  low,  and  will  bear  with- 
out the  assistance  of  a  wall. 

13.  MURREY.     Miller,  No.  7. 
Brown  Naples.     Ib. 

Round  Naples.     Hanbury. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  globular  figure.  Skin  light 
brown,  with  some  faint  marks  of  dirty  white.  Pulp 
nearly  of  the  same  colour  as  the  skin,  and  of  a  good  fla- 
vour. Seeds  large. 

Ripe  the  latter  end  of  August. 

14.  PREGUSSATA.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  57. 
Fruit  large,  oblate.      Stalk  short  and  thick.      Skin, 

where  shaded,  purplish  brown  ;  where  exposed,  of  a 
very  dark  brown,  sprinkled  with  pale  spots.  Pulp  deep 
red,  remarkably  sweet  and  rich.  Seeds  unusually  small. 

Ripe  from  August  to  October. 

This  very  beautiful  and  most  excellent  fig  was  sent  to 
this  country,  a  few  years  ago,  by  Dr.  Skey,  from  the 
Ionian  Isles. 

15.  PURPLE  GENOA.     Hanbury. 

Fruit  large,  long.  Skin  dark  purple,  when  perfectly 
ripe.  Pulp  extremely  sweet  and  luscious. 

16.  SMALL  BROWN  ISCHIA,     Miller,  No.  13. 
Fruit  small,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  with  a  very  short 

foot-stalk.  Skin  light  brown.  Pulp  inclining  to 
purple,  of  a  very  high  flavour. 

Ripe  late  in  September. 

The  leaves  of  this  tree  are  less  divided  than  any  of  the 
other  sorts. 

17.  VIOLETTE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  67. 
Figue  Violette.     Duhamel,  No.  3.  t.  2.  f.  1. 

M  3 


166  FIGS. 

Fruit  small,  shortly  turbinate,  and  flattened  at  the 
apex,  one  inch  and  three  quarters  or  two  inches 
in  diameter,  and  nearly  the  same  in  height.  Skin  deep 
violet.  Pulp  near  the  skin  white  ;  the  interior  envelop- 
ing the  seeds  deeply  tinged  with  red. 

The  Violet  Fig,  like  the  Angelique,  is  cultivated  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Paris,  and  produces  two  crops  an- 
nually :  the  autumnal  one  is  the  most  productive ;  and 
in  a  warm  season  the  fruit  is  excellent. 


SECT.  III.  —  Fruit  yellow,  white,  or  green. 

18.  ANGELIQUE.     Duhamel,  Vol.  i.  No.  %. 
Coucourelle  Blanche.   ^  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  1. 
Melitte.     Ib. 

Fruit  rather  small,  somewhat  pyramidal,  about  two 
inches  long,  and  one  inch  and  three  quarters  in  diame- 
ter. Skin  yellow,  mottled  with  greenish  white  specks. 
Pulp  white,  having  the  interior  which  envelopes  the  seeds 
tinged  with  red. 

This  sort  is  somewhat  like  the  Marseilles,  but  longer, 
and,  like  that,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Paris,  produces 
two  crops  annually :  the  first  is  usually  thin,  but  the 
second  very  abundant;  and  in  a  fine  season  the  fruit  is 
excellent. 

19.  GENTILE.     Miller,  No.  14.     Forsyth,   Ed.  3. 
No.  15. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  globular  figure.  Skin  yel- 
low, when  fully  ripe.  Pulp  yellow,  with  large  seeds. 
Its  flavour  is  very  good,  but  it  ripens  late,  and  the  trees 
are  seldom  good  bearers,  so  that  it  is  not  much  grown 
in  this  country. 

20.  GREEN  ISCHIA.     Miller,  No.  8. 
Green  Ischia.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  9. 

Fruit  oblong,  somewhat  globular  at  the  apex.     Skin 


FIGS.  167 

very  thin,  green ;  but  when  fully  ripe,  it  is  stained 
through  by  the  pulp  to  a  brownish  cast :  the  inside  is 
purple,  and  will  stain  linen  or  paper.  Pulp  high  fla- 
voured, especially  in  warm  seasons. 

Ripe  towards  the  end  of  August. 

21.  LARGE  WHITE.     Hanbury. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  with  a  short  foot-stalk.  Skin 
white  and  thin.  Pulp  white,  but  often  more  or  less 
tinged  with  purple,  sweet  and  rich. 

Ripe  in  August. 

'22.  LARGE  WHITE  GENOA.  Miller,  No.  4.  For- 
syth,  Ed.  3.  No.  4. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  a  little  lengthened  towards  the 
stalk.  Skin  thin,  of  a  yellowish  colour  when  fully  ripe. 
Pulp  red,  of  a  good  flavour. 

Ripe  about  the  end  of  August* 

Mr.  Forsyth  says  this  bears  two  crops  annually. 

23.  MARSEILLES.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  48. 
White  Marseilles.     Ib. 

Pocock.     Ib. 

Figue  Blanche.     Duhamel,  Vol.  i.  p.  210.  t.  1. 

Fruit  small,  about  two  inches  in  diameter,  and  nearly 
the  same  in  height,  slightly  ribbed,  somewhat  turbinate, 
and  flattened  at  the  apex.  Skin  pale  green,  becoming 
yellowish  white  when  highly  ripened.  Flesh  white, 
dry,  sweet,  and  rich. 

Ripe  in  August. 

The  Marseilles  Fig  has  been  for  many  years  cultivated 
by  Mr.  Knight  at  Downton  Castle ;  and  he  informs  me 
that  it  succeeds  well  in  the  highest  temperature  of  a 
pine  stove. 

24.  NERII.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  55. 

Fruit  rather  less  than  the  Marseilles,  and  more  long 
in  shape.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow.  Pulp  similar  in 
colour  to  that  of  a  pomegranate. 

It  is  much  the  richest  of  its  species  j  and  there  is  in  its 
M  4 


168  FIGS. 

juice  a  slight  degree  of  very  delicate  acid,  which  renders 
it  peculiarly  agreeable  to  most  palates.  The  Nerii  Fig 
is  also  cultivated  by  Mr.  Knight  at  Downton  Castle,  who 
has  been  so  obliging  as  to  furnish  me  with  the  above 
description,  dated  Sept.  23.  1830.  He  says,  "  It  offers 
fruit  very  abundantly ;  but  the  whole  falls  off  alike  in 
the  stove  and  in  the  open  air ;  and  it  succeeds  only  in 
low  temperature,  under  glass.  I  have  obtained  it,  in 
high  perfection,  by  bringing  the  fruit  forward,  till  it  was 
about  one  third  grown,  in  the  stove,  and  then  removing 
the  pots  in  which  the  plants  grew  to  a  conservatory." 

25.  SMALL  EARLY  WHITE.     Langley,  t.  52. 
Early  White.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  23. 
Small  White.     Hanbury. 

Small  White  Early.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  3. 

Fruit  somewhat  round,  a  little  flattened  at  the  apex, 
with  a  very  short  foot-stalk.  Skin  thin  5  when  fully 
ripe,  of  a  pale  yellowish  white  colour.  Pulp  white,  sweet, 
but  not  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  in  August. 

Mr.  Forsyth  says  this  sort  produces  two  crops  an- 
nually. It  scarcely  differs  from  the  Marseilles. 

26.  SMALL  GREEN.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Little  Green.     Hanbury. 

Green  Red  within.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  32, 
Fruit  small.     Skin  green  and  thin.     Pulp  red  and 

excellent. 

The  tree  is  a  low  grower,  hardy,  and  a  very  good 

bearer. 

27.  YELLOW  ISCHIA.     Miller,  No.  12. 
Cyprus.     Ib.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  42. 

Fruit  large,  of  a  pyramidal  form.  Skin  yellow  when 
fully  ripe.  Pulp  purple,  and  well  flavoured.  The  leaves 
are  large,  and  not  much  divided. 

Ripe  in  September. 


FIGS.  169 

The  tree  is  a  very  luxuriant  grower,  but  it  does  not 
produce  much  fruit  in  this  country. 


A  Selection  of  Figs  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 

Black  Ischia  -             -3  Pregussata             -  -  14? 

Brown  Turkey  7  Large  White  Genoa  -  22 

Brunswick  -       8  Marseilles  -  23 

Chestnut  -       9  Nerii  -  24? 

Malta  -     11  Small  Early  White  -  25 

In  the  North  of  England  and  in  Scotland  Figs  can- 
not be  usefully  cultivated  except  under  glass. 


It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  our  knowledge  of  figs 
should  be  so  imperfect,  and  our  means  of  obtaining  any 
interesting  information  respecting  them  so  confined. 

I  have  searched  for  authorities  and  descriptions  to 
enable  me  to  point  out  those  differences  which  should 
distinguish  one  sort  from  another ;  but  I  have  not  sue*- 
ceeded  in  satisfying  myself.  I  have,  indeed,  found  names 
in  books  on  gardening,  accompanied  by  what  the  writers 
might  have  considered  as  descriptions;  but  several  of 
them  have  been  so  defective  as  to  give  the  reader  but 
little  chance  of  applying  them  to  the  fruit  they  were  in- 
tended to  designate.  Many  sorts  therefore  still  remain 
imperfectly  described  here,  for  want  of  better  ma- 
terials. 


Propagation. 

FIGS  are  propagated  by  cuttings,  and  by  layers :  the 
latter  method  is  the  best,  as  plants  at  the  end  of  a  year 


170  FIGS. 

are  fit  to  take  up  from  the  stools,  and  to  plant  out  where 
they  are  intended  to  remain. 

Cuttings  taken  from  plants  where  layers  cannot  be 
admitted  may  be  planted  singly  in  pots,  and  placed 
under  a  frame,  in  a  gentle  heat,  in  March,  and  they  will 
make  good  plants  at  the  end  of  the  year. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

There  is  no  description  of  fruit  tree  more  easy  to 
manage  in  its  formation  than  the  Fig :  it  produces 
shoots  in  abundance,  and  they  grow  readily  and  luxuri- 
antly in  every  direction. 

This  being  the  case,  it  is  not  very  material  whether 
the  plant  be  particularly  handsome  when  it  is  first 
planted  out,  provided  it  be  clean,  strong,  and  well 
rooted.  Should  there  be  any  suckers  rising  up  from 
the  root,  as  there  generally  will  be  when  the  plants  have 
been  raised  from  suckers,  they  must  be  carefully  removed, 
cutting  them  clean  off  at  the  place  where  they  are  pro- 
duced. 

If  the  plant  be  put  out  in  the  autumn,  it  must  be 
protected  by  some  light  dry  covering,  to  prevent  its 
head  being  injured  by  frost ;  and  it  must  also  be  well 
mulched  to  secure  its  roots.  It  is,  however,  sufficiently 
early  to  plant  the  fig  in  March  ;  and  the  latter  end  of 
April  it  may  be  trained  to  the  wall,  if  the  head  be  large 
enough  and  sufficiently  handsome  :  if  not,  it  should  be 
headed  down  within  nine  inches  of  the  ground,  in  order 
to  its  forming  a  new  head.  Should  the  plant  be  strong, 
it  will,  after  this,  throw  up  six  or  eight  shoots  :  these 
must  be  trained  obliquely,  at  regular  distances,  from 
one  side  to  the  other,  and  continued  till  the  autumn. 
Previously  to  the  frost  setting  in  the  top  must  again  be 
protected,  and  the  ground  mulched  as  before,  in  case  of 


FIGS.  171 

a  severe  winter.  In  the  beginning  of  April,  the  cover- 
ing must  be  removed,  and  the  branches  shortened  to 
a  foot,  or  eighteen  inches,  according  to  their  strength. 
During  the  summer  the  young  shoots  must  be  trained 
in  a  horizontal  direction  at  a  foot  distance  from  each 
other. 

Horizontal  training  appears  the  most  eligible  for  the 
fig,  as  it  checks  its  luxuriance,  and  by  this  means  adds 
materially  to  the  ripening  of  its  wood  ;  for,  unless  this 
be  accomplished,  it  will  be  in  vain  to  look  for  fruit. 

In  some  parts  of  England  it  is  difficult  to  prevent  the 
fig  from  being  injured  by  the  severe  frosts  in  winter  ;  in 
many  others  it  is  seldom  affected  ;  but  in  those  situa- 
tions where  danger  is  to  be  apprehended,  the  safest  way 
will  be  to  protect  the  trees,  with  some  sort  of  loose, 
soft,  dry  covering.  For  this  purpose,  fern,  or  dry 
straw,  or  the  latter  mowings  of  meadow  hay  should  be 
tucked  in  among  the  branches,  and  the  whole  covered 
over  with  a  single  or  double  mat.  This  covering  must 
be  continued  till  the  beginning  of  April,  selecting  a  fine 
day  for  its  removal.  The  trees  should  now  be  pruned 
and  nailed  to  the  wall :  such  of  the  branches  as  may 
have  had  their  ends  killed  must  be  pruned  back  to  the 
next  sound  bud  :  the  others  must  be  continued  at  length, 
at  a  distance  of  twelve  or  fifteen  inches  from  each  other, 
as  from  the  upper  ends  of  the  last  year's  shoots  the 
young  figs  are  produced :  if  these  are  shortened  back, 
the  crop  will  be  destroyed. 

In  the  summer  pruning,  nothing  more  is  necessary  than 
to  cut  out  all  such  vigorous  growing  shoots  as  are  not 
wanted,  particularly  those  which  rise  immediately  at  or 
near  the  root :  those  which  are  retained  should  be  such 
only  from  which  there  is  a  prospect  of  getting  fruit  the 
following  season.  A  supply  of  these  should  be  kept 
up,  in  every  part  of  the  tree,  by  which  means  a  crop  of 
fruit  will  be  obtained  from  the  top  to  the  bottom* 


FIGS. 

Occasionally  some  of  the  larger  branches  will  have  to 
be  removed,  in  order  to  make  room  for  the  younger 
ones,  else  the  supply  of  young  wood  will  be  cut  off. 
These  must  be  cut  out  in  the  April  pruning,  selecting 
those  which  appear  to  be  worn  out,  and  the  least  con- 
nected with  fruit-bearing  branches. 

Some  of  the  stronger  branches  will  occasionally  pro- 
duce short  side  shoots  ;  when  this  happens  they  must  be 
be  preserved  till  the  following  summer :  those  which 
show  fruit  must  be  drawn  near  the  wall,  the  others 
should  be  cut  out.  When  the  young  figs  have  attained 
the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  the  end  of  that  shoot  should  be 
pinched  off,  which  will  assist  in  swelling  the  fruit :  when 
the  fruit  is  gathered  these  shoots  may  be  removed. 

Figs,  as  open  standards,  so  seldom  succeed  in  this 
country,  that  their  cultivation  in  this  manner  can  hardly 
be  recommended ;  nevertheless,  there  are  some  situa- 
tions where  they  succeed,  and  in  favourable  seasons  pro- 
duce good  crops  of  fruit. 

Where  such  situations  do  offer,  and  it  is  intended  to 
make  the  experiment,  those  sorts  only  should  be  selected 
which  are  known  to  be  the  most  hardy,  and  the  most 
productive*  The  Chestnut,  Black  Genoa,  Large  Blue, 
Murrey,  and  the  small  Early  White,  appear  to  be  the  best 
adapted. 

These  standards  should  not  exceed  six  or  seven  feet 
in  height,  and  their  heads  should  be  kept  thin  and  open 
to  admit  sun  and  air  for  the  purpose  of  thoroughly 
ripening  the  young  wood. 

In  these  trees,  all  luxuriant  shoots  must  be  removed ; 
should  they  however  become  too  luxuriant,  the  ground 
should  be  opened  round  the  roots,  and  the  largest  of 
them  shortened :  this  will  give  a  natural  and  effectual 
check  to  such  exuberance,  and  a  supply  of  short-jointed, 
moderate-sized  shoots  obtained.  From  such  as  these 
there  will  be  some  probability  of  a  crop  of  fruit ;  and  on 


FIGS. 


173 


this  account  it  becomes  necessary  so  to  manage  the  trees 
that  the  knife  may  not  be  required,  except  for  the  pur- 
pose of  cutting  out  and  thinning  the  heads. 


INDEX  TO  THE  FIGS. 


Angelique 

Black  Genoa 

Black  Ischia 

Black  Italian 

Bourdeaux 

JBroivn  Ischia 

Broivn  Italian 

Brown  Naples 

Brown  Turkey 

Brunswick 

Chestnut 

Chestnut-coloured  Ischia 

Common  Blue 

Coucourelle  Blanche 

Cyprus 

Early  White 

Figue  Blanche 

Figue  Poire 

Figue  Violette     - 

Gentile     - 

Great  Blue 

Green  Ischia 

Greeny  red  "within 

Hanover 

Large  Blue 

Large  Purple 

Large  White 

Large  White  Genoa 


18 

Little  Blue 

-      5 

1 

Little  Green 

-     26 

2 

Long  Brown  Naples 

-     10 

3 

Long  Naples 

-     10 

6 

Madonna 

-       8 

9 

Malta 

-     11 

7 

Marseilles 

-     23 

13 

Melitte 

-     18 

7 

Minion 

-     12 

8 

Murrey 

-     13 

9 

Nerii 

-     24- 

9 

Pocock 

-     23 

4. 

Pregussata 

-     14- 

18 

Purple 

-      4 

27 

Purple  Genoa 

-     15 

25 

Round  Naples 

-     13 

23 

Small  Blue 

-      5 

6 

Small  Brotvn 

-     11 

17 

Small  Brown  Ischia 

-     16 

19 

Small  Early  White 

-     25 

4 

Small  Green 

-     26 

20 

Small  White 

-     25 

26 

Small  White  Early 

-     25 

8 

Violette 

-     17 

4< 

Violette  de  Bourdeaux 

-      6 

4. 

White  Marseilles 

-     23 

21 

Yellow  Ischia 

-    27 

22 

CHAP.  VII. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

THE  gentlemen  of  Lancashire   have  given  premiums 
for  several  years,  for  raising  curious  new  sorts,  remark- 


174 


GOOSEBERRIES. 


able  for  size  and  flavour,  and  the  following  is  a  list  of 
two  hundred  of  the  principal,  which  have  been  exhi- 
bited for  this  purpose,  in  the  years  1825,  1826,  1827, 
1828,  and  1829. 

The  first  column  of  figures,  in  each  year,  shows  the 
number  of  prizes  which  each  sort  has  won,  at  the  differ- 
ent exhibitions  throughout  England  ;  the  second  column, 
the  heaviest  berry  of  the  aggregate  meetings,  in  penny- 
weights and  grains,  troy- weight. 

An  asterisk  *  denotes  the  berry  to  be  new,  and  to  have  been  brought  out  in  that 
year  which  stands  at  the  head  of  the  column  under  which  it  appears. 


REDS. 

1825. 

1826. 

1827. 

1828. 

1829. 

1.  Bang-up,  Tyrer's 

10 

21    19 

8 

13   12 

2J16  15 

5 

19     2 

i 

14   15 

2.  Boggart,  Houghton's 

24 

20     5 

28 

16     3 

23 

20     2 

36 

17   10 

15 

16  15 

3.  British  Crown,  Boardman's 

89 

22     0 

18 

19     6 

36 

19     6 

21 

18   10 

12 

17   21 

4.  Briton,  Haslam's      -      *• 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

21    12 

2 

16  21 

6 

16   11 

5.  Chance,  Bell's 

24 

23  22 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

.  — 

— 

6.  Companion,  Hopley's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

4 

24   19 

7.  Crown  Bob,  Melling's 

189 

22     4 

46 

18     3 

4 

20  23 

65 

21    12 

20 

17      3 

8.  Dreadnought,  Reeve's 

— 

— 

— 

13   17 

— 

— 

1 

17   16 

2 

16   13 

9.  Drum  Major,  Colclough's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

17     6 

1 

19  16 

10.  Duke  of  Leeds 

1 

18     7 

2 

10     9 

1 

12  23 

— 

— 

— 

— 

11.  Duke  of  Richmond 



13   17 



— 





1 

19     0 





1  2.  Earl  Grosvenor 

1 

18   11 

— 

— 

1 

17      3 

1 

14  23 



— 

13.  Elisha,  Lovart's 

3 

19  20 

1 

17   17 

14 

22     3 

4 

19  23 

1 

16   18 

14.  Emperour,  Rival's 

16 

19     2 

13 

19  17 

2 

16  20 

6 

16   10 

4 

18  29 

15.  Fancy,  Bell's 

— 

— 

1 

12     5 

8 

19   14 

6 

19     7 

20 

19     0 

16.  Farmer's  Glory,  Barry's 

2 

16   12 

1 

16   16 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1 

13   15 

17.  Footman 

1 

14     6 

2 

11     3 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

18.  Forward  Red 

— 

19     9 

1 

16     0 

1 

19  10 

— 

— 

2 

16     4 

19.  Fox  Hunter 

11 

18   14 

4 

13  22 

17 

21   21 

2 

19  23 

11 

20     5 

20.  Freeholder,  Beardsley's  - 

— 

19     7 

— 

— 

1 

16   15 

2 

15  23 

6 

17   16 

21.  George  IV.,  Colclough's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

# 

20   18 

1 

14     3 

22.  Glorious,  Bell's       - 

2 

17     7 

3 

12   16 

— 

— 

2 

17      7 

— 

— 

23.  Governour,  Bratherton's 

4 

21      4 

1 

12   13 

2 

19   10 

12 

20   11 

3 

16   12 

24.  Highwayman 

1 

16     0 

2 

16   10 

1 

17     3 

2 

18     5 

— 

— 

25.  Hit  or  Miss,  Taylor's      - 



— 

4 

14   18 

g 

18   15 

— 

— 

2 

12   14 

26.  Huntsman,  Bratherton's 

126 

23    15 

106 

24     6 

141 

27     4 

98 

24     0 

118 

21    20 

27.  Jolly  Butcher,  Cope's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 



1 

19      8 

4 

18      4 

28.  Jubilee,  Moore's 

24 

20      4 

15 

15     5 

11 

20      6 

H 

20   16 

6 

16   10 

29.  Lancashire  Lad,  Harts-  ~\ 
horn's                           -  J 

49 

20      1 

76 

17      2 

34 

20     6 

97 

20   11 

59 

18      1 

30.  Longwaist,  Wildon's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* 

19   10 

— 

16  20 

g 

16     0 

31.  Lord  of  the  Manor 

4 

19     7 

4 

20  21 

7 

26     2 

4 

18   18 

21 

18    11 

32.  Lottery,  Whittaker's    .    - 

* 

18  20 

— 

— 

— 

— 

4 

19     '2 

11 

19      1 

33.  Magistrate 

3 

18   19 

2 

13   18 

1 

17  12 

5 

15   17 

3 

14      9 

34.  Magnum  Bonum 

4 

17      .5 

4 

13      8 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

35.  Melbourn  Hero 

s 

20     0 

1 

13    11 

2 

17     7 

3 

17  23 

7 

18    12 

36.  Miner,  Greenhalgh's 

5 

19   11 

8 

16     2 

— 

— 

6 

19     8 

4 

14   22 

37.  Moorcock 

5 

19   18 

1 

11      4 

4 

19     1 

4 

16  22 

— 

— 

38.  Never  Miss 

3 

18   22 

5 

12  23 

5 

19     9 

— 



1 

14     0 

39.  Over-all,  Bratherton's 

46 

20  20 

13 

14     0 

49 

20  15 

24 

20     6 

50 

17   19 

GOOSEBERRIES. 


175 


REDS  —  continued. 

1825. 

1826. 

1827. 

1828. 

1829. 

4O.  Pastime,  Bratherton's 

* 

17  21 

6'51    21 

< 

>17   12 

17  17 

6 

16     8 

41.  Patriot 

^ 

19   14 

218  21 

— 

— 

18     0 





42.  Plough  Boy 

! 

20     8 

1  13   16 

1 

15     1 

— 

— 

8 

16   11 

43.  Prince  Regent,  Boardman' 

lit 

22  16 

8C 

H7     4 

9t 

23     2 

7 

22     3 

65 

19  13 

44.  Printer 

17 

18   12 

27 

14   10 

t 

'18     0 

19     4 

12 

14   13 

45.  Richmond  Hill,  Ward's 

2£ 

19  21 

11 

15     3 

2£ 

120     5 

1 

19     2 

4 

15     6 

46.  Rifleman,  Leigh's 

— 

— 

S 

11    10 

] 

14  11 

18   19 

— 

— 

47.  Ringleader 

( 

18   15 

1? 

14     9 

1 

18   14 

17     6 

1 

14     0 

48.  Roaring  Lion,  Farmer's 

337 

31    16 

20S 

22  23 

387 

27     7 

34< 

29     0 

J453 

25     0 

49.  Robin  Hood,  Bell's 
50.  Rough  Robin,  Speechley' 
51.  RoyalGeorge,  Bratherton' 
52.  Shakspeare 

* 

S 

* 

7 

23  22 
20     8 
24  20 
22    12 

s 

17   17 
17     0 

S 
2 
Z 
21 

16     8 
21    15 
18  23 
19     0 

34 

17     6 

22     7 
19  20 

8 

2 
6 

2G 

16     8 
17     9 
17     G 
19   IS 

53.  Sir  John  Cotgrave,  Bra-  ~\ 

12922  20 

70 

20     9 

15:3 

24  19 

122 

25     2 

121 

21    16 

therton's          -           -  J 

|j 

54.  Smolensko,  Graves's 

78 

22     7 

29 

15     7 

47 

22     6 

36 

21    20     38 

18     6 

55.  Sportsman,  Chadwick's 

.  28  20     9 

34 

18  23 

1920     8 

30 

20     2     12 

17     9 

56.  Squire  Hamond 

— 

13   12 

I 

16   12 

723   15 

21 

23   20     32 

18   19 

57.  Statesman,  Billington's 

* 

22  21 

— 

— 

1025  21 

5 

22  23     18 

21     3 

58.  Superiour,  Cranshawe's 

10 

21    13 

J 

15   12 

420     2 

16    IS       6 

17   12 

59.  Tiger 

320  20 

] 

13     8 

2  17    10 

] 

17    17        1 

14  13 

60.  Top  Sawyer,  Capper's 

3522   12 

49 

18  20 

7424     6 

79 

22  171    92 

21      6 

61.  Triumphant,  Denny's 

2  18     4 

5 

12   15 

j 

18      6 

] 

16   10 

2 

15  18 

62.  Trumpeter,  Entwisle's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* 

20     8 

] 

14  22 

5 

18     6 

63.  Whipper-in,  Bratherton's 

4 

20  21 

— 

— 

< 

18   11 

] 

13   17 

— 

— 

64.  Yaxley  Hero,  Speechley's 

26 

21    19 

— 

5 

16   14 

< 

18   10 

— 

— 

65.  Yorkshire  Lad 

3 

17  21 

I 

13  20 

5 

17     5 

< 

18      1 

7 

18   16 

66.  Young  Sampson 

5 

18  20 

14  21 

~~ 

— 

~~ 

—~ 

— 

— 

YELLOWS. 

- 

67.  Bonny  Roger 

1 

18     4 

11 

14     5 

c 

17   18 

14 

17     5 

< 

20   10 

68.  Bottom  Sawyer,  Capper's 

5 

16   12 

8 

12  23 

f 

19     0 

2 

17  19 

__ 

— 

69.  Britannia 

— 

— 

— 

— 

16 

19  13 

19 

18  22 

10 

15   13 

70.  Bunker's  Hill,  Capper's 

31 

21    13 

44 

17     5 

92 

22  16 

76 

20     2 

134 

17  20 

71.  Chain,  Forbes's 

24 

17   20 

20 

14     5 

10 

17     3 

11 

14   18 

8 

16  14 

72.  Cheshire  Cheese,  Hopley's 

1015   14 

g 

13     £ 

f 

17     2 

3 

5  22 

1 

13     9 

73.  Conquering  Hero 

35 

20     9 

43 

18     5 

23 

18     9 

29 

6   17 

17 

17     6 

74.  Cottage  Girl,  Heaps's 

66 

20   11 

47 

19     3 

87 

23      9 

72 

9   14 

61 

17  21 

75.  Delight,  Needham's 

81 

24      4 

18 

17     1 

40 

21      3 

19 

9  20 

17 

19     9 

76.  Duckwing 

15 

18   20 

34 

15     3 

40 

24      0 

51 

9  20 

78 

19     7 

77.  Fleece 

c 

18    12 

^ 

14    1-1        1 

15      0       a 

4     6 

— 

— 

78.  Gipsey  Girl,  Manning's 

— 

14   15 

1 

11   14       1 

1C      4 

— 

— 

1 

14     2 

79.  Globe,  Hopley's 

33 

24     0 

28 

16  14     £0 

22     4 

57 

21      0 

93 

20     0 

80.  Gold  Wedge 

2 

17     2 

c 

14   14 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2 

14  14 

81.  Gunner,  Hardcastle's 

17 

22   18 

95 

23     4 

151 

27     1 

192 

24     5 

181 

20  19 

82.  Hawk 

2 

17   17 

8 

12   15 

2 

lo     7 

• 

21     8 

— 

— 

83.  Invincible,  Haywood's 

24 

20     1 

8 

18     7 

7 

14  10 

12 

8   17 

6 

16   14 

84.  Leader,  Piggott's 

* 

17     0 

— 

— 

/ 

17     5 

15 

9     6 

67 

22  17 

85.  Lord  Combermere 

] 

16   13 

10 

3    11 

^ 

17     2 

« 

5     0 

— 

— 

86.  Lord  Suffield 

1 

16     4 

§ 

2    11 

2 

18     0; 

«j 

7   10 

— 

— 

87.  Medal 

3 

15  22 

1 

22  23 

— 

— 

1 

5  12 

— 

_ 

88.  Miss  Meagor 

1 

16    12 

— 

— 

1 

13     0 

1 

2     9 

— 

— 

89.  Nelson's  Waves,  Andrews's 

78 

20   19 

88 

7     3 

73 

18  21 

72 

2     8 

47 

17     2 

90.  Old  Gold,  Astley's 

4 

19   12 

1 

1     0 

1 

4   13 

] 

5   18 

1 

13   14 

91.  Queen,  Kay's 

76 

2O  23 

49 

3   19 

17 

8    14 

14 

7   18 

7 

15   11 

92.  Radical,  Smith's 

23 

21    20 

17 

7     8 

8 

9      4 

1 

5   11 

5 

18   15 

93.  Ranger 

1 

15  21 

1 

1    13 

1 

3     0 

1,  4     3 

— 

— 

176 


GOOSEBERRIES, 


YELLOWS  —  continued. 

1825. 

1826. 

1827. 

1828. 

1829- 

94.  Regulator,  Prophet's 

33 

20   18 

15 

16     0 

19,20     0 

27 

18      1 

9 

16  14 

95.  Reveller 

C 

17  20 

11 

12     £ 

—       — 

21 

18     6 

f 

16     5 

96.  Rockwood,  Prophet's 

191 

22     0 

115 

17   15 

168,23     4 

147 

21      3 

156 

19     8 

97.  Rule-all 

I 

15   15 

1 

12     6 

2 

14   12 









98.  Scorpion 

4 

17      1 

1 

10  19 

2 

15     8 

2 

14     1 

— 

— 

99.  Shuttle,  Dudson's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* 

18     6 

— 

— 

8 

16     6 

100.  Smuggler,  Beardsvvell's 

9 

16     7 

7 

13   17 

13 

18  23 

c 

16   14 

r 

16     8 

101.  Sovereign,  Bratherton's 

47 

20  21 

42 

16   13 

127 

22  23 

112 

22   17 

90 

19  20 

102.  Swing-em,  Blakeley's 

15 

18  20 

9 

14     0 

12 

19  17 

2 

14  20 

4 

15   19 

103.  Teazer,  Prophet's 

* 

18     6 

0 

21      8 

— 

— 

6 

16  20 

33 

19  20 

104.  Tim  Bobbin,  Clegg's 

7 

16   18 

Cj 

10     5 

£ 

15   19 



— 

1 

13      9 

105.  Trafalgar,  Hallow's 

14 

17      9 

8 

14   12 

6 

16   10 

8 

18  23 

2 

15    17 

106.  Ville  de  Paris,  Gradwell's 

7 

17     7 

g 

13     3 

2 

17     0 

c 

15    12 

1 

12   17 

107.  Viper,  Gordon's 

183 

21      7 

105 

17    15 

99 

24   17 

57 

18     5 

30 

16     8 

108.  Willow,  Bratherton's 

* 

21    12 

1 

15     0 

2 

18  22 

2 

16      1 

c 

16     5 

GREENS. 

109.  Aaron,  Lovart's 

* 

19  20 

1 

14  16 

6 

17     6 

12 

17     6 

16 

17      7 

110.  Anchor,  Betts's 

2 

16   17 

1 

13   20 

c 

14  22 

3 

18      1 

— 

— 

111.  Angler,  Collier's 

51 

20  15 

146 

17      1 

168 

20     8 

185 

20     1 

180 

17    12 

112.  Bang-down,  Billington's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

p 

21    10 

] 

15   10 

19 

16   11 

113.  Bang-Europe,  Leicester's 

— 

— 

# 

18    15 

1 

15   16 

13 

18   12 

63 

16     9 

114.  Bellingham 

3 

15  17 

1 

17      2 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

115.  Capt.  Greenall 

4 

16   12 

— 



— 

— 

2 

12     6 

1 

13   12 

116.  Chisel,  Blakeley's 

£ 

15   11 

o 

11      3 

1 

13     0 

— 

— 

— 

— 

LI  7.  Conquering  Hero 

25 

17     3 

20 

13  21 

8 

21      0 

7 

15   18 

4 

15     1 

118.  Derby  Ram 

1 

15     4 

3 

15     9 

— 



1 

13  23 

1 

13      1 

119.  Dragon 

8 

17     2 

4 

12   14 

< 

17  20 

1 

15     8 

— 

12     5 

1  20.  Elijah,  Lovart's 

61 

19     9 

71 

17     9 

105 

20   10 

74 

18  2) 

28 

17     3 

121.  Fanner,  Chapman's 

4 

12  13 

2 

14  21 

a 

15     2 

C 

15  20 

6 

14  20 

122.  Favourite,  Bates's 

21 

21      6 

60 

17   14 

86 

19  21 

132 

18  20 

103 

16  20 

123.  Forester,  Sharp's 

0 

11      9 

— 

— 

1 

14     8 

1 

13     5 

— 

— 

124.  Gleaner,  Billington's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* 

20     3 

1 

17  23 

10 

17     3 

125.  Glory  of  Ratcliffe,  Allan's 

^j 

17   12 

2 

10  12 

— 

— 

__ 

— 

— 

— 

126.  Green  Rover 

5 

15     4 

9 

14     8 

9 

17     3 

2 

15   19 



— 

1  27.  Greenwood,  Berry's 

170 

20  22 

68 

18     S 

95 

17   18 

120 

17     4 

84 

15  21 

128.  Heart  of  Oak,  Massey's 

^ 

16     2 

2 

14      1 

Q 

15     7 



— 

2 

13      1 

129.  Independent,  Biggs's 

58 

20   16 

47 

17     4 

91 

18   18 

85 

16     4 

36 

14  22 

1  30.  Joke 

13 

19   12 

16 

15  16 

24 

18   18 

19 

18     .5 

37 

15   12 

131.  Jolly  Tar,  Edwards's       - 

22 

15  20 

16 

14     8 

10 

19  17 

9 

15   18 

4 

13     0 

132.  Laurel,  Parkinson's 

61 

16   12 

39 

17     4 

18 

17    18 

18 

16    13 

10 

14     4 

133.  Lively  Green,  Boardman's 

38 

17   10 

38 

13   11 

31 

19     4 

19 

15  22 

16 

14     2 

134.  Lord  Byron 

g 

16     0 

4 

12     0 

17 

17     5 

7 

17     6 

9 

%J     8 

135.  Lord  Crewe,  Clutton's 

*5 

18      1 

4 

12   14 

38 

18     4 

33 

23     0 

63 

16     5 

136.  Lord  Nelson 

5 

17    13 

— 

— 

— 



1 

15   10 

— 

— 

137.  Merryman,  Neets's 

5 

15   16 

3 

10  20 

3 

15     3 

2 

14   12 





138.  Mountain,  Sandiford's 

51 

18    10 

46 

18  2-2 

40 

19     5 

42 

16   19 

22 

£6      1 

139.  Moses,  Lovart's 

* 

19   16 

1 

13   12 

8 

15     4 

5 

16   11 

7 

15     8 

14O.  Navarino,  Ward's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* 

14   15 

£ 

14      6 

141.  No  Bribery,  Taylor's      - 

31 

18  21 

19 

15     0 

35 

19     9 

17 

17     0 

24 

17      6 

.42.  Ocean,  Wainman's 

201 

20     0 

45 

18      2 

177 

20     8 

147 

18     8 

31 

17    15 

143.  Pevver  Picker,  Bell's     - 

20 

19     5 

31 

16     6 

27 

19     7 

50 

19  10 

9 

13  20 

144.  Profit,  Prophet's 

12 

18     6 

5 

16      1 

12 

16   14 

4 

16     6 

4 

15     6 

145.  Providence,  Hassall's 

— 

— 

0 

18     0 

2 

16   12 

4 

20     7 

11 

18      4 

;46.  Rover,  Manning's 

0 

15  14 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2 

15  19 

2 

15     4 

147.  Southwell  Hero 

8 

16  15 

2 

12  21 

2 

14     0 

2 

16     2 

— 

__, 

148.  Speedwell,  Taylor's 

* 

17     « 

— 

— 

3 

13  23 

3 

16     6 

2 

14   12 

GOOSEBERRIES. 


177 


GREENS  —  continued. 

1825. 

1826' 

1827. 

1828. 

1829- 

149.  Tantararara,  Thompson's 

1 

15     3 



— 

— 

— 

24 

20   10 

— 



15O.  Trump 

— 

— 

1 

11      5 

1 

17     1 

c 

17   15 

23 

18   13 

151.  Troubler,  Moore's 

96 

20     0 

42 

21     0 

70 

21    13 

64 

17    12 

96 

17    13 

152.  Willow,  Johnson's 

5 

19     3 

2 

9     8 

11 

16     2 

17 

19  20 

5 

15     0 

153.  Wistaston    Hero,    Bra-"V 
therton's               -         J 

20 

17  23 

9 

14  21 

8 

17     0 

6 

17     2 

8 

15      4 

WHITES. 

154.  Ambush 

4 

16   12 

7 

12     3 

JC 

18      1 

7 

15     3 

3 

14  23 

155.  Bonny  Lass,  Capper's 

111 

20     4 

78 

18     9 

67 

19   12 

95 

21    10 

82 

16     5 

156.  Cheshire  Lass,  Saunders's 

29 

15    16 

13 

16     0 

14 

18     0 

14 

20     0 

2 

15     6 

157.  Counsellor  Brougham 

6 

17   10 

1 

11      3 

6 

16  22 

2 

15     0 

2 

13    14 

158.  Dusty  Miller,  Stringer's 

— 

— 

5 

14     9 

2 

14     4 

3 

15     0 

1 

11   21 

159.  Elizabeth,  Eggleston's 

* 

18     5 

2 

14    10 

— 

— 

1 

12  12 

1 

15     5 

160.  Empress 

5 

17     8 

4 

12   14 

7 

17   11 

3 

15   16 

3 

14  23 

161.  England's  Glory,  Hassall's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* 

16     2 

1 

15   12 

7 

16   13 

162.  First  Rate,  Parkinson's 

48 

18     9 

29 

17     8 

33 

19   12 

30 

17   12 

50 

21     0 

163.  Governess,  Bratherton's 

23 

21    16 

17 

17  11 

42 

20     4 

47 

24     0 

77 

19  20 

164.  Great  Britain 

2 

14     9 



_ 

"  1 

12  12 



_ 

— 



165.  Huntingdon  Lass 

1  19   17 

— 



1 

13     6 

1 

12     0 

— 

— 

1  66.  Julia,  Johnson's 

• 

16  23 



- 

— 

— 

1 

15  11 

2 

11    14 

167.  lady  Delamore,  Wyld's 

62 

19  23 

78 

18     4 

93 

21    23 

123 

22     6 

130 

18     8 

168.  Lady  Li  1  ford 

0 

10  19 

10 

14     8 

4 

18  22 

5 

15  18 

1 

13   16 

169.  Lady  of  the  Manor 

26 

19     0 

23 

20     1 

55 

22     6 

33 

20     9 

65 

17   19 

170.  Lancashire  Lass,  Wood's 

— 

— 

0 

14     0 

1 

15     6 

1 

1«      1 

2 

13  22 

171.  Lily  of  the  Valley,  Taylor's 

— 

— 

— 

— 

* 

18    13 

3 

16     6 

13 

17   15 

172.  Lioness 

2 

15  21 

7 

16   11 

9 

19     1 

17 

18   17 

17 

17     3 

173.  Lord  Valentia    - 

4 

19     9 



__ 

2 

16   16 

2 

18     3 

4 

18     5 

174.  Lovely  Lass 

4 

18     8 

1 

12     4 

2 

15  23 









1  75.  Maid  of  the  Mill,  Stringer's 

314     1 

.  1 

11      7 

1 

16     3 

1 

17     2 

1 

14   12 

1  76.  Marchioness  of  Downshire 

1020     3 

4 

14     3 

2 

14     3 

2 

14     9 





177.  Merry  Lass 

4 

15  16 

1 

9     0 

1 

12   18 

1 

11      1 

1 

10      1 

178.  Nailor,  Blomily's 

127 

21    10 

80 

17     2 

100 

19   11 

75 

18    12 

59 

17     3 

179.  Nonpareil 

— 

— 





1 

22     7 

17 

18     6 

60 

18   11 

180.  Ostrich,  Billington's 

* 

22   11 

— 

— 

0 

22  21 

— 

— 

20 

21    11 

181.  Platina,  Lovart's 

* 

19  20 

— 



3 

16   12 

17 

18   11 

14 

15   13 

182.  Princess  Royal 

6 

20     0 

1 

11    18 

10 

18  22 

1 

14     6 

8 

13     9 

183.  Queen  Anne,  Simpson's 

111 

19     6 

46 

17     5 

79 

19  20 

£6 

18  20 

IS 

16     6 

184.  Queen  Caroline 

65 

18     7 

44 

18     7 

68 

19   10 

76 

18     1 

66 

16   15 

185.  Queen  Charlotte,  Peers'* 

2 

14   11 

2 

12  15 

2 

14    19 

1 

11      8 





186.  Queen  Mary,  Morris's 

7 

20  20 

7 

14  10 

3 

14     4 

2 

15  11 

1 

13   15 

187.  Reformer 

0 

12   16 

6 

13   18 

14 

17   14 

7 

16     3 

4 

14  16 

188.  Sheba  Queen,  Crompton's 

20 

18     0 

1 

12  18 

3 

15   10 

1 

15   18 





189.  Smiling   Beauty,  Beau-~l 
mont's                             J 

34 

17     0 

22 

17     S 

25 

16  17 

32 

18     6 

16 

14   17 

19O.  Smiling  Girl 

1 

16  21 

1 

12     5 

1 

16     7 

2 

15  15 

3 

14     1 

1  91.  Thrasher,  Yates's 

145 

19   18 

113 

18   12 

73 

18   11 

46 

20  12 

37 

16  16 

192.  Toper,  Leigh's 

52 

17  11 

26 

17   16 

16 

17   12 

14 

15   16 

9 

15   10 

193.  Waiting  Maid 

0 

12     7 

1 

11      6 

— 

— 

1 

14  22 

1 

13   14 

1  94.  Wanton 





4 

13     0 

3 

16   19 

1 

14   10 

6 

14  22 

195.  Wellington's  Glory 
1  96.  White  Eagle 

156 
48 

21      6 

23  20 

85 
102 

21      3 
19  18 

118 

179 

23    14 
24   18 

102 
236 

20     4 
23   12 

71 

240 

16     8 
20     0 

197.  White  Lion,  Chelworth's 

39 

18     7 

40 

16     4 

52 

19     6 

62 

18  22 

40 

17      2 

198.  White  Rock,  Brundrit's 

11 

16  21 

3 

13  20 

1 

14   14 

199.  Whitesmith,  Woodward's 

27 

16     7 

17 

14   10 

6 

15   14 

6 

14  21 

j 

11      4 

200.  Wistaston  Lass,  Brather-  \ 
ton's                               J 

11 

19  23 

1 

10     6 

11 

17     6 

— 

— 

178 


GOOSEBERRIES. 


Additional  Gooseberries  cultivated  in  this  Country. 

An  asterisk  *  denotes  the  new  ones,  with  the  years  in  which  they  were  first  brought 

out  and  exhibited  at  the  above  meetings  for  prizes. 
A  dagger  f  denotes  those  which  were  exhibited  also,  of  more  or  less  merit. 


REDS. 

201.  Abraham  Newland,  Jackson's. 

202.  Achilles,  Gerrard's. 

203.  Ackerley's  Seedling. 

204.  Admiral,  Mather's. 

205.  *  Admiral,  Glazebrooke's,  1827. 

206.  Admiral  Keppel,  Jared's. 

207.  *  Albion,  Bootes's,  1828. 

208.  Alexander,  Mather's. 

209.  Alexander  the  Great. 

210.  *  Alfred,  Stringer's,  1825. 

211.  Aston's  Red. 

212.  Atlas,  Brundrit's. 

213.  Attractor,  Hippard's. 

214.  Bank  of  England,  Walker's. 

215.  Beaufremont. 

216.  Beauty,  Haffald's. 

217.  Beggar  Lad. 

218.  f  Bellerophon,  Colclough's. 

219.  f  Belper  Hero. 

220.  Billy  Dear,  Shaw's. 

221.  Black  Bull. 

222.  Black  Damson. 

223.  Black  Dragon. 

224.  Black  Eagle. 

225.  Black  King. 

226.  Black  Lady,  Mather's. 

227.  Black  Prince,  Shipley's. 

228.  Black  Prince,  Stapleton's. 

229.  Black  Prince,  Thorpe's. 

230.  Black  Ram. 

231.  Black  Virgin. 

232.  Black  Walnut. 

233.  *  Bloodhound,  1825. 

234.  Bright  Venus,  Cheetharn's. 

235.  British  Prince,  Boardman's. 

236.  Bullock's  Heart,  Pendleton's. 

237.  *Bury  Muff,  Haslam's,  1827. 

238.  *  Busy-body,  Hulme's,  1826. 

239.  Calderbank's  Red. 

240.  Carpenter. 

241.  Champagne. 

242.  t  Champion  of  Liberty. 

243.  Charles  Fox,  Monk's. 

244.  Cheshire  Sheriff,  Adams's. 

245.  Cheshire  Stag,  Shelmardine's. 

246.  f  Coachman. 

247.  Cockspur. 

248.  Colonel  Tarlton,  Knight's. 

249.  Conqueror,  Andrew's. 

250.  Conqueror,  Fisher's. 

251.  Conqueror,  Gregory's. 

252.  Conqueror,  Worthington's. 


253.  Cornwallis,  Worthington's. 

254.  *Cottage  Hero, Whitmore's,  1 827. 

255.  Crimson  Walnut. 

256.  *  Crown    Prince,     Cartwright's, 

1825. 

257.  Defiance,  Cooke's. 

258.  Double-bearing,  Ackerley's. 

259.  Dudley  and  Ward. 

260.  Duke  of  York,  Alcock's. 

261.  f  Duke  of  York,  Read's. 

262.  Duke  William,  Livesey's. 

263.  Duke  William,  Savage's. 

264.  Dumpling,  Halmon's. 

265.  Earl  of  Derby,  Stanley's. 

266.  Early  Red. 

267.  *  Eclipse,  Johnson's,  1828. 

268.  f  Economist,  Wood's. 
26'J.  Emperour,  Broad's. 

270.  Emperour,  Gorton's. 

271.  Emperour,  Wood's. 

272.  Emperour  of  Morocco. 

273.  Favourite,  Rawlinson's. 

274.  f  Forester. 

275.  Free-bearer,  Rider's. 

276.  f  Freemason's  Glory. 

277.  f  Friend  Ned. 

278.  f  Galloper,  Banks's. 

279.  *  Gamester,  Johnson's,  1827. 

280.  Globe,  Ashton's. 

281.  Glory  of  Eccles,  Worthington's. 

282.  Glory  of  England,  Diens's. 

283.  Glory  of  Scarsdale,  Waller's. 

284.  Governour  Penn,  Rider's 

285.  f  Grand  Turk. 

286.  Great  Britain,  Gregory's. 

287.  Great  Captain,  Hope's. 

Great    Chance,    Hell's,    same    as 
No.  48. 

288.  *  Guido,  Bothwell's,  1829. 

289.  *  Hairy  Bush,  Banks's,  1827. 

290.  f  Hatherton  Red. 

291.  Heart  of  Oak. 

292.  Hector. 

293.  Hercules,  Mason's. 

294.  Hero,  Jackson's. 

295.  Hero,  Worthington's. 

296.  f  Hero  of  Hull. 

297.  High  Sheriff,  Grundy's. 

298.  f  Hobby  Horse. 

299.  *  Hopeful,  Telford's,  1825. 

300.  *  Industry,  Saxton's,  1827. 

301.  Ironmonger.- 

302.  Johnny  Lad. 

303.  Jolly  Painter,  Eckersley's. 


GOOSEBERRIES. 


179 


304.  Jolly  rod  Nose,  Read's. 

305.  t  Jolly  Shaver. 

306.  Jolly  Smoker. 

307.  *  Jupiter,  BuersilPs,  1829. 

308.  Keen's  Seedling. 

309-  *  Keeper,  Cooke's,  1828. 

310.  King,  Alcock's. 

311.  King,  Hogbean's. 

312.  King,  Odger's. 

313.  King,  Rawson's. 

314.  King  Sheriff. 

315.  Lancashire  Farmer. 

316.  -f*  Lancashire  Hero. 

317.  Late  Damson. 

318.  Layforth's  Seedling. 

319.  Little  Jdhn. 

320.  *  Little  John,  Bell's,  1825. 

321.  •  Lord  Delamere,  Sanders's,1825. 

322.  Lord  Hood,  Fairlow's. 

323.  •  Lord  Lascelles,    Hainsworth's, 

1826. 

324.  f  Lord  Milton. 

325.  Lord  Moira. 

326.  f  Lord  Wellington. 

327.  Malkin  Wood. 

328.  Marquis  of  Stafford,  Knight's. 

329.  Master  Tup,  Thorpe's. 

330.  Matchless,  Pendleton's. 

331.  f  Mayor  of  Over. 

332.  f  Mexbro  Hero. 

333.  Mogul,  Pendleton's. 

334.  Mogul,  Singleton's. 

335.  Mongrel. 

336.  Morello. 

337.  Moss  Wither. 

338.  Mount  Etna,  Newton's. 

339.  f  Mulaneer. 

340.  Murray. 

341.  Nero. 

342.  *  New  Church,  Lovart's,  1828. 

343.  f  Nonsuch. 

344.  Old  England,  Rider's. 

345.  Old  Rough  Red. 

346.  t  Ombersley  Hero. 

347.  Oronoko,  Stanley's. 

348.  Ostrich's  Egg. 

349.  f  Patriarch. 

350.  Peerless,  Chapman's. 

351.  Perfection,  Gregory's. 

352.  Pineapple. 

353.  Porcupine,  Hall's. 

354.  Princess  Royal,  Wellington's. 

355.  *Pryse  Pryse,  Biles's,  1827. 

356.  Raspberry. 

357.  Red,  Raymond's. 

358.  Red,  Stukeley's. 

359.  f  Red  Lead. 

360.  Red  Lion,  Lee's. 

361.  Red  Lion,  Ratcliffe's. 

362.  Red  Mogul. 

363.  f  Red  Ocean. 

364.  Red  Orleans. 


365.  Red  Rose,  Shelmardine's. 

366.  Red  Top,  Bradshaw's. 

367.  Red  Walnut,  Wild's. 
868.  Red  Wolf. 

369.  Regulator,  Holt's. 

370.  Rodney,  Ackersley's. 

371.  Royal,  Fox's. 

372.  Royal  Anne,  Yates's. 

373.  f  Royal  Forester,  Hainsworth's. 

374.  Royal  Oak,  Boardman's. 

375.  Saint  John,  Tillotson's. 

376.  Sampson,  Kenyon's. 

377.  *Sandback,  Hagues's,  1829. 

378.  •  Scarlet,  Stock's,  1828. 

379.  Scarlet  Seedling,  Jackson's. 

380.  f  Shaver. 

381.  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  Mellor's. 

382.  f  Sir  Robert  Wilson. 

383.  f  Sir  Watkin,  Leicester's. 

384.  Slim,  Jackson's. 
385  f  Smuggler. 

386.  f  Squire  Whittingham,  Cooke's. 

387.  t  Staffordshire  Lad. 

388.  Supreme,  Gregory's. 

389.  Surprise,  Cheadle's. 

390.  Swing-em,  Blakeley's. 

391.  *  Tarragon,  Bell's,  1825. 

392.  Tillotson's  Seedling. 

393.  Tom  of  Lincoln. 

394.  *  Top  Marker,  Sexton's,  1828. 

395.  Tup,  Siddal's. 

896.  Twarnblow's  Seedling. 

397.  Twig-em,  Johnson's. 

398.  Victory,  Lomax's. 

399.  Volunteer,  Taylor's. 

400.  Wareham  Russet. 

401.  Warrington  Red. 

402.  Warwickshire  Conqueror. 

403.  f  Warwickshire  Lad,  Brookes's. 

404.  Watkin,  Monk's. 

405.  f  Welshman. 

406.  f  Whittlesey  Hero. 

407.  Wonderful,  Saunders's. 

408.  Woodbery. 

409.  f  Woodman. 

410.  Worthington's  Seedling. 

411.  f  Yankey. 

412.  f  Young  Wonderful,  Saunders's. 


YELLOWS. 

413.  Adern's  Seedling. 

414.  Amber. 

415.  Amber,  Hunt's  Early- 

416.  Banger. 

417.  Beauty  of  Eccles. 

418.  Bellemont. 

419.  *Belt,  Read's,  1826. 

420.  Brandy  Yellow,  Cheetham's. 

421.  Bright  Venus,  Taylor's. 

422.  Canary,  Caton's. 


N 


180 


GOOSEBERRIES* 


423.  *  Chairman,  Houghton's,  1826. 

424.  f  Colonel  Holden. 

425.  f  Companion. 

426.  Conqueror. 

427.  *  Crafty,  Taylor's,  1828. 

428.  f  Credus,  Robinson's. 

429.  Creeping  Circus,  Davenport's. 

430.  *  Crispiana,  Bootes's,  1827. 

431.  Defender,  Davenport's. 

432.  t  Delight,  Lamb's. 

433.  t  Delight,  Wadham's. 

434.  -f  Diamond. 

435.  Diogenes,  Coe's. 

436.  f  Don  Cossack. 

437.  Drop  of  Gold,  Maddox's, 

438.  Eclipse,  Blakeley's. 

439.  f  Fine  Robin. 

440.  *  Gardener's  Glory,  Parkinson's, 

1828. 

441.  Gibraltar. 

442.  Golden  Ball,  Stanley's. 

443.  Golden  Champion. 

444.  f  Golden  Chili. 

445.  Golden  Conqueror,  Mason's. 

446.  Golden  Dolphin,  Stanley's. 

447.  Golden  Drop,  Jackson's. 

448.  Golden  Drop,  Reynolds's. 

449.  Golden  Eagle,  Nixon's. 

450.  Golden  Gourd,  Hill's. 

451.  Golden  Griffin,  Stanley's. 

452.  Golden  Linnet. 

453.  Golden  Lion,  Cheadle's. 

454.  Golden  Orange,  Jackson's. 

455.  *  Golden  Pheasant, Talbot's,  1829. 

456.  Golden  Prince. 

457.  Golden  Sceptre,  Wellington's. 

458.  Golden  Tag. 

459.  Golden  Yellow,  Dixon's. 

460.  Gold-finder,  Parkinson's. 

461.  Goliath,  Rider's. 

462.  f  He- Goat,  Parry's. 

463.  Hero,  Kilton's. 

464.  Highlander,  Horsfield's. 

465.  *  Hon.  G.  Lamb,  Kemsley's,  1829. 

466.  Hornet,  Williamson's. 

467.  f  Husbandman. 

468.  Independent,  Stanley's. 

469.  f  John  Bull. 

470.  Jolly  Gipsey,  Mason's. 

Jolly  Gunner,  same  as  No.  81. 

471.  t  Jolly  Potter. 

472.  Kilton,  Hamlet's. 

Kilton  Hero,  same  as  No.  472. 

473.  Lemon,  Rider's. 

474.  *Linton  Beauty,  Lee'sr   1827. 

475.  f  Lord  Rancliffe. 

476.  Molon,  Stanley's. 

477.  Molon,  Wrigley's. 

478.  *  Moonshine,  Davies's,    1829. 

479.  Nonsuch,  Pindleton's. 

480.  f  Polander. 

481.  f  Preacher,  Penman's. 


482.  Primrose,  Unsworth's. 

483.  *  Prince  of  Orange,  Bell's,  1825V 

484.  Prince  of  Orange,  Leigh's. 

485.  f  Pearse,  Barnfort's. 

486.  f  Ranting  Widow. 

487.  f  Rattle  Snake. 

488.  *  Rector,  Worthington's,   1829. 

489.  *  Ringwood,  Ball's,   1825. 

490.  Robin  Hood. 

491.  f  Rough  Robin. 

Royal  Gunner,  same  as  No.  142- 

492.  Royal  Sovereign. 

493.  Rumbullion. 

494.  Saffron. 

495.  Sceptre,  Withingtem's.- 

496.  f  Shepherd. 

497.  f  Sidesman,  Read's. 

498.  f  Sir  Charles  Wolseley. 

499.  Sir  Sidney,  Brundrit's. 

500.  Sparkler,  Smith's. 

501.  *  Superintendent,   Billington's, 

1828. 

502.  *  Tenor  Bell,  Buhner's,   1829. 

503.  *  Terror,  Johnson's,   1829. 

504.  *  Tiger,  Smith's,   1828. 

505.  f  Triumphant. 

506.  *  Twister,  Williamson's,   1828, 

507.  *  Two  to  One,  Whittaker's,  1828, 

508.  f  Venerable. 

509.  Washington,  Coe's. 

510.  Waterloo,  Sydney's. 

511.  f  Yellow  Eagle,  Ward's. 

512.  *  Yellow  Lion,   1825. 

513.  Yellow  Top,  Bradshaw's. 


514. 
515. 
516. 
517. 
518. 
519. 
520. 
521. 
522. 
523. 
524. 
525. 
526. 
527. 
528. 
529. 
530. 
531. 
532. 
533. 
534. 
535. 
536. 
537. 


GREENS. 

*  Ajax,  Tanner's,   1826. 
f  Audley  Lass. 
Blakeley  Lion,  Yearsley's. 

*  Bold,  Fenton's,   1828. 
Bullock  Smithey,  Fidler's- 
Cassar,  Harrison's. 
Caesar,  Helton's. 

f  Cheshire  Hero. 

-f"  Crispin. 

f  Deceivers,  Green. 

•f*  Diamond. 

f  Doctor  Syntax,  Hooton's. 

f  Duke  of  Ashton. 

Duke  of  Bedford,  Yates's. 

*  Earl  of  Chester,  1825. 
Early  Green  Hairy. 

*  Emerald,  Leigh's,  1827. 

*  Enoch,  Johnson's,  1827. 
•f*  Evergreen,  Perring's. 

t  Fairplay,  Hall's. 

*  Faithful,  Baker's,   1828. 
Favourite,  Harrison's. 
Favourite,  Wrigley's. 

*  Free  Cost,  Sexton's,  1827, 


GOOSBERRIES. 


181 


538.  Gage,  Nield's. 

539.  *  Game  Bag,  Grundy's,   1827. 

540.  General  Carlton. 

541.  Goliath  Champion,  Costerden's. 

542.  Goose,  Fox's. 

543.  Green,  Belraont's. 

544.  f  Green  Bag. 

545.  Green  Balsam. 

546.  Green  Chancellor. 

547.  f  Green  Dragon. 

548.  Green  Fig. 

549.  Green  Gage,  Horsfield's. 

550.  Green  Gage,  Pitmaston. 

551.  Green  Gage,  Sharret's. 

Green  Gascoigne,  same  as  No.  529. 

552.  Green  Griffin. 

553.  f  Green  Hero,  Chadwick's. 

554.  Green  John,  Jackson's. 

555.  Green  Joseph,  Monk's. 

556.  Green  Lizard,  Jackson's. 

557.  *  Green  Mantle,  Hogier's,  1829. 

558.  Green  Margil,  Stanley's. 

559.  t  Green  Monkey,  Banks's. 

560.  *  Green  Nettle,  Fisher's,   1828. 

561.  Green  Oak,  Boardman's. 
Green  Ocean,  Ingham's,  same  as 

No.  142. 

562.  *  Green  Prince,  Summer's,  1829. 

563.  Green  Prolific. 

564.  f  Green  Rose. 

565.  t  Grundy's  Glory. 

566.  Hercules. 

567.  *  Invincible,  Bratherton's,  1829. 

568.  Jay's  Wing. 

569.  f  Jolly  Crispin,  Proudman's. 

570.  t  Langley  Green. 

571.  *  Little-thought -of,  Moon's. 

572.  Livingsham,  Blakeley's. 

573.  Lord  Hood. 

574.  f  Mask,  Smith's. 

575.  -f-  Mugman,  Read's. 

576.  Myrtle,  Nixon's. 

577.  t  Nonsuch. 

578.  Old  BalL 

579.  *  Oswestry  Hero,  Morgan's,  1828. 

580.  Patrick,  Worthington's. 

581.  *  Peacock,  Lavart's,   1827. 

582.  f  Pretor,  Hulme's. 

583.  Prize,  Gregory's. 

584.  Rainbow,  Taylor's. 

585.  Reine  Claude,  Stanley's. 

586.  f  Reuben. 

587.  *  Rough  and  Ready,  Parkinson's, 

1828. 

588.  f  Rough  Robin. 

589.  Royal  George,  Rollison's. 

590.  Saint  David,  Sproson's. 

591.  *  Sampson,  Crompton's,  1827. 

592.  Satisfaction,  Read's. 

593.  "f  Self-conceit,  Haughton's. 

594.  f  Shannon,  Hopley's. 

595.  f  Stranger. 


596.  Stump,  Robinson's. 

597.  *  Surprise,  Walton's,   1 828. 

598.  Syringa,  Stanley's. 

599.  t  Tasso. 

600.  f  Tickler. 

601.  Tickle  Toby,  Bruudart's. 

602.  f  Top  Sawyer,  Rigby's. 

603.  Trial. 

604.  Triumph,  Rider's. 

605.  f  Trueman. 

606.  Vanguard,  Worthington's. 

607.  Victory,  Lee's. 

608.  f  Warshill  Hero. 

609.  f  Waterloo. 

610.  *  Yorkshire  Bite,  Copley's,  1825. 


611. 
612. 
613. 
614. 
615. 
616. 
617. 
618. 

619. 
620. 
621. 
622. 
623. 
624. 
625. 
626. 
627. 
628. 
629. 
630. 
631. 
6?2. 
633. 
634. 
635. 
6S6. 
637. 
638. 
6S9. 
640. 
641. 
642. 
643. 
644. 
645. 
646. 
647. 
648. 
649. 
650. 
651. 
652. 


WHITES. 

*  Advance,  Moore's,  1827. 
Apollo,  Gibson's. 

Bear,  Moore's. 
Beauty,  Holt's. 
Beauty  of  England, 
f  Bonny  Landlady, 
t  Bright  Venus. 

*  Butcher's     Fancy,    Piggott's, 
1828. 

Calderbank's  White, 
f  Chadwick. 
Champion,  Mills's. 
Cheshire  White  Walnut, 
f  Cock  Robin. 

*  Competition,  Pugh's,   1827. 
Competitor,  Pugh's,    1828, 

f  Country  Farmer. 

f  Crab. 

Crawford's  Seedling. 

«  Crick  Cliff,  Spencer's. 

•f-  Cutler's  Glory. 

f  Devil. 

*  Diana,  Bratherton's,    1825. 
Drop,  Smith's. 

t  Duke  William, 
f  Duster. 

*  Elephant,  Blomiley's,   1828 
f  Fair  Lady. 

f  Faithful: 

Fiddler,  Lee's. 

t  Fleur-de-lis,  Copley's 

•f  Fowler,  Grundy's. 

f  Fuddler,- Leigh's. 

f  Gabbler,  Banks's. 

f  Harford  Cottage. 

Hart,  Nixon's. 

f  Heart  of  Oak. 

Highland  King,  Gregory's. 

Highland  Queen,  Boardman's. 

Highland  White,  Chapman's. 

•f*  Honesty. 

Imperial,  White's. 

f  Incomparable, 


JN    3 


182 


GOOSEBERRIES. 


653.  Jolly  Carter,  Cooke's. 

654.  Jolly  Crofter,  Bradshaw's. 

655.  Jolly  Cutler,  Cooke's. 

656.  Lady,  Davenport's. 

657.  *Lady  Hoghton,  Fish's,  1829. 

658.  f  Lady  Manvers. 

659.  Lily,  Bedford's. 

660.  f  Madame  Riego. 

661.  *  Mary  Anne,  Eggleston's,  1825. 

662.  f  Mermaid. 

663.  Milkmaid. 

664.  Miss  Bold. 

665.  *  Miss  Tollett,  Williams's,   1825. 

666.  *  Monton  Lass,  Piggott's,  1827. 

667.  f  Moorpont. 

668.  Mount  Pleasant,  Gregory's. 

669.  f  Mount  Pleasant,  Whitehead's. 

670.  f  Mountain  of  Snow. 

671.  Mrs.  Denman,  Page's,  1825. 

672.  f  Mrs.  Lamb. 

673.  f  Noble  Landlady. 

674.  f  Northern  Hero. 

675.  Olive,  White's. 

676.  Pigeon's  Egg. 

677.  f  Pillar  of  Beauty. 

678.  f  Pilot. 

679.  f  Prime  Minister,  Whittaker's. 

680.  f  Rattler,  Hulme's. 

681.  f  Redress. 

682.  f  Republican. 
688.  f  Ringlet,  Hague's. 

684.  Ringley  Ranter. 

685.  f  Rockgetter,  Andrews's. 

686.  Rose,  Nield's. 

687.  Rose,  Withington's. 

688.  f  Sampson. 


689.  f  Selfishness,  Read's. 

690.  Silver-heels,  Button's. 

691.  f  Snowball,  Adams's. 

692.  Snowdrop,  Wood's. 

693.  f  Sounton  Lass. 

694.  Squire  Houghton's  Barendoe. 

695.  Sugar  Loaf. 

696.  Swan's  Egg. 

697.  f  Taffy,  Parry's. 

698.  -f  Turpin,  Houghton's. 

699.  *  Union,  Wild's,  1828. 

700.  f  Venture. 

701.  Victory,  Green's. 

702.  *  Village     Maid,     Bratherton's, 

1825. 

703.  f  Vittoria. 

704.  f  Waterloo. 

705.  f  White  Bear,  Moore's. 

706.  White  Bel  mount. 

707.  White  Crystal. 

708.  White  Hall,  Atkinson's. 

709.  White  Heart,  Nixon's. 

710.  f  White  Lily,  Worthington's. 

711.  White  Lion,  Harrison's. 

712.  White  Lion,  Kenyon's. 

713.  White  Mogul,  Mather's. 

714.  White  Muslin,  Holding's. 

715.  White  Noble,  Kenyon's. 

716.  White  Orleans. 

717.  White  Bengal. 

718.  *  White  Veal,  Beckwith's,   1828. 

719.  White  Walnut. 

720.  White's  Imperial. 

721.  f  Wilton  Lass. 

722.  *  Woodstock     Superb,     Biles's, 

1825. 


A  SELECTION  OF  GOOSEBERRIES  FOR  A  SMALL 
GARDEN. 

Reds. 

1.  CAPPER'S  TOP  SAWYER.  No.  60.  in  the  list. 
Branches  somewhat    drooping.      Fruit   late,   very 

large,  oblong,    pale  red,    hairy  near  the  base ;    verj 
excellent. 

2.  CHAMPAGNE.     No.  241. 

Branches  erect.    Fruit  late,  middle-sized,  somewhat 
oblong,  dark  red,  hairy ;  most  excellent. 

3.  FARMER'S  ROARING  LION.     No.  48. 
Branches  somewhat   drooping.      Fruit   late,    very 

large,  oblong,  dull  red,   smooth  :  the  largest  of  all  the 
gooseberries. 


GOOSEBERRIES.  1&3 

4.  KNIGHT'S  MARQUIS  OF  STAFFORD.     No.  328. 
Branches  somewhat  erect.    Fruit  late,  large,  round- 
ish-oblong, bright  red,  hairy:  excellent. 

5.  MELLING'S  CROWN  BOB.     No.  7. 

Branches  drooping.  Fruit  rather  late,  large,  oblong, 
bright  red,  hairy  :  very  goofl. 

6.  OLD  ROUGH  RED.     No.  345. 

Branches  somewhat  drooping.  Fruit  small,  round, 
dark  red,  very  hairy :  most  excellent  for  preserving  as 
gooseberry  jam,  and  the  best  for  bottling  when  green. 


Yellows. 

7.  DIXON'S  GOLDEN  YELLOW.     No.  459- 
Branches    drooping.      Fruit   early,    pretty   large, 

roundish-oblong,  greenish  yellow,  smooth. 

8.  GORDON'S  VIPER.     No.  107. 

Branches  drooping.     Fruit  early,  large,  somewhat 
turbinate,  greenish  yellow,  smooth. 

9.  HAMLET'S  KILTON.     No.  472. 

Branches  somewhat  drooping.     Fruit  early,  large, 
roundish-oblong,  bright  greenish  yellow,  slightly  hairy. 

10.  HARDCASTLE'S  GUNNER.     No.  81. 
Branches  somewhat  erect.     Fruit  rather  late,  large, 

obovate,  with  large  veins,  hairy  or  bristly. 

11.  HILL'S  GOLDEN  GOURD.     No.  450. 
Branches  somewhat   drooping.     Fruit  very  early, 

large,    oblong,    greenish   yellow,    slightly  hairy :    very 
excellent. 

12.  PROPHET'S  ROCKWOOD.     No.  96. 
Branches  erect.     Fruit  very  early,  large,  roundish- 
oblong,  dark  yellow,  slightly  hairy. 


N  4 


184  GOOSEBERRIES. 


Greens. 

13.  EARLY  GREEN  HAIRY.    No.  529.    Pom.  Mag. 
t.  22. 

Branches  erect.     Fruit  early,   small,   round,   deep 
green,  hairy  :  early  and  excellent. 

14.  EDWARDS'S  JOLLY  TAR.     No.  131. 
Branches   somewhat   drooping.     Fruit  early,   of  a 

middling  size,  large,    roundish-oblong,  with  yellowish 
veins,  smooth. 

15.  MASSEY'S  HEART  OF  OAK.     No.  128. 
Branches  drooping.     Fruit  rather  early,  large,  ob- 
long, with  pale  yellow  veins,  smooth  :  excellent. 

16.  NIXON'S  GREEN  MYRTLE.     No.  576. 
Branches  somewhat  drooping.     Fruit   late,    large, 

oblong,  tapering  to  the  base,  pale  green,  smooth. 

17.  PARKINSON'S  LAUREL.     No.  132. 
Branches  erect.     Fruit  rather  late,  large,  roundish- 
oblong,  pale  green,  very  downy. 

18.  WAINWRIGHT'S  OCEAN.     No.  142. 
Branches  drooping.     Fruit  pretty  early,  large,  ob- 
long or  ovate,  smooth  :  the  largest  of  this  colour, 


Whites. 

19.  CLEWORTH'S  WHITE  LION.    No.  197. 
Branches  somewhat  drooping.    Fruit  late,  roundish- 
oblong,  slightly  hairy,  sometimes  nearly  smooth. 

20.  CROMPTON'S  SHEBA  QUEEN.     No.  188.    Pom. 
Mag.  1. 12. 

Branches  somewhat  erect.    Fruit  early,  pretty  large, 
roundish-oblong,  downy :  excellent. 

21.  MOORE'S  WHITE  BEAR.     No.  705. 


GOOSEBERRIES.  185 

Branches  somewhat  erect.  Fruit  early,  large, 
roundish-oblong,  hairy,  or  somewhat  bristly. 

22.  SAUNDERS'S  CHESHIRE  LASS.     No.  156. 
Branches  erect.     Fruit  very  early,  large,  oblong, 

downy :  excellent  for  tarts  early  in  the  spring,  when 
few  are  ready  for  that  purpose. 

23.  WELLINGTON'S  GLORY.     No.  195. 
Branches  erect.    Fruit  pretty  early,  large,  somewhat 

ovate,  very  downy  :  excellent. 

24.  WOODWARD'S  WHITESMITH.     No.  199. 

Branches  erect.  Fruit  pretty  early,  large,  roundish- 
oblong,  or  somewhat  ovate ;  when  highly  ripened  and 
exposed  to  the  sun  the  skin  becomes  brownish,  very 
downy :  very  excellent,  and  more  in  esteem  than  any 
other  gooseberry  of  this  colour. 

This  list,  by  far  the  most  ample  of  any  that  has  yet 
appeared,  will  enable  the  grower  to  form  a  just  estimate 
of  the  comparative  merit  of  the  principal  part  of  those 
gooseberries  which  have  been  exhibited  for  prizes  from 
1825  to  1829  inclusive  ;  a  period,  probably,  when  horti- 
culture has  been  as  extensively  encouraged,  and  flourished 
as  much,  as  at  anytime  of  equal  extent  within  our  memory. 
The  first  part  will  enable  those  who  are  desirous  of  ex- 
hibiting the  largest  specimens  in  the  dessert  to  choose 
the  heaviest  kinds  of  the  different  colours,  let  his  selec- 
tion be  large  or  small ;  and,  together,  it  will  afford  the 
nurseryman  the  means  of  correcting  his  collection,  if  it 
should  happen  to  be  wrong,  and  thus  accomplish  a  two- 
fold purpose,  which  will  fully  compensate  for  the  space 
it  takes  up  in  the  present  work. 


Propagation. 

Gooseberries  are  propagated  by  cuttings,  in  the  same 
manner  as  Currants ;  but  where  strong  cuttings  cannot 


186  GOOSEBERRIES. 

be  obtained,  shorter  ones  of  six  inches  in  length  will  be 
sufficient,  planting  them  so  that  the  two  upper  eyes  only 
are  above  the  surface  of  the  bed :  these  will  generally 
produce  two  shoots  each,  the  strongest  of  which,  at  the 
end  of  the  year,  may  be  selected  to  form  the  stem  of  the 
plant,  and  shortened  to  the  desired  height.  If  one  or 
two  small  cuttings  only  can  be  obtained  from  a  plant  for 
propagation,  short  lengths  of  three  inches  each,  includ- 
ing the  extremity,  may  be  planted  with  success,  under 
a  hand-glass,  leaving  only  one  eye  above  the  surface ;  or, 
which  is  better,  level  with  the  surface :  the  month  of 
October  is  the  best  time  for  this  purpose. 

In  order  to  have  fine,  well-flavoured  fruit,  the  bushes, 
as  directed  for  Currants,  must  be  planted  in  a  good  soil 
and  a  favourable  situation,  kept  in  a  state  of  vigour,  and 
thin  of  wood  by  annual  prunings,  so  as  to  admit  plenty  of 
sun,  and  a  free  circulation  of  air. 

The  largest  berries  are  grown  on  vigorous  young 
bushes,  which  have  not  more  than  five  or  six  branches, 
and  allowing  only  two  or  three  berries  to  grow  on  each, 
or  indeed  only  one  berry  on  each  :  the  latter  are  inva- 
riably those  which  have  carried  off  the  best  prize.  In 
dry  hot  weather,  the  plants  must  be  supplied  with  water, 
and  the  fruit  shaded  from  the  sun  for  a  few  hours  in  the 
middle  of  the  day. 


Cultivation  of  Gooseberries  and  Currants.       ^ 

Gooseberries  and  Currants,  when  planted  in  the  open 
quarters  of  a  garden,  require  similar  treatment  j  there- 
fore such  directions  as  are  given  for  one  may  be  strictly 
applied  to  the  other,  with  but  a  very  trifling  deviation, 
which  will  be  explained  towards  the  sequel  of  this  article. 

Confining  myself  for  the  present  to  the  Gooseberry, 
1  must  observe  with  regard  to  its  early  management, 


GOOSEBERRIES.  187 

the  reader  will  find  some  account  of  it  under  the  head 
of  Propagation. 

In  the  quarters  where  the  young  bushes  have  esta- 
blished themselves,  and  made  some  vigorous  shoots, 
the  best  placed  of  those  should  be  selected  to  form 
the  head  :  four  shoots  will  be  sufficient  to  begin  with  ; 
these  should  be  pruned  back  to  six  or  nine  inches, 
according  to  their  strength  and  line  of  direction,  from 
each  of  which  three  or  four  may  be  expected  for  another 
year.  When  these  are  pruned  at  the  end  of  the  second 
year,  two  of  the  best  placed  shoots  from  each  must  be 
selected,  and  pruned  back  to  six  or  nine  inches  as  before, 
cutting  the  others  out  close  to  the  mother  branch,  thereby 
preventing  the  production  of  an  unnecessary  and  useless 
number  of  shoots. 

In  the  third  winter,  according  to  this  method,  each 
young  bush  will  have  eight  shoots  when  pruned,  which 
will  be  sufficient  to  form  the  principal  limbs  of  the  full 
grown  head. 

In  the  fourth  winter's  pruning,  the  strongest  and  best 
placed  shoot  only  should  be  retained  from  each  branch, 
and  that  one  pointing  the  most  directly  outwards,  short- 
ening it  to  six  or  nine  inches  as  before,  and  cutting  off 
close  all  the  rest :  this  will  give  much  more  room  to  the 
branches,  and  produce  a  more  open  and  handsome  head, 
than  if  two  shoots  had  been  retained  to  each  branch  as 
before. 

In  the  fifth  pruning,  should  the  head  require  a  greater 
supply  of  branches,  two  shoots  may  be  left,  in  the  same 
manner  as  in  the  second  and  third  year ;  and  this  prac- 
tice may  be  continued,  leaving  either  one  or  two  shoots 
to  each  branch,  as  occasion  may  require,  so  long  as  the 
bush  stands. 

It  must,  however,  be  observed,  that  the  older  the 
bushes  are,  the  smaller  will  be  their  leading  shoots : 
these,  of  course,  must  be  shortened  in  proportion  accord- 


188  GOOSEBERRIES. 

ingly ;  so  that  a  bush  of  fifteen  or  twenty  years'  standing 
will  rarely  require  its  extreme  shoot  to  be  left  more  than 
six  inches  in  length. 

It  is  also  necessary  to  bear  in  mind  that  the  large 
Lancashire  Gooseberries,  and  which  are  chiefly  pendent 
growers,  require  to  have  much  more  space  between  their 
branches  than  the  Champagne,  and  other  upright 
growers  :  the  former,  therefore,  ought  not  to  have  them 
much  less  than  a  foot  apart,  nor  the  latter  nearer  than 
nine  inches,  when  the  winter  pruning  is  finished. 

In  the  annual  prunings,  there  will  always  be  a  number 
of  shoots,  and  some,  perhaps,  of  the  most  vigorous,  pro- 
duced from  various  parts  of  the  head,  particularly  from 
the  upper  side  of  the  diverging  limbs  :  these  must  be 
cut  off  quite  close  and  smooth,  so  as  to  remove  entirely 
their  bottom  eyes,  to  prevent  a  succession  of  still  stronger 
shoots,  which  would  otherwise  be  produced  ;  thus  keep- 
ing the  heads  open,  and  consisting  of  fruit-bearing 
branches  only. 

When  the  spurs  of  gooseberries  have  borne  fruit  for 
two  or  three  years,  and  become  numerous,  they  should 
be  thinned  out,  leaving  the  young  ones  only :  by  this 
means  the  fruit  will  have  more  room  to  swell,  and  its 
flavour  consequently  improved. 

CURRANTS,  as  was  observed  at  the  commencement  of 
this  article,  when  planted  as  open  bushes,  require  a 
management  but  little  differing  from  that  of  the  goose- 
berry :  this  consists,  chiefly,  in  leaving  their  shoots  atia 
greater  length  in  the  annual  prunings.  In  the  dessert, 
the  largest  bunches  have  always  the  best  appearance,  and 
it  rarely  happens  that  they  are  not  the  best. 

To  obtain  these,  the  bushes  must  be  kept  very  thin 
of  wood,  clearing  away  all  young  shoots  from  the  mid- 
dle, as  they  are  produced,  and  thinning  out  the  spurs, 
leaving  those  only  which  are  young,  and  at  a  few  inches' 
distance  from  each  other.  The  large  white  crystal 


GOOSEBERRIES.  189 

Currant,  thus  managed,  will  sometimes  produce  bunches 
containing  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  berries  each. 

Currants  trained  against  walls  are  of  the  most  easy 
management :  when  planted  to  fill  up  intermediate 
spaces  between  young  trees,  till  the  latter  have  made  a 
more  advanced  progress,  they  should  be  trained  per- 
pendicularly, preparing  as  many  shoots  at  the  beginning 
as  may  be  required  for  the  space  to  be  occupied.  These 
should  be  allowed  a  space  of  six  inches  between  one  shoot 
and  another,  training  each  at  full  length,  till  they  have 
reached  the  top  of  the  wall ;  shortening  such  others  as 
may  be  produced  to  half  an  inch,  which  will  form  fruit 
spurs  round  the  base  of  each.  When  a  plant  has  been 
completed  in  this  way,  it  may  be  kept  in  full  bearing  for 
several  years,  from  its  spurs  alone,  the  best  of  which,  it 
must  be  remembered,  furnish  the  finest  fruit. 

Where  a  large  space  of  wall  is  allotted  for  Currants, 
I  should  recommend  this  mode  of  training  in  preference 
to  any  other  ;  planting  them  at  three,  or  not  more  than 
four  feet  apart.  The  plants  can  always  be  replenished 
with  young  wood  when  it  is  wanted,  by  cutting  down 
within  a  few  inches  of  the  ground  every  alternate  limb ; 
and  when  these  have  again  reached  the  top  of  the  wall, 
or  before,  if  necessary,  the  others  may  be  cut  down  in 
like  manner :  thus  keeping  up  a  succession  of  good, 
healthy,  fruit-bearing  branches  for  years,  and  preserving 
an  uniformity  of  appearance,  without  at  any  time  exhi- 
biting a  blank  space  on  any  part  of  the  wall. 


190  GRAPES. 

CHAP.  VIII. 

GRAPES. 
SECT.  I. — Black  or  blue  fruited. 

1.  ALICANT,     Miller,  No.  31. 

Black  Portugal.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  120. 

Black  Spanish.     Speedily,  No.  26. 

Gros  noir  d'Espagne.     Bradley,  No.  37- 

Teinturier.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  4. 

Bunches  very  long  without  shoulders.  Berries  of  a 
moderate  size,  somewhat  oval.  Skin  thick,  of  a  black 
colour.  Flesh  soft,  juicy,  of  an  agreeable  flavour. 
Seeds  uncommonly  large. 

Requires  a  vinery. 

The  leaves  in  the  autumn  are  beautifully  variegated 
with  red,  green,  and  yellow. 

2.  BLACK  CORINTH.    Langley,  p.  114.  t.4<6.  fig.  1. 
Miller,  No.  3. 

Black  Ascalon.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  49. 

Currant.     Miller,  No.  3. 

Raisin  de  Corinth.     Bradley,  No.  18. 

Zante,  or  Zante  Currant.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  49. 

Bunches  short  and  rather  small.  Berries  small, 
roundish,  about  the  size  of  a  pea,  with  a  few  much  larger 
ones  intermixed,  generally  without  stones,  and  much 
clustered  on  the  bunches.  Skin  thin,  of  a  deep  black 
colour.  Juice  sugary,  but  without  perfume. 

The  fruit  of  this  is  brought  to  the  extent  of  6000 
tons  annually  from  the  Ionian  Islands,  and  sold  in  the 
shops  under  the  name  of  Currants. 

The  Prince  Cornato  sent  twenty  plants  of  this  grape 
from  Zante,  in  1817>  to  Sir  Herbert  Taylor,  for  the 


CRAPES.  191 

Queen ;  it  had,  however,  been  cultivated  by  Langley 
above  a  century  ago. 

Requires  a  vinery  or  stove. 

This  grape  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7*  on  a 
south-east  wall,  August  24.  O.  S.,  or  September  4. 
N.  S. 

3.  BLACK  DAMASCUS.     Speech!^/,  No.  2. 
Work  sop  Manor  Grape,  of  some  gardens. 
Bunches  middle   sized.      Berries   large,    globular. 

Skin  thin,  of  a  fine  black  colour.  Flesh  delicate.  Juice 
rich,  and  of  an  exquisite  flavour.  The  bunches  gene- 
rally consist  of  berries  of  different  sizes  ;  the  small  ber- 
ries being  without  stones,  and  the  large  ones  with  only 
one.  As  the  berries  do  not  set  closely  on  the  bunches, 
if  the  small  ones  are  properly  thinned  out  the  large  ones 
will  acquire  additional  size  and  flavour,  and  will  thus  be 
the  finest  and  best  black  grape  that  can  be  brought  to 
table. 

The  blossoms  of  this  should  be  fertilised  with  those 
of  some  hardy  kind,  which  has  always  the  effect  of  im- 
proving the  branches.  Imported  from  Damascus  by 
Edward,  ninth  duke  of  Norfolk,  and  cultivated  at  Wei- 
beck,  many  years  prior  to  his  decease  in  1777* 

Requires  a  hothouse,  or  pine  stove. 

4.  BLACK  FRONTIGNAN.  * 

Black  Frontignac.     Miller,  No.  13. 

Blue  Frontignac.     Speechly,  No.  14. 

Violet  Frontignac.     Ib. 

Muscat  noir.     Duhamely  No.  9- 

Bunches  small  and  short.     Berries  small,   round, 


*  It  derives  its  name  from  Frontignan,  a  town  of  France,  in  the 
department  of  the  Herault,  celebrated  for  its  excellent  Muscadine 
wine,  generally  called  Frontignac.  It  is  situated  on  the  lake 
Meguleone,  four  leagues  S.S.W  of  Montpellier.  John  Rea  in  1702 
mentions  the  Muscat  of  Frontignan. 


192  GRAPES. 

and  grow  close  upon  the  bunches.  Skin  black,  when 
fully  exposed,  and  covered  with  a  blue  or  violet  bloom. 
Flesh  tender ;  the  juice  of  a  rich  vinous  musky  fla- 
vour. 

It  ripens  well  generally,  in  a  warm  season,  on  a  south 
wall,  upon  a  dry  bottom,  and  under  good  management ; 
but  it  is  much  better  to  plant  it  in  the  vinery. 

This  is  the  true  Black  Frontignan  grape,  and  has 
been  known  to  every  practical  gardener  in  England  since 
the  time  of  Miller.  It  was  introduced  into  this  country 
by  Sir  William  Temple,  before  1654. 

5.  BLACK  GRAPE  FROM  TRIPOLI.    Speedily,  No.  3. 
Bunches  middle  sized,  and  well  shouldered,  with  long 

slender  foot-stalks.  Berries  large,  globular,  very  equal 
in  size,  slightly  compressed :  some  are  without  stones, 
and  others  have  two  or  three  in  each  ;  but  they  are  very 
small  in  comparison  with  those  of  any  other  kind. 
Skin  thin,  of  a  deep  purple  colour,  apparently  black, 
covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  delicate  and 
tender,  with  a  very  rich,  highly-flavoured  juice. 

Requires  a  hot  house  or  pine  stove. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  grape,  and  has  a  good  deal 
the  appearance  of  the  Black  Damascus  ;  but  its  bunches 
are  always  composed  of  equal  sized  berries  :  they  are  not 
so  deep  coloured,  and  it  ripens  nearly  a  month  sooner 
in  the  same  temperature.  The  leaves  of  both  are  very 
beautifully  variegated  in  the  autumn. 

6.  BLACK  HAMBURGH.     Speedily,  No.  18. 
Warner's  Black  Hamburgh,  of  some  gardens* 
Potier  bleu.     Knoop.  Fruct.  p.  145. 

Bunches  tolerably  large,  with  two  short  compact 
shoulders,  nearly  as  broad  across  as  the  bunch  is  deep. 
Berries  pretty  large,  of  an  oval  figure,  but  when  grown 
to  an  extraordinary  size,  they  are  much  enlarged  at  the 
head.  Skin  rather  thick,  of  a  deep  purple  colour, 


GRAPKS. 


nearly  black,  and  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh 
tender.  Juice  sugary,  and  well-flavoured. 

Requires  a  vinery. 

This  very  valuable  grape  was  brought  into  England 
by  Mr.  Warner,  who  had  his  garden  at  Rotherhithe 
in  17^4.  Hence  it  is  sometimes  called  the  TVarner 
Grape.  It  is  a  great  bearer,  and  its  bunches,  although 
not  large,  are  always  perfect,  and  regularly  formed.  In 
the  autumn  the  leaves  are  mottled  with  green  and 
yellow. 

7.  BLACK  LISBON.     Speedily^  No.  46. 
Bunches  large  and  well  shouldered.     Berries  large, 

globular.  Skin  thin,  of  a  black  colour.  Juice  plen- 
tiful, of  a  pretty  good  flavour. 

Requires  a  vinery  or  hothouse. 

Mr.  Speechly  is  the  only  authority  we  have  for  this 
grape  ;  he  says  the  bunches  are  shouldered  not  unlike 
the  Black  Hamburgh,  that  it  is  a  pretty  good  fruit,  and 
(1790)  but  little  known  in  this  country. 

It  has  been  said  by  some  to  be  the  same  as  the  Black 
Spanish,  or  Alicant.  Its  regularly  shouldered  bunches, 
and  its  globular  berries  with  thin  skins,  determine  it  at 
once  to  be  a  wholly  different  sort. 

8.  BLACK  LOMBARDY.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  82. 
West's  St.  Peter's.     Ib. 

West's  Black  St.  Peter's,  of  some  Collections. 

Bunches  long,  with  large  shoulders.  Berries  large, 
round,  and  of  an  even  size.  Skin  thin,  of  a  very  black 
colour  when  fully  ripe.  Juice  plentiful,  of  a  very  high 
flavour.  Seeds  very  small.  Wood  short-jointed.  Eyes 
prominent.  Leaves  rather  small,  smooth,  shining  un- 
derneath, and  deeply  serrated;  they  turn  to  a  purple 
colour  as  the  fruit  becomes  ripe. 

Requires  a  hothouse. 

Mr.  Oldacre  has  given  a  very  good  account  of  this 
grape,  which  he  thinks  is  but  little  known.  He  always 

o 


194  GRAPES. 

begins  to  force  it  in  the  middle  of  April ;  it  becomes 
ripe  in  November ;  and  lie  sometimes  keeps  it  on  his 
vines  till  the  end  of  March.  Oard.  Mag.  Vol.  i. 
p.  36. 

9.  BLACK  MORILLON.     Miller,  No.  6. 
Auvergne.     Martyn's  Miller,  No.  7- 
Auverna.     Miller,  No.  6. 

Pineau.     Ib. 

Le  Bourguignon.     Bradley,  No.  24. 

Small  Black  Cluster.     Speedily,  No.  34. 

True  Burgundy.     Martyn's  Miller,  No.  7- 

Bundles  small,  but  rather  larger  than  those  of  the 
Miller's  Burgundy.  Berries  middle-sized,  somewhat 
oval.  Skin  of  a  very  black  colour.  Juice  very  sweet. 

It  is  hardy,  and  ripens  well  on  a  south  wall. 

This  is  the  true  Burgundy  Grape,  and  is  readily  dis- 
tinguished from  the  other,  in  not  having  its  downy  ap- 
pearance ;  it  has  also  larger  berries,  and  they  are  not  so 
closely  set  upon  the  bunches.  It  might  be  successfully 
cultivated  in  this  country  for  wine.  In  Burgundy  it  is 
highly  esteemed  for  this  purpose. 

10.  BLACK  MUSCADEL.     Speedily,  No.  8. 
Mogul,  of  some  Collections. 

The  Bunches  of  this  grape  con  tain  Berries  of  different 
shapes  and  sizes  ;  generally  they  are  large  and  oval ;  but 
some  of  them  are  very  large  and  long,  somewhat  com- 
pressed, and  flat  at  the  ends.  Skin  thin,  of  a  black 
colour,  with  delicate  juicy  Flesh.  The  leaves  change  in 
autumn  to  a  bright  scarlet. 

Requires  a  hothouse. 

11.  BLACK  MUSCADINE.     Langley,  t.  36. 
Black  Chasselas.     Miller,  No.  8. 
Chasselas  Noir.     Ib. 

Bunches  about  the  same  size  as  those  of  the  White 
Muscadine.  Berries  globular.  Skin  of  a  black  colour, 


GRAPES.  195 

covered  with  a  bluish  bloom.  Juice  rich,  if  well  ripened, 
and  of  a  very  good  flavour. 
Requires  a  vinery. 

12.  BLACK  PRINCE.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  45. 
Bunches  rather  long,  and  generally  unshouldered ; 

they  are,  however,  occasionally  well  shouldered.  Berries 
oval,  and,  when  well  thinned  out,  of  a  very  good  size. 
Skin  dark  blackish  purple,  covered  with  a  thick  blue 
bloom.  Flesh  white,  abounding  with  sweet  well  fla- 
voured Juice.  In  pulling  the  berry  from  the  stalk,  a 
long  receptacle  is  left,  which  is  red,  and  covered  with 
the  white  flesh.  Seeds  large,  generally  four,  and  some- 
times five,  in  each  berry.  Leaves  rather  fleshy,  broad 
in  proportion  to  their  length,  with  long  footstalks,  tinged 
with  red :  the  principal  lobes  not  deeply  divided,  broadly 
serrated,  becoming  variegated  in  the  autumn  with  pale 
red  and  dark  purple. 

The  Black  Prince  is  of  easy  culture,  requiring  only 
the  protection  of  the  greenhouse  or  common  vinery; 
and  in  favourable  seasons  it  will,  on  a  warm  dry  soil, 
ripen  its  fruit  on  a  south  wall. 

Mr.  Hooker's  drawing  was  made  from  a  bunch  pro- 
duced at  Highgate  in  1813. 

13.  BLACK  RAISIN.     Speedily,  No.  39. 
Raisin  Grape.     Miller,  No.  18. 

Bunches  large  and  long ;  the  largest  have  good-sized 
shoulders.  Berries  large  and  oval.  Skin  thick,  of  a 
black  colour.  Flesh  hard  and  firm.  Juice  very  high 
flavoured.  Wood  long-jointed.  Buds  somewhat  pointed. 
Leaves  large,  very  much  serrated,  with  long  red  footstalks. 

It  is  a  tall  grape,  and  requires  a  hothouse. 

Mr.  Oldacre,  who  has  given  a  very  good  account  of  it  in 
theGard.Mag.,  says,  if  the  bunches  are  cut  in  October 
with  long  footstalks  to  them,  and  hung  in  the  kitchen 
so  as  not  to  touch  each  other,  they  will  be  so  ripened 
by  the  warmth  of  the  room  by  Christmas  as  to  eat  ex- 
tremely well. 


196 


GRAPES. 


14.  BLACK  SWEET  WATER.     Speechly,  No.  17. 
Bunches   small,    close,   and  short.     Berries   small-, 

round.  Skin  thin,  of  a  black  colour.  Juice  very  sweet, 
with  but  little  perfume. 

This  ripens  on  a  common  wall,  and  is  but  seldom 
introduced  under  glass. 

15.  CLARET  GRAPE.      Speedily,  No.  31. 
Blood  Grape.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  43. 
Bunches  small.  Berries  very  closely  set,  small,  black, 

of  a  somewhat  oval  figure.  The  Juice  is  of  a  blood  red 
colour,  and  of  a  harsh  taste,  unless  the  berries  are  highly 
matured.  The  leaves  change  to  a  russet  red  early  in 
the  summer,  and  die  of  a  deep  blood  colour  in  the 
autumn. 

It  ripens  pretty  well  on  a  south  wall. 

The  branches  of  this,  like  those  of  the  White  Sweet- 
water,  are  very  short-jointed.  It  is  very  tender  when 
in  blossom:  on  that  account  the  bunches  are  seldom 
perfectly  formed,  and  always  contain  numerous  small- 
sized  berries  among  the  larger  ones. 

16.  EARLY  BLACK  JULY.     Langley,   t.  47.  f-  3> 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  17. 

Madeleine.     Ib. 

Madeleine  noire.     Ib. 

Maurillon  hatif.     Ib. 

Morillon  hatif.     Duhamel,  No.  1. 

Raisin  precoce.     Ib. 

Raisin  de  la  Madeline.     Ib.  \ 

Bunches  small.  Berries  small,  round,  of  a  black 
colour,  and  generally  thin  upon  the  bunches.  Juice 
sweet,  with  but  little  perfume. 

It  ripens  early  on  a  south  wall ;  but  being  tender 
when  in  blossom,  it  seldom  produces  a  fair  crop. 

17.  ESPERIONE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  93.  t.  2. 
Hardy  Blue  Windsor.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  57. 
Turner's  Black.     Ib. 

Bunches  handsomely  shouldered,  and  differing  little 


GRAPES. 

in  size  from  the  Black  Hamburgh.  Berries  varying 
much  in  form;  being  sometimes  round,  frequently  flat- 
rotund,  and  indented  on  the  head  with  the  remains  of 
the  style.  A  groove  or  channel  is  often  observed  on 
one  side,  or  both,  decreasing  from  the  head  downwards. 
Skin  of  a  deep  purple  colour,  inclining  to  black,  covered 
with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  The  Flesh  adheres  to  the 
skin,  and  though  neither  high  flavoured  nor  melting,  is 
pleasant.  The  leaves  are  variously  cut,  and  die  upon 
the  tree  of  an  orange  hue. 

The  Esperione  Vine  is  prolific  to  an  extraordinary 
degree,  very  hardy,  and  of  most  luxuriant  growth,  per- 
fecting its  fruit  equally  well  and  early  with  the  Sweet- 
water  and  Muscadine,  and  in  unfavourable  seasons  has  a 
decided  advantage  over  these  and  any  other  hardy  grape 
in  our  possession.  It  was  purchased  of  Mr.  Williams, 
of  Turnham  Green,  in  1804,  and  planted  by  Mr.  I.  T. 
Aiton,  in  the  royal  gardens  at  Windsor. 

18.  FRANKENTHAL.     HorL  Soc.  Cat.  No.  60. 
Frankendale.     Ib. 

Frankenthal.     Knoop.  Fruct.  p.  138. 

Bunches  tolerably  large,  with  small  handsome  shoul- 
ders, a  little  resembling  the  Black  Hamburgh.  Berries 
somewhat  oval,  but  flattened  at  the  head,  where  it  is 
much  broader  than  at  the  stalk ;  and  when  fully  ripe,  they 
are  indented  on  the  sides  as  if  by  pressure  between  the 
finger  and  thumb.  Skin  deep  purple,  approaching  to 
black,  covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  tender. 
Juice  sweet  and  rich,  and  of  excellent  flavour. 

It  ripens  well  in  the  vineryj  but'  is  much  higher  fla- 
voured when  grown  in  the  hothouse,  where  it  forces  well, 
and  will  bear  a  high  degree  of  heat. 

19.  LARGE  BLACK  CLUSTER.     Speechly,  No.  35. 
The  Berries  of  this-  are  larger  and  more  oval  than 

those  of  either  the  old  Black  Cluster  or  the  Burgundy  : 
they  are  black,  and  not  so  delicate,  ttieJw'ce  being  of  a 

o  3 


198  GRAPES. 

harsh,  rough  taste  :  the  leaves  are  of  a  beautiful  bright 
scarlet  in  the  autumn,  before  they  fall  off. 

Mr.  Speechly  says  he  had  this  sort  sent  him  from 
Lisbon,  and  was  assured  of  its  being  the  grape  from 
which  port  wine  is  made.  It  does  not  appear,  from  his 
account  of  it,  that  it  deserves  to  be  cultivated  in  this 
country  except  as  a  wine  grape. 

20.  MALVOISIE.     Speechly,  No.  21. 
Blue  Tokay.     Ib. 

La  Malvoise.     Bradley,  No.  41. 

Malmsey  Grape.     Ib. 

Bunches  about  the  size  of  those  of  the  Black  Cluster. 
Berries  small,  of  a  somewhat  oval  figure.  Skin  brown, 
covered  with  a  blue  bloom  ;  it  is  thin,  and  the  Flesh 
delicate.  Juice  rich  and  vinous. 

Requires  a  vinery. 

Bradley  says  it  bears  well,  and  though  the  berry  is 
small,  it  is  extremely  rich  and  high-flavoured  ;  that  it 
ripens  early,  and  is  so  full  of  juice  that  he  esteems  it  the 
most  melting  of  all  grapes. 

21.  SAINT  PETER'S.     Langley,  p.  115.     Speechly > 
No.  43. 

Black  Grape  from  Palestine.     Ib.  No.  44. 

Saint  Peter's  Black.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  128. 

Bunches  pretty  large  and  long,  very  generally  with- 
out shoulders.  Berries  pretty  large,  almost  globular. 
Skin  thin,  of  a  black  colour.  Flesh  delicate,  with  a 
very  excellent  and  well-flavoured  Juice.  \ 

The  berries,  when  subjected  to  a  high  temperature, 
are  very  apt  to  crack,  on  which  account  it  is  not  advis- 
able to  plant  it  in  the  forcing-house  ;  but  for  the  vinery 
it  is  a  most  excellent  grape. 

22.  THE  MILLER'S  BURGUNDY.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  56. 
Miller's  Burgundy.     Speechly,  No.  23. 

Miller  Grape.     Miller,  No.  5. 

Le  Meunier.    Chaptal,  Tr.  surlej^igne^ol.  i.  p.  169. 


GRAPES.  '     199 

Morillon  Jaconne.  Bradley,  No.  2.  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Bunches  short  and  thick.  Berries  small,  roundish, 
black,  even-sized,  and  grow  very  close  on  the  bunches. 
Skin  not  thick,  with  a  fine  blue  bloom.  Flesh  tender, 
and  filled  with  clear,  very  sweet,  and  high-flavoured 
Juice.  The  Seeds  are  two,  and  small. 

The  leaves  distinguish  this  from  almost  every  other 
sort ;  they  are  covered  on  both  sides,  especially  in  the 
spring,  with  a  cottony  wool,  or  hoary  down,  which  in 
their  young  state  is  almost  white  ;  hence  the  name  of 
the  Miller9 s  Grape. 

It  ripens  perfectly  on  a  south  wall. 

The  figure  in  the  Pom.  Mag.,  above  quoted,  is  a  very 
excellent  representation. 

The  drawing  was  made  from  a  bunch  produced  in  the 
Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick,  the  plant  of  which 
had  been  obtained  from  the  remains  of  an  ancient  vine- 
yard at  Tortworth  in  Gloucestershire,  fifteen  miles  from 
Bristol,  and  was  undoubtedly  one  of  the  sorts  cultivated 
formerly  in  that  ancient  place. 


SECT  II. — Red  or  Purple  Fruited. 

23.  CAMBRIDGE  BOTANIC  GARDEN  GRAPE.  Pom. 
Mag.  t.  21. 

Bunches  from  nine  to  ten  inches  long,  sometimes  with 
a  rather  narrow  shoulder.  Berries  closely  set,  very 
even-sized,  of  a  rather  oval  figure,  deep  purple,  inclining 
to  brown.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  high-flavoured,  and 
very  pleasant.  Seeds  two  or  three  in  each  berry.  The 
leaves  become  of  a  bright  crimson  colour  late  in  the 
autumn. 

It  ripens  very  well  on  a  south  wall,  upon  a  dry  bottom ; 
but  it  deserves  to  be  planted  in  the  vinery,  where  the 

o  4 


200  GRAPES. 

bunches  would  be  larger,  and  the  berries  of  a  higher 
flavour. 

This  grape,  although  standing  in  a  public  establish- 
ment like  that  of  the  Botanic  Garden  at  Cambridge, 
does  not  appear  to  have  attracted  any  particular  notice 
until  a  few  years  ago.  It  is  planted  against  a  south 
wall,  in  a  department  of  the  garden  allotted  principally 
to  compost  soils  and  empty  pots ;  a  place  wholly  unfre- 
quented by  visiters. 

I  saw  it  for  the  first  time  in  the  beginning  of  July, 
1815,  and  my  attention  was  directed  to  it  in  conse- 
quence of  the  forward  state  of  its  berries,  which  were 
then  as  large  as  a  full-sized  marrow  pea.  In  the  Sep- 
tember following  I  received  a  bunch  of  it  from  Mr.  Biggs, 
the  curator,  which  corresponded  fully  with  the  one 
figured  in  the  Pom.  Mag.  I  believe  it  to  be  wholly 
distinct  from  any  other  grape  in  our  gardens.  How  it 
came  into  the  garden  there  I  could  obtain  no  information. 

24.  DAMSON  GRAPE.     Speedily r,  No.  41. 
Black  Damson,  of  some  Collections. 
Damask  Grape.     Miller,  No.  14. 

Hunches  large,  with  short  stiff  shoulders.  Berries 
very  large,  oval,  with  short  stiff  footstalks,  of  a  beautiful 
purple  colour,  and  grow  very  loose  on  the  bunches. 
The  Juice,  when  fully  ripened,  has  a  sort  of  Damson  or 
Medlar-like  flavour,  which  to  some  palates  may  be  agree- 
able. The  wood  is  very  strong,  and  the  leaves  thick 
and  succulent,  more  so  than  almost  any  other  sort.  ^ 

It  ripens  late,  and  requires  a  hothouse. 

25.  GREY  AUVERNAT.     Miller,  No.  33. 

Berries  middle-sized,  somewhat  oval,  and  placed 
thinner  on  the  bunches  than  those  of  the  Black  Au- 
vernat';  they  are  of  a  pale  muddy  colour,  inclining  to 
brown,  and  contain  a  sweet  Juice. 

It  ripens  on  the  common  wall,  and  is  well  adapted  to 
the  purpose  of  making  wine. 


GRAPES.  201 

26.  GRIZZLY  FRONTIGNAN. 

Grizzly  Frontignac.      Speedily,  No.  12. 

Grizzly  Frontinac.     Langley,  p.  115. 

Muscat  Gris.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  63. 

Bunches  middle-sized,  with  small  narrow  shoulders. 
Berries  round,  larger  than  those  of  the  White  Fronti- 
gnan,  and  growing  closer  upon  the  bunches :  they  are 
of  a  pale  brown  colour,  intermixed  with  red  and 
yellow.  The  Juice  is  very  rich,  and  possesses  a  high 
musky  flavour. 

Requires  a  hothouse. 

It  was  introduced  by  Sir  William  Temple  previously 
to  1654. 

26.*  LANGFORD'S  INCOMPARABLE. 

Bunches  rather  large,  about  seven  inches  deep,  with 
well-formed  shoulders  of  about  the  same  extent.  Berries 
of  unequal  sizes :  the  largest  are  oval,  six  eighths  of  an 
inch  long,  and  five  eighths  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  but 
rather  the  widest  at  the  apex  :  the  smaller  ones  are  less 
oval,  and  the  smallest  ones  nearly  globular ;  these  contain 
one  small  seed,  and  the  larger  ones  two  large  seeds,  each. 
Skin  brown,  but  of  a  deep  purple  when  fully  ripe,  and 
covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  tender,  and  full  of 
Juice,  which,  if  well  ripened,  is  saccharine,  but  without 
any  peculiar  musky  flavour,  somewhat  resembling  that 
of  the  Black  Cluster.  The  berries  set  remarkably  thick 
upon  the  bunches,  which,  if  not  thinned  out,  are  apt  to 
spoil  each  other. 

The  original  plant  of  this  fine  grape  is  now  growing 
against  the  house  of  Mr.  William  Langford,  at  Wilton, 
near  Salisbury,  where  it  appears  to  have  been  planted 
some  years.  He  says  he  has  gathered  two  hundredweight 
and  a  quarter  of  grapes  from  it  at  one  time  ;  and  some 

*  No.  26.  is  inserted  twice,  in  consequence  of  Langford's  In- 
comparable having  been  sent  me  after  the  numerical  arrangement 
had  been  completed. 


202  GRAPES. 

of  the  bunches,  which  he  has  sent  to  Mr.  Beckford,  have 
been  pronounced  superior,  as  an  out- door  grape,  to  any 
he  has  tasted  out  of  Italy.  A  basket,  containing  a  few 
bunches,  was  sent  by  Mr.  Langford  to  Mrs.  Mackie,  of 
Norwich,  on  the  8th  of  November,  1830,  from  which 
this  description  is  taken,  and  from  whom  plants  may  be 
obtained.  This  grape  was  observed  a  few  years  ago  by 
a  friend  of  mine,  in  passing  through  Wilton,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  crop,  which  was  abundant,  being  at  thai 
time  nearly  ripe,  although  other  out-door  grapes  had  not 
begun  to  change  their  colour. 

27-  LE  CCEUR.     Speechly,  No.  6. 

Morocco.     Ib. 

Bunches  short,  with  small  stiff  shoulders.  Berries 
somewhat  heart-shaped,  of  a  tawny  grizzly  colour:  they 
are  very  unequal  in  size,  some  being  exceedingly  large ; 
these  never  contain  more  than  one  stone  in  each,  and 
the  lesser  ones  have  none :  their  stalks  are  short,  and 
singularly  large.  Juice  rich  and  musky. 

This  is  a  late  grape,  and  requires  a  hothouse.  The 
small  berries  are  generally  ripe  and  decayed  before  the 
large  ones  are  matured,  which  often  renders  the  bunches 
unsightly.  Mr.  Speechly  says  it  is  a  much  esteemed 
grape,  and  very  scarce.  I  do  not  find  it  mentioned  by 
any  other  author. 

28.  LOMBARDY.     Speedily,  No.  23. 

Flame-coloured  Tokay.     Ib. 

Rhenish  Grape.     Ib.  \ 

Red  Rhenish,  of  some  Collections. 

Bunches  very  large,  frequently  weighing  six  or  seven 
pounds ;  they  generally  terminate  abruptly,  but  they 
are  always  handsomely  formed,  with  proportionate 
shoulders.  Berries  large,  of  a  somewhat  oval  figure. 
Skin  of  a  pale  fed  or  flame  colour.  Flesh  firm,  with  a 
pretty  well  flavoured  Juice. 

Requires  a  hothouse. 


GRAPES. 

29.  POONAH.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  5 16. 

Bunches  large  and  well  shouldered,  tapering  gra- 
dually to  a  point.  Berries  slightly  oval,  dark  red  when 
fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  but  pale  when  shaded,  fleshy, 
with  seldom  more  than  two  seeds  in  each :  sweet,  but 
not  very  juicy. 

This  is  a  late  sort,  and  requires  as  high  a  temperature 
to  ripen  it  as  the  Muscat  of  Alexandria :  it  will  then 
keep  a  long  time.  It  makes  vigorous  wood,  and  is  a 
free  bearer.  Introduced  by  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  in  1817, 
from  Bombay.  It  is  cultivated  successfully  at  Poonah, 
and  the  ripe  fruit  regularly  sent  thence  to  Bombay  and 
its  dependencies. 

30.  PURPLE  FRONTIGNAN. 

Purple  Frontignac.     Speedily,  No.  13. 

Black  Constantia.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  45. 

Purple  Constantia.     Ib.  No.  47. 

Bunches  very  long.  Berries  of  a  middling  size, 
round,  of  a  black  or  deep  purple  colour.  Juice  very 
rich,  and  of  a  very  high  flavour/ 

Requires  a  hothouse,  or  a  warm  vinery. 

This  was  received  by  Mr.  Speechly  from  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  under  the  name  of  Black  Constantia  :  he 
says  it  is  one  of  our  very  best  grapes. 

31.  RAISIN  DES  CARMES.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  p.  27. 

Raisin  de  Cuba.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  1. 10. 

Bunches  long,  loose.  Berries  very  large,  of  an  irre- 
gular oval  figure,  with  a  few  small  berries  intermixed. 
Skin  rather  thick,  of  a  dusky  reddish'  purple  colour, 
and  covered  with  a  fine  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  and 
very  rich,  combined  with  a  little  acid.  Seeds  large, 
seldom  more  than  one  in  each  berry. 

Requires  a  hothouse  or  vinery. 

32.  RED  CHASSELAS.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  7. 
Red  Muscadine.     Miller,  No.  9. 

Chasselas  Rouge.     Duhamel,  No.  3. 


GRAPES. 

The  Berries  of  this  are  something  larger  than  those 
of  the  Black  Muscadine,  and  grow  much  thinner  upon 
the  bunches  :  they  are  of  a  dark  red  colour  when  highly 
ripened.  Juice  sweet,  and  of  a  very  good  flavour. 

Requires  a  vinery. 

33.  RED  FRONTIGNAN. 

Red  Frontignac.     Speedily r,  No.  15. 

Muscat  Rouge.     Duliamel,  No.  7»  t.  4. 

Bunches  larger  than  those  of  the  Black  Frontignan, 
and  without  shoulders.  Berries  larger  also,  perfectly 
round,  and  of  a  dark  red  colour.  Flesh  delicate  and 
tender.  Juice  plentiful,  of  a  most  rich,  musky,  vinous 
flavour. 

It  requires  a  hothouse,  and  is  one  of  our  very  best 
grapes. 

34.  RED  GRAPE  FROM  SYRACUSE.     Speedily r,  No.  5. 
The  Berries  of  this  are  very  large,  of  a  red  colour, 

and  of  an  oval  shape,  somewhat  irregularly  formed. 
They  hang  rather  loosely  upon  the  Bunches,  which  are 
pretty  large.  The  Skin  is  thick,  and  the  Flesh  hard. 

It  requires  a  hothouse. 

Mr.  Speechly  says  it  is  a  noble  grape,  and  but  little 
known  in  this  country.  It  makes  strong  wood,  and  is 
a  most  excellent  bearer. 

35.  RED  HAMBURGH.     Speechly,  No.  19- 
Warner's  Red  Hamburgh.     Ib. 

Brown  Hamburgh.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  75. 

Gibraltar.     Ib.  No.  67.  i 

The  Berries  of  this  are  of  a  dark  red  or  purple  colour, 
with  a  thin  Skin,  and  a  juicy  delicate  Flesh.  The  size 
and  figure  of  both  the  bunch  and  the  berry  are  very 
much  like  the  Black  Hamburgh,  except  the  latter  being 
less  oval,  and  growing  more  loosely  on  the  bunches. 

When  the  berries  of  the  Red  Hamburgh  are  imper- 
fectly ripened,  they  are  of  a  pale  brown  colour,  which 
occasions  it  to  be  called  the  Brown  Hamburgh  ;  but  if 


GRAPES.  £Q5 

perfectly  matured,  it  is  by  many  considered  to  be  the 
richest  and  best  flavoured  of  the  two. 

The  leaves  of  this  in  the  autumn  become  mottled  with 
green,  purple,  and  yellow  :  those  of  the  Black  Ham- 
burgh are  mottled  with  green  and  yellow  only :  they 
were  both  brought  into  this  country  by  Mr.  Warner,  of 
Rotherhithe. 

The  oldest  vine  of  this  kind  known  in  England  is 
that  at  Valentine's  House,  near  Ilford,  in  Essex. 

Mr.  Gilpin,  in  his  Forest  Scenery,  Vol.  i.  p.  153.,  says 
it  was  planted  a  cutting  in  1758,  and  is  the  parent  of 
the  well  known  Hamburgh  vine  now  growing  at  Hamp- 
ton Court. 

86.  RED  MUSCADEL.     Speedily,  No.  9. 

Tine  Berries  of  this  are  large,  oval,  and  of  a  beautiful 
red  colour,  having  the  rudiments  of  tjie  style  adhering 
to  their  ends;  the  Skin  is  thick  and  the  Flesh  hard, 
something  like  the  Raisin  Grape.  The  Bunches  fre- 
quently arrive  at  the  weight  of  six  or  seven  pounds,  and 
are  most  elegantly  formed  of  berries  of  an  equal  size. 
The  leaves  change  in  autumn  to  a  beautiful  red  and 
green  colour. 

It  is  one  of  our  latest  grapes,  and  requires  a  hothouse. 

37.  RED  MUSCAT  OF  ALEXANDRIA.  .M7/er,No.28. 

Red  Frontignac  of  Jerusalem.     Ib. 

Red  Jerusalem  Muscat.     Ib. 

Muscat  d'Alexandrie  Rouge.    Knoop.  Fruct.  p.  146. 

Bunches  pretty  large,  and  shouldered.  Berries  rather 
large,  of  an  oval  shape.  Skin  thick,  of  a  red  colour. 
Flesh  very  firm,  with  a  saccharine,  high-flavoured, 
musky  Juice. 

It  requires  a  hothouse. 

Bradley  says  it  requires  a  good  deal  of  sun  to  bring 
it  to  perfection,  but  it  is  then  one  of  our  best  grapes. 
It  is  more  esteemed  about  Paris  than  the  White  Muscat. 
W^hen  against  good  walls,  it.  ripens  very  well,  without 
any  artificial  heat. 


206  GRAPES. 

38.  SAINT  AUGUSTIN  GRAPE.   G.  Lind.  Cat.  1815. 

Bunches  pretty  large,  with  moderately  sized  shoulders. 
Berries  of  an  unequal  size  and  form  :  the  large  ones  are 
oval,  obtuse  at  the  head,  and  contain  three  or  four  seeds 
each  ;  the  middle-sized  are  round,  and  contain  one  or 
two  seeds  ;  the  small  ones  are  round  also,  .and  are  with- 
out seeds.  Skin  rather  thick,  deep  red  or  purple, 
covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  with  a  sweet 
and  rather  musky  Juice. 

It  requires  a  vinery,  or  perhaps  a  stove. 

In  the  autumn  of  1794,  I  observed  a  vine  growing 
against  the  south  side  of  a  house,  in  the  parish  of  Saint 
Augustin,  near  the  gates,  in  Norwich.  A  few  of  the 
bunches  were  then  pretty  ripe,  and  some  of  the  largest 
berries  measured  three  inches  and  three  quarters  in  cir- 
cumference. This  tree,  which  is  the  original  one  in  this 
country,  was  imported  from  Spain  about  fifty  years  ago, 
by  a  Mr.  Lindoe,  a  manufacturer,  of  that  city,  and  planted 
against  the  house  of  Benjamin  Cogman,  which  is  now 
(1830)  inhabited  by  his  son,  and  where  the  tree  is  still 
growing.  I  have  not  yet  seen  this  fine  grape  under 
glass  ;  but  I  expect  ere  long  to  give  some  account  of  its 
merits,  when  grown  under  a  higher  temperature. 

39.  VARIEGATED  CHASSELAS.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  i. 
p.  259. 1. 16. 

Bunches  rather  long,  without  shoulders.  Berries 
rather  small,  of  a  round  figure,  hanging  loose  upon  the 
bunches.  Skin  very  thin,  of  a  bluish  violet,  wher£ 
shaded ;  but  where  exposed,  of  a  deep  purple.  Flesh 
tender,  with  a  very  saccharine  Juice,  and  of  a  pretty  good 
flavour. 

It  has  ripened  at  Downton  Castle,  where  it  was  raised, 
and  an  account  of  it  sent  to  the  Horticultural  Society, 
Feb.  4.  1812.  It  sprang  from  a  seed  of  the  White 
Chasselas,  impregnated  with  the  pollen  of  the  Aleppo  : 
the  leaves  are  variegated  in  the  autumn  with  red, 


GRAPES.  207 

green,  and  yellow ;  and  they  have  long,  red,  flattish 
petioles. 

It  requires  a  vinery. 

In  warm  seasons  it  would  ripen  on  a  south  wall,  upon 
a  dry  bottom. 

40.  WORTLEY  HALL  GRAPE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol. 
iv.  p.  516. 

Bunches  in  general  appearance  like  those  of  the  Black 
Hamburgh.  They  are  well  shouldered  and  tapering, 
and  the  berries  regularly  distributed.  Berries  large, 
rather  oval  than  round,  somewhat  broadest  at  the  head, 
with  an  irregular  surface.  Skin  very  glossy,  dark  pur- 
ple. Flesh  thick,  but  juicy,  sweet,  and  pleasant ;  with 
a  very  slight  Muscat  flavour.  Seeds  large,  but  rarely 
more  than  one  in  each  berry. 

It  requires  a  hothouse. 

This  grape  sprang  up  from  seed,  in  the  stove  at 
Wortley  Hall,  in  Yorkshire,  and  first  bore  fruit  in  1819, 
when  it  was  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  :  the 
bunch  weighed  two  pounds. 


SECT.  III. —  White  or  Yellow  Fruited. 

41.  ALEXANDRIAN  CIOTAT.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv. 
p.  3.  1. 1. 

Bunches  large  and  long,  with  narrow  shoulders. 
Berries  oval,  a  little  broader  at  the  head  than  next  the 
stalk,  and  they  sit  rather  thin  upon  the  bunches.  Skin 
pale  yellow  on  the  shaded  part ;  but  where  exposed  to 
the  sun,  of  an  amber  colour,  and  covered  with  numerous 
brown  russetty  dots.  Flesh  firm,  like  the  Muscat  of 
Alexandria,  but  not  with  its  perfume :  the  Juice  is,  how- 
ever, good ;  and  it  is  a  great  bearer. 

It  requires  a  vinery. 


GRAPES. 

Raised  some  years  ago  by  John  Williams,  Esq.  in  his 
garden  at  Pitmaston,  near  Worcester. 

42.  BOURDELAS.     Duhamel,  No.  13. 
Bourdelais.     Ib. 

Burdelais.     Miller,  No.  10. 

Bunches  very  large,  weighing  sometimes  five  or  six 
pounds.  Berries  large,  of  an  oval  figure,  growing  very 
close  upon  the  bunch,  and  containing  generally  four 
seeds.  Skin  nearly  white,  approaching  to  yellow  as  the 
berries  become  ripe.  The  Flesh  is  hard  and  the  Juice, 
unless  well  ripened,  too  austere  to  be  palatable. 

It  would  require  a  hothouse  to  bring  this  to  perfection; 
but  its  merits  are  not  sufficient  to  deserve  its  being  cul- 
tivated in  this  country. 

The  French  have  two  other  kinds  of  Bourdelas  ;  one 
with  red  fruit,  and  the  other  black.  In  untoward  sea- 
sons, they  press  them  for  verjuice. 

43.  CIOTAT.     Speechly,  No.  45. 
Parsley-leaved.     Ib. 

Ciotat.     Duhamel,  No.  5.  t.  2. 

Raisin  d'Autriche.     Ib. 

Parsley-leaved  Muscadine.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  39- 

Bunches  nearly  the  size  of  the  White  Muscadine. 
Berries  round,  white,  of  a  middling  size,  with  a  thin 
Skin,  and  a  delicate  juicy  Mesh,  which  is  very  sweet, 
but  not  'highly  flavoured.  The  leaves  are  finely  divided, 
wholly  different  from  any  other. sort. 

It  will  ripen  pretty  well  on  a  south  wall,  in  a  wjirm. 
season  ;  but  the  bunches  are  larger,  and  the  berries 
much  better  flavoured,  in  the  vinery. 

Miller  says  it  was  originally  brought  from  Canada, 
where  it  grows  wild  in  the  woods.  This  is  probably  a 
mistake,  which  may  have  arisen  from  Cornutus  having 
inserted  it  in  his  work*  It  was  cultivated  here  by  John 
Tradescant,  jun.,  in  1656. 


Gil  APES.  20.9 

44.  CORNICHON.     Speedily,  No.  50. 
Cornichon  Blanc.     Duhamel,  12.  t.  6. 

Bunches  rather  small,  and  very  loosely  formed. 
Berries  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  their  breadth  not 
half  an  inch.  They  taper  from  the  stalk,  are  enlarged 
singularly  in  the  middle,  and  end  in  an  obtuse  point ; 
their  shape  may  be  compared  to  the  small  end  of  a  fish's 
bladder  :  they  are  white,  with  a  thick  skin,  and  a  firm 
sweet  flesh. 

It  requires  a  hothouse. 

It  has  nothing  to  recommend  it  but  its  long  keeping. 

The  French  have  also  a  Blue  or  Violet  Cornichon,  but 
it  has  not  yet  been  introduced  into  this  country. 

45.  GENUINE  TOKAY.     Speedily^  No.  22. 
White  Morillon.     Ib.  No.  36. 

Bunches  of  a  moderate  size,  rather  larger  than  those 
of  the  Blue  Tokay.  Berries  white,  of  an  oval  figure,  and 
grow  rather  close  upon  the  bunches.  Skin  thin.  Flesh 
very  delicate.  Juice  rich  and  abundant. 

The  leaves  are  covered  on  their  under  side  with  a  fine 
soft  down,  having  the  appearance  of  satin. 

It  will  ripen  pretty  well  in  some  seasons  against  a 
warm  south  wall ;  but  it  ought  to  be  planted  in  the 
vinery.  Mr.  Speechly  says  it  was  sent  from  Hungary, 
some  years  ago,  to  his  grace  the  Duke  of  Portland.  It 
is  highly  probable  that  this  furnishes  the  delicious  and 
incomparable  Tokay  wine. 

46.  GREEK  GRAPE.     Speechly r,  No.  47. 
Green  Chee.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  71. 
Bunches  of  a  moderate  size,  and  handsome.  Berries 

middle-sized,  of  a  somewhat  oval  figure,  and  grow  pretty 
close  upon  the  bunches.  Skin  of  a  bluish  white  colour. 
Flesh  delicate,  with  a  rich  and  well-flavoured  juice.  The 
leaves  grow  on  short  footstalks,  and  very  much  resemble 
those  of  the  White  Sweetwater. 

It  requires  a  hot-house  or  a  vinery. 

p 


210  GRAPES. 

Mr.  Speechly  says  this  is  a  justly  esteemed  fruit.  It 
is  grown  in  the  counties  of  Durham  and  Northumber- 
land under  the  name  of  Green  Ghee. 

47.  MALMSEY  MUSCADINE.     Speedily,  No.  30. 
Malvoisee  Musquee.     Bradley,  No.  15. 

This  somewhat  resembles  the  White  Muscadine,  but 
the  bunches  and  berries  are  rather  smaller,  and  the  juice 
of  a  higher  flavour,  being  remarkably  sweet. 

It  requires  a  vinery. 

Bradley  says  it  is  one  of  the  richest  musked  grapes, 
comes  from  Montserrat,  and  grows  also  plentifully  about 
Turin. 

48.  PITMASTON  WHITE  CLUSTER.     Hort.    Trans. 
Vol.  iii.  p.  249.  t.  8. 

Bunches  larger  than  those  of  the  Black  Cluster, 
compact,  and  shouldered.  Berries  round,  a  little  flat- 
tened at  the  head.  Skin,  when  perfectly  ripe,  of  an 
amber  colour,  bronzed  with  russet  on  the  side  next  the 
sun.  Flesh  tender,  with  an  agreeable  juice. 

It  ripens,  on  a  south  wall,  earlier  than  the  Sweetwater. 

It  was  raised  about  twenty  years  ago  by  John  Wil- 
liams, Esq.,  of  Pitmaston,  near  Worcester,  from  a  seed 
of  the  small  Black  Cluster. 

49.  ROYAL  MUSCADINE.    Miller,  No.  4.    Speechly, 
No.  29. 

D'Arboyce.     Ib. 

White  Muscadine.     Parkinson,  No.  3. 

Bunches  large,  with  middling-sized  shoulders.  Ber- 
ries of  a  moderate  size,  round,  white,  when  ripe  turning 
to  an  amber  colour,  having  a  thin  skin,  a  soft  flesh,  and 
a  rich  vinous  juice. 

It  requires  a  vinery,  or  a  stove. 

This  is  readily  distinguished  from  the  White  Musca- 
dine of  Miller  and  Speechly,  by  the  wood  and  foliage 
growing  remarkably  gross  and  strong.  That  it  is  the 
White  Muscadine  of  Parkinson  there  can  be  but  little 
doubt,  as  he  describes  it  as  growing  to  a  much  larger 


GRAPES.  21 1 

size  than  the  other  was  ever  known  to  attain :  he  says 
some  of  the  bunches  have  weighed  six  pounds,  and  some 
of  the  berries  half  an  ounce. 

It  would  be  very  desirable  to  come  to  some  clear  un- 
derstanding in  regard  to  the  application  of  the  names 
Royal  Muscadine  and  White  Muscadine.  These  names 
have  been  used  by  Miller  and  Speechly,  and,  having 
been  applied  by  them  alike,  I  am  reluctant  to  discon- 
tinue either  the  one  or  the  other,  feeling  satisfied  that 
the  substitution  of  others  for  those  already  established 
under  such  authority  would  increase,  rather  than  dimi- 
nish, the  already  too  much  confused  nomenclature  of 
our  fruits.  Under  this  impression  I  have  continued  the 
name  of  Royal  Muscadine  here,  and  shall  notice  its  mis- 
application when  speaking  of  the  White  Muscadine. 

50.  SYRIAN.     Speedily,  No.  32. 

The  Bunches  of  this  grape  are  very  regularly  formed, 
with  shoulders  nearly  as  broad  as  the  bunch  is  long : 
they  are  also  larger  than  those  of  any  other  sort  at  pre- 
sent known.  Berries  large,  of  an  oval  figure.  Skin 
white.  Flesh  firm  and  hard,  and,  if  well  ripened,  of  a 
pretty  good  flavour.  The  wood  is  very  strong,  and  the 
leaves  large.  It  is  an  excellent  bearer,  and  the  bunches 
when  ripe  may  be  left  many  weeks  longer  than  almost 
any  other  sort. 

It  requires  a  hot-house  to  ripen  it  well. 

A.  bunch  of  this  sort  was  grown  to  a  most  enormous 
size  in  1781,  at  Welbeck,  by  Mr.  Speechly.  It  mea- 
sured nineteen  inches  and  a  half  across  the  shoulders, 
its  length  was  twenty-one  inches  and  three  quarters,  its 
circumference  four  feet  and  a  half,  and  it  weighed  nine- 
teen pounds  and  a  half.  The  Syrian  Grape  is  supposed 
to  be  the  sort  mentioned  in  Numbers,  xiii.  23. 

51.  VERDELHO.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  106.  t.  8. 
Bunches  loose,  rather  small,  inclined  to  shoulder. 

Berries  oval,  small,  having  numerous  very  small  ones, 
without  seeds,  interspersed ;  of  a  greenish  yellow,  but 

p  2. 


GRAPES. 

of  a  slight  amber-coloured  russet  when  fully  exposed  to 
the  sun.  Skin  thin,  almost  transparent.  Juice  rather 
acid  in  ripening,  but  when  fully  matured  of  a  rich  sac- 
charine flavour. 

It  requires  a  vinery. 

This  is  the  principal  grape  employed  in  Madeira  for 
the  making  of  Madeira  wine.  It  is  pronounced  Ver- 
dellio  by  the  natives.  Introduced  into  this  country  by 
John  Williams,  Esq.,  of  Pitmaston.  The  Verclelho 
Grape  may  be  grown  to  great  advantage  in  pots  in  the 
greenhouse  :  the  plants  might  be  brought  in  early  in 
the  spring.  The  leafless  stems  of  the  vines,  when  first 
introduced,  and  indeed  till  the  middle  of  May,  would 
not  injure  the  greenhouse  plants ;  and  the  fruit  would 
become  perfectly  ripe  long  before  the  middle  of  Octo- 
ber, the  Verdelho  being  rather  an  early  grape. 

52.  WHITE  AUVERNAT.     Miller,  No.  32. 

Bunches  small,  rather  larger  than  those  of  the  Mil- 
ler's Burgundy.  Berries  small,  somewhat  oval,  grow- 
ing close  upon  the  bunches,  and  when  ripe  of  a  muddy 
white  colour.  Juice  pretty  good. 

It  will  ripen  against  a  south  wall :  but  it  is  much  bet- 
ter adapted  to  the  purpose  of  making  wine  than  for  the 
dessert ;  for  the  former  it  is  excellent. 

53.  WHITE  CORINTH.     Speedily,  No.  48. 
Corinth  Blanc.     Duhamel,  14.  t.  7. 

Bunches  small.  Berries  small,  round,  white,  with 
a  very  thin  skin  ;  when  perfectly  ripe  they  are  tiwis- 
parent,  so  that  the  seeds,  although  small,  may  be  seen 
through  them, 

It  requires  a  vinery. 

54.  WHITE  FRONTIGNANV 

White  Frontignac.     Speedily,  No.  It. 
Muscat  Blanc.     Duhamel,  6.  t.  3. 
Bunches  rather  long,  without   shoulders.     Berries 
middle-sized,  rather  closelv  set,   of  a  muddy  white,  or 


GRAPES.  213 

greenish  yellow,  and  covered  with  a  thin,  white,  pow- 
dery bloom.  Flesh  delicate.  Juice  sugary,  very  rich, 
with  a  highly  musky  flavour. 

Against  a  south  wall,  upon  a  dry  soil,  and  in  warm 
seasons,  this  grape  ripens  well  in  many  parts  of  Eng- 
land ;  but  it  highly  merits  either  a  vinery  or  a  hot- 
house. 

55.  WHITE  HAMBURGH.     Speedily,  No.  20. 
White  Raisin.     Langley,  p.  116.  t.  43  and  44. 
Raisin  Muscat.     Miller,  No.  34. 

White  Lisbon.     Hort.  Sac.  Cat.  No.  78. 

White  Portugal.     Ib. 

Bunches  large,  loosely  formed.  Berries  large,  of  an 
oval  figure.  Skin  thick,  of  a  greenish  white  colour. 
Flesh  hard.  Juice  sweet,  slightly  mixed  with  acid. 

It  requires  a  hothouse. 

This  grape,  although  not  abounding  much  in  flavour, 
keeps  a  long  time  after  it  is  ripe ;  and,  on  that  account, 
it  is  by  many  much  admired.  Large  quantities,  to  the 
value  of  10,000/.,  are  annually  brought  into  this  country 
from  Portugal,  in  the  winter  season,  and  sold  in  the 
shops  by  the  name  of  Portugal  grapes. 

56.  WHITE    KISHMISH.       Hort.    Tram.   Vol.  iv. 
p.  212.  t.  4. 

Bunches  little  more  than  five  inches  long,  well 
shouldered,  and  tapering  evenly  to  the  point.  Berries 
little  larger  than  those  of  white  currants,  and  of  the 
same  form,  of  a  greenish  tint,  deepening  to  pale  yellow, 
and  becoming  ultimately  of  an  amber  hue.  They  are 
not  very  sweet,  but  juicy,  of  a  pleasant  refreshing  fla- 
vour, and  wholly  free  from  seeds.  Leaves  rather  thick, 
roundish,  and  not  deeply  cut. 

This  grape  is  said  to  be  a  native  of  the  island  of 
Kishm,  or  Kishmish,  in  the  Persian  Gulf,  and  was 
brought  from  St.  Petersburgh  by  Mr.  Oldacre,  in  1812, 

It  requires  a  vinery  or  a  stove, 
p  3 


GRAPES. 

57.  WHITE  MELIE.     Miller,  No.  29. 
Melier  Blanc.     Knoop,  Fruct.  p.  136. 

Berries  middle-sized,  somewhat  of  an  oval  figure,  and 
grow  pretty  close  upon  the  bunches  ;  they  are  of  a 
greenish  white,  and  covered  with  a  thin  white  bloom. 
Juice  very  sweet. 

It  will  ripen  on  a  warm  south  wall,  and  is  very  good 
for  the  purpose  of  making  wine. 

58.  WHITE  MUSCADINE.     Langley,  p.  114.  t.  35. 
Kitt9  p.  307.     Miller,  No.  10.     Speedily,  No.  27. 

Common  Muscadine.     Pom.  Mag,  t.18. 

Royal  Muscadine.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  97«  ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Early  White  Grape,  from  Teneriffe.  Speedily, 
No.  42. 

Bundles  middle-sized,  loose,  with  a  broad  shoulder, 
occasionally  acquiring  considerable  size ;  but  more  fre- 
quently, against  a  wall,  of  about  six  inches  deep,  and 
four  inches  and  a  half  or  five  inches  across  the  shoulder. 
Berries  quite  round,  middle-sized,  clear  watery  green, 
when  very  ripe  becoming  a  dull  yellowish  brown  on  the 
most  exposed  places.  Flesh  firm,  watery,  and  sweet ; 
when  well  ripened  acquiring  a  rich  saccharine  quality, 
but  at  no  time  high  flavoured.  The  leaves  are  middle- 
sized,  roundish,  with  an  open  base,  slightly  and  regularly 
lobed,  quite  smooth  on  each  side,  pale  green,  becoming 
yellow  late  in  the  autumn. 

This  ripens  upon  a  south  wall  generally  from*  the 
middle  to  the  end  of  September ;  and  the  bunches  will 
hang  upon  the  vines,  if  the  season  be  favourable,  till  the 
beginning  of  November. 

The  White  Muscadine  Grape  of  Langley,  Hill,  Mil- 
ler, and  Speechly,  has  always  been  considered  to  be  the 
one  described  as  above.  It  is  the  most  common  and 
the  best  known  of  any  white  grape  in  our  gardens,  in 
consequence  of  its  hardiness  and  productiveness,  and 


GRAPES.  215 

the  certainty  with  which  it  ripens  against  our  common 
walls. 

According  to  Langley,  the  White  Muscadine  ripened 
at  Twickenham,  in  17#7>  on  a  south-east  wall,  Aug.  16, 
O.  S.,  or  Aug.  27,  N.  S. 

Under  this  mode  of  culture  it  has  a  pretty  general 
and  uniform  appearance ;  but  when  grown  in  the  vinery, 
or  under  a  higher  temperature,  it  assumes  a  different 
character.  Vigorous  wood,  with  the  free  use  of  the 
scissars  in  thinning  out  the  bunches,  will  give  them,  as 
well  as  the  berries,  an  increased  size,  and,  when  highly 
ripened,  a  fine  amber  colour :  in  addition  to  this,  like 
the  Black  Prince,  the  largest  bunches  become  more 
shouldered,  and  in  proportion  shorter. 

In  this  state  it  is  supposed  by  many  to  be  a  distinct 
grape,  and  called  the  Royal  Muscadine. 

The  application  of  this  name  to  a  fruit  with  which  it 
cannot,  with  any  propriety,  be  associated,  can  have  but 
this  effect,  that  of  perpetuating  an  absurdity  instead  of 
removing  it.  A  further  continuance  of  a  practice  like 
this,  it  is  conceived,  cannot  be  sanctioned  by  any  one 
who  takes  any  pride  in  his  profession,  or  who  is  desirous 
to  promote  its  further  improvement. 

59.  WHITE  MUSCAT  OF  ALEXANDRIA.  Speedily, 
No.  l"  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  100. 

Frontihiac  of  Alexandria.     Miller,  No.  27, 

Jerusalem  Muscat.     Ib. 

Muscat  d'Alexandrie.    Duhamel,  10.  t,  5. 

Passe-longue  Musque.     Ib. 

Passe-Musque,         1 

Malaga,  }  HorL  Soc'  CaL  No" 10a 

Bunches  large,  and  well  shouldered.  Berries  large, 
oval,  and  when  well  ripened  of  a  fine  pale  amber  colour, 
and  where  exposed  to  the  sun  tinged  with  a  deep  amber 
russet :  the  large  ones  are  generally  without  stones. 
Skin  rather  thick,  and  the  flesh  firm  and  hard.  Juice 

p  4 


216  GRAPES. 

not  plentiful,  but  of  a  sweet,  highly  musky,  and  most 
delicious  flavour. 

This  may  be  justly  considered  as  one  of  the  very  best 
grapes  ever  introduced  into  this  country.  It  requires  a 
higher  degree  of  temperature  to  ripen  than  many  others, 
and  generally  succeeds  best  in  the  pine  stove.  It  may, 
nevertheless,  be  ripened  very  well  in  a  lower  temper- 
ature ;  but  then  it  is  necessary  it  should  be  forced  early 
in  the  spring. 

The  Tottenham  Park  Muscat,  which  was  said  to  be 
the  produce  of  a  seed  of  the  Muscat  of  Alexandria,  sown 
in  1819,  turns  out  to  be  nothing  more  than  this.  It 
has  been  proved  to  be  so  over  and  over  again,  by  the  best 
practical  gardeners,  who  have  grown  them  both.  The 
size  of  its  berries  has  been  urged  as  constituting  its  dif- 
ference ;  but  berries  of  the  Old  Muscat  have  been  grown, 
near  London,  which  measured  four  inches  in  circumfer- 
ence the  long  way,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  the  short 
one,  when  the  largest  produced  by  Mr.  Burn,  of  the 
Tottenham  Park  Muscat,  which  were  compared  with 
them,  did  not  equal  that  size. 

I  have  several  times  seen  the  original  tree  at  Totten- 
ham Park,  where  it  has  a  small  house  to  itself,  which, 
under  Mr.  Burn's  excellent  management,  certainly  pro- 
duces fruit  of  the  very  highest  character  ;  and  I  have 
always  observed  that  there  were  other  bunches,  besides 
the  first,  which  would  form  two  other  crops,  and  ripen 
in  succession.  The  Old  Muscat,  however,  will  do  tbe 
same,  when  subjected  to  similar  treatment. 

60.  WHITE  MUSCAT  FROM  LUNEL.    Speedily,  49. 

Berries  large,  oval,  and  when  perfectly  ripe  of  a  fine 
amber  colour,  sometimes  clouded  with  russet,  especially 
on  the  side  next  the  sun ;  they  form  pretty  large  bunches. 
The  skin  is  thin,  and  the  flesh  delicate,  replete  with  a 
vinous  juice. 

It  requires  a  hothouse  or  a  vinery. 


GRAPES. 

Mr.  Speechly  says  it  is  a  plentiful  bearer,  and  may  be 
justly  esteemed  a  valuable  sort. 

61.  WHITE  SWEET  WATER.  Langley,  p.  113.  t.  50. 
Speechly,  No.  16. 

Parel  Druyf,  of  the  Dutch  Gardens. 

Berries  large,  round,  of  a  white  colour,  and  when 
highly  ripened,  especially  when  exposed  to  the  sun,  they 
are  shaded  with  a  light  russet.  They  grow  close  on  the 
bunches,  which  are  of  a  middle  size.  Juice  very  sac- 
charine and  luscious.  Wood  short-jointed. 

On  a  south  wall,  it  ripens  well  in  dry  warm  seasons  ; 
but  if  the  weather  prove  unfavourable  when  the  vine  is  in 
blossom,  the  bunches  become  imperfectly  formed,  and 
contain  numerous  very  small  berries. 

The  White  Sweetwater  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in 
1727,  on  a  south  wall,  Aug.  10.  O.S.,  or  Aug.  21.N.S. 
(Langky.) 

The  Dutch  gardeners  call  it  Parel  Druyf,  and  force 
it  in  large  quantities  for  market. 

There  are  several  names  of  White  Sweetwater  to  be 
found  in  different  nurserymen's  catalogues,  but  most  of 
them  have  arisen  from  the  whim  or  caprice  of  their  cul- 
tivators. 


SECT.  IV.  —  Striped- Fruited. 

62.  ALEPPO.     Speedily,  No.  4. 

Raisin  Suisse.     Miller,  No.  26. 

Switzerland  Grape.     Ib. 

Berries  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish  figure.  Skin  thin, 
of  various  colours:  some  are  black,  some  white;  but  mostly 
they  are  striped  with  black  and  white  in  distinct  lines : 
occasionally,  one  bunch  will  be  black,  one  white,  and 
another  half  black  and  half  white.  Flesh  juicy,  and  of 
an  exquisite  flavour.  The  leaves  in  the  autumn  are 


£18 


GRAPES. 


curiously  striped  with  red,  green,  and  yellow,  somewhat 
similar  to  the  Aleppo  Cos  Lettuce. 

A  plentiful  bearer,  requiring  a  vinery  or  a  hot-house. 


A  Selection  of  Grapes  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern   and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 


FOR    THE    OPEN    WALL* 


Esperione 

Langford's  Incomparable    -  26 


Black  Hamburgh 
Black  Frontignan 
Black  Prince 
Frankenthal 
Poonali 


Black  Damascus 
Black  Lombardy 
Black  Raisin 
Grizzly  Frontignan 


en    23 
-  17 

Miller's  Burgundy 
White  Muscadine 

22 

58 

i    -26* 

White  Sweetwater 

61 

FOR   A 

VINERY. 

-      6 

Raisin  des  Carmes 

31 

-      4 

-  12 

Red  Hamburgh 
Saint  Peter's 

35 
21 

-  18 
-  29 

White  Frontignan 
White  Sweetwater 

54 
61 

FOR    THE    STOVE. 

-      3 

Muscat  of  Alexandria 

59 

-    8 

Red  Muscat  of  Alexandria 

37 

-  13 
-  26 

Royal  Muscadine 
White  Frontignan 

49 
54 

Northern  Counties  of  England,  and  Southern  of  Scotland. 


Black  Hamburgh 
Black  Frontignan 
Black  Prince 
Frankenthal 


FOR    A    VINERY. 

-  6     Red  Hamburgh  -          -  35 

-  4     White  Frontignan  -        -  54 

-  12     White  Muscadine  -             -  58 

-  18     White  Sweetwater  -         -  61 


FOR    THE    STOVE. 


Black  Lombardy 
Black  Raisin 
Muscat  of  Alexandria 


-  8     Red  Muscat  of  Alexandria     37 

-  13     Royal  Muscadine  -  49 

-  59     White  Frontignan       -         -  54 


GRAPES.  219 

North  of  Scotland. 

FOR    A    VINERY/ 

Black  Hamburgh  -     6  Raisin  des  Cannes  -         -  31 

Black  Frontignan  -     4-  Red  Hamburgh  -          -  35 

Black  Prince  -  12  Verdelho  -  51 

Frankenthal  -  18  White  Muscadine  -      -  58 

Poonah  -  £9  White  Sweetwater  -         -  61 

FOR    THE    STOVE. 

Black  Damascus      -  -     3     Purple  Frontignan  -  30 

Black  Lombardy     -  -     8     Royal  Muscadine  -  49 

Muscat  of  Alexandria          -  59     White  Frontignan  -  54? 

Propagation. 

Vines  are  propagated  by  laying  them  down  in  pots ; 
by  cuttings ;  and  by  buds,  or  single  eyes.  The  first 
method  is  the  most  expeditious,  and  the  one  most  ge- 
nerally adopted  in  the  nurseries  :  and  where  the  shoots 
can  be  planted  out  against  a  south  wall,  in  order  to  the 
better  ripening  of  the  wood,  especially  of  those  sorts 
which  are  tender,  it  is  preferable  to  the  others  because 
it  furnishes  fine  strong  plants  at  the  end  of  the  first  year. 
There  are  several  ways  of  laying  down  the  vine  :  the  one 
I  have  practised,  and  which  has  always  produced  as  good 
plants  as  I  could  desire,  is  to  commence  the  operation 
as  soon  as  the  leaves  have  fallen  off  the  vines.  For  the 
strong  growing  sorts,  pots  of  Cast  sixteen  may  be  used ; 
and  for  the  weaker  growers  those  of  twenty-four.  Hav- 
ing prepared  some  good  mould,  cover  the  hole  at  the 
bottom  with  a  large  piece  of  potsherd,  and  fill  it  three 
parts  full :  sink  it  about  two  inches  below  the  surface  of 
the  soil,  at  two  or  three  feet  distance  from  the  stole, 


GRAPES. 

according  to  the  strength  and  length  of  the  layer.  Pre- 
viously to  its  being  laid  down,  take  the  shoot  firmly  in 
one  or  both  hands,  near  the  bottom ;  and  give  it  a  twist, 
half  or  three-quarters  round,  till  you  find  it  give  way 
by  splitting  longitudinally  along  the  pith.  This  will 
not  pass  further  upwards  than  the  lower  hand,  and  it  is 
not  intended  it  should  extend  more  than  a  foot  or 
eighteen  inches  from  the  stole ;  the  purpose  of  which  is, 
to  cause  the  layer  to  bend  nearly  flat  at  the  neck  next 
the  plant,  and  to  check  the  too  great  influx  of  sap  from 
the  stole  to  the  layer  when  it  begins  to  grow.  The  shoot 
must  now  be  bent  carefully,  and  placed  in  the  pot,  so 
that  two  or  three  joints  remain  within  it,  keeping  the 
top  as  nearly  perpendicular  as  you  can ;  cover  it  up  with 
the  prepared  mould,  and  press  it  firmly,  to  keep  the  layer 
from  springing  out  of  the  pot.  It  must  now  be  short- 
ened, leaving  two  eyes  only  above  the  surface,  and  covered 
up  with  the  mould  round  the  stole  to  the  depth  of  the 
two  inches  mentioned  before :  in  like  manner  proceed 
till  all  the  layers  are  put  down. 

In  the  spring,  when  they  have  grown  nine  or  twelve 
Inches,  they  should  be  staked,  tying  the  two  shoots  of 
each  layer  to  the  stake,  cutting  off  all  the  other  shoots 
which  are  produced  upon  the  bender  between  the  stole 
and  the  pot.  When  the  shoots  have  attained  the  height 
of  two  or  three  feet,  the  uppermost  shoot  must  be  cut 
off,  leaving  the  lower  one  only,  training  it  up  from  time 
to  time  till  it  reaches  the  top  of  the  stake,  which  ne$d 
not  be  more  than  six  feet  at  the  most,  when  it  must  be 
stopped :  all  the  tendrils,  as  they  are  produced,  should 
be  cut  off  close ;  and  when  lateral  shoots  are  produced, 
they  must  be  shortened,  leaving  only  one  eye  to  each. 
When  the  main  shoot  has  been  shortened  some  time,  it 
will  cause  two  or  three  of  the  uppermost  eyes  to  push 
out  into  shoots :  these  must  be  shortened  to  two  eyes 
•each,  which,  from  the  vigour  of  the  plant,  will,  probably, 


GU.U'KS.  ^i 

push  these  lateral  eyes  into  shoots  like  the  former ;  but 
this  will  be  the  means  of  preserving  all  the  lower  eyes, 
which  would  otherwise  have  been  converted  into  branches. 
When  the  plants  have  nearly  finished  their  summer's 
growth,  the  middle  or  towards  the  end  of  September, 
all  the  laterals  which  had  before  been  shortened  only, 
should  be  cut  off  close  to  the  stem,  which  will  not  only 
give  strength  to  the  buds,  but  admit  the  sun  so  as  to 
ripen  the  wood  the  more  perfectly.  When  the  growth 
is  complete,  those  eyes  which  had  been  converted  into 
branches  at  the  extremity,  being  useless,  may  now  be 
dispensed  with,  and  the  stem  may  be  headed  down  to 
the  first  sound  bud,  and  the  plant  will  be  complete. 

In  raising  vines  from  cuttings,  those  which  are  fur- 
nished with  two  eyes  each  will  be  sufficiently  long  for 
the  purpose  ;  the  lower  part  should  be  transversely  cut 
close  to  the  bud.  They  should  be  planted  singly  in 
small  pots,  filled  with  good  mould,  leaving  the  upper  eye 
rather  below  the  surface  than  above  it.  The  pots  should 
be  placed  either  in  the  stove  or  in  a  hotbed,  early  in 
February,  allowing  the  plants  room  as  they  advance  in 
height,  and  shifting  them  into  larger- sized  pots  when 
they  have  filled  the  first  with  roots.  As  the  spring  ad- 
vances they  may  be  removed  into  the  stove,  and  from 
thence  to  the  greenhouse,  keeping  them  neatly  tied  up 
to  stakes,  and  allowing  them  plenty  of  air  to  prevent 
their  being  drawn  up  weak.  Vines  raised  from  single 
eyes  require  the  same  management  as  those  from  cut- 
tings, beginning  only  with  a  smaller-sized  pot,  and  re- 
moving them  into  others  as  they  acquire  strength  and 
require  room.  Those  raised  from  cuttings,  as  well  as 
these,  should  be  kept  under  glass  throughout  the  sum- 
mer. A  judicious  application  of  liquid  manure,  during 
the  summer  months,  would  considerably  promote  the 
growth  of  both. 


222  GRAPES. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

Several  methods  have  been  recommended  by  authors 
for  the  pruning  and  management  of  vines,  each  of  which 
is  supposed  to  possess  some  particular  merit ;  and  as  the 
ultimate  object,  in  all  cases,  must  be  supposed  to  be  that 
of  a  large  crop  of  good  fruit,  it  is  material  to  consider 
how  and  by  what  means  this  is  to  be  obtained,  and  also 
what  description  of  crop  when  it  is  obtained,  whether 
that  of  a  large  number  of  bunches,  or  a  number  of  large 
bunches,  the  weight  of  the  whole  being  the  same. 

I  have  myself  ever  been  an  advocate  for  large  fruit, 
or  the  largest  size  to  which  any  particular  fruit  usually 
attains,  being  fully  satisfied  that  the  value  of  fruit  is 
more  to  be  estimated  by  its  individual  bulk  or  weight, 
than  by  the  number  of  its  individuals  composing  that 
weight.  I  may  illustrate  this  by  taking,  for  example, 
any  variety  of  either  grape  or  other  fruit ;  but,  as  we 
are  now  considering  the  former,  let  the  Muscat  of  Alex- 
andria, Black  Hamburgh,  or  indeed  any  other  sort,  be 
selected,  and  compare  fifty  single  berries  of  the  largest 
size,  with  an  hundred  others  of  the  same  aggregate  weight, 
equally  in  a  state  of  maturity  :  the  preponderance  in  the 
scale  of  merit  will  be  given,  I  apprehend,  by  all  com- 
petent judges,  to  the  fifty  instead  of  the  hundred.  If, 
then,  we  are  to  consider  the  maximum  of  merit  to  con- 
sist in  the  obtaining  of  superior  fruit,  this  accomplished 
the  gardener  will  have  no  difficulty  in  possessing  him- 
self of  those  of  a  lower  grade  in  the  scale,  as  that  will 
be  regulated  by  his  own  application  of  the  means  within 
his  reach. 

The  attainment,  then,  of  fine  grapes  can  only  be  ac- 
complished by  having  the  vine  in  a  vigorous  and  flourish- 
ing state.  In  the  hothouse  or  in  the  vinery,  as  soon 
as  the  vines  are  planted  out,  one  good  shoot  must  be 


GRAPES. 

obtained  from  each  rafter,  or  other  place  intended  for 
its  support ;  and  at  the  end  of  the  year,  or  as  soon  as 
the  leaves  are  fallen  off,  it  should  be  cut  down  to  the 
bottom  of  the  rafter.  In  the  spring  the  two  upper- 
most shoots  must  be  trained  at  length,  cutting  off  any 
other  which  may  be  produced  from  the  lower  eyes. 
When  they  have  grown  to  the  top  of  the  rafter  they 
must  be  stopped  :  this  will  occasion  two  or  three  of  the 
upper  eyes  to  push  out  into  lateral  shoots,  which  must 
be  treated  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  under  the 
head  Propagation,  after  the  description  of  the  different 
sorts  of  GRAPES,  in  that  part  which  relates  to  the  strong 
shoots  of  young  plants  from  layers  in  pots  ;  and  the  small 
laterals  from  beside  the  main  buds,  from  their  first  ap- 
pearance, must  be  treated  in  a  similar  manner. 

When  these  two  shoots  have  cast  their  leaves  in  the 
autumn,  one  of  them  should  be  cut  down  to  two  eyes, 
leaving  the  other  shoot  to  ten,  twelve,  or  fifteen,  accord- 
ing to  its  strength. 

This,  according  to  Mr.  Speechly's  method,  is  the 
commencement  of  an  alternate  system  of  fruiting  one 
shoot  this  year,  to  be  cut  down  for  the  purpose  of  fur- 
nishing a  supply  for  the  next. 

If  the  number  of  eyes  left  upon  the  long  shoot  be  not 
too  great,  they  will  all  push  and  show  fruit,  one  or- two 
branches  from  each  eye ;  which,  for  the  first  crop,  had  bet- 
ter perhaps  be  reduced  to  one,  and  this  at  the  time  after 
the  berries  are  set,  as  it  will  then  be  seen  which  is  likely  to 
form  the  best  bunch,  leaving  that,  and  cutting  the  other 
away,  stopping  the  shoot  at  the  same  time  two  joints 
above  the  fruit.  The  uppermost  eye  will  push  again, 
which  must  be  treated  as  described  before,  for  laterals. 

When  the  berries  are  as  large  as  small  peas,  they 
must  be  thinned  out  by  the  scissors  :  this  operation 
must  be  repeated  as  they  advance  in  size,  taking  care  to 
cut  out  the  interior  ones,  and  leaving  the  outermost. 


GRAPES. 

This  practice  will,  in  all  cases,  give  the  greatest  dimen- 
sions of  which  the  bunch  is  capable.  When  the  bunch 
is  a  shouldered  one,  the  shoulders  should  be  expanded 
and  supported  by  strings,  and  when  finally  thinned  out, 
the  berries  should  be  kept  at  such  a  distance  as  not  only 
not  to  touch  each  other,  but  to  have  some  considerable 
space  between  them.  By  this  means  the  berries  will  not 
only  acquire  the  greatest  possible  size,  but  the  highest 
degree  of  both  colour  and  flavour  :  besides  this,  any 
bunch  of  grapes,  deprived  of  one  third  of  its  original 
number  of  berries,  by  judicious  and  timely  thinning, 
will  weigh  fully  as  much  when  matured,  if  not  much 
more,  than  it  would  have  done  had  it  been  left  in  a  state 
of  nature,  to  say  nothing  of  its  vastly  superior  quality  ; 
the  interior  and  exterior  berries  possessing  an  equal  de- 
gree of  both  colour  and  flavour.  The  fellow  shoot, 
which  had  been  cut  down  to  two  eyes,  will  have  sent 
forth  two  shoots,  Vhich  must  be  treated  in  the  same 
manner  as  directed  for  the  first  two  in  the  preceding 
summer. 

In  the  autumn  pruning,  when  the  leaves  are  fallen, 
the  shoot  which  produced  the  fruit  must  be  cut  out, 
leaving  the  two  young  shoots  only,  which  are  to  be 
treated  precisely  as  those  had  been  before,  except  leaving 
the  long  shoot  with  a  few  more  eyes,  in  consequence  of 
the  increased  strength  of  the  plant ;  and  allowing,  per- 
haps, two  bunches  to  remain  from  each  eye,  instead  of 
reducing  them  to  one. 

This  mode  of  pruning  and  training  is  applicable  prin- 
cipally to  those  houses  where  the  rafters  only  are  to  be 
occupied  by  the  vine,  as  over  the  pine-pit,  or  where 
other  crops  are  cultivated  in  the  body  of  the  house  ;  but 
when  it  is  intended  to  occupy  the  whole  roof,  this  system 
may  still  be  adopted,  by  extending  the  vine  on  each  side 
of  the  rafter,  till  it  meets  that  from  the  adjoining  one  ;  or, 
the  vine  may  be  divided  at  the  bottom  of  the  rafter,  on 


GRAPES. 

its  first  training,  and  formed  with  two  principals  on  each 
side,  making  four  principals  to  each  vine.  If,  however, 
the  vines  should  consist  of  the  larger-fruited  class,  such 
as  Muscat  of  Alexandria,  Black  Hamburgh,  or  Syrian, 
&c.,  one  principal  on  the  rafter  and  one  on  each  side 
will  be  much  better  than  more.  It  may  likewise  be 
necessary  to  extend  this  system  still  further,  where  the 
house  is  large,  and  has  a  great  length  of  rafter,  which 
may  be  done  by  forming  a  second  series  one  half  the  way 
up  the  rafter :  by  this  means  a  cop  will  be  obtained 
under  the  upper  as  well  as  the  lower  part  of  the  roof. 

There  are  some  who  adopt  a  spur  system  in  the  ma- 
nagement of  their  vines,  and  who  obtain  very  good 
grapes ;  but  in  this  case  a  provision  must  be  made  for 
a  supply  of  bearing  wood,  when  the  limbs  producing 
these  spurs  are  exhausted,  and  require  to  be  renewed. 


Vines  against  the  open  wall. 

In  the  management  of  Vines  against  the  common 
wall,  where  it  is  intended  to  be  wholly  occupied  for 
grapes,  I  should  recommend  a  somewhat  similar  method 
of  pruning  and  training  to  be  adopted  as  that  under 
glass  ;  with  this  difference,  that  instead  of  cutting 
down  alternately  for  two  shoots,  one  only  will  be 
required. 

The  vines  should  be  planted  at  six  feet  apart,  and 
supposing  the  young  plant  to  have  one  good  and  vigour- 
ous  shoot,  it  must  be  cut  down  to  three  or  four  eyes. 
As  soon  as  the  young  shoots  are  long  enough  to  nail  to 
the  wall,  two  of  the  best  must  be  selected,  and  trained 
horizontally  within  nine  inches  of  the  ground :  when 
each  shoot  has  extended  two  feet  and  a  half  from  the 
stem,  it  must  be  trained  in  a  perpendicular  direction  for 
two  or  three  feet  according  to  its  strength,  when  it  must 

Q 


226  GRAPES. 

be  stopped,  and  such  lateral  shoots  as  may  be  produced 
after  that  time,  must  be  treated  as  directed  before. 

In  the  autumn  when  the  leaves  are  fallen,  each  shoot 
should  be  pinned  back  to  the  horizontal  line  where  it 
had  turned  upwards,  thus  leaving  a  foot  between  the 
extremities  of  each  vine. 

As  soon  as  the  young  shoots  are  long  enough,  three 
must  be  selected  from  each  shoot  at  a  foot  distance  from 
each  other :  one  at  the  extremity,  another  a  foot  from 
that,  and  a  third  within  six  inches  of  the  stem  where  it 
had  been  first  headed  down  ;  these  must  be  trained  per- 
pendicularly, and  if  each  plant  has  furnished  its  six 
shoots,  they  will  be  a  foot  from  each  other  the  whole 
length  of  the  wall.  When  they  have  attained  a  height 
of  four  feet  they  must  be  stopped,  and  not  suffered  to 
extend  further  that  season. 

This  mode  of  arrangement  is  by  far  the  most  perfect 
of  any  that  I  have  seen,  and  when  the  vines  have  ex- 
tended some  way  up  the  wall,  they  will  make  a  very  neat 
and  uniform  appearance,  nor  will  they  be  less  so  at  any 
future  period. 

If  the  vines  should  be  weak  when  first  planted  out, 
it  will  be  better  to  cut  them  down  to  two  eyes,  and 
select  the  best  shoot  from  each,  which  should  be  trained 
perpendicularly  the  first  year :  during  this  time  the 
plants  will  have  got  firm  hold  of  the  soil,  and  may  be 
proceeded  with  as  directed  before. 

In  the  next  autumn  pruning,  every  alternate  shoot 
must  be  cut  down  to  two  eyes,  and  the  others  left  two 
or  three  feet,  according  to  their  strength,  for  fruit. 
Should  these  produce  more  than  half  a  clozen  bunches 
each,  it  would  be  better  to  reduce  them  to  this  number, 
as  eighteen  bunches  will  be  as  many  as  any  one  of  the 
plants,  at  this  age,  ought  to  be  allowed  to  bear.  The 
intermediate  shoots  which  had  been  cut  down  to  two 
eyes,  will  produce  two  shoots,  the  best  of  which  only 


GRAPES.  227 

must  remain,  and  be  trained  upright  for  fruit  the  follow- 
ing year,  when  it  may  be  left  five  or  six  feet,  and  those 
which  produced  fruit  cut  down  to  two  eyes  the  same  as  be- 
fore ;  thus  having,  every  alternate  year,  wood  and  fruit 
from  the  same  part  of  the  horizontal  limb. 

Should  the  wall  be  too  high  to  be  reached  by  a  single 
series  in  this  manner,  a  second  one  must  be  arranged  for 
the  purpose. 

I  need  not  add,  that  the  thinning  of  the  bunches  of 
grapes  with  the  scissors  will  be  very  essential  to  their 
perfection,  both  in  size  and  flavour,  especially  of  the 
larger  sorts  ;  as,  in  a  fine  season,  they  then  nearly  equal 
those  grown  under  glass. 

I  have  been  entirely  indebted  to  the  late  Mr.  Speechly 
for  this  method  of  managing  the  vine,  which  I  believe 
was  never  practised  previously  by  any  other  person  in 
this  country.  I  have  adopted  it  for  several  years,  and 
I  confess  I  prefer  it  to  that  of  any  other.  In  Speechly's 
Treatise  on  the  Vine,  p.  106,  there  is  a  very  neat  plate, 
representing  the  plant  in  six  successive  stages  of  its 
growth,  each  pruned  at  the  end  of  the  season. 

I  visited  Mr.  Speechly  at  Welbeck  some  years  before 
his  death,  and  had  an  ample  opportunity  of  witnessing 
the  excellence  of  his  management,  both  in  his  vines  and 
pines,  and  I  cannot  close  this  article  without  bearing 
testimony  to  one  of  the  most  eminent  men  of  his  time 
in  this  department  of  horticulture. 


I^NDEX  OF  THE  GRAPES. 

Aleppo                                    -  62  Black  Chasselas          -  -     9 

Alexandrian  Ciotat               -  41  Black  Constantia      -  -  30 

Alicant                                    .     1  Black  Corinth  -     2 

Auvergne                                .     9  Black  Damascus  -     3 

Auverna                                 -     9  Black  Damson  -  24 

Black  Ascalon       -                -     2  Black  Frontignac  -     4? 

Q  2 


GRAPESV 


Black  Frontignan  -  -4 
Black  Grape  from  Palestine  21 
Black  Grape  from  Tripoli  -  5 

Black  Hamburgh     -  -     6 

Black  Lisbon  -     7 

Black  Lombardy  -     8 

Black  Morillon        -  -     9 

Black  Muscadel  -  10 

Black  Muscadine  -11 

Blade  Portugal        -  -     1 

Black  Prince  -  12 

Black  Raisin  -  13 

Black  Spanish  -  -     1 

Black  Sweetwater  -  14 

Blue  Frontignac         -  -4 

Blue  Tokay  -  20 

Blood  -  -  15 

Bordelais  -  42 

Bourdelas  -  -  42 

Brown  Hamburgh  -  -35 

Burdelais  -  42 
Burgundy             -  9 

Cambridge  Botanic  Garden    23 

Chasselas  noir  -  -  1 1 

Chasselas  rouge        -  -  32 

Ciotat  -  43 

Cioutat  -  43 

Claret  -  15 

Common  Muscadine  -  58 

Corinth  blanc          -  -  53 

C&rinth  noir  -     2 

Cornichon  -  44 
Cornichon  blanc            -         -  44 

Currant  -  -     2 

Damask         -  -  -  24 

Damson  -  24 

D'Arboyce         -  -  49 
Early  Black  July  -  16 

Early  White  Grape  from 

Teneriffe      -         -  -  58 

Esperione  -  17 

Flame- coloured  Tokay          -  28 
Frankendale  -  -  18 

Frankenthal  -  -  18 


Frontignac  of  Alexandria  -  5& 

Genuine  Tokay  -  45 

Gibraltar               -  -  35 

Greek         -  -  46 

Grey  Auvernat  -  25 

Green  Chee  -  46- 

Grizzly  Frontignac  -  26 

Grizzly  Frontignan  -  26 

Gros  noir  d'Espagne  -     1 

Hardy  Blue  Windsor  -  17 

Jerusalem  Muscat  -  59 

La  Malvoisie              -  -  2O 
Langford's  Incomparable      *26 

Large  Black  Cluster  -  19 

Le  Bourgignon        -  -     9 

Le  Cceur  -  27 

Le  Mesnier         -  -  22 

Lombardy                 -  -  28 

Madeleine         -           -  -  16 

Madeleine  noire         -  -  16 

Malaga-    -  59 

Malmsey  Grape  -  20 

Malmsey  Muscadine  -  47 

Malvoise     -             -  -  20 

Malvoisie  Musquee  -  47 

Maurillon  hatif  -  16 

Melier  blanc           -  -  57 

Miller- 's  Burgundy  -  22' 

Miller  Grape  -  22 

Mogul  Grape         -  -  10 

Morillon  hatif  -  16 

Moritton  Taconne  -  22 

Morocco               -  -  27 

Muscat  blanc            -  -  54 

Muscat  d'Alexandrie  \  59 

Muscat  d'Alex.  blanc  -  59 

Muscat  d'Alex.  rouge  -  37 

Muscat  gris  -  26 

Muscat  noir          -  4 

Muscat  rouge         '}  *?;;i  -  33 

Muscat  of  Alexandria  -  59 

Parel  druyf            -  -  61 

Parsley-leaved             -  -  43 
Parsley-leaved  Muscadine    -  43 


GRAPES. 


229 


Passe-longue  JMusque  -  59 
Pineau  -  -  -9 
Pitmaston  White  Cluster  -  48 
Poonah  -  29 
Potter  bleu  •  6 
Purple  Constant ia  -  30 
Purple  Frontignac  -  30 
Purple  Frontignan  -  30 
Raisin  d' Autriche  -  43 
Raisin  de  Cuba  -  31 
Raisin  des  Carmes  -  31 
Raisin  de  Corinth  -  .-2 
Raisin  de  la  Madeleine  -  16 
Raisin  Grape  -  -  13 
Raisin  Muscat  -  -55 
Raisin  precoce  -  -  16 
Raisin  Suisse  -  -  62 
Red  Chasselas  -  32 
Red  Frontignac  -  -  33 
Red  Frontignan  -  -  33 
Red  Frontignac  of  Alexan- 
dria -  37 
Red  Grape  from  Syracuse  -  34 
Red  Hamburgh  -  -  35 
Red  Jerusalem  Muscat  -  37 
Red  Muscadine  -  -  32 
Red  Muscadel  -  -  36 
Red  Muscat  of  Alexandria  -  37 
Red  Rhenish  -  -  28 
Rhenish  Grape  •  28 
Royal  Muscadine  -  -  49 
Royal  Muscadine  -  -  58 
Saint  Augustine  -  -  38 
Saint  Peter's  -  21 
Saint  Peter  s,  Black  -  21 
Small  Slack  Cluster  -  9 


Switzerland  Grape  -  -  62 
Syrian  -  -  50 
Teinturier  -  -  1 
The  Miller's  Burgundy  -  22 
Tottenham  Park  Muscat  -  59 
True  Burgundy  -  -  9 
Turner's  Black  -  17 
Variegated  Chasselas  -  39 
Verdelho  -  51 
Violet  Frontignac  -  4 
Warners  Black  Hamburgh  -  6 
Warner  s  Red  Hamburgh  -  35 
West's  Black  St.  Peters  -  8 
West's  St.  Peters  -  -  8 
White  Auvernat  -  -  52 
White  Corinth  -  53 
White  Frontignac  -  -  54 
White  Frontignan  -  -  54 
White  Hamburgh  -  55 
White  Kishmish  -  -  56 
White  Lisbon  -  55 
White  Melie  -  57 
White  Morillon  -  -  45 
White  Muscadine  -  58 
White  Muscadine  -  49 
White  Muscat  of  Alexan- 
dria -  -  59 
White  Muscat  of  Lunel  -  60 
White  Portugal  -  -  55 
White  Raisin  -  -  55 
White  Sweetwater  -  -  61 
Worksop  Manor  Grape  -  3 
Wortley  Hall  Grape  -  62 
Zante  -  -  -  2 
Zante  Currant  -  -  2 


Q  3 


MEDLARS, 

CHAP.  IX. 
MEDLARS. 

THERE  are  only  two  sorts  of  Medlars  cultivated  in 
England,  the  Dutch  and  the  Nottingham;  both  of 
which  are  two  well  known  to  require  any  description. 
The  Dutch  Medlar  is  by  far  the  largest,  and  on  that 
account  may  make  the  best  appearance  in  the  dessert  ^ 
but  the  Nottingham  is  much  superior  in  quality,  and 
where  one  tree  only  is  required  it  ought  to  be  this. 

Propagation. 

Medlars  are  propagated  by  grafting  or  budding, 
generally  upon  the  Whitethorn  stock ;  but  as  this  is 
of  a  much  slower  growth  than  the  Medlar,  it  seldom 
produces  good  trees.  The  Common  Pear  stock  is  by 
far  the  best  for  this  purpose,  and  if  trained  up  standard 
high,  and  either  grafted  or  budded  at  that  height,  the 
trees  will  be  much  finer  and  better  than  by  any  other 
method. 

Pruning  and  Management. 

Standard  Medlars  require  the  same  management  in 
forming  their  heads  as  Standard  Plums :  their  shoots 
are  not  so  numerous,  but  they  frequently  take  a  direc- 
tion which  would  distort  the  head  if  suffered  to  remain, 
which  renders*  it  necessary  they  should  be  frequently 
looked  over  for  the  purpose  of  correcting  and  giving 
them  a  properly  regulated  head. 

The  Medlar,  as  well  as  the  Quince,  may  very  safely 
be  planted  out  in  the  orchard,  without  any  fear  of  their 


MELONS.  231 

degenerating  the  fruit  of  either  the  Apple  or  the  Pear. 
The  idea  that  has  been  entertained  by  some  that  this 
would  be  the  case  is  perfectly  absurd,  as  there  can  be  no 
deterioration  or  degeneracy  of  the  existing  fruit,  through 
the  impregnation  of  these  or  other  inferior  species.  The 
effect  produced  through  impregnation  must  appear  in 
the  rising  generation,  not  in  the  present  one:  we  might 
as  well  expect  a  degeneracy  in  animal  species  by  a  cross 
impregnation  with  each  other,  as  that  the  Apples  and 
Pears  now  growing  in  our  orchards  should  have  degene- 
rated, simply  because  Medlars  and  Quinces  had  been 
planted  in  the  same  orchards.  Yet  I  find  a  caution 
given  to  gardeners  to  "  plant  Medlars  and  Quinces  at 
a  proper  distance  from  Apples  and  Pears;"  both  by 
Mr.  FORSYTH,  and  by  JOHN  ABERCROMBIE,  sixty 
years  a  practical  gardener. 


CHAP.  X. 

MELONS. 

THE  Melon  appears  -to  have  been  brought  into  England 
as  early  as  the  year  1570;  but  whether  we  possess,  at 
the  present  time,  the  sort  then  introduced,  would  pro- 
bably be  very  difficult  to  determine. 

As  an  annual  plant  it  is  the  only  one  known  in  our 
gardens,  whose  fruit,  in  its  natural  state,  possesses  suf- 
ficient merit  to  recommend  it  to  a  place  in  the  dessert : 
for  this  purpose,  however,  it  stands  so  high  in  general 
estimation  for  the  richness  of  its  flavour,  independent 
of  its  magnificent  appearance,  that  no  dessert  can  be  con- 
sidered as  complete  without  it,  so  long  as  it  continues  in 
season. 

Q  4 


232  MELONS. 

The  following  are  the  principal  varieties  which  appear 
to  be  deserving  of  cultivation :  these  I  shall  divide  under 
four  different  heads,  according  to  the  colour  of  their 
flesh,  the  thickness  of  their  rind,  and  time  of  ripening. 


FIRST  DIVISION.  —  SUMMER  MELONS. 
1.   With  Red  Flesh  and  thick  Rind. 

1.  BLACK  ROCK.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  20. 
Fruit  very  large,  oblate,  from  eight  to  ten  inches  in 

diameter,  and  from  seven  to  eight  inches  deep.  Skin 
of  a  very  deep  green,  with  broad  black  blotches,  but 
turning  yellowish  when  ripe,  and  covered  with  large 
knobs  or  carbuncles.  Flesh  thick,  of  a  deep  orange 
colour,  very  firm,  and  if  cut  before  it  be  too  ripe  it 
possesses  a  very  excellent  flavour:  weight  from  eight  to 
fourteen  pounds. 

2.  DUTCH  ROCK.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  21. 
Fruit  oblate,  eight  inches  wide,  and  six  inches  deep. 

Skin  bright  yellow,  full  of  carbuncles  and  knobs,  which 
are  mottled  with  dark  green.  Flesh  bright  orange,  an 
inch  and  a  half  thick,  fine,  melting,  sweet,  and  high 
flavoured  :  weight  from  five  to  eight  pounds. 

3.  EARLY  CANTALOUP.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  3. 
Fruit   small,  ribbed,  nearly  round.      Skin  whitish 

green,  blotched  with  darker  green.  Flesh  deep  orange, 
juicy,  of  pretty  good  flavour :  weight  from  two  to  foih- 
pounds. 

4.  EARLY  POLIGNAC.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  19. 
Fruit  middle-sized,   spherical,  five  or  six   inches  in 

diameter.  Skin  pale  yellow,  slightly  warted.  Flesh 
one  inch  and  a  half  thick,  of  a  yellowish  salmon  colour, 
sweet,  and  well  flavoured. 

5.  HARDY  RIDGE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  12. 


MELONS.  233 

Fruit  rather  small,  round,  depressed,  strongly  ribbed, 
irregularly  warted  all  over  its  surface.  Skin  dull  yel- 
low, mottled  with  dull  green.  Flesh  an  inch  thick, 
bright  orange-red,  sweet,  and  well  flavoured. 

6.  MELON  DES  CARMES.     Hart.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  37- 
Fruit  oblong,  tapering  to  each  end,  eight  inches  in 

diameter  in  the  middle,  and  twelve  inches  long.  Skin 
bright  orange,  mottled  with  dark  green.  Flesh  pale 
salmon  colour,  two  inches  thick,  tender,  not  juicy,  but 
sweet  and  good  flavoured. 

7.  MONTAGU  CANTALOUP.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  4. 
Hart.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  320. 

Fruit  sometimes  round,  sometimes  oval,  about  five 
inches  in  diameter.  Skin  greenish  white,  netted.  Flesh 
one  inch  and  a  half  thick,  red,  but  not  high  coloured, 
soft,  juicy,  sweet,  and  delicate. 

8.  NETTED  CANTALOUP.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  5. 
White  Seeded  Cantaloup.     Ib. 

Fruit  rather  small,  round.  Skin  pale  green,  very 
closely  reticulated.  Flesh  dark  reddish  orange,  with  a 
rich  sugary  juice. 

9.  NETTED  Sue  CAD  A.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  30. 
Fruit   middle-sized,   somewhat   ribbed.     Skin  dull 

pale  green,  very  closely  covered  with  reticulations. 
Flesh  deep  orange  colour,  firm,  and  high  flavoured. 

10.  ORANGE  CANTALOUP.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  6. 
Fruit  below   the   middle    size,   round.     Skin  pale 

yellow,  becoming  deeper  coloured  when  ripe,  and  a 
little  netted  on  its  surface.  Flesh  deep  orange- red, 
juicy,  sugary,  and  extremely  high  flavoured. 

11.  ROMANA.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  26. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  slightly  ribbed.  Skin  pale 
yellow,  reticulated  on  its  surface.  Flesh  deep  yellow, 
firm,  and  well  flavoured. 

12.  SCARLET  ROCK.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  24. 
Fruit  oblate,  deeply  ribbed,  about  five  inches  deep, 


£34t  MELONS. 

and  seven  inches  in  diameter.  Skin  pale  green,  mottled 
with  dark  green.  Flesh  of  a  reddish  salmon  colour, 
tender,  juicy,  sweet,  and  high  flavoured. 

13.  SILVER  ROCK.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  25. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  oblate,    about  five   inches   each 

way.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  a  few  small  warts,  and 
orange-coloured  blotches.  Flesh  pale  salmon  colour, 
sweet,  and  well  flavoured. 

14.  SMOOTH  SCARLET-FLESHED.     Hort.   Soc.  Cat. 
No.  29.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  320. 

Fruit  nearly  round,  occasionally  inclining  to  oval, 
about  five  inches  in  diameter.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
spitted  with  small  green  spots,  and  more  or  less  netted 
on  its  surface.  Flesh  bright  scarlet,  firm,  and  high 
flavoured. 


2.  With  Green  Flesh  and  moderately  thick  Rind. 

15.  GREEN-FLESHED.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  9. 
Fruit  roundish,  flattened  at  both  ends,  five  inches 

long,  and  four  inches  in  diameter.  Skin  smooth,  of  a 
pale  silvery  green,  slightly  netted.  Flesh  green,  ex- 
ceedingly sweet,  and  high  flavoured :  weight  from  two 
to  three  pounds  ;  a  very  excellent  melon. 

16.  ITALIAN  GREEN-FLESHED.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.iv. 
p.  319. 

Fruit  small,  round,  or  somewhat  oval,  about  foul- 
inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Skin  pale  greenish  white.v 
Flesh  dark  green,  but  pale  towards  the  inside  next  the 
seeds,  about  an  inch  thick,  soft,  juicy,  very  sweet,  and 
high  flavoured :  weight  from  two  to  three  pounds. 


MELONS.  235 


3.  With  Green  or  White  Fleshy  and  thin  Rind. 

17.  DAREE  MELON.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  557. 
Fruit  oval  or  ovate,  about  nine  inches  long,  and  six 

inches  in  diameter.  Skin  closely  mottled  with  dark 
sea-green'upon  a  pale  ground,  rather  widely  netted,  but 
is  subject  to  become  smooth.  Flesh  white,  thick,  crisp, 
and  melting  ;  when  fully  ripened  very  sweet,  but  rather 
insipid  if  imperfectly  matured:  it  is  always,  however, 
cool  and  pleasant. 

This  is  a  good  deal  like  the  next  sort ;  but  the  rind, 
when  netted,  exhibits  coarse  reticulations.  The  princi- 
pal differences  are  in  the  stalk,  which  is  two  inches  and 
a  half  long,  and  in  the  flesh  which  is  white,  not  green. 
It  is  a  finer  fruit,  but  less  highly  flavoured. 

18.  GEREE  MELON.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  556. 
Ostrich  Egg.     Jb.  557. 

A  handsome  green  fruit.  In  shape  it  is  oval  or  ovate, 
eight  inches  long,  and  four  inches  and  a  half  in  diame- 
ter. The  skin  is  closely  mottled  with  dark  sea-green, 
upon  a  pale  ground,  and  is  either  netted  or  not  ;  in  the 
former  case,  the  meshes  are  very  close,  by  which  charac- 
ter it  may  be  readily  known  from  the  Daree.  When 
well  ripened,  various  numerous  longitudinal  fissures 
appear  upon  the  rind,  which  has  sometimes  from  nine 
to  eleven  short  dark-green  streaks,  radiating  from  the 
apex.  Stalk  very  short.  Flesh  one. inch  and  a  half  or 
two  inches  thick,  bright  green,  melting,  very  sweet,  and 
highly  flavoured. 

The  Geree  melon  is  a  good  bearer,  but  tender. 

19.  GREEN  HOOSAINEE.      Hort.    Trans.   Vol.  vi. 
p.  560. 

Fruit  handsome  egg-shaped,  five  inches  long,  and 
four  inches  in  diameter.  Skin,  when  unripe,  of  a  very 
deep  green,  but  when  matured,  of  a  fine,  even,  light 


236  MELONS. 

green,  with  a  regularly  netted  surface,  which,  on  the 
exposed  side,  becomes  rather  yellow.  Flesh  pale  green- 
ish white,  tender  and  delicate,  full  of  an  highly-perfumed, 
pleasant,  sweet  juice.  The  rind  is  very  thin  ;  the  seeds 
unusually  large. 

This  is  a  variety  of  much  excellence ;  it  is  a  great 
bearer,  and  hardier  than  any  of  the  Persian  melons  except 
the  Large  Germek. 

20.  LARGE  GERMEK.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  558. 
A  very  handsome  ribbed  fruit,  generally  weighing  five 

or  six  pounds,  shaped  like  a  depressed  sphere,  usually 
six  inches  deep,  and  from  seven  to  nine  inches  in  diame- 
ter. At  the  apex  is  situated  a  corona,  or  circular  scar, 
varying  from  an  inch  to  two  inches  in  diameter.  Skin 
sea-green,  closely  netted.  Flesh  one  inch  and  three- 
quarters  or  two  inches  thick,  clear  green,  becoming  paler 
towards  the  inside,  firm,  juicy,  very  rich,  and  high  fla- 
voured. 

This  is  an  excellent  variety,  ripening  early,  and  speed- 
ily arriving  at  a  bearing  state.  It  is  very  prolific,  and 
produces  larger  fruit  than  any  of  the  Persian  melons,  and 
generally  produces  a  second  crop  spontaneously. 

21.  MELON  OF  KEISING.     Hort.    Trans.   Vol.  vi. 
p.  555. 

A  beautiful  egg-shaped  fruit,  eight  inches  long,  five 
inches  wide  in  the  middle,  and  six  inches  wide  at  the 
base.  Skin  of  a  pale  lemon  colour,  minutely  speckled 
with  paler  dots,  regularly  netted  all  over,  with  a  few 
cracks  lengthwise.  Flesh  from  one  inch  and  a  half  to 
two  inches  and  a  quarter  thick,  nearly  white,  flowing 
copiously  with  a  cool  juice,  extremely  delicate,  sweet, 
and  high  flavoured,  similar  in  texture  to  a  well-ripened 
Beurre  pear. 

It  resembles  the  next  sort,  but  differs  in  being  closely 
netted  all  over,  instead  of  being  smooth. 


MELONS.  237 

22.  SWEET  MELON  OF  ISPAHAN.    Hort.  Trans.VoL 
iii.  p.  116. 

Fruit  ovate,  from  eight  to  twelve  inches  long.  Skin 
nearly  quite  smooth,  of  a  deep  sulphur  colour.  Flesh 
white,  extending  about  half  way  to  its  centre,  crisp, 
sugary,  and  very  rich :  weight  five  to  six  pounds. 

SECOND  DIVISION.  — WINTER  MELONS. 

23.  DAMPSHA  MELON.    Hort.  Trans.Vol.  iv.  p.  21 1 . 
Zamsky.     Ib. 

First  fruit  in  the  season  nearly  cylindrical,  bluntly 
rounded  at  both  ends.  The  skin  varies  from  pale  yel- 
lowish green  to  intense  dark  olive,  and  the  whole  fruit 
is  prominently  netted.  Flesh  bright  and  deep  green 
near  the  skin,  pale  towards  the  centre,  quite  melting, 
and  of  excellent  flavour.  The  later  fruit  becomes  more 
pointed  at  the  ends,  and  lose  much  of  their  reticulation 
on  the  surface,  the  dark  green  of  the  skin  becoming 
darker. 

24.  GREEN  VALENCIA.  Hort.  Trans.Vol.  iii.  p.  116. 
t.  3. 

Winter  Melon.     Ib. 

fruit  oval,  with  pointed  extremities,  very  slightly 
ribbed.  Skin  dark  green  dotted  with  very  light  green, 
sometimes  a  little  netted.  Flesh  white,  becoming  pale 
straw  colour  as  it  ripens,  firm,  saccharine,  and  juicy,  and 
although  not  rich  is  pleasant. 

The  last  two  sorts  possess  the  valuable  property  of 
keeping  till  the  winter  months,  if  hung  up  by  the 
stalk,  or  in  nets  in  a  dry  room. 

The  cultivation  of  melons  in  this  country  within  the 
last  fifty  years  has  been  so  general,  and  their  manage- 
ment so  well  understood,  that  it  would  appear  unneces- 
sary to  treat  particularly,  and  in  detail,  of  what  may  be 


238  MELONS. 

looked  upon  as  an  almost  every  day  practice,  not  only  in 
the  gardens  of  the  opulent  but  in  those  of  their  more 
humble  neighbours. 

The  main  requisites  for  melon  growing  are  plenty  of 
dung,  proper  soil,  and  good  frames  or  pits.  The  hot- 
beds for  melons  require  to  be  much  more  substantial  than 
those  for  cucumbers,  because  they  are  a  much  longer 
time  in  coming  to  maturity.  Early  cucumbers  are  cut 
by  many  gardeners  in  six  or  seven  weeks  after  the  time 
of  sowing  the  seeds  ;  but  melons  require  twelve  or  four- 
teen weeks  for  the  early  sorts,  and  much  longer  for  the 
large-sized  ones. 

Small  melons,  which  are  those  always  forced  for  early 
crops,  do  not  require  to  have  the  bed  more  than  four  feet 
deep,  when  settled  ready  to  receive  the  plants :  for  the 
large  sorts,  the  bed  ought  to  be  five  feet  at  the  least,  and 
in  both  cases  the  bed  should  be  from  two  to  three  feet 
both  longer  and  wider  than  the  frame. 

The  mould  for  hills,  on  which  the  young  plants  are 
to  be  turned  out,  should  be  a  light  rich  loam  ;  but  when 
the  plants  are  earthed  up,  the  soil  should  be  a  good 
strong  loam  from  an  old  pasture,  having  the  flag  taken 
along  with  it,  adding  a  sixth  part  of  rotten  dung,  and 
turning  it  over  three  or  four  times  before  it  is  used. 

In  preparing  the  bed,  care  must  be  taken  that  the 
dung  has  been  well  fermented  by  turning  it  over  two  or 
three  times,  and  when  used,  if  a  quantity  of  oak  or  ches- 
nut  leaves  be  added  and  well  mixed  with  it,  the  heat 
will  not  be  so  great  at  first,  and  it  will  continue  much 
longer. 

In  making  up  the  bed,  the  ends  and  sides  should 
always  be  made  the  most  compact  and  firm,  by  beating 
them  down  with  the  fork,  and  occasionally  treading  them 
so  wide  as  to  extend  six  inches  within  the  frame ;  by 
this  means  the  middle  of  the  bed  will  settle  the  most, 


MELONS.  239 

and  prevent  the  mould  from  cracking  after  the  bed  has 
been  earthed  up. 

In  growing  the  large  sized  melons,  it  is  necessary  to 
have  large  frames  where  there  are  no  pits,  and  to  cover 
the  beds  fifteen  or  eighteen  inches  thick  with  the  mould; 
it  should  be  laid  on  when  dry,  the  large  lumps  just  bro- 
ken, but  by  no  means  made  fine,  and  when  finally  earthed 
up  it  should  be  made  quite  firm  by  gently  treading  it 
down.  In  this  state  it  will  generally  be  found  to  retain 
moisture  enough  to  ripen  its  fruit,  without  having  occa- 
sion to  water  the  bed  :  when  this  is  the  case,  fruit  are 
produced  of  the  highest  flavour  it  is  possible  they  should 
attain ;  but  when  Cantaloup  and  other  red-fleshed  me- 
lons are  grown  through  the  mere  agency  of  heat  and 
excessive  moisture,  their  flavour  is  ever  flat  and  insipid, 
in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  water  thus  employed. 

The  melons  of  Persia,  which  compose  the  third  and 
fourth  of  the  foregoing  divisions,  differ  remarkably  from 
the  varieties  commonly  cultivated  in  Europe.  They  are 
altogether  destitute  of  the  thick  hard  rind  which  charac- 
terises the  latter,  and  which  renders  the  one  half  of  every 
fruit  useless  ;  on  the  contrary,  they  are  protected  by  a 
skin  so  thin  and  delicate,  that  they  are  subject  to  injury 
from  causes  which  would  produce  no  perceptible  effect 
upon  the  melons  of  Europe.  Their  flesh  is  extremely 
tender,  rich,  and  sweet,  and  flows  copiously  with  a  cool 
juice  which  renders  them  still  more  grateful.  To  these 
important  qualities  they  in  many  cases  add  the  merit  of 
bearing  abundant  crops  of  fruit,  the  appearance  of  which 
is  always  extremely  beautiful. 

But,  on  the  other  hand,  their  cultivation  is  attended 
with  peculiar  difficulties.  They  are  found  to  require  a 
very  high  temperature,  a  dry  atmosphere,  and  an  ex- 
tremely humid  soil,  while  they  are  at  the  same  time  im- 
patient of  an  undue  supply  of  moisture,  which  causes 


240  MULBERRIES. 

spotting  and  sudden  decay  long  before  the  fruit  is  ma- 
tured. 

It  is  not,  therefore,  easy  to  maintain  that  necessary 
balance  of  heat  and  moisture  which  in  Persia  arises  out 
of  the  very  nature  of  the  climate  and  mode  of  cultivation* 

In  that  country,  we  are  told,  that  the  melon  is  grown 
in  open  fields,  intersected  in  every  direction  by  small 
streams,  between  which  lie  elevated  beds  richly  manured 
with  pigeons'  dung.  Upon  these  beds  the  melons  are 
planted.  The  Persian  gardener  has,  therefore,  to  guard 
against  nothing  but  a  scarcity  of  water,  the  rest  is  pro- 
vided by  his  own  favourable  climate.  With  us  the 
atmosphere,  the  ventilation,  the  water,  and  the  heat,  are 
all  artificial  agents,  operating  in  opposition  to  each 
other. 

The  most  successful  method  of  cultivation  which 
has  yet  been  practised,  seems  to  be  to  supply  the  plants 
abundantly  with  water  at  the  roots,  but  to  give  them  as 
little  as  possible  over  head  ;  to  combine  copious  ventila- 
tion and  high  temperature  by  means  of  frequently  renew- 
ing the  linings  with  hot  dung,  and  to  elevate  each  fruit 
a  few  inches  above  the  soil,  by  means  of  a  slate  laid  upon 
two  bricks  placed  side  by  side. 


CHAP.  XL 

MULBERRIES. 


THE  only  Mulberries  cultivated  in  England  are  the 
black  and  the  white  fruited  :  the  black  for  its  fruit,  the 
white  for  the  feeding  of  silkworms.  Black  Mulberries 
are  propagated  by  laying  down  the  young  branches  in 
the  autumn,  or  early  in  the  spring.  At  the  end  of  the 


MULBERRIES. 

year,  the  layers  may  be  removed  from  the  stools  and 
planted  out  in  rows,  three  feet  apart,  and  a  foot  from 
plant  to  plant  in  the  rows  :  those  intended  for  training 
against  walls  may  be  planted  out  at  once  for  the  pur- 
pose, and  the  richer  the  soil  is  in  which  they  are  planted 
the  more  rapid  will  be  the  progress  of  the  trees. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

Mulberries  are  principally  planted  as  standards  in 
orchards,  and  upon  grass  plots  in  the  pleasure  garden. 
In  the  selection  of  a  tree  for  this  purpose  make  choice 
of  one  that  is  straight  in  the  stem,  and  free  from 
blemishes,  with  a  head  of  three  or  four  well  placed  re- 
gular shoots ;  should  there  be  more  they  must  be  cut 
out. 

When  the  tree  has  been  planted  a  year,  and  got  firm 
hold  of  the  soil,  these  shoots  should  be  cut  down  to 
three  or  four  inches,  from  each  of  which  two  or  three 
clean,  straight  shoots  will  probably  be  produced.  In 
August,  four  of  the  strongest  and  best  placed  should  be 
selected,  and  the  rest  cut  out,  thus  giving  the  remaining 
ones  a  better  chance  of  extending  their  length,  and  of 
ripening  their  extremities  ;  besides,  with  a  little  addi- 
tional trouble,  if  the  shoots  should  not  be  so  well  placed 
as  could  be  wished,  their  direction  can  be  altered  at 
pleasure,  by  tying  them  to  small  sticks  fixed  in  the  head 
for  that  purpose.  In  the  following  spring,  if  the  four 
should  be  of  an  equal  length,  they  must  not  be  short- 
ened ;  but  if  one  or  two  be  much  longer  than  the  other, 
they  must  be  reduced  to  the  same  length,  and  allowed 
to  grow  for  another  year,  when  the  head  should  be 
thinned  out,  leaving  as  many  of  the  best  placed  shoots  as 
will  form  the  head.  This  being  completed,  nothing  fur- 
ther will  be  required  than  to  examine  the  head  from 

R 


MULBERRIES. 

year  to  year,  giving  advantage  to  the  leading  shoots, 
cutting  out  close  all  redundant  ones,  and  those  likely  to 
injure  one  another.  As  this  sort  of  fruit  is  always  the 
largest  and  best  flavoured,  where  the  trees  are  kept  thin 
of  wood,  their  neglect  will  consequently  diminish  its 
value,  without  enlarging  its  quantity. 

In  training  of  Mulberries  against  the  wall,  the  me- 
thod recommended  for  espalier  apples  appears  to  me  the 
most  simple,  the  most  easy,  and  the  best.  Having  ob- 
tained three  good  shoots  from  the  plant  intended  to  be 
trained,  the  two  side  ones  must  be  nailed  horizontally  at 
their  full  length,  and  the  centre  one  trained  perpendi- 
cularly, shortening  it  to  nine  or  ten  inches.  When  the 
young  shoots  are  produced  from  this,  the  uppermost  one 
must  be  continued  upwards,  and  the  two  next  below  ho- 
rizontally as  before  ;  continuing  thus,  from  year  to  year, 
till  the  tree  is  completely  formed  to  the  top  of  the  wall. 

If  the  tree  be  planted  against  a  brick  wall,  every  third 
horizontal  joint  will  be  a  very  proper  distance  for  the 
branches  to  be  trained. 

In  July  the  tree  must  be  gone  over  with  the  knife, 
cutting  all  the  fore-right  shoots  to  half  an  inch,  and 
nailing  at  length  the  horizontal  shoots,  observing  to  keep 
the  two  sides  of  the  tree  equal.  This  may  be  easily  ef- 
fected, for  if  one  branch  should  take  the  lead  more  con- 
siderably than  the  others,  its  leader  may  be  shortened  in 
the  spring,  and  a  new  leader  given  to  it  in  July. 

In  the  winter  prunings  it  will  be  necessary  to  use  the 
knife  freely,  in  order  to  keep  down  the  strong  spurs 
which  are  annually  enlarging  and  lengthening  them- 
selves ;  for  without  a  determination  of  reducing  them, 
they  would,  in  a  few  years,  extend  a  foot  from  the  wall, 
rendering  the  trees  unsightly  and  unprofitable  ;  but  by 
thinning  them  out,  and  cutting  them  back  from  time  to 
time,  they  may  readily  be  kept  within  due  bounds,  and 
in  a  state  of  fruitfulness. 


PEACHES.  243 

Mulberries  trained  against  the  wall  should  have  a 
south,  south-east,  or  east  aspect;  but  it  is  useless  to 
attempt  to  train  them  unless  there  is  a  great  extent  of 
wall,  and  where  they  can  be  continued  at  their  full 
length :  an  attempt  to  confine  them  within  narrow 

frniflpsc      unlace. 


PEACHES. 

An  Asterisk  (*)  denotes  those  which  Nurserymen  term  French 
Peaches,  and  which  require  to  be  budded  upon  the  Pear 
Plum  Stock. 


SECT.  I.  —  Melting,  pale  fruited. 

1.  ALMOND  PEACH.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  1. 
t.  1. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  glandless.  Flowers  large, 
pale  rose  colour.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  about 
seven  inches  in  circumference,  globular,  with  a  slight 
suture  extending  from  the  base  to  the  apex,  which  is 

R  2 


MULBERRIES. 

year  to  year,  giving  advantage  to  the  leading  shoots, 
cutting  out  close  all  redundant  ones,  and  those  likely  to 
injure  one  another.  As  this  sort  of  fruit  is  always  the 
largest  and  best  flavoured,  where  the  trees  are  kept  thin 
of  wood,  their  neglect  will  consequently  diminish  its 
value,  without  enlarging  its 


To  face  Page  243. 

By  an  accidental  oversight,  the  asterisks   denoting  the  sorts 
called  French  Peaches  have  been  omitted  to  be  inserted  m  their 
proper  places.     The  sorts  to  which  they  should  have  beer >  pre 
fixed  are  Peaches  10.  11.  20.  22.  23.  25.  26.  27.  35.  36.  37.  38. 
39.  40.  47.  48.  49.  50.  51. ;  and  Nectarine  1. 


tu  nun  an  men,  and 
nailing  at  length  the  horizontal  shoots,  observing  to  keep 
the  two  sides  of  the  tree  equal.  This  may  be  easily  ef- 
fected, for  if  one  branch  should  take  the  lead  more  con- 
siderably than  the  others,  its  leader  may  be  shortened  in 
the  spring,  and  a  new  leader  given  to  it  in  July. 

In  the  winter  prunings  it  will  be  necessary  to  use  the 
knife  freely,  in  order  to  keep  down  the  strong  spurs 
which  are  annually  enlarging  and  lengthening  them- 
selves ;  for  without  a  determination  of  reducing  them, 
they  would,  in  a  few  years,  extend  a  foot  from  the  wall, 
rendering  the  trees  unsightly  and  unprofitable  ;  but  by 
thinning  them  out,  and  cutting  them  back  from  time  to 
time,  they  may  readily  be  kept  within  due  bounds,  and 
in  a  state  offruitfulness. 


PEACHES.  243 

Mulberries  trained  against  the  wall  should  have  a 
south,  south-east,  or  east  aspect;  but  it  is  useless  to 
attempt  to  train  them  unless  there  is  a  great  extent  of 
\\all,  and  where  they  can  be  continued  at  their  full 
length :  an  attempt  to  confine  them  within  narrow 
bounds  being  fruitless,  unless  the  most  preposterous 
way  imaginable  be  resorted  to,  of  training  the  tree  in 
twenty  or  thirty  different  directions. 

A  tree  of  this  description  may  be  tolerated  for  the 
amusement  of  the  experimentalist ;  but  its  exhibition 
cannot  appear  otherwise  than  ridiculous  to  the  man  of 
taste  and  judgment. 

The  two  finest  trained  mulberry  trees  I  have  ever 
seen  are  now  growing  at  Holkham,  the  seat  of  T.  W. 
Coke,  Esq. ;  one  of  these  extends  more  than  thirty  yards, 
the  other  twenty-eight. 


CHAP.  XII. 

PEACHES. 

An  Asterisk  (*)  denotes  those  which  Nurserymen  term  French 
Peaches,  and  which  require  to  be  budded  upon  the  Pear 
Plum  Stock. 

SECT.  I.  —  Melting,  pale  fruited. 

1.  ALMOND  PEACH.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  1. 
t.  1. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  glandless.  Flowers  large, 
pale  rose  colour.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  about 
seven  inches  in  circumference,  globular,  with  a  slight 
suture  extending  from  the  base  to  the  apex,  which  is 

R  2 


244  PEACHES. 

flat  and  somewhat  depressed.  Skin  covered  with  a 
thickish  down,  of  a  delicate  yellow,  tinged  with  pale  red 
on  the  sunny  side,  and  beautifully  marbled  with  a 
deeper  colour.  Flesh  pale  citron,  but  of  a  bright  red 
next  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates ;  it  is  perfectly 
melting,  and  very  juicy. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  beautiful  little  peach  was  raised  by  T.  A.  Knight, 
Esq.,  of  Downton  Castle,  from  a  seed  of  the  Sweet  Al- 
mond, the  blossom  of  which  had  been  impregnated  by 
the  blossom  of  a  peach. 

It  was  first  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in 
September,  1817. 

2.*  BELLE  CHEVREUSE.  Duhamel,  No.  IS.  Gr. 
Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  549- 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  mid- 
dle sized.  Fruit  middle  sized,  more  long  than  round, 
rather  narrowed  at  the  apex.  Skin  greenish  white  next 
the  wall,  but  of  a  beautiful  flesh  colour,  marbled  and 
streaked  with  a  darker  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
white  and  melting,  but  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  plentiful,  sugary,  and  richly  flavoured. 
Stone  oblong,  almost  smooth. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

3.  BELLE  DE  VITRY.  Duhamel,  No.  34.  t.  25. 
G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  542. 

Admirable  Tardive.     Ib. 

Bellis.     Miller,  No.  22.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.   No.  Op. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  glandless.  Flowers  small, 
dull  red.  Fruit  middle  sized,  a  little  more  broad  than 
long,  with  a  somewhat  deep  and  broad  suture,  which 
extends  to  the  apex,  which  leaves  one  of  its  sides  pro- 
minent, and  the  other  flat,  terminated  by  a  depressed 
and  somewhat  flat  nipple.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow 
next  the  wall,  but  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side, 
and  marbled  with  a  dull  and  deeper  colour.  Flesh 


PEACHES.  245 

rather  firm,  greenish  yellow,  but  red  at  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  and  of  a  very  good 
flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  but  it  ought  to  hang 
some  days  upon  the  tree  before  it  is  gathered,  in  order 
to  have  it  in  perfection. 

The  flesh  of  this  is  more  firm  than  that  of  many  of 
the  melting  peaches,  which  has  occasioned  some,  like 
Mr.  Forsyth,  to  consider  it  as  a  Pavie  ;  but  in  deter- 
mining this,  there  can  be  no  difficulty,  as  all  melting 
peaches  adhere  more  or  less  to  the  stone,  but  can  be 
readily  detached  with  the  finger  and  thumb:  in  the 
Pavie  this  operation  is  impracticable. 

4.*  BOURDINE.  Duhamel,  16.  t.  12. 

Bourdin.     Ib. 

Narbonne.     Ib. 

Bourdine.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  545. 
Bon.  Jard.  1827.  Jard.  Fruit,  t.  20. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small, 
blush,  edged  with  carmine.  Fruit  pretty  large,  and 
nearly  round,  divided  by  a  wide  and  somewhat  deep 
suture,  the  flesh  swelling  unequally  on  its  sides,  but  a 
little  flattened  on  the  back.  Stalk  inserted  in  a  deep 
and  wide  cavity.  Skin  greenish  white  next  the  wall, 
but  on  the  sunny  side  it  is  of  a  lively  red,  marbled,  and 
shaded  with  a  deeper  colour.  Flesh  white,  melting, 
but  very  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
sugary,  and  highly  flavoured.  Stone  small,  and  nearly 
round. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

It  is  said  this  peach  derived  its  name  from  one  JBour- 
<iin,  a  French  gardener,  in  the  time  of  Louis  XIV. 
That  there  is  some  resemblance  between  this,  the  T$ton 
de  J7>nux,  and  the  Royale,  will  not  be  denied;  but 
that  they  are  identically  the  same  is  what  I  cannot  ad- 
mit. Duhamel,  who  has  always  been  regarded  as  of  the 

R  3 


246  PEACHES. 

highest  authority  in  what  regards  the  fruits  of  his  own 
country,  would  have  discovered  this,  had  it  been  the 
case,  long  before  he  published  his  book.  In  addition  to 
this,  where  is  the  Nurseryman,  I  would  ask,  who  has 
ever  successfully  budded  the  Bourdine  upon  the  Muscle 
stock  ?  In  order  that  I  may  not,  in  this  instance,  add 
to  the  confusion  which  at  present  exists  in  the  names 
of  modern  cultivators,  I  shall  follow  the  example  of 
Duhamel,  and  our  own  countryman  Miller,  in  con- 
sidering the  Sourdine,  the  Teton  de  Venus,  and  the 
Royals,  as  three  distinct  varieties. 

5.*  DOUBLE  MONTAGNE.  Niton's  Epitome.  G. 
LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  539. 

Sion.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  p.  52. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  glandless.  Flowers  large* 
Fruit  middle  sized,  of  a  roundish  figure,  a  little  nar- 
rowed and  flatted  at  the  apex.  Skin  greenish  white  on 
the  shaded  side  ;  but  of  a  blush  or  soft  red,  and  marbled 
with  a  deeper  colour  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh 
very  delicate,  melting,  and  white  to  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  and  highly  fla- 
voured. Stone  ovate,  mucronate,  and  rugged. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  latter  end  of  August. 

This  is  a  beautiful  and  excellent  peach,  and  must  not 
be  confounded  with  the  Noblesse  ;  it  ripens  a  week  or 
ten  days  sooner,  and  cannot  be  propagated  upon  the 
Muscle. 

6.  EARLY  ANNE.  O.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  VoLv. 
p.  539. 

Anne.  Langley  Pom.  t.  22.  f.  2.  Forsyth,  Ed.  3- 
No.  5. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  glandless.  Flowers  large, 
very  pale,  nearly  white.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size, 
globular.  Skin  white,  with  scarcely  any  colouring  on 
the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  soft,  melting,  and  white 


PEACHES.  247 

to  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  a  little 
musky,  but  saccharine,  and  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

This  peach  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  17^7>  on  an 
east  wall,  July  10.  O.  S.  or  July  21.  N.  S.  —  Langley. 

It  is  said  to  have  derived  its  name  from  the  cele- 
brated Anne  Dunch,  of  Pudsey,  in  Berkshire.  It  is 
sold  in  some  nurseries  under  the  name  of  Wlwte 


7.  EARLY  DOWNTON.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  217- 
Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.    Flowers  large, 

pale  rose.  Fruit  rather  small,  narrowed  at  the  apex, 
which  is  generally  terminated  by  a  small  acute  nipple  ; 
very  hollow  at  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white, 
sprinkled  with  red  dots  ;  but  of  a  bright  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white  to  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  rich,  with  a  good  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

This  beautiful  little  peach  was  raised  by  Mr.  Knight, 
of  Downton  Castle,  who  sent  an  account  of  it,  with  two 
others,  to  the  Horticultural  Society,  Aug.  21.  1815. 

8.  FLAT  PEACH  OF  CHINA.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv. 
p.  512.  t.  19.      O.  Lind.  in   Hort.   Trans.    Vol.  v. 
p.  549. 

Java  Peach.     Ib. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  large. 
The  Fruit  of  this  most  singular  peach  is  flatted,  and 
completely  concave  at  both  the  apex  and  the  stalk.  It 
is  about  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter,  and  scarcely 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  through  the  eye  to  the 
stalk,  which  thickness  consists  only  of  the  stone  and 
skin.  The  crown  of  the  fruit  looks  like  a  broad  and 
rather  hollow  eye,  of  an  irregular  five-angled  shape,  sur- 
rounded by  the  appearance  of  the  remains  of  the  seg- 
ments of  a  calyx  :  the  whole  surface  of  this  eye  is 
roughly  marked  with  small  irregular  warted  lines,  like 

R  4 


PEACHES. 

the  crown  of  a  Medlar.  The  colour  of  the  Skin  is  pale 
yellow,  mottled  or  speckled  with  red  on  the  part  exposed 
to  the  sun.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  having  a  beautiful  radi- 
ated circle  of  red  surrounding  the  stone,  and  extending 
far  into  the  fruit.  The  consistence  and  flavour  of  the 
flesh  is  that  of  a  good  melting  peach,  being  sweet  and 
juicy,  with  a  little  noyeau  flavour. 

It  first  ripened  its  fruit  in  this  country  at  Thames 
Ditton,  and  was  sent  to  the  Horticultural  Society  by 
John  Braddick,  Esq.,  in  1819.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv. 
p.  512. 

9.  FORD'S  SEEDLING.      O.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  539. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  of  a  beautiful  pale  rose  colour.  Fruit  middle 
sized,  a  little  narrowed  at  the  apex,  and  having  a  slight 
suture.  Skin  yellowish  green,  marbled  with  bright 
red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  green,  quite  to 
the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  of 
a  rich  poignant  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

10.  MALTA.      G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.    Vol.  v. 
p.  539.     Pom.  Mag.  1. 15. 

Peche  Malte.     Duhamel,  No.  15. 

Peche  de  Malte.     Lelieur. 

Malte  de  Norman  die.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  91- 

Belle  de  Paris.     Bon.  Jard.  1827.  P-  ^76. 

Italian  Peach.  Miller,  No.  12.  According  to  ^he 
Pom.  Mag. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale.  Fruit  middle  sized,  generally  depressed  at 
the  apex,  with  a  broad  shallow  suture  on  one  side,  and 
slight  traces  of  one  on  the  other.  Skin,  on  the  shaded 
side,  pale  dull  greenish  yellow ;  next  the  sun,  broadly 
marked  with  broken  blotches  of  dull  purplish  red.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  with  a  slight  stain  of  purple  next  the 


PEACHES.  24-9 

stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  very 
rich,  with  an  extremely  agreeable  vinous  flavour.  Stone 
middle  sized,  oval,  pointed,  rather  rugged. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

A  very  excellent  and  hardy  peach,  said  to  ripen  its 
fruit  well  on  an  open  standard  in  Normandy.  It  bears 
carriage  remarkably  well,  and  will  keep  longer  when 
gathered  than  any  other  peach,  except  the  clingstones. 

11.  NEW  NOBLESSE.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.     Flowers 

large,  pale  rose.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  oval, 
with  an  obscure  suture,  quite  even  at  the  apex,  but  ter- 
minating with  a  small  acute  nipple.  Skin  pale  greenish 
yellow  on  the  shaded  side ;  but  next  the  sun  of  a  pale 
red,  and  marbled  with  different  shades  of  deeper  colour. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow  quite  to  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich,  and  of  a  most  exquisite 
flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

This  Peach  has  been  sold  for  some  time  by  Mr. 
Ronalds  of  Brentford,  who  says  it  was  raised  by  a  friend 
of  his  from  seed  ;  but  when  and  where  I  have  not  been 
informed. 

12.  NOBLESSE.  Langley,  p.  101.  t*  28.  fig.  3.  G.  Lindl. 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  539.    Pom.  Mag.  t.  95.  and 
of  all  English  Writers  beginning  with  Switzer,  in 
1724. 

Mellish's  Favourite.     Of  the  Nurseries. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale  blush.  Fruit  large,  for  the  most  part  round- 
ish oblong,  a  little  narrowed  at  the  apex,  and  terminated 
by  an  acute  nipple.  Skin  slightly  downy,  pale  yellow- 
ish green  next  the  wall  ;  but  of  a  marbled  dull  red, 
marked  with  broken  streaks  and  blotches  of  a  darker 
colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  pale  yellow- 
ish white  to  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 


250  PEACHES. 

plentiful,  rich,  and  highly  flavoured.  Stone  large, 
obovate,  pointed. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

The  Noblesse  Peach  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7> 
on  a  south  wall,  July  20th,  O.  S.,  or  Aug.  31st,  N.  S. 
Langley. 

This  is  one  of  our  very  best  hardy  peaches,  and  per- 
haps one  of  the  most  common  ;  but  it  is  often  confounded 
with  another,  well  known,  the  Vanguard,  which  is 
somewhat  similar  in  appearance  and  in  its  general  cha- 
racters. It  is,  however,  distinguished  by  its  fruit  being, 
for  the  most  part,  oblong,  narrowed,  and  plump  at  the 
apex,  with  a  pointed  nipple  :  in  the  Vanguard  the  fruit 
is  equally  large,  or  even  more  so,  always  globular,  rather 
than  oblong,  and  its  crown  or  apex  flat  and  often  de- 
pressed. Nurserymen  need  not  to  be  at  any  loss  to 
distinguish  the  two  sorts  when  maiden  plants  in  the 
nursery  ;  the  lateral  shoots  of  the  Noblesse  being  nearly 
as  long  as  the  main  leader ;  those  of  the  Vanguard  being 
less  numerous,  and  exceeded  considerably  by  the  main 
shoot ;  besides,  the  plants  of  the  Vanguard  are  of  a 
taller  growth  than  those  of  the  Noblesse.  Indeed,  so 
obvious  and  invariable  have  I  found  these  characters, 
that  should  the  two  kinds  become  inadvertently  inter- 
mixed in  the  nursery  rows,  the  most  inexperienced 
foreman  would  be  enabled  to  separate  them,  without 
any  fear  of  mistake. 

In  the  Hort.  Trans,  above  quoted,  I  stated  tli|t 
Mellish's  Favourite  and  the  Noblesse  were  the  same. 
I  have  this  year  again  been  favoured  by  Mrs.  Gurdon, 
of  Letton,  with  specimens  of  both,  and  I  find  them  iden- 
tically one  and  the  same. 

13.  OLD  ROYAL  CHARLOTTE.  G.  LindL  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  540. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale  blush.  Fruit  middle-sized,  nearly  globular, 


PEACHES.  251 

but  a  little  narrowed  at  the  apex,  where  it  is  generally 
terminated  by  a  small  nipple.  Skin  pale  greenish 
yellow  next  the  wall ;  but  tinged  with  blush,  and 
marbled  with  a  deeper  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
soft,  melting,  and  white  to  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  sugary  and  vinous.  Stone  obtuse,  a 
little  rugged. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  is  undoubtedly  the  first  Royal  Charlotte  ever 
known  in  our  gardens.  It  was  first  sold  by  Robert 
Lowe,  a  nurseryman  at  Hampton  Wick,  about  the  year 
1760.  It  has  much  the  appearance  of  a  Noblesse,  but 
is  smaller,  and  on  the  same  aspect  ripens  ten  days  or  a 
fortnight  before  it.  The  specimen  from  which  this 
description  was  written,  was  from  a  tree  growing  at 
Heydon  Hall,  in  Norfolk,  in  1792.  It  had  been  pur- 
chased from  Mr.  Lowe,  and  planted  there  in  1766. 

14.  RED  NUTMEG.  Miller,  No.  2.  G.  Lindl.  in 
Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  547. 

Nutmeg.     Parkinson,  No.  21. 

Brown  Nutmeg.      Of  some  Collections. 

Avant  Peche  rouge.     Duhamel,  No.  2.  t.  3. 

Leaves  small,  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  small,  but  larger  than  those  of  the 
White  Nutmeg,  of  a  somewhat  globular  figure,  having 
a  well  marked  suture  extending  from  the  base  to  the 
apex,  terminated  by  a  small,  round,  obtuse  nipple. 
Skin  pale  yellow  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a  bright  scarlet 
or  vermillion,  and  slightly  marbled  with  a  deeper  colour 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  but  red  at 
the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  sweet  and  a 
little  musky. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July. 

This  is  the  earliest  hardy  Peach  cultivated  in  this 
country,  and  is  very  good  when  just  ripe,  but  in  a  short 
time  it  becomes  doughy. 


252  PEACHES. 

15.  SULHAMSTEAD.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  513. 
Leaves  deeply  serrated,  without  glands.     Flowers 

large.  Fruit  large,  somewhat  globular,  depressed  at 
the  apex,  slightly  cleft,  with  a  corresponding  depression 
on  the  opposite  side.  Skin  covered  with  a  fine  short 
down,  of  a  clear  pale  yellow  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a 
pale  red,  and  marbled  with  a  darker  colour  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  pale  yellow  quite  to  the 
stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  abundant,  sweet, 
with  a  rich  vinous  flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  fine  Peach,  somewhat  resembling,  externally,  a 
Newington,  was  raised  in  the  garden  of  Mrs.  Thoytes,  of 
Sulhamstead  House,  near  Reading,  in  Berkshire,  and 
was  first  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1819- 

16.  VANGUARD.      G.  LindL  Plan  of  an  Orchard, 
1796.  ib.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  540. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  large,  nearly  globular,  and  quite  flat  or 
depressed  at  the  apex.  Skin  yellowish  white  next  the 
wall,  but  marbled  and  streaked  with  a  few  dashes  of 
much  deeper  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting, 
and  white  to  the  stone,  .from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
rich  and  sugary.  Stone  somewhat  ovate,  rugged,  and 
sharp  pointed. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

It  would  be  difficult,  perhaps,  to  ascertain  with  whom 
the  Vanguard  Peach  originated,  or  when  it  began  to  be 
first  cultivated.  I  found  it  in  Mr.  Mackie's  Nursery,  at 
Norwich  in  1789,  and  I  inserted  it  in  a  list  of  Peaches, 
in  my  Plan  of  an  Orchard,  published  in  1796,  whence 
it  found  its  way  into  Mr.  Forsyth's  Treatise  on  Fruit 
Trees,  in  1802 ;  but  neither  in  that  work,  nor  yet  in 
any  other,  has  any  description  of  it,  I  believe,  been 
hitherto  published.  Mr.  Hooker,  in  his  Pomona 
Londinensis,  has  given  a  tolerably  good  figure  of  it, 
under  the  name  of  Noblesse,  which  he  had  intended  to 


PEACHES.  253 

represent,  but  from  which  it  widely  differs,  as  has  been 
noticed  under  that  head. 

17.  WHITE  MAGDALEN.    Miller,  No.  5.     G.  LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  540. 

Madeleine  Blanche.     Duhamel  8.  t.  6. 

Montagne  Blanche.     Knoop.  Fruct.  p.  79- 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale  rose.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  some- 
what globular,  rather  more  broad  than  long,  having  a 
deeply  marked  suture,  which  extends  from  the  base  to 
the  apex,  where  it  is  terminated  by  a  small,  slightly 
sunk  nipple,  and  having  a  rather  wide  cavity  at  the 
base.  Skin  yellowish  white  next  the  wall,  but  on  the 
sunny  side  tinged  with  red,  and  marbled  with  a  deeper 
red  colour.  Flesh  melting,  of  a  yellowish  white,  with 
a  slight  tinge  of  red  next  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  plentiful,  but  not  of  any  high  flavour. 
Stone  small,  obtuse,  a  little  rugged. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  August. 

Miller  observes,  that  the  pith  of  the  young  branches 
of  this  Peach  is  black  :  this  can  be  only  accidental,  as 
happens  also  with  others. 

18.  WHITE  NUTMEG.     Miller,   No.  1.      G.  LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  540. 

Avant  Peche  blanche.     Duhamel,  No.  1.  t.  1. 

Leaves  small,  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  very  pale  blush.  Fruit  very  small,  the  least  of  all 
the  varieties,  a  little  more  long  than  broad,  having  a  very 
conspicuous  deeply  marked  suture,  extending  to  the 
apex,  on  one  side  of  which  it  oblongates  into  a  very 
small  acute  nipple.  Skin  white,  but  when  fully  ex- 
posed it  has  a  very  pale  blush  tinge.  Flesh  white  to  the 
stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  very  sweet,  of  a 
musky  and  very  agreeable  flavour.  Stone  small,  oval, 
mucurate,  very  slightly  rugged. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  July. 

This  very  delicate  Peach  has  not  been  successfully 


254  PEACHES. 

cultivated  in  this  country.     I  have  never  met  with  it  in 
any  part  of  England. 


SECT.  II.  —  Melting  red  or  purple  fruited. 

19.  ACTON   SCOT.     Hort.    Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  140. 
t.  10.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  55%. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
pale  rose.  Fruit  rather  small,  or  below  the  middle 
size,  somewhat  narrowed  at  the  apex,  where  it  is  usually 
very  much  depressed.  Suture  shallow,  on  one  side  of 
which  it  is  fuller  than  on  the  other.  Skin  rather  woolly, 
pale  yellow,  of  a  bright  red  on  the  sunny  side,  and 
marbled  with  a  deeper  colour.  Flesh  melting,  yellowish- 
white  to  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
sugary,  with  a  slight  bitter,  but  flavour  pretty  good. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

This  was  raised  by  Mr.  Knight,  of  Downton  Castle  ; 
the  offspring  of  the  Noblesse,  impregnated  with  the  Red 
Nutmeg,  and  was  exhibited  for  the  first  time  at  the 
Horticultural  Society  in  1814. 

20.  BELLEGARDE.     DuhameL  28.  t.  20.     G.  Lindl. 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  545.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  26. 

SyGalande.    1  ^ordingtothe  Pom.  Mag.  of  the 

Violette  Hative.  J      ****  Nursenes. 

Noire  de  Montreuil,  of  the  French  Nurseries. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  smaHl, 
bright  reddish  pink.  Fruit  pretty  large,  globular,  of  a 
very  regular  figure,  with  a  shallow  suture,  and  a  slightly 
hollowed  apex,  with  a  little  projecting  point  in  its  centre. 
Skin,  on  the  exposed  side,  rich  deep  red,  with  dark 
purple  or  violet  streaks  ;  on  the  shaded  side,  pale  green 
faintly  tinged  with  yellow.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  slightly 
rayed  with  red  at  the  stone,  very  melting,  juicy,  and 


PEACHES.  255 

rich,  and  from  which  it  separates.      Stone  rather  large, 
slightly  pointed. 

21.  BARRIXGTOX.      G.   Lindl.   in   Hort.    Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  543.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  147. 

Buckingham  Mignonne,  according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  rather  large  and  handsome,  roundish,  somewhat 
elongated,  and  rather  pointed  at  the  summit.  Suture 
moderately  deep  along  one  side.  Skin  pale  yellowish 
green  next  the  wall,  deep  red  next  the  sun,  marbled 
with  a  darker  colour.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  slightly 
rayed  with  crimson  tints  next  the  stone,  from  which  it 
parts  freely  ;  melting,  juicy,  and  very  rich.  Stone 
middle  sized,  ovate,  with  a  lengthened  sharp  point,  very 
rugged,  and  of  a  dark  brown  colour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  latter  end  of  September. 

This  very  handsome  and  valuable  Peach  was  raised 
above  twenty  years  ago  by  a  Mr.  Barrington,  of  Bur- 
wood,  in  Surrey.  I  purchased  it  some  years  ago  from 
the  late  Mr.  Lee,  of  Hammersmith,  under  the  name  of 
Buckingham  Mignonne. 

22.  CHANCELLOR.      Miller,   No.  14.      Pom.  Mag. 
t.  61.      G.  Lind.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  550. 

Chancelliere.     Duhamel,  Vol.  ii.  p.  24. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small, 
reddish.  Fruit  large,  oval,  with  a  very  distinct  suture, 
having  a  rather  small  cavity  at  the  base.  Skin  not  very 
downy,  dark  crimson  next  the  sun,  pale  yellow  next  the 
wall,  finely  mottled  towards  the  union  of  the  two 
colours.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  but  of  a  very  deep  red  next 
the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  rich,  and  of 
a  vinous  flavour.  Stone  oblong,  tapering  to  the  base, 
and  pointed  at  the  summit. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

This  is  not  the  Veritable  Chancelliere  of  Duhamel, 
which  has  large  flowers,  and  must  be  considered  as  the 
true  Chancellor  ;  but  appears  to  be  mentioned  by  him 


256  PEACHES. 

at  the  conclusion  of  his  description  of  that  fruit.  The 
Chancellor  Peach  is  said  to  have  been  raised  from  a 
seed  of  the  Chevreux,  in  the  garden  of  M.  de  Seguier, 
Chancellor  of  France. 

23.  DOUBLE  S WALSH.      6r.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  550. 

Swalze  or  Swolze.     Langley,  p.  105.  t.  32.  fig.  1. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small, 
dark  red.  Fruit  middle  sized,  somewhat  ovate,  and 
mostly  terminated  by  a  small  nipple.  Suture  deep,  on 
one  side  of  which  it  is  considerably  more  swelled  than 
on  the  other.  Skin  pale  yellow  next  the  wall,  but  of 
a  bright  and  deep  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  soft, 
melting  and  white,  but  pale  red  at  the  stone,  from  which 
it  separates.  Juice  plentiful  and  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  Peach  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7>  on  a 
west  wall,  August  1st,  O.  S.,  or  August  12th,  N.  S.  — 
Langley. 

Langley  says,  the  Double  Swalsh  Peach  was  brought 
into  England  by  Lord  Peterborough  before  17^9. 

24.  EARLY  ADMIRABLE.     Langley,  p.  103.  t.  30. 
fig.  2.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  545. 

Admirable.     Duhamel,  29.  t.  21.     Miller,  No.  19- 
Belle  de  Vitry.     Bon.  Jard.  1827.  P-  277- 
Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  middle- 
sized,  pale  red.     Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat 
globular.      Skin  yellowish  white  next  the  wall,  but  of  a 
beautiful  red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.     Flesh  white, 
but  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.     Juice 
plentiful,  vinous,  and  well  flavoured. 
Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

The  Early  Admirable  Peach  ripened  _at  Twickenham, 
in  1727,  on  a  south-east  wall,  August  3d,  O.  S.,  or 
August  14th,  N.  S.  —  Langley. 

This  Peach,  although  by  no  means  an  early  one,  has 


PEACHES.  257 

been  called  the  Early  Admirable  in  the  time  of  Miller, 
a  name  which  cannot  now  be  abandoned,  because  we 
have  another  peach  called  the  Late  Admirable.  M. 
NOISETTE,  in  the  Bon.  Jard.,  makes  his  Belle  de  Vitry 
a  synonym  of  it ;  but  in  this  he  is  not  sanctioned  by 
Duhamel,  who  has  always  been  considered  as  of  un- 
questionable authority. 

25.  EARLY  VINEYARD.  Alton's  Epitome.  G. 
Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  543. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
pale  rose.  Fruit  middle  sized,  somewhat  globular,  and 
a  little  depressed  at  the  apex,  swelled  a  little  more  on 
one  side  of  the  suture  than  on  the  other,  and  very  hollow 
at  the  base.  Skin  yellowish  white  next  the  wall,  and 
sprinkled  with  red  dots  ;  but  of  a  dull  red,  and  marked 
with  a  deeper  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish white,  except  at  the  stone,  where  it  is  tinged  with 
red,  and  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  sugary,  very 
rich,  and  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  or  the  beginning  of  Sep- 
tember. 

The  name  of  this  peach  originated  with  the  late  Mr. 
Lee  of  Hammersmith,  whose  nursery,  at  the  early  part 
of  its  establishment  by  his  father,  was  called  the  Vine- 
yard. It  has  somewhat  the  appearance  of  the  Grosse 
Mignonne,  but  it  is  not  so  large  nor  of  so  dark  a  colour, 
and  Mr.  Lee  assured  me  it  always  ripened  on  his  wall  a 
week  or  ten  days  earlier:  had  the  two  peaches  been 
alike,  it  could  not  have  escaped  the  notice  of  that  very 
distinguished  cultivator.  For  this  reason,  and  from  my 
own  observation,  I  have  determined  not  to  abandon  the 
name  to  a  mere  synonym.  On  the  other  hand,  I  am 
quite  satisfied  that  plants  may  be  purchased  from  nur- 
series, under  this  name,  that  may  prove  to  be  the  Grosse 
Mignonne. 


258  PEACHES. 

26.  GEORGE  THE  FOURTH.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  413.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  105. 

Leaves  large,  acutely  crenate,  with  globose  glands. 
Flowers  small,  dull  red.  Fruit  middle-sized,  globular, 
deeply  lobed  at  the  summit,  with  a  deep  cavity  for  the 
footstalks,  projecting  more  on  one  side  of  the  suture 
than  on  the  other.  Skin  moderately  downy,  of  a  uni- 
form dark  red  next  the  sun,  and  of  a  fine  pale  yellow 
on  the  shaded  part,  mottled  with  bright  red  at  the 
junction  of  the  two  colours.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  rayed 
with  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  parts  freely* 
Stone  very  small,  bluntly  oval,  not  particularly  rugged. 
Flavour  good  when  upon  an  open  wall,  excellent  when 
forced.  It  is  said  in  the  Pom.  Mag.  to  be  between  a 
Clingstone  and  a  Melter. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  September. 

An  American  variety  of  considerable  importance,  not 
so  much  for  its  good  quality  as  a  hardy  kind,  as  for 
being  a  forcing  peach  of  great  merit. 

Mr.  Michael  Floy,  of  New  York,  in  his  letter  of 
November  5.  1823,  says,  "  This  is  one  of  the  finest 
peaches  I  have  seen,  and  the  richest  I  have  tasted :  it 
originated  in  the  garden  of  Mr.  Gill,  in  Broad  Street, 
in  this  city.  This  is  the  second  year  of  its  fruiting. 
The  original  tree  is  remarkable  thrifty  and  bore  a  very 
full  crop  this  season." 

27.  GROSSE    MIGNONNE.      Duhamel,    14.   t.    10. 
G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  543.  ^ 

Mignonne.     Ib. 
Veloutee  de  Merlet.     Ib. 

Grim  wood's  Royal  George.   Hooker's  Pom.  Lond.  41 . 
Grimwood's  New  Royal  George,  "i 
French  Mignonne,  K*t       EnZlish 

Large  French  Mignonne,  J      Nursmes' 

Vineuse.     Lelieur. 
Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.     Flowers  large, 


PEACHES.  £59 

deep  rose.  Fruit  large,  depressed,  hollowed  at  the 
summit,  with  a  moderately  deep  suture,  and  swelled 
considerably  on  one  of  its  sides,  and  a  wide  cavity  at 
the  base ;  the  side  marked  by  the  suture  is  shorter  than 
the  opposite  one.  Skin  rather  thinly  clad  with  down, 
of  a  rich,  very  deep  red,  next  the  sun,  thickly  mottled 
on  a  yellowish  ground  next  the  wall.  Flesh  pale  yellow, 
rayed  with  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  freely  sepa- 
rates ;  melting,  juicy,  with  a  rich  vinous  flavour.  Stone 
small  for  the  size  of  the  fruit,  ovate,  very  rugged. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September.  The 
synonyms  above  quoted  may  be  safely  relied  upon  as 
belonging  to  the  Grosse  M ignonne  of  Miller,  Duhamel, 
and  Noisette.  The  figure  in  Duhamel  is  a  perfect  re- 
presentation of  the  fruit. 

The  name  of  Grimwood's  Royal  George  was  given 
by  MR.  GRIMWOOD,  to  plants  which  he  propagated 
from  the  Grosse  M  ignonne,  in  the  early  part  of  the 
reign  of  George  the  'Third ;  by  which  he  derived  a 
profit  beyond  what  he  would  have  done  had  he  sold 
them  under  what  he  knew  to  be  their  proper  name. 
See  Hookers  Pomona,  t.  41.  It  is  said  the  name  of 
Mignonne  originated  with  one  of  the  kings  of  France, 
on  account  of  its  excellence. 

38.  HEMSKIRKE.     Hori.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  69. 

Hemskirk.  Langley*s  Pom.  t.  31.  f.  4.  G.  Lindl. 
m  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  539. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  fine  pale  rose.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size, 
more  broad  than  long,  but  somewhat  narrowed  at  the 
apex.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  numerous  red  dots, 
and  pearl-coloured  specks  interspersed ;  but  next  the 
sun  of  a  bright  red,  and  marbled  with  a  deeper  colour. 
Flesh  melting,  of  a  greenish  yellow  quite  to  the  stone, 
from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  sugary  and 
vinous.  Stone  small,  almost  round,  and  nearly  smooth. 

s  2 


260  PEACHES. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

A  very  beautiful  early  fruit,  from  the  Royal  Gardens 
at  Kensington  some  years  ago. 

29.  LATE  ADMIRABLE.  Langley,  p.  106.  t.  32.  f.  5. 
G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  VoL  v.  p.  545. 

Royale.  Duhamel,  33.  t.  24.  Jard.  Fruit,  t.  23. 
Bon.  Jard.  1827.  P-  278. 

Royal.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  73.     Miller.  7. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small, 
pale  red.  Fruit  large,  10  or  11  inches  in  circum- 
ference, of  a  roundish  figure,  rather  inclining  to  oval. 
Suture  deep,  having  the  flesh  swelled  boldly  and 
equally  on  both  sides,  with  a  slight  depression  on  the 
summit,  where  there  is  usually  a  small,  pointed  nipple. 
Skin  pale  green  or  yellowish  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a 
pale  red,  marbled  and  streaked  with  darker  shades  on 
the  sunny  side,  cavity  of  the  base  rather  small,  flesh 
delicate,  melting,  of  a  greenish  white,  but  red  at  the 
stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  and,  in 
a  warm  season,  highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September. 

The  Late  Admirable  Peach  ripened  at  Twickenham, 
in  17^7>  on  a  south  wall,  August,  24.  O.S. ;  or 
September  4.  N.  S.  Langley. 

This  is  a  most  excellent  and  extremely  hardy  peach, 
well  deserving  of  cultivation.  It  ought  invariably  to 
be  planted  against  either  a  south  or  south-east  wall,  as 
on  colder  aspects  there  is  little  chance  of  growing  it  hj 
perfection. 

M.  BUTRET,  a  French  writer,  it  seems,  has  been 
alluded  to,  as  authority  for  considering  this  peach,  the 
Bourdine,  and  Teton  de  Venus,  as  absolutely  one  and 
the  same  fruit,  declaring  the  pretended  differences 
between  them  are  only  "  un  charlatanisme  des  pepi- 
nieristes."  If  by  this  he  means  to  allude  to  his  own 
countrymen,  I  have  nothing  further  to  say,  than  that 


PEACHES. 

an  illiberal  idea  does  not  usually  arise  in  a  liberal  mind. 
I  must  leave  it  to  M.  NOISETTE,  who  is  now  living,  to 
defend  himself  in  the  publication  of  the  Son  Jardinier 
and  Jardinier  Fruitier,  in  which  he  has  to  the  present 
day  kept  them  distinct.  DUHAMEL  I  need  not,  on  this 
point  mention  again.  To  writers  of  our  own  country, 
I  would  suggest  the  propriety  of  their  trying  to  propa- 
gate any  two  or  three  sorts  of  peaches,  which  they  may 
consider  alike,  upon  the  Muscle  stock,  and  ascertain  the 
result,  before  they  declare  them  to  be  absolutely  one 
and  the  same  fruit, 

30.  LOCKYER'S   MIGNONNE.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  5.  p.  542. 

Lockyer's  Peach.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  40. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  middle-sized,  nearly  globular.  Skin 
greenish  yellow  next  the  wall,  sprinkled  with  numerous 
red  dots ;  but  of  a  dull  red,  and  marbled  with  a  darker 
colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  yellow, 
slightly  coloured  with  red  next  the  stone,  from  which 
it  separates.  Juice  plentiful  and  good  in  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

31.  LORD  FAUCONBERG'S  MIGNONNE.      G.  Lindl. 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  542. 

Lord  Falconbridge's.     Hanbury. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat  ovate, 
being  broader  at  the  base  than  at  the  apex.  Suture 
rather  deep.  Skin  pale  yellow  next  the  wall,  sprinkled 
with  numerous  red  dots ;  but  of  a  dull  red,  marked 
with  several  broad  spots  or  patches  of  a  deeper  colour 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  but  red  at 
the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful  and 
rich.  Stone  rather  flat. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

This  very  fine  and  handsome  Peach  has  been  many 

s  3 


262  PEACHES. 

years  in  England,  as  appears  by  Hanbury,  whose  last 
edition  was  published  in  1769.  It  was  cultivated  by 
Messrs.  Perfect,  of  Pontefract,  fifty  years  ago,  and  at 
that  time  was  plentiful  in  the  West  Riding  of  Yorkshire, 
but  does  not  appear  to  have  found  its  way  into  the 
London  nurseries.  There  are  several  Peaches  of  this 
class  called  Migrionnes,  which  approach  very  nearly  each 
other,  and  may  be  considered  as  the  same ;  but  this  I 
consider  to  be  distinct,  as  I  have  never  observed  those 
broad  and  well  marked  dark  patches  which  so  strongly 
characterise  this,  upon  any  of  the  other  varieties. 

32.  MADELEINE  DE  COURSON.   Lelivur,  Pom.  Fran. 
p.  292.    Pom.  Mag.  t.  30.    O.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  539. 

Madeleine  Rouge.     Duhamel,  1 0.  t.  7« 

Madeleine  de  Courson.     Ib. 

Rouge  Paysanne.      Of  the  French. 

Red  Magdalen.     Miller,  9- 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale  blush.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  globular, 
flattened,  deeply  cleft  on  one  side.  Skin  pale  yellowish 
white  next  the  wall ;  but  of  beautiful  red  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  quite  white,  with  a  little  red  at  the  stone, 
from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich,  and 
vinous.  Stone  blunt,  rather  large  in  proportion  to  the 
size  of  the  fruit. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  or  beginning  of  September. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  Peach,  and  ought  to  b& 
found  in  every  good  collection  of  fruit.  It  is  the  true 
Red  Magdalen  of  Miller,  and,  as  such,  should  never 
have  given  way  to  the  one  now  cultivated  under  that 
name  ;  but,  like  the  Elruge  and  Red  Roman  Nectarine 
of  that  author,  the  ignorance  of  some,  and  the  indolence 
of  others,  have  allowed  far  inferior  fruits  to  usurp  their 
names. 

33.  MILLET'S  MIGNONNE.     Hanbury.     G.  LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  542. 


PEACHES.  263 

> 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  somewhat  globular 
figure,  but  rather  more  broad  than  long.  Skin  greenish 
white  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a  deep  red  or  purple  colour 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  very  melting,  greenish  white, 
but  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
plentiful,  and  well  flavoured.  Stone  small,  oblong, 
rugged. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

In  a  cold  wet  season,  this  tree  is  frequently  attacked, 
more  or  less,  with  mildew ;  it  ought,  therefore,  to  be 
planted  on  a  dry  soil,  and  in  a  warm  sheltered  situation. 
It  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  a  Mr.  Millet,  a  market 
gardener  at  Brentford,  above  sixty  years  ago. 

34.  MONTAUBON.  Langley,t.28.f.4.  Hitt.p.319. 
Switzer,  p.  88.     Miller,  No.  11.      G.  Lindl  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  539. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale.  Fruit  middle-sized,  with  a  small  suture 
extending  from  the  base  to  the  apex.  Skin  greenish 
yellow  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a  deep  red  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  melting,  and  white  to  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich,  and  excellent. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

The  Montaubon  Peach  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in 
1727,  on  a  south  wall,  July  30th,  O.  S.,  or  August 
10th,  N.  S. 

35.  NEIL'S  EARLY  PURPLE.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  544. 

NeaPs  Early  Purple.     Hooker.  Pom.  Lond.  t.  23. 
Early  Purple.     Miller,  No.  6* 
Johnson's  Early  Purple,  - 


Johnson's  Purple  Avant, 


Purple  Avant, 

Padley's  Early  Purple, 

Veritable  Pourpree  Hative.      Duhamd,  12*  t.  8. 


*  of  Nursery  Catalogues. 


PEACHES. 

Peche  du  Vin.      Of  the  French  Catalogues. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
pale  lively  rose.  Fruit  middle-sized,  rather  more  broad 
than  long,  somewhat  depressed  at  the  apex,  having  a 
well  marked  suture,  and  a  rather  deep  cavity  at  the  base. 
Skin  pale  yellow  or  straw  colour  next  the  wall,  with  a 
mixture  of  scarlet  dots  ;  but  of  a  rather  dull  red,  and 
marbled  with  a  deep  purple,  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
melting,  yellowish  white,  but  red  at  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich,  of  an  excel- 
lent flavour.  Stone  rugged,  oval,  sharp-pointed. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August,  ten  or  fourteen 
days  before  the  Noblesse. 

This  little  Peach  has  long  been  known  in  France,  but 
not  in  this  country.  It  appears  to  have  been  introduced, 
a  few  years  ago,  by  Mr.  Neil,  who  sold  two  of  the  plants 
to  Mr.  Padley  for  five  guineas ;  hence  it  has  obtained 
Mr.  Padley 's  name,  as  well  as  that  of  Mr.  Neil.  It  is 
much  grown,  as  M.  Noisette  has  informed  me,  by  the 
gardeners  of  Montreuil,  and  known  to  them  as  the 
Peche  du  Vin. 

36.  NEW  BELLEGARDE.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

New  Galande,  1 

Brentford  Mignonne,    J 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small, 
bright  crimson.  Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  a  little 
more  long  than  broad,  with  a  narrowed  apex,  and  a 
very  shallow  suture.  Skin  pale  yellow  next  the  wall : 
but  of  a  deep  red,  marbled  and  shaded  with  a  deeper 
colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  and 
melting,  but  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates. 
Juice  plentiful,  rich,  and  very  highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

This  very  handsome  and  excellent  Peach  has  been 
sold  by  Mr.  Ronalds  of  Brentford,  under  the  name  of 
Brentford  Mignonne,  who  informs  me  it  was  raised  by 


PEACHES.  265 

a  friend  of  his  from  seed.  Its  characters  being  those  of 
the  Bellegarde,  that  name  has  been  assigned  it  in  pre- 
ference to  that  of  a  Mignonne. 

37.  NEW  ROYAL  CHARLOTTE. 

Royal  Charlotte.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  542. 

Queen  Charlotte.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  38. 

Kew  Early  Purple.     Alton's  Epitome. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
middle-sized,  dark  red.  Fruit  rather  above  the  middle 
size,  somewhat  narrow  at  the  apex,  and  more  swelled  on 
one  side  of  the  suture  than  on  the  other.  Skin  pale 
greenish  white  on  the  shaded  side ;  but  of  a  full  deep 
red,  and  marbled  with  still  deeper  colour  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  greenish  white,  but  pale  red  next  the 
stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich, 
and  extremely  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

I  have  named  this  the  New  Royal  Charlotte,  to 
distinguish  it  from  No.  14. 

38.  NIVETTE.     Duhamel,  SJ.  t.  28. 
Nivette  Veloutee.     Ib. 

Nivette.  Miller,  No.  26.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  546. 

Veloutee  Tardive.     Bon.  Jard.  1827.  P-  278. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small, 
pale  red.  Fruit  pretty  large,  somewhat  ovate,  with  a 
shallow  suture,  and  a  rather  depressed  apex.  Skin 
greenish  yellow  next  the  wall ;  but  when  exposed  to 
the  sun,  of  a  lively  red,  shaded  and  marbled  with  a  few 
dashes  of  a  deeper  colour.  Flesh  when  fully  ripe,  of  a 
pale  yellow,  but  very  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  plentiful,  and  of  an  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  September. 

39.  PETITE  MIGNONNE.    G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  550. 


266  PEACHES. 

Double  de  Troyes.     Duhamel,  3.  t.  4. 

Peche  de  Troyes.     Ib. 

Petite  Mignonne.     Ib. 

Early  Mignonne.     Miller,  3. 

Small  Mignonne.     Ib. 

Mignonette.  Ib. 

Leaves  crenate  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small. 
fruit  below  the  middle  size,  somewhat  globular,  but 
compressed  near  the  stalk,  which  is  inserted  in  a  small 
deep  cavity.  Suture  rather  deep,  extending  from  the 
base  to  the  apex,  which  is  terminated  by  a  flattish  obtuse 
nipple.  Skin  yellowish  white  next  the  wall,  but  of  a 
fine  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  with  a  rosy 
colour  next  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
plentiful,  and  richly  flavoured.  Stone  small,  oblong, 
and  thick. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August. 

40.  POURPREE    HATIVE.       Duhamel,   15.     t.  11. 
G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  547- 

Vineux.     Ib. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  large, 
bright  rose.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  globular, 
depressed  at  the  apex,  having  a  deep  suture  extending 
from  the  base  and  across  the  summit.  Skin  pale  yellow- 
ish white  next  the  wall,  but  of  a  deep  mottled  red  or 
purple  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  pale  yellow- 
ish white,  but  very  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  plentiful,  of  a  rich  vinous  flavour> 
Stone  middle-sized,  rugged,  broadly-ovate,  blunt  at  the 
summit,  not  pointed. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  or  beginning  of  September. 

41.  PRESIDENT.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  54. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small, 
deep  red.  Fruit  large,  roundish,  approaching  to  oval, 
with  a  shallow  suture.  Skin  very  downy,  dull  red 
next  the  sun,  pale  yellowish  green  in  the  shade.  Flesh 


PEACHES.  267 

whitish ;  but  deeply  rayed  with  red  next  the  stone, 
from  which  it  separates  very  freely.  Juice  plentiful, 
rich,  and  high-flavoured.  Stone  oval,  pointed,  and 
very  rugged. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September. 

This  is  an  American  Peach  of  great  merit,  lately 
introduced  into  this  country.  As  it  ripens  late,  it 
requires  to  be  planted  against  a  south  wall,  and  care 
must  be  taken  that  it  is  perfectly  ripe  before  being 
gathered. 

42.  PURPLE  ALBERGE.  Langley,  p.  104.  t.  30. 
fig.  5.  G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  546. 
Miller,  No.  18. 

Red  Alberge.     Ib. 

Alberge  Jaune.     Duhainel,  5.  t.  5« 

Peche  Jaune.     Ib. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small, 
bright  pale  crimson.  Fruit  middle-sized,  nearly  globular, 
having  a  pretty  deep  suture  extending  from  the  base  to 
the  apex.  Stalk  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Skin 
yellow  next  the  wall ;  but  on  the  sunny  side  of  a  deep 
red  or  purple  colour,  which  extends  nearly  round  the 
fruit.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  but  of  a  soft  red  next  the 
stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful  and 
highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

The  Purple  Alberge  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7, 
on  an  east  wall,  August  3.  O.  S.,  or  August  14.  N.  S. 

A  very  neat  and  hardy  little  peach,  well  deserving  of 
cultivation.  It  has  for  several  years  ripened  perfectly 
well  upon  an  open  standard  in  the  front  of  Mr.  Kirke's 
house,  in  his  nursery  at  Brompton.  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iv.  p.  513. 

MILLER  has  made  his  Purple  or  Red  Alberge  a 
synonym  of  the  Rossanna,  which,  however,  does  not 
belong  to  the  same  DIVISION  ;  the  great  similarity  be* 


268  PEACHES. 

tween  the  two  fruits  has  led  many  gardeners  to  confound 
them.  The  advantage  of  a  sinoptical  arrangement  of 
these  fruits,  in  which  the  glands  are  made  a  foundation 
of  the  DIVISIONS,  is  clearly  manifest ;  for,  without  con- 
sulting the  simple  character,  the  difference  between  the 
Alberge  and  the  Rossanna  would,  even  now,  have  been 
left  in  a  state  of  uncertainty. 

43.  RAMBOUILLET.     Langley,  t.  33.  f.  3.      Miller, 
No.  SI. 

Rambullion.     Ib. 

Leaves  crenate.  Flowers  large.  Fruit  middle-sized, 
rather  more  long  than  broad,  and  divided  by  a  deep 
suture.  Skin  pale  yellow  next  the  wall,  but  of  a  fine 
red  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  bright  yellow,  but 
deep  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
rich,  of  a  vinous  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

This  peach  appears  not  to  be  known  by  any  of  our 
modern  cultivators  ;  yet,  should  it  fall  in  their  way,  the 
above  description,  although  defective,  will  enable  them 
to  distinguish  it  from  any  other  sort. 

44.  RED  MAGDALEN.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  542.     Alton's  Epitome. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small,  dark  dull  red.  Fruit  middle-sized,  rather  more 
broad  than  long.  Suture  deep,  extending  nearly  half 
an  inch  beyond  the  centre  of  the  apex  ;  swelled  much 
more  on  one  side  of  it  than  on  the  other,  and  having  £ 
wide  cavity  at  the  base.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white  next 
the  wall,  but  of  a  very  deep  red,  interspersed  with  a  few 
ash-coloured  and  dark  specks  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
melting  and  white,  but  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  plentiful,  and  of  a  very  good  flavour. 
Stone  oblong  and  thick. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 


PEACHES.  269 

This  is  a  good  peach,  but  apt  to  be  mildewed  when 
planted  upon  a  cold  soil. 

I  have  not  quoted  any  synonyms  under  this  head  ;  for, 
although  it  may  have  been  sold  under  different  names  by 
different  nurserymen,  it  does  not  follow  that  these  names 
should  be  considered  as  synonymous. 

45.  ROSSANNA.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  551.  Miller,  No.  18. 

Rossanne.     Duhamel,  No.  6. 

Alberge  Jaune.     Bon.  Jard.  1827-  p.  277- 

Peche  Jaune.     Ib. 

St.  Laurent  Jaune.     Ib. 

Petite  Roussanne.     Ib. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small, 
pale  dull  red.  Fruit  middle-sized,  something  larger 
than  the  Purple  Alberge,  and  generally  a  little  more 
flattened  ;  but  it  has  a  similar  suture,  extending  to  the 
apex,  where  is  implanted  a  small  sharp  pointed  nipple. 
Skin  yellow  next  the  wall,  but  on  the  sunny  side  of  a 
deep  red  or  purple  colour,  which  extends  nearly  round 
the  fruit.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  but  red  at  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  and  of  a  good 
flavour. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  September. 

The  glands  on  the  leaves  form  an  unerring  character, 
and,  indeed,  the  only  one  by  which  this  peach  and  the 
Purple  Alberge  can  be  distinguished.  Had  DUHAMEL 
been  aware  of  the  importance  of  this  character,  his  Traite 
des  Arbres  Fruitiers,  as  far  as  regards  Peaches  and 
Nectarines,  would  have  been  invaluable,  and  the  dis- 
crepancies between  him  and  modern  authors  avoided. 
In  the  Bon  Jardinier,  the  Roussanne  and  Alberge  Jaune 
are  made  the  same  ;  but  that  they  are  distinct  the 
glands  are  evidence  ;  and  that  the  Purple  Alberge,  and 
the  Rossanna,  described  by  me,  are  those  intended  by 


270  PEACHES. 

DUHAMEL,  is  clear,  not  only  from  his  description  of 
both,  but  by  his  Ordre  de  Maturite. 

46.  ROYAL  GEORGE.     Miller,  Ed.  2.  No.  14.      G. 
Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  542.      Pom.  Mag. 
t.  119. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  nearly  globular. 
Suture  deep,  especially  at  the  apex,  where  it  ex- 
tends almost  two  thirds  across.  Skin  of  a  yellowish 
white  next  the  wall,  sprinkled  with  numerous  red  dots ; 
but  of  a  deep  red,  and  slightly  marbled  with  a  deeper 
colour  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  melting,  yel- 
lowish white,  but  very  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich,  and  high-flavoured. 
Stone  ovate,  slightly  furrowed. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  September. 

There  is  very  little  doubt  but  that  this  is  the  Royal 
George  of  both  H ITT  and  MILLER,  although  evidently 
not  the  Royal  George  of  SWITZER,  and  may  therefore 
be  considered  as  the  original  Royal  George.  It  is  a 
most  excellent  peach,  and  a  very  beautiful  figure  of  it  is 
given  in  the  Pomological  Magazine.  There  are,  it  is 
true,  several  peaches  sold  in  the  nurseries  under  this 
name  ;  but  this  is  the  sort  most  generally  allowed  the 
right  one. 

47.  ROYAL  GEORGE    MIGNONNE.       G.  Lindl.  in 
Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  542. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small,  dark  dull  red.  Fruit  middle-sized,  a  little  ovate, 
mostly  narrowed  at  the  apex,  and  terminated  by  a  small 
nipple.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white,  sprinkled  with  nu- 
merous red  dots  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a  very  bright  red, 
and  marbled  with  a  deeper  colour,  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  but  of  a  pale  red  at  the  stone, 
from  which  it  separates.  Juice  sugary  and  rich. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 


PEACHES.  271 

This  very  handsome  Peach  has  been  sold  by  Mr. 
Ronalds,  of  Brentford,  who  informs  me  it  was  raised 
from  seed  by  a  friend  of  his,  but  when  and  where  he  did 
not  mention. 

48.  ROYAL  KENSINGTON.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  7. 
G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  544. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
pale  rose.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  flattened  at 
the  apex,  and  swelled  a  little  more  on  one  side  of  the 
suture  than  on  the  other.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow 
next  the  wall,  sprinkled  with  numerous  red  dots,  but  of 
a  fine  dark  red,  and  marbled  with  a  deeper  colour  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  pale  greenish  yellow,  with  a  few 
red  streaks  near  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
rich,  and  of  a  very  highly  vinous  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

The  name  of  this  very  beautiful  and  excellent  Peach 
originated  with  Mr.  Forsyth.  He  says  it  was  sent  from 
France  to  her  Majesty  Queen  Charlotte,  about  the  year 
1783,  and  planted  in  the  Royal  Gardens  at  Kensington, 
where  he  found  it  in  1784,  and  mentioned  in  the  cata- 
logue of  the  gardens  as  a  new  Peach  from  France.  This 
tree  was  planted  next  to  what  was  then  called  Grim- 
wood's  Royal  George,  with  which  its  characters,  as 
respects  its  flowers  and  leaves>  corresponded.  It  bears  a 
strong  resemblance  to  this  (the  Grosse  Mignonne\  but 
it  appears  to  me  to  be  a  smaller  fruit,  and  certainly  in  its 
propagation  I  have  found  it  the  most  hardy  of  the  two. 

49.  SMOOTH-LEAVED  ROYAL  GEORGE.      G.  LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  544.     Forsyth. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
fine  deep  rose.  Fruit*  above  the  middle  size,  nearly 
globular,  but  a  little  depressed  at  the  apex,  and  the  su- 
ture almost  obscure.  Skin  yellowish  white  next  the 
wall,  sprinkled  with  numerous  minute  red  dots,  but  of  a 
beautiful  red  or  carmine  colour  on  the  sunny  side. 


PEACHES. 

Flesh  melting,  yellowish  white,  except  near  the  stone, 
where  it  is  deeply  stained  with  red,  which  at  the  apex 
reaches  nearly  through  to  the  skin.  Juice  plentiful, 
sugary,  and  of  a  high  vinous  flavour.  Stone  small, 
deeply  rugged. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  September.  This  is  not 
only  one  of  the  handsomest,  but  one  of  the  best  peaches 
in  our  collections,  not  excepting  the  Bellegarde,  and 
cannot  be  too  extensively  known.  The  name  appears 
to  have  originated  with  the  late  Mr.  Lee  of  Hammer- 
smith. 

50.  SPRING   GROVE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  214. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.97- 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
pale  blush.  Fruit  middle-sized,  globular,  broadest  at 
the  base,  with  a  very  shallow  suture.  Skin  greenish 
yellow  next  the  wall,  but  of  a  bright  crimson  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  yellow  to  the  stone,  from 
which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich,  and  high- 
flavoured.  Stone  rather  large,  obovate,  pointed. 

Ripe  about  the  end  of  August. 

This  peach  was  raised  by  Mr.  Knight  of  Downton 
Castle,  from  a  stone  of  Neil's  Early  Purple,  and  the 
pollen  of  the  Red  Nutmeg.  It  differs  from  its  female 
parent  in  being  a  much  rounder  fruit. 

51.  SUPERB    ROYAL.      Forsyth,  Ed.   3.  87.       G. 
LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  544. 

Royal  Sovereign.     Nurs.  Catalogues.  i 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
deep  rose.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  globular,  but 
a  little  narrowed  at  the  apex,  and  a  little  more  full  on 
one  side  of  the  suture,  than  on  the  other.  Skin  pale 
greenish  yellow  next  the  wall,  sprinkled  with  numerous 
red  dots,  but  of  a  rather  dull  red,  and  marbled  with  a 
deeper  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  pale 
greenish  yellow,  but  tinged  with  red  next  the  stone, 


PEACHES.  273 

from  which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  rich,  and 
high-flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

It  is  probable  this  peach  may  be  sold  under  other 
names  in  the  nurseries.  Two  trees  were  planted  against 
a  south  \vall  in  Mr.  Lee's  private  garden  at  Hammer- 
smith, under  the  above  name,  which  proved  to  be  one 
and  the  same  fruit. 

52.  TETON  DE  VENUS.     Hitt,  p.  323.     Miller,  24. 
Duhamel,  p.  32.  t.  23.  Bon  Jard.  1827.  P-  278.  Jard. 
Fruitier,  t.  22.       G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  546. 

Leaves  deeply  crenate,  with  globose  glands,  and  some- 
what puckered  on  each  side  of  the  midrib.  Flowers 
small,  pale  rose,  edged  with  carmine.  Fruit  large,  a 
little  more  long  than  broad,  divided  by  a  wide  and  deep 
suture,  extending  from  the  base  to  the  apex,  where  it 
is  terminated  by  a  broad,  prominent,  obtuse  nipple,  and 
having  a  wide  cavity  at  the  base.  Skin  pale  greenish 
yellow  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a  lively  red,  and  marbled 
with  a  deeper  colour,  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting, 
greenish  yellow,  but  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  sugary,  and  of  an  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September. 

I  have  examined  the  leaves  of  many  trees  of  this 
kind  in  the  nurseries  in  the  Duke  of  Devonshire's  gar- 
den, and  also  in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick; 
and  I  have  uniformly  found  them  to  be  more  deeply 
and  more  acutely  crenate  than  those  on  any  other 
glandular-leaved  variety. 

SECT.  III.  —  Pavies,  or  Clingstones. 

53.  BRADDICK'S  AMERICAN.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  553. 

Braddick's  North  American.     Ib. 
American  Clingstone.     Nurs.  Catalogues. 

T 


274  PEACHES. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  small, 
pale  blush.  Fruit  middle  sized,  somewhat  narrower  at 
the  apex  than  at  the  base,  with  a  considerable  fulness 
on  one  side  of  the  suture,  which  is  rather  deeply  marked. 
Skin  pale  yellow,  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  pale  yellow,  quite  to  the  stone,  to  which  it  firmly 
adheres.  Juice  plentiful,  pretty  good. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

This  is  not  Braddick's  American  Peach  of  the  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  205.  1. 13.,  which  appears  to  be  a 
melting  peach.  Some  description  ought  to  have  ac- 
companied that  plate. 

54.  CATHARINE.  Langley,Pom.t.33.f.6.  G.LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  549.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  9. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands,  narrower  than 
in  many  others,  and  puckered  on  each  side  of  the  mid- 
rib. Flowers  small,  reddish.  Fruit  above  the  middle 
size,  rather  more  long  than  broad,  generally  more 
swelled  on  one  side  of  the  suture  than  on  the  other,  and 
terminated  by  a  small  nipple,  very  uneven  at  the  base. 
Skin  pale  yellowish  green  on  the  side  next  the  wall,  and 
thickly  sprinkled  with  red  dots ;  but  on  the  sunny  side 
it  is  of  a  beautiful  red,  marked  and  streaked  with  a 
darker  colour.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  but  very 
red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  closely  adheres.  Juice 
plentiful,  and,  if  thoroughly  ripened,  in  a  fine  warm 
season  it  is  richly  flavoured.  Stone  middle-sized, 
roundish  oval,  very  slightly  pointed.  ^ 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  October. 

The  Catherine  Peach  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in 
1727>  on  a  south  wall,  September  15th,  O.  S.,  or  Sep- 
tember 26th,  N.  S.  Langley. 

This  tree  should  always  be  planted  against  a  south 
wall,  in  order  to  give  it  every  advantage  in  ripening ; 
and,  to  be  eaten  in  perfection,  it  should  have  been 
gathered  a  few  days.  There  is  no  doubt  as  to  this  being 


PEACHES.  275; 

an  English  peach  ;  but  it  appears  from  an  old  catalogue 
of  the  Chartreux  Garden,  that  it  was  long  since  sent  to 
France  under  the  name  of  La  Belle  Catherine,  although 
no  trace  of  it  is  to  be  found  in  the  great  French  works 
on  Pomology. 

55.  INCOMPARABLE.     Alton's  Epitome.     G.  LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  549. 

Pavie  Admirable.     Ib.  553. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small, 
pale.  Fruit  large,  of  a  roundish. figure,  swelling  a  little 
more  on  one  side  of  the  suture  than  on  the  other. 
Skin  pale  yellow  next  the  wall;  but  of  a  pale  red, 
shaded  with  light  scarlet  or  deep  crimson,  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  but  red  at  the  stone,  to  which 
it  closely  adheres.  Juice  sugary,  and  well  flavoured. 
Stone  roundish,  and  almost  smooth. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  October. 

The  Pavie  Admirable  is  now,  for  the  first  time,  made 
a  synonyme  of  the  Incomparable,  the  latter  having  been 
established  in  Mr.  Aiton's  Epitome.  The  name  of 
Pavie  Admirable  is  no  where  to  be  found,  I  believe, 
previously  to  its  insertion  in  my  Plan  of  an  Orchard, 
published  in  1796,  whence  it  was  copied  into  Mr.  For- 
syth's  book,  in  1802. 

56.  MONSTROUS  PAVIE  OF  POMPONNE.      G.  LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  546. 

Monstrous  Pavy  of  Pomponne.     Miller,  No.  29. 

Pavie  Rouge  de  Pomponne.    Duhamel,  p.  35.  t.  26. 

Pavie  de  Pomponne.     Lelieur. 
Pavie  Cornu,  ~\ 

Pavie  Rouge,  I  Duhamel,  Vol.  ii.  p.  37. 

Pavie  Monstrueux,  J 
Gros  Melecoton,  1 

Gros  Persique  Rouge,  \BonJard.  1827.  p.  279. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  large, 
and  crumpled  at  their  margins.  Fruit  very  large,  some- 


BEACHES. 

times  measuring  fourteen  inches  in  circumference,  some-> 
what  oval,  with  a  well  defined  suture  extending  from 
the  base  to  the  apex,  which  narrowed,  and  terminates 
with  an  obtuse  nipple.  Skin  yellowish  white  next  the 
wall;  but  on  the  exposed  side  of  a  deep  intense  red,  a 
lighter  part  of  which  reaches  nearly  round  the  fruit. 
Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  but  very  red  at  the  stone, 
to  which  it  closely  adheres.  Stone  small  in  proportion 
to  the  size  of  the  fruit. 

Ripe  in  a  warm  and  dry  season  the  middle  or  towards 
the  end  of  October,  when  the  flavour  is  pretty  good ; 
but  in  cold  seasons  it  will  not  ripen  abroad  in  this 
country. 

DUHAMEL  says,  they  have  in  France  "  a  Red  Pavie, 
but  which  differs  so  little  from  the  preceding  one,  that 
it  can  scarcely  be  considered  as  a  variety ;  nevertheless 
it  ripens  earlier,  and  is  not  so  large.  It  is  flattened  at 
the  apex,  where  the  extremity  of  the  suture  forms  a 
hollow,  no  nipple  being  perceptible.  It  is  very  round 
at  the  stalk,  which  is  placed  in  an  oval  hollow,  not  very 
wide,  but  very  deep/*  The  colour  appears  to  be  similar 
to  the  other,  and  probably  no  real  difference  exists  when 
both  are  budded  upon  the  same  sort  of  stock,  and  grown 
upon  the  same  wall.  This,  in  all  cases,  is  the  only  cer- 
tain test,  and  on  which  reliance  can  be  safely  placed. 

57.  OLD  NEWINGTON.  Langley,  Pom.  t.  31.  f.  1. 
Miller,  No.  20.  G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  538.  4 

Newington,     Parkinson,  No.  8. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale  rose.  Fruit  large,  somewhat  globular. 
Skin  pale  yellowish  white  on  the  side  next  the  wall, 
but  of  a  beautiful  red  marbled  with  dashes  and  streaks 
of  a  deeper  colour  where  fully  exposed  to  the  sun. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  but  very  red  at  the  stone,  to> 


PEACHES.  #77' 

which  it  firmly  adheres.     Juice  rich,  and  of  a  high 
vinous  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

58.  PA  VIE  MADELEINE.    G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  538.     Duhamel,  No.  9- 

Pavie  Blanc.     Ib. 

Persique  a  Gros  Fruit  Blanc.     Bon  Jard.  1822. 

Melecoton.     Ib. 

Merlicoton.    Ib. 

Myrecoton.     Ib. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale  blush.  Fruit  middle  sized,  somewhat 
broadly  globular.  Suture  rather  deep  at  the  base,  but 
shallow  at  the  apex,  where  is  sometimes  implanted  a 
small  acute  nipple.  Skin  pale  yellowish  white  next  the 
wall ;  but  of  a  beautiful  red,  marbled  and  streaked  with 
a  deeper  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  pale 
yellowish  white  to  the  stone,  to  which  it  closely  adheres. 
Juice  sugary,  and  well  flavoured.  Stone  middle  sized, 
shortly  ovate,  thick,  not  deeply  rugged. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

This  has  been  considered  by  some  to  be  the  same  as 
Smith's  Newington  ;  but  it  appears  to  me  to  be  a  dif- 
ferent fruit,  being  always  more  broad  than  long,  while 
the  other  is  always  more  long  than  broad,  and  has  also 
more  colour  at  the  stone. 

59.  PORTUGAL.     Hitt,  p.  322.   Miller,  No.  23.    G. 
Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  553. 

Leaves  crenate.  Flowers  small.  Fruit  above  the 
middle  size,  somewhat  globular.  Skin  pale  yellow  next 
the  wall,  sprinkled  with  numerous  red  dots  ;  but  of  a 
deep  red  or  purple  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
firm,  yellowish  white,  but  of  a  faint  red  at  the  stone,  to 
which  it  closely  adheres.  Juice  rich  and  vinous.  Stone 
small,  deeply  furrowed. 

Ripe  the  middle  or  towards  the  end  of  September. 
T  3 


278  PEACHES. 

60.  SMITH'S  NEWINGTON.  Langley,  p.  101.  t.  28. 
fig.l.  G.Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.5,  p.  538. 
Miller,  No.  10. 

Early  Newington.     Ib. 

Smith's  Early  Newington.     Hitt,  p.  320. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  pale  rose.  Fruit  middle  sized,  rather  oval,  a 
little  narrowed  at  the  apex,  and  more  swelled  on  one 
side  of  the  suture  than  on  the  other.  Skin  pale  yel- 
low or  straw  colour  next  the  wall ;  but  of  a  lively  red, 
marked  with  light  and  dark  purple  dashes  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  firm,  pale  yellow,  but  of  a  light  red  next 
the  stone,  to  which  it  closely  adheres.  [Juice  excellent. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

This  peach  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  1727  on  a 
south-east  wall,  July  25th,  O.  S.,  or  Aug.  5th,  N.  S. 
Langley. 

A  Selection  of  Peaches  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 

Harrington             -  -     21  Neil's  Early  Purple  -  35 

Bellegarde       .    -  -20  New  Noblesse  -  11 

Bourdine  -       4  New  Royal  Charlotte  -  37 

Catharine                -  -54  Noblesse  -  12 

Chancellor         -  -     22  Royal  Kensington  -  47 

Early  Anne  •-      6  Royal  George         -  *  46 

Ford's  Seedling  *                 9  Smith's  Newington  -  60 

Grosse  Mignonne  -     27  Smooth-leaved        Royal 

Late  Admirable     -  -     29         George  -  49 

Madeleine  de  Courson       -     32  Vanguard  <•  1£ 

Malta          -  -     10 

Northern  Counties  of  England  and  Southern  of  Scotland. 

Barrington         -  -  21  Ford's  Seedling      ">  .^v  -  9 

Bellegarde             -  -  20  Grosse  Mignonne  -  27 

Bourdine         -  •*         -  4  Late  Admirable     .:  f?;  -  29 

Catharine  -  54  Malta        -  -  10 

Chancellor  -  22  Neil's  Early  Purple  -  35 

Early  Vineyard     -  -  25  New  Bellegarde     -  -  36 


PEACHES. 


279 


New  Noblesse 

New  Royal  Charlotte 

Noblesse 

Purple  Alberge 


Harrington 

Bellegarde 

Bourdine 

Chancellor 

Early  Vineyard 

Malta 


-  11  Royal  Kensington  -  47 

-  37  Royal  George  -  46 

-  12  Smith's  Newington  -  60 

-  42  Vanguard             -  -  16 

Highlands  of  Scotland. 

-  21  Neil's  Early  Purple  -  35 

-  20  New  Bellegarde  -  36 
,sv    4  New  Royal  Charlotte  -  37 

-  22  Noblesse  -  12 

-  25  Purple  Alberge  -         -  42 

-  10  Vanguard              -  -  16 


In  the  Highlands  of  Scotland  the  south  and  south- 
east aspects  alone  can  be  appropriated  to  Peaches  with 
any  chance  of  success. 

Propagation,  Pruning,  and  Training,  will  be  found 
at  the  end  of  NECTARINES. 


INDEX  TO  THE  PEACHES. 


Acton  Scot 

Admirable        ';'^ 

Admirable  Tardive          -  •'•**•' 

Alberge  Jaune.  BON  JARD. 

Alberge  Jaune.  DUHAMEL 

Almond  Peach         -  <• 

American  Clingstone 

Anne 

Avant  P&he  Blanche 

Avant  P&he  Rouge 

Barrington  *T 

Belle  Chevreux  - 

Bellegarde 

Belle  de  Paris         -?v« 

Belle  de  Vitry.  DUHAMEL 

Belle  de  Vitry.    BON  JARD. 

Bella 

Bourdin 

Bourdine 

Braddick's  American 


19  Bradd.  North  American  -  53 
24  Brentford  Mignonne  -  36 

3  Brovon  Nutmeg     '•''» ' -•  -  14 

45  Buckingham  Mignonne  -  21 

42  Catherine              -  -  54 

1  Chancelliere            •  -  22 
53  Chancellor  -  -  22 

6  Double  de  Troyes  -  39 

18  Double  Montagne  5 

14  Double  Swalsh  -  23 

21  Early  Admirable    -  -  24 

2  Early  Anne         -  -  6 

20  Early  Downton         -  7 
10  Early  Galande       -  -  20 

3  Early  Mignonne         -  -  39 
24  Early  Newingtoji  -  -  60 

3  Early  Purple  -  35 

4  Early  Vineyard  -  25 
4  Flat  Peach  of  China  -  8 

53  Ford's  Seedling        *  -  9 

T  4 


280 


PEACHES. 


French  Mignonne    - 
Galande         - 
George  the  Fourth 
Grimwood's  Royal  George 
Grimiu.  New  Royal  George 
Gros  Melecoton 
Grosse  Mignonne 
Gros  Persique  Rouge 
Hemskirke 
Hemskirk 
Incomparable 
Italian      -         -^  -     • 
Java  Peach 

Johnson  s  Early  Purple 
Johnsons  Purple  Avant 
Kew  Early  Purple     - 
Large  French  Mignonne     - 
Late  Admirable 
Lockyer's  Mignonne 
Lockyer's  Peach 
Lord    Fauconberg's     Mig- 
nonne 

Lord   Falconbridge's  Mig- 
nonne        - 
Madeleine  Blanche 
Madeleine  de  Courson 
Madeleine  Rouge     - 
Malta 

Malte  de  Normandie 

Melecoton 

MellisJis  Favourite 

Merlicoton 

Mignonne.     - 

Mignonette 

Millet's  Mignonne 

Montagne  Blanche     - 

Montaubon 

Monstrous  Pavie  of  Pom- 
ponne 

Monstrous  Pavy  of  Pom- 
ponne         -  - 

Myrecoton        - 

Narbonne 

Neat's  Early  Purple 


27  Neil's  Early  Purple  -  -  35 

20  New  Bellegarde  -  36 

26  New  Noblesse        -  -  11 

27  New  Galande            -  -  36 
27  New  Royal  Charlotte  -  37 
56  Netvington            -  -  57 

27  Nivette      -  -  38 
56  Nivette  veloutee          -  -  38 

28  Noblesse  -  12 

28  Noire  de  Montr  euil  -  20 
55  Nutmeg               -  -  14 
10  Old  Newington  -  57 

8  Old  Royal  Charlotte  -  13 

35  Padleys  Early  Purple  -  35 

35  Pavie  Admirable        -  -  55 

37  Pavie  Blanc           -  -  58 

27  Pavie  Carnu     -,;-,.;  -  56 

29  Pavie  Madeleine     -  -  58 

30  Pavie  Monstrueux     -  -  56 

30  Pavie  Rouge          -  -  56 
Pavie  Rouge  de  Pomponne  56 

31  P&he  de  Malte         -  -  10 
P&he  de  Troyes         -  -  39 

31  P&he  du  Vin  -  35 

17  P&he  Jaune.  BON  JARD.  45 

33  P&he  Jaune.  DUHAMEL  -  42 

33  Pfrhe  Malte  -  10 

10  Persique  a  Gros  Fruit  Blanc  56 

10  Petite  Mignonne       -  -  39 

58  Petite  Roussanne       -  -  45 

12  Portugal               -  -  59 

58  Pourpree  Hative      -  -  40 

27  President              -  -  41 

39  Purple  Alberge     -  -  42 

33  Purple  Avant             *  -  3$ 
17      Queen  Charlotte     -  -  37 

34  Rambouillet  -  43 
Red  Alberge           *  -  42 

56     Red  Magdalen      r<  .*; ;  -  44 

Red  Magdalen     -  -  32 

56  Red  Nutmeg         -  -  14 

58  Rouge  Paysanne      -  -  32 

4  Rossanna              -  -  45 

35  Rossanne        -          -  -  45 


NECTARINES. 


281 


Royal        -  -  -29 

Royale                -  -  29 

Royal  Charlotte          -  -37 

Royal  George  -  4-6 

Royal  George  Mignonne  47 

Royal  Kensington  -  48 

Royal  Sovereign        -  -  -  51 

Rumbullion             -  -  43 

Saint  Laurent  Jaune  -  45 

Sion         -             f  5 

Small  Mignonne        -  -  39 

Smith's  Early  Newington  -  60 

Smith's  Newington  -  60 
Smooth-leaved            Royal 

George               -  -  49 


Spring  Grove         -  -  50 

Sulhampstead            -  -  15 

Superb  Royal  -  51 

Swalze            .         »  -  23 

Skuolze         -            *  -  23 

Teton  de  Ve"nus     s   * >%  -  52 

Vanguard             -  -  16 

Veloutee  de  Merlet  -  27 

Veloutee  Tardive       -  -  38 

Veritable  Pourpree  Hative  35 

Vineuse.  DUHAMEL  -  40 

Vineuse.  LELIEUR     -  -  27 

Violet  Hotive  -  20 

White  Magdalen  -  17 

White  Nutmeg         -  *  18 


CHAP.  XIII. 

NECTARINES. 
SECT.  I.  — Melting,  pale  fruited. 

1.  FAIRCHILD'S.  O.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans.  VoL  v, 
p.  548.  Hitt.  Ed.  3.  p.  314. 

Fairchild's  Early.     Miller,  No.  1. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  the  smallest  of  all  the  nectarines,  being 
only  about  four  inches  and  a  half  in  circumference, 
nearly  globular,  a  little  flattened  at  its  apex.  Skin 
bright  yellow  next  the  wall,  shaded  with  deep  scarlet 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  bright  yellow  to 
the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  rich,  with  a 
little  perfume*  Stone  obtuse,  nearly  smooth. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  beautiful  little  Nectarine  was  raised  by  Thomas 
Fairchild,  a  gardener  at  Hoxton  near  London.  He 
published  his  City  Gardener  in  17^2,  and  assisted  in 


282  NECTARINES. 

the  writing  of  the  first  edition  of  Miller's  Dictionary, 
8vo.  in  1724.  It  requires  to  be  budded  upon  the  pear 
plum. 

2.  HUNT'S  LARGE  TAWNY.     Nursery  Catalogue. 

Leaves  double  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large,  deep  rose  colour.  Fruit  rather  small,  but  larger 
than  the  last,  about  five  and  a  half  or  six  inches  in  cir- 
cumference, somewhat  ovate,  a  little  compressed  on  one 
side  of  the  suture,  and  fuller  on  the  other,  with  a  pro- 
minent apex.  Skin  pale  orange,  shaded  with  deep 
red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  interspersed  with  numerous 
russetty  specks.  Flesh  deep  orange,  melting,  of  an 
excellent  flavour,  and  separates  from  the  stone. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  very  excellent  Nectarine  originated  from  the 
preceding  variety  about  the  year  1824,  not  through  the 
seminal  process ;  but,  as  it  appears,  ^y  a  spontaneous 
effort  in  nature  to  enlarge  the  parts  of  fructification. 
In  the  spring  of  1826  I  observed  a  few  of  the  maiden 
plants  in  the  nursery  with  much  larger  blossoms  than 
those  on  the  other  plants,  but  promiscuously  inter- 
mixed among  them  :  which  at  first  led  me  to  suppose 
that  some  other  sort  had  been  introduced  'through  the 
carelessness  of  the  budders  in  the  previous  budding  sea- 
son ;  but  upon  a  close  examination,  I  found  there  was 
not  in  the  whole  collection  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines 
then  in  flower,  one  kind  whose  blossoms  corresponded 
with  these.  I  marked  the  plants,  and  in  the  autumn 
had  two  or  three  potted  of  each  sort.  In  1828  I  placed 
them  under  glass,  and  forced  them  ;  their  blossoms  still 
maintained  their  enlarged  character,  and  were  succeeded 
by  fruit  which  differed  in  no  other  respect  from  the 
original  sort  than  that  of  being  larger,  yet  ripening 
about  the  same  time. 

A  fully  expanded  blossom  of  the  small  Tawny  Nec- 
tarine is  about  seven-eighths  of  an  inch  in  diameter 


NECTARINES.  283 

from  the  extremity  of  one  petal  to  that  of  the  opposite 
one.  In  this  it^  is  an  inch  and  a  quarter,  and  the 
petals  are  imbricated  at  the  base. 

There  appears  to  me  a  great  singularity  in  this  acci- 
dental change  of  character,  and  to  some  it  may  appear 
incredible  ;  but  I  state  it  as  a  fact  that  has  happened 
under  my  own  inspection,  being  perfectly  satisfied  that 
it  had  never  been  observed  previously  by  any  other 
person. 

There  are  other  instances  upon  record  where  a  fruit 
has  spontaneously  changed  its  character  ;  but  none  so 
decidedly  as  this,  which  has  enlarged  its  blossoms,  as 
well  as  its  fruit.  Mr.  Knight  states,  in  the  2d  Vol.  of 
the  Hort.  Trans,  p.  160.,  that  he  has  a  tree  of  the 
White  Magnum  Bonum  plum  forty  years  old,  which 
last  year  produced  on  one  of  its  branches  red  fruit,  per- 
fectly like  the  Red  Magnum  Bonum  ;  but  this  change 
was  not  pennanent.  He  had  also  a  May  Duke  Cherry, 
which  some  years  ago,  on  one  of  its  branches,  had  con- 
stantly oblong  fruit,  ripened  later,  and  were  of  greater 
weight  than  those  on  the  other  part  of  the  tree.  These, 
with  many  other  instances  of  spontaneous  production, 
which  might  be  enumerated,  lead  me  to  conclude  that 
we  may  possibly  have  other  varieties,  both  of  plants  and 
fruits,  which  have  not  originated  from  the  seed. 

3.  HUNT'S   SMALL   TAWNY.     Nursery   Catalogue. 

Hunt's  Early  Tawny.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hori.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  542. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small,  deep  rose  colour.  Fruit  rather  Jarger  than  that 
of  the  Fairchild's,  about  five  inches  in  circumference, 
somewhat  ovate,  a  little  compressed  on  one  side  of  the 
suture,  and  a  little  fuller  on  the  other,  with  a  prominent 
apex.  Skin  pale  orange  on  the  shaded  side  ;  but  when 
exposed  to  the  sun,  shaded  with  deep  red,  intermixed 
with  numerous  russetty  specks.  Flesh  deep  orange. 


284  NECTARINES. 

melting,  juicy,  extremely  well  flavoured,  and  separates" 
from  the  stone* 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

4.  NEATE'S  WHITE. 

New  White.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  548. 

White,  or  Flanders.    Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  p.  30. 

Emmerton's  New  White.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  large. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish,  very  pale  yellowish  green, 
becoming  almost  white  in  the  shade,  and  slightly  tinged 
with  red  next  the  sun*  Flesh  tender  and  juicy,  with  a 
fine  vinous  flavour,  and  separates  from  the  stone,  which 
is  rather  small. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  to  the  middle  of  September. 

This  has  been  supposed  by  some  writers  to  be  the 
same  as  the  Old  White  Nectarine,  cultivated  about 
London,  and  sold  in  the  nurseries  forty  years  ago. 
Those,  however,  who  have  made  it  their  business  to 
propagate  both,  know,  to  their  cost,  that  this  is  not  the 
case.  The  Old  White  could  never  be  made  to  take 
upon  the  Muscle  stock :  on  the  contrary,  the  present 
variety  requires  no  other,  nor  have  we,  in  all  our  col- 
lections, either  Peach  or  Nectarine  that  succeeds  better 
upon  it. 

From  the  best  information  I  have  been  able  to  obtain, 
it  Was  raised  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Neate,  a  magistrate  at 
Whetstone,  near  London,  from  a  seed  of  the  Old  White.  i 
It  was  given  to  Mr.  Emmerton,  a  nurseryman  at  Barnet, 
who  first  sold  it  about  thirty  years  ago.  I  have  not 
quoted  the  figure  in  the  Pom.  Mag.  t.  40.,  in  conse- 
quence of  an  accidental  error  in  the  description,  stating 
the  flesh  to  adhere  to  the  stone. 

I  have  been  induced  to  give  the  name  of  Neate's 
White  to  this  Nectarine,  to  perpetuate  the  name  of 
that  gentleman  with  whom  it  originated. 


NECTARINES.  285 

5.  OLD  WHITE.    O.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  548. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  large. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  ovate.  Skin  pale  yellow- 
ish white,  sprinkled  with  small  pearl-coloured  specks. 
Flesh  melting,  and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice 
sugary  and  highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  to  the  middle  of  September. 

It  is  to  be  feared  that  this  very  excellent  Nectarine,  is 
nearly  lost  from  our  gardens.  I  saw  it  growing  at  Kew  in 
1797,  when  it  was  in  a  flourishing  state.  I  have  found 
considerable  difficulty  in  propagating  it :  those  who 
succeeded  the  best  with  it,  adopted  the  practice  of 
budding  it  upon  some  hardy  Peach.  When  the  Minion 
stock  was  introduced,  it  grew  readily  upon  it ;  but  the 
trees  thus  raised  were  found  to  be  of  but  short  duration. 
There  appears  to  be  considerable  difficulty  in  ascertain- 
ing the  time  when  this  Nectarine  was  brought  into  this 
country,  or  from  whence  it  came.  Mr.  Kirke  informs 
me  that  his  father  was  the  first  who  had  plants  of  it  for 
sale ;  having  been  presented  with  cuttings  by  Sir  Abra- 
ham Pytches,  who  imported  it  from  Asia  about  fifty 
years  ago.  This,  however,  could  not  have  been  the  first 
White  Nectarine  known  in  England,  since  Parkinson 
enumerates  a  White  Nectarine,  No.  6.,  in  1629.  Whe- 
ther it  was  the  same  sort  as  this  cannot  now  be  ascer- 
tained. 

6.  PETERBOROUGH.      G.   Lindl.  in  Hort.    Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  552.     Miller,  No.  10. 

Late  Green.     Ib. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small,  very  dark  crimson.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size, 
somewhat  globular.  Skin  pale  green  next  the  wall, 
tinged  with  muddy  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
greenish  white  to  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October. 


286  NECTARINES. 

In  a  dry  warm  season  this  is  a  good  little  fruit. 
It  should  be  planted  on  a  south  or  south-east  wall  to 
ripen  it  perfectly. 

SECT.  II.  Melting  Red-fruited. 

7.  AROMATIC.      G>  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  551.. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  globular.  Skin 
pale  straw  colour  in  the  shade,  but  of  a  deep  red  or 
blackish  brown  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  pale 
straw  colour,  but  red  at  the  stdne,  from  which  it  sepa- 
rates. Juice  of  a  rich  vinous  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  or  beginning  of  September. 

8.  BRINION.     Switzer,  p.  94. 
Marbled.     Ib. 

Brinion  red  at  stone,     j  N  Catalogues. 

Violet  red  at  stone,       J 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  the  largest  of  the  melting  sorts,  fre- 
quently measuring  eight  inches  and  a  quarter  in  circum- 
ference, a  little  more  long  than  broad,  with  now  and 
then  a  small  nipple  at  the  apex.  Skin  very  pale  yellow 
next  the  wall ;  but  of  a  deep  red  on  the  sunny  side,  very 
much  marbled  with  a  deeper  colour,  occasionally  mixed 
with  a  little  pale  thin  russet.  Flesh  melting,  greenish 
yellow,  but  very  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  sepa- 
rates. Juice  excellent. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  Septem- 
ber. 

The  name  of  Brinion  has  been  continued  to  this 
Nectarine,  from  the  time  of  Switzer,  in  1724. 

It  is  not  a  corruption  from  the  word  Brugnon,  a 
name  by  which  the  French  designate  their  Pavie  Nec- 
tarines ;  but  from  Brin,  a  brindled  or  marbled  colour. 


NECTARINES,  287 

It  is  the  largest  and  best   of  our  melting  Nectarines, 
and  ought  to  be  in  every  good  collection  of  fruit. 

9.  CLAREMONT.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  551. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  renifonn  glands.  Flowers  small. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  slightly  ovate.  Skin  pale  green 
next  the  wall,  but  of  a  deep  muddy  red  next  the  sun, 
intermixed  with  a  little  dark  brown  russet :  as  it  ripens 
the  skin  shrivels  like  that  of  the  Newington.  Flesh 
pale  greenish  white  to  the  stone,  where  it  is  slightly 
tinged  with  red,  and  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
plentiful,  and  excellently  well  flavoured.  Stone  rather 
large,  oblong,  thick,  deeply  rugged. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  Nectarine  was  raised  at  Esher,  in  Surrey,  about 
the  year  1750,  by  John  Greening,  gardener  to  the 
Duke  of  Newcastle,  who  then  lived  at  Claremont.  In 
1759  it  produced  its  first  fruit,  against  a  south  wall,  in 
the  Great  Tool-house  quarter  at  Hampton  Court. 

The  above  description  was  taken  from  fruit  produced 
upon  a  tree  at  Heydon  Hall,  in  Norfolk,  thirty  years 
ago,  which  had  been  purchased  of  Robert  Lowe,  a 
nurseryman  at  Hampton  Wick,  in  1766,  who  had 
propagated  his  stock  from  the  tree  in  the  royal  gardens, 
where  he  had  been  foreman  for  several  years.  It  is 
frequently  sold  in  the  nurseries  under  the  name  of 
Elruge. 

10.  COMMON  ELRUGE.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  551.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  49- 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small,  pale  dull  red.  Fruit  middle-sized,  inclining  to 
oval ;  channel  shallow  at  the  base,  gradually  deeper 
towards  the  apex.  Skin  deep  violet  or  blood  colour, 
when  exposed,  with  minute  brownish  specks ;  paler  in 
the  shade.  Flesh  whitish,  melting,  very  juicy,  rich, 
and  high-flavoured ;  a  little  stained  with  red  next  the 


288  NECTARINES. 

stone,  from  which  it  parts  freely.  Stone  middle-sized, 
oval,  slightly  pointed,  pale,  in  which  it  differs  from  the 
Violet  Hative,  the  stone  of  which  is  deep  red. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

It  is  difficult  to  explain  why  the  name  of  Elruge 
should  have  been  given  to  this  nectarine.  The  true  Elruge 
has  been  so  well  described  by  Miller,  that  it  appears 
marvellous  the  misapplication  of  its  name  should  not 
have  been  discovered  many  years  ago  ;  and,  what  is  still 
more  surprising,  the  original  fruit  is,  perhaps,  no  where 
now  to  be  found.  It  will  be  described  under  the  name 
of  Miller's  Elruge. 

11.  Due    DU    TELLIER'S.      G.   Lindl.    in   Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  551. 

Du  Tellier's.     Alton's  Epitome. 

Due  de  Tello,  1  ,r  ~  ,  7 

-pv     .jj  \  Nurserymen  s  Catalogues. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small,  bright  pale  crimson.  Fruit  above  the  middle 
size,  somewhat  oblong,  compressed  near  the  suture,  and 
having  a  few  obscure  angles  near  the  base,  and  a  little 
narrowed  at  the  apex.  Skin  pale  green  next  the  wall, 
marbled  with  deep  red  or  purple  next  the>  sun,  on  a 
somewhat  tawny  ground.  Flesh  greenish  white,  melt- 
ing, of  a  faint  red  next  the  stone,  from  which  it  sepa- 
rates. Juice  sweet  and  very  well  flavoured.  Stone 
obtuse,  thick. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

This  requires  to  be  budded  upon  the  Pear  Plum. 

12.  MILLER'S  ELRUGE.      G.  Lindl.  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  541. 

Elruge.  Langley,  p.  102.  t.  29.  f.  3.  Miller,  Ed.  8. 
No.  2. 

Elrouge.     Switzer,  p.  92. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  middle-sized,  rather  more  long  than 


NECTARINES.  289 

broad.  Skin  greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded  side  ;  but 
when  exposed  to  the  sun,  of  a  dark  red  or  purple 
colour.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  melting  and  juicy,  of 
a  very  excellent  flavour,  and  separates  from  the  stone. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  nectarine  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7>  on 
a  south  wall,  July  30.  O.S.,  or  August  10.  N.S. 
Langley. 

The  Elruge  nectarine,  like  the  red  Roman,  has  been 
widely  mistaken  by  gardeners,  although,  till  the  intro- 
duction of  Hunt's  small  Tawny,  there  was  not  any 
nectarine  in  this  country,  if  elsewhere,  which  could  be 
arranged  in  the  same  class,  division,  subdivision,  and 
section,  with  the  Elruge  of  Miller.  When  the  classifi- 
cation of  peaches  and  nectarines  was  published  in  the 
Hort.  Trans,  in  1824,  I  expressed  my  doubts  of  the 
sort  being  then  in  existence :  this  impression  is  not 
removed ;  for  notwithstanding  the  circulation  of  that 
paper  by  the  Society  throughout  every  part  of  Great 
Britain,  it  has  not  to  this  day  been  received  into  the 
Chiswick  Garden.  If  any  spirited  nurseryman  would 
offer  a  hundred  guineas  for  its  recovery,  he  would 
amply  repay  himself  by  its  sale. 

Elruge,  or  Elrouge,  is  a  sort  of  lame  anagram  of 
Gurle  or  Gourle,  the  name  of  a  nurseryman  at  Hoddes- 
don,  in  Hertfordshire,  in  the  reign  of  Charles  the 
Second,  who  is  said  to  have  raised  this  nectarine. 

IS.  MURRY.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  552.  Miller,  No.  7. 

Murrey.     Ray,  J. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  rather  more  long  than  broad,  nar- 
row at  the  apex,  with  a  little  more  fulness  on  one  side 
of  the  suture  than  on  the  other.  Skin  dark  red  or 
purple,  pale  green  next  the  wall.  Flesh  pale  greenish 
white,  melting,  and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice 

u 


290  NECTARINES- 

sweet,  and  well  flavoured.     Stone  oblong,  obtuse,  and 
almost  smooth. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

14.  ORD'S  NECTARINE.  G.  Lindl.in  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  v.  p.  554. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small, 
dark  brown.  Fruit  somewhat  below  the  middle  size, 
rather  ovate,  and  swelled  a  little  more  on  one  side  of 
the  suture  than  the  other.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
on  the  side  next  the  wall,  but  of  a  deep  purple  where 
exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  melting,  greenish  yellow, 
with  a  little  red  at  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates. 
Juice  plentiful,  of  a  very  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

15,  PITMASTON  ORANGE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv. 
p.  232.  t.  6.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  544. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  globose  glands.  Flowers  large, 
of  a  beautiful  bright  rose  colour.  Fruit  of  a  good  size, 
wide  at  the  base,  almost  heart-shaped,  the  summit  being 
elongated,  and  terminating  in  an  acute  nipple.  Skin 
smooth,  of  a  dark  brownish  red  on  the  side  exposed  to 
the  sun,  and  of  a  rich  yellow  on  the  other  side  :  at  the 
junction  of  the  columns,  the  red  is  blended  with  the 
yellow,  in  streaks  and  dots,  and  on  the  darkest  part  are 
a  few  streaks  of  an  almost  black  purple  hue.  Flesh 
melting,  deep  yellow  or  orange  colour,  with  a  narrow 
radiated  circle  of  bright  crimson  round  the  stone,  fpm 
which  it  separates.  Juice  plentiful,  high  flavoured, 
and  saccharine.  Stone  rather  small,  narrow,  sharp 
pointed  and  rugged. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August  to  the  beginning  of 
September. 

This  very  valuable  nectarine  was  raised  by  John 
Williams,  Esq.  of  Pitmaston,  near  Worcester,  from  a 
seed  of  the  common  Elruge,  which  ripened  in  1815. 


NECTARINES. 


It  is,  at  present,  the  only  nectarine  in  the  fourth  section 
of  the  second  class,  in  the  synoptical  arrangement, 
which  see,  at  the  end  of  this  article. 

16.  SCARLET.      G.  Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  VoL  5. 
p.  552.     Miller,  No.  4. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers 
small.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  ovate,  generally 
terminating  in  a  small  acute  nipple.  Skin  bright  deep 
scarlet,  tinged  with  violet  on  the  sunny  side  :  pale 
green  next  the  wall.  Flesh  greenish  white,  but  red  at 
the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice  sugary  and 
well  flavoured.  Stone  oval,  acute  pointed,  almost 
smooth. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

17.  TEMPLE.     Langley,  Pom.  t.  30.  f.  1. 
Temple's.     Miller,  No.  9- 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small, 
pale.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  somewhat  ovate,  with 
a  slight  suture.  Skin  greenish  yellow  on  the  shaded 
side,  but  of  a  carnation  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh  pale 
yellow  to  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates.  Juice 
very  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  nectarine  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  17^7r  on  a 
west  wall,  September  4.  O.S.,  or  September  15.  N.  S. 
Langley. 

18.  VERMASH.      Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  29-     O. 
Lindl.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  548. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers, 
large,  deep  rose  colour.  Fruit  small,  roundish,  tapering 
a  little  towards  the  apex.  Skin  very  smooth,  of  an 
intense  red  colour  on  the  side  next  the  sun  ;  greenish 
on  the  other  side.  Flesh  white,  with  a  radiated  circle 
of  very  fine  red  next  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates, 
of  high  flavour,  melting,  juicy,  and  sweet,  relieved  by  an 
agreeable  acid.  Stone  small. 

u  2 


292  NECTARINES, 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  this  is  the  real  Vermash  Nec- 
tarine, which  is  very  well  figured  by  Mr.  HOOKER  in 
his  Pomona  Londinensis.  The  tree,  from  which  the 
drawing  published  in  that  work  was  taken,  was  at 
Hampton  Court,  where  I  examined  it  in  1823.  Mr. 
Padley,  his  Majesty's  gardener  at  that  time,  informed 
me  he  had  purchased  it  from  Mr.  Grimwood,  of  Chelsea, 
about  1783.  Mr.  Hooker's  statement,  that  it  was  brought 
from  France,  appears  to  want  confirmation,  as  the  French 
books  contain  no  account  of  a  melting  Nectarine  of  this 
description,  with  large  flowers.  The  tree  is  tender, 
and  requires  to  be  planted  against  a  south  wall. 

19.  VIOLET  HATIVE.  G.  LindL  in  Hort.  Trans* 
Vol.  v.  p.  552. 

Petite  Violette  Hative.     Duhamel,  22.  1. 16.  f.  2. 

Violet.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  68. 

Lord  Selsey's  Elruge.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  523. 

Large  Scarlet.  Of  some  Collections,  according  to 
the  Pom.  Mag. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small, 
bright  red.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  broader  at 
the  base  than  at  the  apex ;  cavity  of  the  stalk  middle- 
sized  ;  the  point  which  marks  the  base  of  the  style  sel- 
dom projects,  but  is  generally  in  a  shallow  cleft,  which 
runs  across  the  apex.  /Skin,  where  exposed,  dark 
purplish  red,  intermixed  or  mottled  with  pale  brown 
dots  ;  next  the  wall  pale  yellowish  green.  Flesh 
whitish,  a  very  pale  yellowish  green,  tinged  with  red 
next  the  stone,  from  which  it  separates  freely ;  melting, 
juicy,  and  rich.  Stone  middle-sized,  roundish,  obovate, 
its  fissures  not  so  deep  nor  so  sharp  as  those  of  the  Com- 
mon Elruge  ;  their  ridges  flattish,  but  rough,  and  of  a 
red  colour,  by  which  it  may  be  always  distinguished  from 
the  fruit  just  mentioned,  the  stone  of  which  is  pale,  with 
no  rays  of  red  passing  from  it  into  the  flesh. 


NECTARINES. 

Ripe  from  the  end  of  August  to  the  middle  of  Sep- 
tember. 

This  is  a  most  excellent  Nectarine,  and  ought  to  be 
found  in  every  good  collection  of  fruit. 

The  Triolet  Hative,  although  of  French  origin,  has 
long  been  known  in  this  country  under  the  name  of 
Violet  simply.  As  the  French  find  the  necessity  of  this 
designation,  it  is  adopted  here,  because  there  are  other 
Violette  Nectarines  which  require  appellations  to  dis- 
tinguish them  one  from  another  ;  besides  there  appears 
no  good  reason  for  reducing  a  definitive  name  in  this 
case,  any  more  than  there  would  be  in  those  of  the 
Avants,  the  Mignonnes,  and  the  Madeleines  among 
the  peaches.  All  our  practical  gardeners  write  for  the 
Violet  Hative  if  they  want  this  fruit. 

SECT.  III.     Pavies,  or  Clingstones. 

20.  BLACK  NEWINGTON.      G.  Lindl.  plan  of  an 
Orchard,  1796.     Ib.  in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  541. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  large,  almost  globular,  rather  more  broad 
than  long.  Skin  pale  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of 
a  dark  muddy  red,  or  nearly  black,  where  exposed  to  the 
sun.  Flesh  very  firm,  pale  green,  but  deep  red  at  the 
stone,  to  which  it  firmly  adheres.  Juice  sugary,  vinous, 
and  perfumed.  Stone  large,  rugged,  almost  round. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

The  Newington  Nectarine,  as  well  as  all  others  be- 
longing to  this  section,  is  in  its  highest  perfection  when 
the  skin  begins  to  shrivel. 

21.  BRUGNON  VIOLET  MUSQUE.  Duhamel,  26. 1. 18. 
Brugnon  Musque.     Lelieur. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  large. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  ovate,  generally  termi- 
nated by  an  acute  nipple.  Skin  very  smooth,  of  a  pale 

u  3 


294  NECTARINES. 

and  almost  transparent  amber  colour  on  the  shaded  side, 
but  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  of  a  bright  deep  scarlet. 
Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  but  very  red  at  the  stone, 
to  which  it  firmly  adheres.  Juice  sugary,  vinous,  and 
well  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  Nectarine  is  quoted  by  Mr.  Aiton,  in  his  Epi- 
tome, as  a  synonyme  of  the  Red  Roman  ;  had  both  sorts 
come  under  his  own  observation,  he  would,  however, 
have  been  satisfied  of  their  wide  difference.  The  Red 
Roman  is  nearly  twice  the  size  of  this,  very  different  in 
both  shape  and  colour,  and  of  superior  merit.  The 
Brugnon  Violet  Musque  appears  not  to  have  been  known 
to  Miller  ;  and  the  Red  Roman  was  not  known  to  the 
French,  at  least  it  is  not  to  be  found  in  any  of  their 
books. 

22.  EARLY  NEWINGTON.     Alton's  Epitome. 

Early  Black  Newington.     Nurs.  Catalogues. 

Lucombe's  Black.     Forsyth. 

Lucombe's  Seedling.     Nurs.  Catalogues. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  somewhat  below  the  middle  size,  inclining 
to  ovate,  a  little  compressed  on  one  side  of  the  suture ; 
fuller  on  the  other,  narrowed  at  the  apex,  and  termi- 
nating with  an  acute  nipple.  Skin  pale  green  on  the 
shaded  side,  but  of  a  bright  red  next  the  sun,  marbled 
and  mottled  with  a  much  deeper  colour,  and  curved  with 
a  thin  violet  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  white,  but  very 
red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  closely  adheres.  Juice 
sugary  and  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Several  varieties  of  the  Newington  Nectarine,  within 
the  last  forty  years,  have  been  raised  from  seed  in  this 
country,  and  have  had  different  names  assigned  them, 


NECTARINES.  295 

which  has  caused  no  small  difficulty  in  the  arrangement 
of  their  synonymes. 

The  Early  Newington  and  Early  Black  Newington 
have  been  ascertained,  in  Kensington  Gardens,  -to  be 
the  same ;  and  Lucombe's  Black  and  Lucombe's  Seed- 
ling want  characters  to  distinguish  them  from  the 
Early  Newington. 

23.  GOLDEN.     Langley*  t.  29.  f.  5.      G.  LindL  in 
Hort.  Trans.  Vol.v.  p.  551..  Miller,  No.  8. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  small. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  ovate,  narrowed  at  the 
apex,  and  terminated  by  an  acute  nipple.  Skin  bright 
yellow  next  the  wall,  but  on  the  sunny  side  of  a  bright 
scarlet,  shaded  with  a  few  streaks  of  a  darker  colour. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  but  red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it 
closely  adheres.  Juice  not  abundant,  but  of  pretty 
good  flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  Nectarine  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7>  on 
a  west  wall,  August  20.  O.S*,  or  August  31.  N.  S* 
Langley. 

24.  ITALIAN.'    Langley,  t.  29.  f.  4.      G.  Lindl.  in 
Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  554. 

Brugnon,  or  Italian.     Miller,  No.  5. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers --small. 
Fruit  large,  somewhat  globular.  Skin  greenish  yellow 
next  the  wall,  dark  red  next  the  sun,  and  marbled  with 
a  darker  colour,  interspersed  with  a  little  thin  grey 
russet.  Flesh  firm,  of  a  pale  yellowish  colpur,  but  very 
red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  closely  adheres.  Juice 
abundant,  rich,  and  excellent. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

25.  RED  ROMAN.     Forsyth. 

Roman.     Langley,  p.  102.  t.  29.  f.  2.      G.  LindL 
in  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  548. 
Roman  Red.     Miller,  No.  6. 

u  4 


296  NECTARINES. 

Leaves  crenate,  with  reniform  glands.  Flowers  large. 
Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  frequently  measuring  eight 
inches  and  a  quarter  in  circumference,  somewhat  globu- 
lar, and  a  little  flattened  at  its  apex.  Skin  greenish 
yellow  next  the  wall,  but  where  exposed  to  the  sun  of  a 
deep  muddy  red  or  purple  colour,  somewhat  scabrous, 
with  brown  russetty  specks.  Flesh  firm,  greenish  yellow, 
but  very  red  at  the  stone,  to  which  it  firmly  adheres. 
Juice  plentiful,  sugary,  of  a  very  high  and  vinous 
flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  Nectarine  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7,  on 
a  south  wall,  July  30.  O.  S.,  or  August  10.  N.  S. 
Langley. 

The  Red  Roman  Nectarine  has  been  cultivated  in 
our  gardens  about  two  centuries,  as  appears  by  Parkin- 
son's List  in  1629,  and  is  one  of  the  largest  and  best  in 
our  present  collections.  How  it  should  have  been  mis- 
taken by  practical  men  I  am  at  a  loss  to  conceive,  as  a 
melting  fruit  has  been  for  years  soJd  in  many  of  our 
nurseries  under  this  name,  although  all  writers  have 
described  it  as  a  Pavie,  or  Clingstone. 

At  present  it  is  very  difficult  to  be  met  with  ;  but 
steps  have  been  taken  to  render  it  again  plentiful,  by 
furnishing  cuttings  from  a  tree  I  raised  thirty  years 
ago,  to  Mrs.  Mackie  of  Norwich,  of  whom  it  may  now 
be  had  with  a  degree  of  certainty. 

26.  SAINT  OMER'S.  G.  LindL  in  HorL  Tran$. 
Vol.v.  p.  541. 

Saint  Omer's.     Uanbury,  No.  ID. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  ovate,  and  gene- 
rally terminated  by  an  acute  nipple.  Skin  bright  red 
next  the  sun,  and  of  a  pale  amber  yellow  on  the  shaded 
jside.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  white,  but  very  red  at  the 


NECTARINES.  297 

stone,  to  which  it  firmly  adheres.  Juice  rich  and 
highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

This  Nectarine  appears  to  have  been  known  in  this 
country  above  sixty  years,  but  by  whom  introduced  is 
not  certain.  It  was  cultivated  by  the  late  John  and 
Grosvenor  Perfect,  at  Pontefract,  fifty  years  ago.  A 
tree  of  it  was  growing  in  the  garden  of  W.  S.  Stanhope, 
Esq.,  at  Cannon  Hall,  near  Barnsley,  in  1788,  which 
had  been  furnished  from  the  above  gentlemen's  nursery, 
and  from  fruit  produced  in  that  year  the  above  descrip- 
tion was  written.  I  have  never  met  with  it  since,  but 
no  doubt  it  is  in  many  gentlemen's  collections  in  the 
county  of  York. 

27.  SCARLET  NEWINGTON.  G.  Lindl.  in  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  541. 

Newington.  Langley,  p.  102.  1. 19.  f.  1.  Miller,  3. 
Hill,  p.  313.  Switeer,  p.  95. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  rather  above  the  middle  size,  of  a  roundish 
figure.  Skin  pale  amber  next  the  wall,  but  of  a  bright 
red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  marbled  with  a  deeper 
colour,  occasionally  intermixed  with  a  little  thin  russet. 
Flesh  firm,  pale  yellowish  white,  but  very  red  at  the 
stone,  to  which  it  closely  adheres.  Juice  sweet,  brisk, 
and  of  a  most  delicious  vinous  flavour.  Stone  small, 
not  deeply  rugged. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  17^7,  on  a  south 
wall,  July  10.  O.  S.,  or  July  21.  N.  S. 

The  Scarlet  Newington  Nectarine  is  undoubtedly  the 
Xewington  of  Miller,  Hill,  and  Switzer ;  but  so  many 
others,  of  a  similar  character,  have  sprung  since  their 
time,  that  it  becomes  necessary  some  appellation  should 
be  prefixed  to  them,  in  order  that  we  may  know  of  which 
sort  we  are  speaking. 


298  .  NECTARINES, 

This,  the  Tawny  Newington,  and  the  Red  Roman, 
are  the  very  highest  flavoured  nectarines  in  our  collec- 
tions, especially  if  the  fruit  is  suffered  to  remain  upon 
the  tree  till  it  becomes  shrivelled. 

28.  TAWNY  NEWINGTON. 

Tawny.      G.  LindL  Plan  of  an  Orchard,  1796. 

Leaves  doubly  serrated,  without  glands.  Flowers 
large.  Fruit  pretty  large,  somewhat  ovate.  Skin 
yellowish  or  tawny-coloured,  a  little  mottled  or  marbled 
with  dull  red  or  orange  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm, 
very  pale  yellow,  or  yellowish  white,  but  very  red  at  the 
stone,  to  which  it  closely  adheres.  Juice  plentiful, 
sugary,  and  of  the  most  delicious  flavour.  Stone  broad, 
thick,  not  deeply  rugged. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

The  wood  of  this  and  of  the  Scarlet  Newington  is 
longer  jointed,  longer  in  its  growth,  and  more  flexuose 
than  the  other  Newingtons ;  in  the  quarters  of  the 
nursery  the  maiden  plants  grow  in  a  diverging  direc- 
tion, the  others  are  shorter  jointed,  and  their  growth 
erect. 

A  Selection  of  Nectarines  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 

Brinion  -  8  Pitmaston  Orange  •.  15 

Elruge  -  10  Red  Roman  -  25 

Fairchild's           -  1  Scarlet  Newington  -  27 

Hunt's  Small  Tawny  -  3  Tawny  Newington  -  28 

Neate's  White  -  4  Violet  Hative  -  19 

Northern  Counties  of  England,  and  Southern  of  Scotland* 

Brinion  -  8  Pitmaston  Orange  -  15 

Elruge  -  10  Red  Roman  25 

Hunt's  Small  Tawny  -  3  Scarlet  Newington  -  27 

Neate's  White  4  Violet  Hative  -  19 

Highlands  of  Scotland. 

Brinion  -  8  Pitmaston  Orange  -  15 

Elruge  -  10  Red  Roman         -  -  25 

Hunt's  Small  Tawny  -  3  Scarlet  Newington  -         -  27 

Neate's  White         -  -  4  Violet  Hative         -  -  19 


NECTARINES.  299 

In  the  Highlands  of  Scotland  the  south  and  south- 
cast  aspects  alone  can  be  appropriated  to  Nectarines 
with  any  chance  of  success. 

Propagation  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines. 

Peaches  and  Nectarines  are  propagated  by  budding 
them  upon  the  Muscle  and  the  Pear-plum  stock ;  the 
latter  being  made  use  of  for  those  kinds  which  are 
among  nurserymen  termed  French  Peaches,  and 
which,  generally  speaking,  are  by  far  the  best  in  our 
collections.  Those  budded  upon  the  Pear-plum  have 
likewise  an  advantage  over  many  of  the  others  which  are 
budded  upon  the  Muscle,  in  being  much  less  affected  by 
mildew,  particularly  those  kinds  which  have  glandular 
leaves. 

The  Brompton  Stock  has  also  been  introduced,  and 
many  thousands  of  peaches  and  nectarines  have  been 
budded  upon  it,  to  the  serious  injury  of  every  one  who 
has  purchased  them.  What  has  been  said  upon  this 
subject,  when  treating  of  apricots,  will,  I  trust,  be  suf- 
ficient to  warn  all  persons  from  purchasing  trees,  what- 
ever their  appearance  may  be,  unless  they  have  been 
propagated  upon  either  the  Muscle  or  the  Pear-plum.  — 
These  are  the  stocks  on  which  we  can  place  a  firm 
reliance  for  the  production  of  sound  trees :  the  other 
ought  to  be  banished  from  every  nursery  in  the  king- 
dom. 

In  budding  peaches  and  nectarines  for  dwarfs,  good 
clean  stocks  should  be  chosen,  and  if  Muscles,  they 
should  be  worked  the  first  summer  after  they  have  been 
quartered  out :  as  the  maiden  plants  thus  raised  seldom 
exceed  two  inches  in  circumference,  and  if  not  so  much 
the  plants  will  be  the  better. 

The  Pear-plum  need  not  be  budded  till  the  second 
summer  after  quartering,  as  it  seldom  acquires  a  suffi- 
cient thickness  the  first  year. 


300  NECTARINES. 

When  standards  are  wanted,  the  best  way  is  to  select 
the  strongest  stocks,  planting  them  on  good  and  well- 
prepared  ground  by  themselves,  and  when  they  have  stood 
two  years,  cutting  them  down  in  the  month  of  Febru- 
ary close  to  the  ground.  As  they  grow  up  in  the 
spring,  the  young  shoot  should  be  singled  off  to  one, 
leaving  the  best,  and  shortening  the  lateral  shoots  in  the 
summer,  to  about  six  inches  as  they  are  produced.  If 
the  plants  grow  well,  and  are  properly  attended  to,  they 
will  the  first  year  attain  a  height  of  at  least  six  feet : 
they  may  the  next  summer  be  budded  standard  high, 
and  the  stems  will  be  clean,  straight,  and  handsome. 

In  planting  out  trees  for  training,  young  plants,  or 
those  called  maiden  plants,  should  be  made  choice  of 
for  the  purpose,  being  far  preferable  to  those  which  have 
been  headed  down,  and  stood  two  years  in  the  quarters  of 
the  nursery :  observing  in  all  cases,  without  exception, 
that  the  bud  should  stand  outwards,  and  the  wounded 
part  where  the  stock  has  been  headed  down,  inwards, 
or  next  the  wall.  By  this  means  the  wound  will  readily 
and  effectually  heal  over,  while  if  otherwise  exposed  to 
the  sun,  it  would  crack  and  injure  the  stock,  thus  ren- 
dering the  tree  frequently  unsound. 

When  the  plants  are  headed  down,  care  must  be 
taken  also  that  the  cut  is  made  at  the  back,  leaving  the 
wound  facing  the  wall,  and  in  all  subsequent  prunings 
the  wounds  should  be  concealed  in  the  same  manner. 

Where  the  branches  are  horizontal,  or  where  they 
are  trained  in  a  diagonal  direction,  the  cuts  may  be 
either  at  the  back,  or  underneath,  facing  the  ground, 
so  that  they  be  not  visible  to  a  person  standing  in  front 
of  the  tree.  When  this  method  of  pruning  is  pursued 
without  deviation,  and  the  trees  properly  trained,  the 
wounds  will  not  only  be  excluded  froin  the  action  of  the 
sun's  rays,  but  the  trees  will  have  a  neat  and  workman- 
appearance. 


NECTARINES.  3Q1 


Pruning  and  Training  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines. 

When  the  young  plant  of  either  Peach  or  Nectarine 
is  removed  from  the  nursery  to  the  place  of  its  destin- 
ation, it  must  be  headed  down  at  the  proper  time,  in 
the  manner  directed  under  the  head  of  Propagation, 
and  its  treatment  in  all  respects  must  be  like  that  of 
the  Apricot,  both  in  its  pruning  and  training,  till  the 
head  is  completely  furnished.  One  principal  object  in 
the  management  of  the  Peach,  must  be  to  keep  up  a 
constant  succession  of  young  wood  in  every  part  of  the 
tree,  for  unless  this  be  accomplished  the  crop  of  fruit 
must  be  partial  and  defective. 

To  effect  this,  the  annual  shortening  of  the  young 
wood  is  perfectly  calculated ;  but  the  manner  in  which 
this  ought  to  be  performed  has  by  no  means  been  fixed 
upon  one  certain  principle  :  the  various  methods  laid 
down  and  insisted  upon  by  writers  being  greatly  at 
variance  with  each  other,  they  leave  the  inexperienced 
gardener  in  a  dilemma  as  to  which  course  he  should 
pursue.  Some  of  these  are  so  barbarous  and  absurd, 
that  it  has  always  appeared  to  me  an  act  of  folly  in 
any  one  making  the  attempt  to  copy  them. 

A  few  of  these  have  been  exhibited  in  the  Horticul- 
tural Garden  at  Chiswick,  in  contrast  to  some  very 
excellent  specimens  in  that  department.  This,  on  a 
small  scale,  has  no  doubt  been  of  advantage ;  because 
the  authors  of  those  fantastical  trees  have  been  pointed 
out  at  the  time  of  their  exhibition,  which  has  in  some 
cases,  no  doubt,  served  as  a  stumbling-block  for  others 
to  avoid,  whilst  the  trees  under  a  judicious  mode  of  ma- 
nagement have  held  out  examples  worthy  of  imitation. 

As  I  have  observed  before,  the  principal  object  to  be 
kept  in  view  is  a  constant  succession  of  young  wood 
throughout  every  part  of  the  tree  :  this  is  to  be  effected 


302  NECTARINES. 

by  pruning  alone,  and  a  judicious  distribution  of  its 
young  wood. 

Commencing  with  the  winter  pruning,  the  first  rule 
to  be  laid  down  as  a  basis  for  all  the  rest,  is  to  shorten 
every  shoot  in  proportion  to  its  strength,  and  to  prune 
to  where  the  wood  is  firm  and  well  ripened  :  this  will 
cause  all  the  pithy  and  unripened  wood  to  be  removed, 
thence  causing  a  supply  of  that  which  is  better  ripened 
for  the  ensuing  year.  But  in  order  to  give  every  facility 
to  the  ripening  of  this  wood,  it  must  be  trained  thin, 
not  in  profusion  according  to  the  general  custom,  but 
such  shoots  only  as  may  be  required  for  the  following 
year. 

Trees  which  have  arrived  at  a  bearing  state  should 
have  their  strongest  bearing  shoots  shortened  to  twelve 
or  fourteen  inches,  those  next  in  strength  to  eight  or 
ten,  and  the  weaker  ones  to  four  or  six  inches,  pruning 
each  to  what  is  termed  a  treble  eye,  or  that  where  there 
is  a  blossom  bud  on  each  side  of  wood  bud  :  where 
branches  are  not  in  a  bearing  state,  these  treble  eyes  will 
not  be  found  ;  they  must  therefore  be  pruned'to  a  wood 
bud  alone,  which  is  always  known  by  its  sharp  point. 

When  the  tree  has  been  pruned  once  in  this  manner, 
the  shoots  must  be  trained  neatly,  nearly  parallel  to  each 
other,  so  that  a  line  continued  in  that  direction  would 
lead  itself  clearly  out  to  the  extremity  of  the  tree. 

In  May,  the  season  for  disbudding  the  tree,  all  fore- 
right  shoots,  as  well  as  those  from  the  back,  must^be 
carefully  removed  with  a  sharp  small  bladed  knife, 
taking  care  to  cut  close  to  the  branch,  but  not  into  the 
bark  :  a  few,  however,  of  these  foreright  shoots  had 
better  be  cut  within  a  quarter  of  an  inch  only,  which 
will  leave  two  or  three  leaves  to  each,  to  shade  the 
young  fruit,  and  such  slight  wounds  in  the  branch  as 
have  been  occasioned  by  cutting  the  shoots  off  close. 

As  soon  as  the  young  shoots  have  grown  long  enough, 


NECTARINES.  303 

the  leading  one  from  each  branch  should  be  nailed 
neatly  to  the  wall,  selecting  one  or  two  of  the  side 
shoots  produced  lower  down  the  branch,  and  training 
them  parallel  also.  This  applies  to  those  of  the  stronger 
branches,  at  and  near  the  extremity  of  the  tree.  Those 
in  the  middle  and  near  the  bottom,  will  allow  of  but 
one  shoot  probably  in  addition  to  the  leaders  ;  this  will 
depend  upon  the  space  left  in  the  winter  pruning  ;  if 
sufficient,  it  is  always  better  to  have  a  young  shoot  on 
each  side  as  well  as  the  leader,  than  to  have  only  one, 
for  it  is  by  this  arrangement  that  a  succession  of  young 
wood  can  be  kept  up  throughout  every  part  of  the 
tree. 

Should  young  shoots,  indicating  extraordinary  vigour, 
any  where  make  their  appearance,  they  should  imme- 
diately be  cut  out,  unless  where  a  vacant  part  of  the 
wall  can  be  filled  up,  because  an  excess  of  vigour  in 
one  part  of  the  tree  cannot  be  supported  without  de- 
triment to  the  other.  Peach  trees,  when  in  a  state  of 
health  and  vigour,  generally  throw  out  laterals  from 
their  stronger  shoots  ;  when  this  is  the  case,  they  should 
not  be  cut  off  close,  but  shortened  to  the  last  eye  nearest 
the  branch  ;  and  if  there  is  room,  one  or  two  of  those 
first  produced  may  be  nailed  to  the  wall  ;  or  the 
middle  shoot  may  be  cut  out,  leaving  the  two  lowest 
laterals,  and  allowing  them  to  take  its  place  ;  thus  fre- 
quently obtaining  two  fruit-bearing  branches,  when  the 
former  one  would  in  all  probability  have  been  wholly 
unproductive  of  fruit  the  following  year. 

In  the  training  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines,  I  wish  it 
to  be  particularly  understood,  that  I  am  a  decided 
enemy  to  that  negligent  custom  of  leaving  more  shoots 
in  the  summer  than  is  well  known  can  be  wanted  for 
another  year,  and  the  still  more  slovenly  custom  of 
"  running  them  in,"  as  it  is  called,  by  small  pieces  of 
.stick  extending  across  the  branches,  "  to  prevent  their 


304  NECTARINES. 

being  broken  by  the  wind  ;  that  is,  let  the  middle  of 
the  branch  run  in  be  on  the  outside  of  the  shoot  you 
wish  to  preserve,  and  the  ends  tucked  under  the  two 
adjoining  branches.  After  the  fall  of  the  leaf  it  will 
be  necessary  to  take  out  these  loose  branches,  which 
will  give  the  shoots  more  liberty,  and  admit  the  sun 
and  air  to  ripen  the  wood  before  the  spring  pruning" 
FORSYTH,  Ed.  3.  p.  49. 

Yet  this  practice,  it  appears,  has  been  pursued  in  His 
Majesty's  Gardens  at  Kensington,  and  is  set  forth  in 
Mr.  Forsyth's  Book,  I  imagine,  as  a  model  of  excel- 
lence. 

There  can,  indeed,  be  little  doubt  of  the  excellence 
of  such  a  system,  since  it  possesses  the  peculiar  advan- 
tage over  all  other  systems,  of  causing  the  wood  to 
ripen  during  the  depth  of  winter,  by  the  admission  of 
sun  and  air. 

Now,  with  all  due  respect  for  this  authority,  I  would 
suggest,  in  contra-distinction  to  such  a  practice,  that 
from  the  first  time  of  nailing  in  the  summer,  the  shoots 
should  not  be  suffered  to  grow  more  than  six  inches 
before  they  are  nailed  again,  and  thus  followed  up  so 
long  as  they  continue  to  extend  themselves. 

In  this  way,  I  apprehend,  the  shoots  will  be  as  secure 
from  a  violent  gale  of  wind,  as  those  under  the  tuck 
system ;  and  that  they  will  be  fuil  as  likely  to  ripen 
during  the  summer  and  autumn,  whilst  we  have  sun, 
as  in  the  depth  of  winter  when  we  have  none.  ^ 

In  having  given  such  directions  for  the  pruning  and 
training  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines  as  I  have  myself 
been  taught  and  practised,  and  satisfied  myself  with,  it 
remains  only  for  me  to  recommend  that  the  trees  should 
not  be  overloaded  with  fruit,  but  that  the  crop  be 
regulated  by  a  judicious  mode  of  thinning. 

In  the  thinning  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines,  and  in- 
deed any  other  drupaceous  fruit,  it  is  necessary  to  pro- 


NECTARINES.  305 

ceed  with  caution,  as  they  are  apt  to  fall  off  after  having 
attained  a  considerable  size.  In  order,  therefore,  to  se- 
cure a  crop,  it  will  be  the  best  way  to  thin  them  at  three 
separate  times  ;  the  first,  as  soon  as  the  fruit  is  of  the 
size  of  a  hazel-nut  ;  the  second,  when  of  the  size  of  a 
small  walnut ;  and  the  third  time,  as  soon  as  the  stone  has 
become  hardened  :  after  this  it  rarely  happens  that  either 
Peach  or  Nectarine  falls  off  before  it  is  matured. 

In  order  to  render  this  account  of  Peaches  and  Nec- 
tarines as  complete  as  possible,  I  shall  in  the  next 
chapter  give  an  extract  from  a  paper  on  their  Classifi- 
cation, which  I  drew  up,  and  presented  to  the  Horti- 
cultural Society  of  London,  in  1824,  and  which  is 
printed  in  the  fifth  volume  of  their  Transactions,  cor- 
recting two  or  three  errors  which  had  crept  in,  and 
adding  such  other  varieties  of  fruit  as  have  since  that 
time  come  under  my  own  personal  observation. 

INDEX  TO  THE  NECTARINES. 

Aromatic  -  7  Flanders  White  -  4 

Black  Nevvington  -  20  Golden         -  -  23 

Brinion      -  8  Hunt's  Early  Tawny  -  3 

Brinion,  red  at  stone  -  •     8  Hunt's  Large  Tawny  -  2 

Brugnon  -  24  Hunt's  Small  Tawny  -  3 

Brugnon  Musque  -  21  Italian  -  24 

Brugnon  Violet  Musqu£    -  21  Large  Scarlet  •  19 

Claremont  -  9  Late.  Green  -  6 

Common  Elruge  -  10  Lord  Selseys  Elruge  -  19 

Due  du  Tellier's       -  -  1 1  Lucombes  Black        -  -  22 

Due  du  Tello         -  -  1 1  Lucombes  Seedling  -  22 

Du  Telliers  -  11  Marbled  -  8 

Dutilly                                  -11  Miller's  Elruge         -  -  12 

Early  Black  Newington  -  22  Murry          -            -  -  13 

Elrouge  -  12  Murrey             -  -  13 

Elruge         -  -  12  Neiuington              -  -  27 

Early  Newington       -  -  22  Neate's  White  -  4 

Emmertons  New  White  -  4  New  White  -  4 

Fairchild's  -  1  Old  White  -  5 

FairchMs  Early     -  1  Ord's                 -  -  14 


306  NECTARINES. 

Peterborough  .  6  Tawny  Newington  -  28 

Petite  Violette  Hdtive     ,    -  19  Temple     -  -  17 

Pitmaston  Orange  -  15  Temples            -  -  17 

Red  Roman  •  25  Vermash  -  18 

Roman  -  25  Violet          -  -  19 

Roman  Red            -  -  25  Violet  Hative  -  19 

Saint  Omer's  -  26  Violet,  red  at  stone  p.~..8 

Scarlet  -  16  White             .  4 

Scarlet  Newington  -  27 


CHAP.  XIV. 

A  CLASSIFICATION  OF  PEACHES  AND  NECTARINES. 

THE  confusion  of  the  sorts  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines, 
the  misapplication  of  their  names,  and  the  perplexity 
thus  occasioned  both  to  the  nurseryman  and  the  gar- 
dener, are  sufficient  inducements  to  attempt  such  an 
arrangement  as  may  remove  these  inconveniences.  I 
am  aware  that  this  has  been  already  done  to  a  certain 
extent ;  but  the  characters  employed  for  the  purpose 
have,  I  conceive,  been  insufficient,  as  will  appear  on  a 
comparison  of  the  different  arrangements  now  to  be 
examined.  In  doing  this  there  is  no  great  difficulty, 
since  the  authors  to  be  considered  are  but  few. 

MILLER*  and  DuHAMELt  are  the  first  who  have 
given  us  any  thing  like  systematic  descriptions,  and 
they  have  gone  no  further  than  to  distinguish,  generally, 
sawed  from  crenate  or  smooth  leaves,  large  from  small 
flowers,  and  to  separate  the  Peaches  with  downy  skins 
from  the  Nectarines  with  smooth  skins,  and  those  whose 
flesh  adheres  to  the  stone  from  those  whose  flesh  sepa- 
rates from  the  stone.  Had  there  been  no  augmentation 

*  Gardener's  Dictionary,  8th  edit.  art.  Persica. 

•\  Trait^  des  Arbres  Fruitiers,  par  Duhamel,  vol.ii.  p.  1,  &c. 


NECTARINES.  307 

of  the  number  of  varieties  of  these  fruits  since  the  time 
when  these  authors  wrote,  their  distinctions  would  pro- 
bahly  have  been  sufficient  ;  but  the  great  influx  of  new 
kinds  demands  a  more  systematic  and  extensive  division. 

Mr.  ROBERTSON*  has  gone  much  further  into  this 
subject  than  either  MILLER  or  DUHAMEL,  and  has 
favoured  us  with  the  first  synoptical  distribution  of 
Peaches  and  Nectarines  which  I  have  met  with.  It  is 
simple  and  perfectly  clear,  as  far  as  it  goes ;  but  it  is 
defective  in  general  application  :  for  if  he  had  attempted 
by  it  to  make  an  arrangement  of  all  the  different  sorts, 
he  would  have  found  the  eight  subdivisions  of  his  table 
insufficient.  Mr.  ROBERTSON'S  two  classes,  founded 
on  the  leaves,  are  correct  only  so  far  as  regards  the  first, 
or  those  sorts  whose  leaves  are  without  glands.  The 
second,  comprehending  the  glandular-leaved  kinds, 
require  to  be  extended  to  a  third  ;  for  it  includes 
plants  with  two  distinct  natural  characters  dependent  on 
the  glands.  His  divisions  into  those  with  large  and 
those  with  small  sized  flowers  are  also  objectionable, 
since  our  collections  furnish  several  varieties  of  Peaches 
and  Nectarines  which  possess  a  middle  character.  The 
designating  the  large  blossoms  as  light-coloured,  and 
the  small  ones  as  deep-coloured,  cannot  be  admitted  as 
proper  distinctions ;  several  of  the  small  flowers  being 
quite  as  pale  as  the  large  ones.  The  character  of  Mr. 
ROBERTSON'S  subdivisions,  founded  on  the  adhesion  of 
the  flesh  to,  or  the  parting  from,  the  stone,  are  perfectly 
natural. 

The  Editor  of  the  Bon  Jardinier,  and  the  Count 
LELIEUR  in  his  Pomone  Frangaise,  have  given  a  classi- 
fication on  a  much  more  comprehensive  scale,  intro- 
ducing a  third  division  of  flowers  ;  and  they  take  notice 
also,  for  the  first  time,  I  believe,  of  two  different  cha- 

*  See  Horticultural  Transactions,  vol.  iii.  p.  380. 
x  2 


308  NECTARINES. 

racters  in  the  glands  of  the  leaves.  Their  method  of  ar- 
rangement, however,  appears  objectionable  in  forming 
their  classes  from  the  fruit  instead  of  the  leaves,  because 
an  attempt  at  a  thorough  classification  on  this  principle 
must  be  ineffectual  till  the  fruit  has  arrived  at  maturity. 
In  forming  a  synoptical  Table  for  practical  purposes, 
we  should  follow  nature  herself  as  nearly  as  possible ; 
we  ought  not  to  make  an  arrangement  that  is  not  pro- 
gressive, or  to  which  we  cannot  apply  ourselves  as  the 
parts  successively  come  into  existence.  The  fruit  not 
being  the  first  produced,  we  ought  not  to  begin  with  it, 
in  preference  to  the  leaves. 

Having  stated  thus  much,  I  must  render  a  just  tribute 
of  acknowledgment  to  the  writers  last  mentioned,  for 
having  brought  into  notice  the  divisions  of  the  glandular 
leaves,  which  are  highly  important,  and  some  marks  of 
distinction  between  varieties  which  might  be  otherwise 
considered  alike. 

The  anxiety  which  prevails  to  cultivate  the  Peach  in 
its  full  extent,  the  disappointment  which  cultivators 
daily  experience  in  finding  one  sort  of  fruit  imposed 
upon  them  for  another,  to  say  nothing  of  the  error  of 
continuing  to  propagate  a  fruit  by  a  name  wholly  at 
variance  with  acknowledged  authority,  have  induced  me 
to  attempt  such  an  arrangement  of  Peaches  and  Nec- 
tarines as  will,  to  a  certain  extent,  give  a  facility  of 
discrimination  in  distinguishing  one  sort  from  another. 
For  this  purpose,  I  have  formed  a  synopsis  on  ^o 
extended  a  scale  as  to  admit  not  only  all  those  which 
are  at  present  well  known,  but  such  also  as  are  likely  to 
become  known,  or  to  be  introduced  hereafter. 

To  accomplish  this,  I  create  three  classes,  each  of 
which  has  three  divisions ;  these  are  each  separated 
into  two  subdivisions,  and  every  subdivision  into  two 
sections  ;  making  in  the  whole  thirty-six  sections.  Part 
only  of  these  sections  are  applicable  to  those  varieties  we 


- 


NECTARINES.  309 

are  now  acquainted  with  ;  the  others  will  remain  to  be 
filled  up  as  new  kinds  arise,  there  being  at  present  no 
plants  with  such  characters. 

The  practice  which  has  lately  prevailed,  and  which  I 
hope  will  be  continued,  of  obtaining  new  varieties  by 
cross  impregnation ;  the  glandless  with  the  glandular, 
the  large-flowered  with  the  small-flowered,  Peaches  with 
Nectarines,  and  the  Pavies  with  the  Melting  kinds,  is 
the  method  by  which  the  completion  of  the  arrange- 
ment, as  well  as  the  extension  of  good  sorts,  is  the  most 
likely  to  be  accomplished ;  but  in  pursuing  this  method, 
it  should  not  be  forgotten  that  the  most  excellent  of 
each  kind  are  those  only  which  ought  to  be  employed. 

The  fruits  which  I  have  now  arranged  under  the 
different  sections  are  those,  both  French  and  English, 
which  have  been  described  by  different  authors ;  some 
others  are  added,  which  are  well  known  in  England, 
but  which  have  not  been  noticed  in  any  work  of  cele- 
brity. 

In  the  following  Tables,  the  classes  are  founded  on 
the  leaves,  and  the  divisions  on  the  flowers. 

CLASS  I. 

Contains  those  whose  leaves   are   deeply  and   doubly 
serrated,  having  no  glands. 

CLASS  2. 

Those  whose  leaves  are  crenate  or  serrulate,  having 
globose  glands. 

CLASS  3. 

Those  whose  leaves  are  crenate   or  serrulate,  having 
reniform  glands. 

An  accurate  observer  will  distinguish  other  characters 
in  the  glands  ;  they  are  either  sessile  or  pedicellate ;  but 

x  3 


310  NECTARINES. 

these  distinctions  are  too  minute  for  application  on  the 
present  occasion. 

The  form  of  the  glands,  as  well  as  their  position,  is 
perfectly  distinct ;  they  are  fully  developed  in  the  month 
of  May,  and  they  continue  to  the  last  permanent  in 
their  character,  and  are  not  affected  by  cultivation.  The 
globose  glands  are  situated,  one,  two,  or  more,  on  the 
footstalks,  and  one,  two,  or  more  on  the  tips  or  points 
of  the  serratures  of  the  leaves.  The  reniform  glands 
grow  also  on  the  footstalks  of  the  leaves,  but  those  on  the 
leaves  are  placed  within  the  serratures,  connecting,  as  it 
it  were,  the  upper  and  lower  teeth  of  the  serratures 
together ;  their  leaves,  when  taken  from  a  branch  of  a 
vigorous  growth,  have  more  glands  than  the  leaves  of 
the  globose  varieties.  It  will,  however,  sometimes 
happen,  that  glands  are  not  discernible  on  some  of  the 
leaves,  especially  on  those  produced  from  weak  branches ; 
in  this  case,  other  branches  must  be  sought  for  which  do 
produce  them. 

With  regard  to  the  flowers,  on  which  the  divisions 
are  founded,  all  authors  previous  to  DUHAMEL  have 
described  large  and  small  flowers  only.  Both  in  the 
Bon  Jardinier  and  in  the  Pomone  Frangaise,  "  fleurs 
moyennes,"  or  middle  flowers,  are  mentioned ;  the 
notice  of  them,  however,  originated  with  DUHAMEL, 
who,  in  the  descriptions  of  several  of  his  Peaches,  speaks 
in  a  manner  which  indicates  even  four  sizes,  viz.  fleurs 
grandes  *,  fleurs  assez  grandes t,  fleurs  petitesi,  fleu^s 
tres petites§ ;  and  on  examining  the  trees  thus  described, 
the  differences  are  evident.  In  noticing  these,  however, 
it  is  not  intended  to  convey  an  idea  that  a  fourth 
division  is  necessary ;  on  the  contrary,  it  would  perplex 
rather  than  elucidate.  In  fact,  it  requires  some  practice 


*  Madeleine  Blanche.  f   Avant  Peche  Blanche. 

£  Bourdine.  §  Bellegarde. 


NECTARINES.  311 

to  distinguish  the  middle  from  the  small-sized  flowers ; 
the  former  are  larger  in  all  their  parts,  but  in  other 
respects  there  is  no  difference  between  them ;  and  in 
maintaining  the  division,  I  have  conformed  more  to  the 
authority  of  Lelieur  than  to  my  own  opinion. 

We  now  come  to  the  fruit,  with  regard  to  which  na- 
ture has  furnished  two  distinct  characters  in  the  external 
appearance,  as  well  as  two  in  the  internal  structure.  The 
first  of  these  depends  on  the  downiness  or  smoothness  of 
the  skin  ;  the  former  being  true  Peaches,  the  latter  our 
Nectarines,  known  in  France  only  as  JPeches  lisses,  or 
smooth-skinned  Peaches.  Each  of  these  are  divisible, 
from  their  internal  structure,  into  the  Pavies  or  Cling- 
stones, and  the  Melting  kinds  ;  the  former  having  firm 
flesh  adhering  so  closely  to  the  stone  as  to  be  perfectly 
inseparable  from  it ;  the  latter  having  soft  dissolving 
flesh  separating  readily  from  the  stone,  and  leaving  a  few 
detached  pieces  of  the  flesh  only  behind.  As  the  mature 
fruit  in  vegetable  economy  appears  to  be  the  last  stage 
of  nature  in  her  progress  towards  reproduction,  I  have 
adopted  it  as  the  most  natural  on  which  to  found  my 
subdivisions  and  sections. 

Accordingly,  the  classes  of  Peaches  and  Nectarines 
may,  by  the  examination  of  the  leaves,  be  ascertained  in 
the  first  year  the  plant  has  been  raised  ;  the  divisions, 
from  the  flowers,  in  the  spring  following  ;  and  the  sub- 
dirisions  and  sections,  founding  the  former  on  the 
character  of  the  skins,  the  latter  on  the  qualities  of  the 
flesh,  in  the  succeeding  summer  or  autumn  ;  and  whether 
the  number  to  be  submitted  to  examination  be  great  or 
small,  the  arrangement  may  be  effected  with  equal 
facility  and  precision. 


x  4 


312. 


NECTARINES. 


A  SYNOPTICAL  TABLE  OF  PEACHES  AND  NECTARINES. 


'Section  1. 

f 

Subdivision  1.  ^ 

Pavies. 

Peaches. 

Section  2. 

Division  1. 

Melters. 

Large  flowers. 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  2. 

Pavies. 

Nectarines. 

Section  2. 

^- 

Melters. 

'Section  1. 

CLASS  1. 
Leaves    deeply 
and  doubly  ser- 
rated, having 
no  glands. 

Division  2. 
Middle  flowers.  " 

Subdivision  1.  ^ 
Peaches. 

Subdivision  2. 
Nectarines. 

Pavies. 
Section  2. 
Melters. 
'Section  1. 
Pavies. 

& 

Melters. 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  1.  ^ 

Pavies. 

Peaches. 

Section  2. 

Division  3. 

Melters. 

Small  flowers. 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  2. 

Pavies. 

Nectarines. 

Section  2. 

* 

*- 

_  Melters. 

'Section  I. 

Subdivision  1. 

Pavies. 

Peaches. 

Section  2. 

Division  1. 

Melters. 

Large  flowers. 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  2. 

Pavies. 

Nectarines. 

Section  2. 

^ 

Melters. 

'Section  1. 

CLASS  2. 
Leaves  crenated 
or  serrulated,   < 
with  globose 
glands. 

Division  2. 
Middle  flowers. 

Subdivision  1. 
Peaches. 

Subdivision  2. 
Nectarines. 

Pavies. 
Section  2. 
Melters.  * 
'Section  1. 
Pavies. 
Section  2. 

, 

w 

Melters. 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  1. 

Pavies. 

Peaches. 

Section  2. 

Division  3. 

Melters. 

Small  flowers: 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  2. 

Pavies. 

Nectarines. 

Section  2. 

p 

Melters. 

NECTARINES. 


313 


^ 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  1. 

Pavies. 

Peaches. 

Section  2. 

Division  1. 

Melters. 

Large  flowers. 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  2. 

Pavies. 

Nectarines. 

Section  2. 

• 

Melters. 

'Section  1. 

.  CLASS  3. 
Leaves  crenated 
or  serrulated,   < 
with  reniform 
glands. 

Division  2. 
Middle  flowers.  * 

Subdivision  1. 
Peaches. 

Subdivision  2. 
Nectarines. 

Pavies. 

(  Melters. 
Section  1. 
Pavies. 
Section  2. 

^- 

.Melters. 

'Section  1. 

Subdivision  1. 

Pavies. 

Peaches. 

Section  2. 

Division  3. 

Melters. 

Small  flowers. 

''Section  1. 

Subdivision  2. 

Pavies. 

Nectarines. 

Serf/on  2. 

• 

*• 

Melters. 

The  names  given  to  some  of  the  English  Peaches  and 
Nectarines  are  so  directly  at  variance  with  the  classifica- 
tion of  DUHAMEL*,  which,  as  far  as  it  goes,  is  unobjec- 
tionable, that  I  cannot  avoid  observing  on  them,  lest  it 
should  be  supposed  that  I  acquiesce  in  so  incorrect  a 
nomenclature.  The  classes  of  DUHAMEL  are  four. 
The  first  are  called  Peches,  being  those  with  downy 
skins,  the  flesh  separating  from  the  stone.  The  second 
are  called  Pavies,  being  those  with  downy  skins,  the 
flesh  adhering  to  the  stone.  The  third  are  called 
Peches  violettes,  being  those  with  smooth  skins,  the 
flesh  separating  from  the  stone.  The  fourth  are  called 
BrugnonSy  being  those  with  smooth  skins,  the  flesh 
adhering  to  the  stone.  The  two  last  classes  include 
those  fruits  which  we  call  Nectarines.  The  names, 
therefore,  which  the  English  gardeners  have  applied, 

*  Traittf  des  Arbres  Fruitiers,  par  Duhamel.  vol.  ii.  p.  4-. 


3l4f  NECTARINES. 

such  as  Violet  Hative*  to  a  Peach,  and  Brugnon  to  a 
Melting  Nectarine,  are  absolutely  improper. 

In  the  following  list  the  synonymes,  whether  French 
or  English,  are  placed  in  italics  below  the  name  which  I 
consider  the  proper  one  to  be  adopted  for  the  variety. 
Where  the  French  name  belongs  to  the  same  kind  as  an 
English  name,  the  former  is  placed  as  a  synonym  of  the 
latter. 

Some  previous  explanation  and  observations  are  neces- 
sary on  the  authorities  from  whence  the  names  which  I 
have  adopted  are  derived. 

For  the  English  fruits  I  have  taken  the  enumeration 
of  MILLER,  in  the  eighth  edition  of  his  Gardener's 
Dictionary,  as  the  basis  of  my  Catalogue,  and  have  in- 
troduced all  his  kinds,  which  could  be  reduced  to  my 
arrangement,  quoting  them  as  his.  In  the  Epitome  of 
the  Hortus  Kewensis,  and  in  the  Pomona  Londin- 
ensis  of  Mr.  HOOKER,  some  kinds  are  found  which 
appear  not  to  have  been  known  to  MILLER  ;  these  also 
are  enumerated  on  their  respective  authorities.  The 
new  varieties  mentioned  or  described  in  the  Transac- 
tions of  the  Horticultural  Society  have  been  quoted 
from  that  publication.  For  the  French  varieties,  the 
authority  of  DUHAMEL,  in  his  Traite '  des  Arbres 
Fruitiers,  is  so  paramount,  that  his  kinds  have  been 
adopted  on  his  authority.  The  list  has  been  otherwise 
completed  from  the  Pomone  Franqaise  of  the  Count 
LELIEUR,  the  Jar  din  Fruitier  of  M.  NOISETTE,  arid 
the  Bon  Jardinier  for  1829,  and  also  some  of  the 
earlier  editions. 

I  have  likewise  inserted  such  varieties  from  the 
seventh  edition  of  Forsyth's  Treatise  on  Fruit  Trees, 
as  had  been  ascertained  previously  to  that  publication ; 

*  Miller,  in  his  Dictionary,  has  fallen  into  an  error  in  describ- 
ing his  Lisle  Peach  ;  he  says  the  French  call  it  La  Petite  Violette 
Hdtive,  which  cannot  be  correct. 


NECTARINES.  315 

and  others  from  Hanbury,  Langley,  Parkinson,  Ray, 
and  Switzer,  to  indicate  their  existence  at  the  time 
those  authors  published  their  works  ;  from  the  Porno- 
logical  Magazine,  which  are  new ;  and  some  from 
Nurserymens*  Catalogues,  which  are  either  not  to  be 
found  in  books,  or  whose  names  are  synonyms  of  others. 
All  the  sorts  which  are  inserted  in  the  following 
arranged  list,  are  so  placed  either  on  my  own  personal 
knowledge,  or  on  such  evidence  as  may  be  confidently 
relied  on.  To  the  whole  I  have  appended  an  alpha- 
betical list  of  all  the  names,  whether  of  Peaches  or 
Nectarines,  which  are  herein  noticed. 

A  LIST  OF  PEACHES  AND  NECTARINES, 

ARRANGED    ACCORDING    TO    THE    PLAN    ABOVE    PROPOSED. 

CLASS  I.      DIVISION  1.      SUBDIVISION  1.      SECTION  1. 
Serrated  glandless  leaves.     Large  flowers. 

PEACHES*       PAVIES. 

1.  Almond  Peach.     Hort.  Trans. 

2.  Old  Newington.     Miller. 

Newington.     Parkinson. 

3.  Pavie  Madeleine.     Duhamel. 

Pavie  Blanc.     Ib. 

Pavie  Magdeleine.     Bon  Jard. 

Perseque  d  gros  fruit  blanc,  i 

Melecoton, 

M    7.  h  Bon  Jard. 

Merhcoton, 

Myrecoton, 

4.  Smith's  Newington.     Miller. 

Smith's  Early  Newington.     Hitt* 
Early  Newington.     Miller. 


316  NECTARINES. 

CLASS  I.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION.  1.     SECTION  2. 
Serrated  glandless  leaves.     Large  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

5.  Cambray.     Forsyth. 
6k  Cardinal.     Lelieur. 

La  Cardinale.     Duhamel. 

Cardinale  de  Furstemberg.     Bon  Jard. 

7.  D'  Ispahan.     Lelieur. 

Pecker  de  Perse.     French  Catalogues. 

8.  Double  Montagne.     Forsyth. 

Montague.     Alton's  Epitome. 
Sion.     Forsyth. 

9.  Early  Anne.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

^4nne.     Langley. 

10.  Ford's  Seedling.     Forsyth. 

11.  Hemskirke.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Hemskirk.     Langley. 

12.  Madeleine  de  Courson.     Duhamel. 

Madeleine  Rouge.     Ib. 
Rouge  Paysanne.     Bon  Jard. 
Red  Magdalen.     Miller. 

13.  Malta.     Miller. 

Italian.     Ib. 

Peche  de  Malte.     Duhamel.     Lelieur. 

Belle  de  Paris.     Bon  Jard. 

Malte  de  Normandie.     Ib. 

14.  Montaubon.     Miller. 

15.  New  Noblesse.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

16.  Noblesse.     Aiton's  Epitome. 

Noblest.     Miller. 

Mellish's  Favourite.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

17.  Old  Royal  Charlotte.     Ib. 

18.  Pecher  Noir.     Duhamel. 

Pecker  Noir  d9  Orleans.     Ib. 
Dwarf  Orleans.     Forsyth. 


NECTARINES.  317 

19.  Sanguinole.     Duhamel. 

Betterave.     Ib. 
Druselle.     Ib. 
Bloody.     Miller. 

20.  Sawed-leaved.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

21.  Scarlet  Admirable.     Ib. 

Dragon.     Forsyth. 

22.  Sulhampstead.     Hort.  Trans. 

23.  Vanguard.     Forsyth. 

24-.  White  Magdalen.     Miller. 

Madeleine  Blanche.     Duhamel. 
Montague  Blanche.     Bon.  Jard. 

25.  White  Nutmeg.     Miller. 

Avant  Peche  Blanche.     Duhamel. 
Avant  Blanche.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

CLASS  I.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  1. 
Serrated  glandless  leaves.     Large  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       PAVIES. 

26.  Black  Newington.     Forsyth. 

27.  Early  Newington.     Aiton's  Epitome. 

Early  Black  Newington.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Lucombe's  Black.     Forsyth. 

Lucombe's  Seedling.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

28.  Late  Newington.     Aiton's  Epitome. 
29-  Princess  Royal.     Forsyth. 

30.  Rogers's  Seedling.     Forsyth. 

31.  St.  Omer's.     Hanbury. 

32.  Scarlet  Newington.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Newington.     Miller. 

33.  Tawny  Newington.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Tawny.     Ib. 

CLASS  I.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  2. 
Serrated  glandless  leaves.     Large  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       MELTERS. 

34.  Hunt's  Large  Tawny.     Nursery  Catalogues. 


318  NECTARINES. 

CLASS  I.     DIVISION  2.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Serrated  glandless  leaves.     Middle  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

35.  New  Royal  Charlotte.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Queen  Charlotte.     Forsyth. 

Kew  Early  Purple.     Alton's  Epitome. 

36.  Magdeleine  a  moyennes  fleurs.     Lelieur. 

CLASS  I.     DIVISION  3.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Serrated  glandless  leaves.     Small  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

37.  Bear's  Early.     Alton's  Epitome. 

38.  Belle  de  Vitry.     Duhamel. 

Admirable  Tardive.     Ib. 

Belle's.     Miller. 

Late  Admirable.     Forsyth. 

39.  Lockyer's  Mignonne.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Lockyeifs  Peach,     Forsyth. 

40.  Lord  Fauconberg's  Mignonne.     Nursery  Cat. 

Lord  Falconbridge's  Mignonne.     Hanbury. 

41.  Madeleine  Tardive.     Duhamel. 

42.  Millet's  Mignonne.     Forsyth. 

43.  Red  Magdalen.     Aiton's  Epitome. 

Magdalen.     Hort.  Trans. 

44.  Royal  George.     Aiton's  Epitome. 

45.  Royal  George  Mignonne.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

CLASS  I.     DIVISION  3.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  2.    * 
Serrated  glandless  leaves.     Small  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       MELTERS. 

46.  Hunt's  Small  Tawny.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Hunfs  Early  Tawny.     Ib. 

47.  Miller's  Elruge.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Elruge.     Miller. 
Elrouge.     Switzer. 


NECTARINES.  319 

CLASS  II.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves,  with  globose  glands.  Large  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

48.  Acton  Scot.     Hort.  Trans. 

49-  Barrington.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

50.  Belle  Bausse.     Bon  Jard. 

Belle  Bauce.     Lelieur. 

51.  Belle  Beaut e.     Bon  Jard. 

52.  * Buckingham  Mignonne.     Forsyth. 

53.  Early  Downton.     Hort.  Trans. 

54.  Early  Vineyard.     Alton's  Epitome. 

55.  Grosse  Mignonne.     Duhamel. 

Mignonne.     Ib. 

French  Mignon.     Miller. 

French  Mignonne.     Aiton's  Epitome. 

Large  Mignon.     Miller. 

Large  French  Mignonne.     Forsyth. 

Veloutte.     Duhamel. 

Veloutee  de  Merlet.     Ib. 

Vineuse.     Lelieur. 

Grimwood's  Royal  George.     Hooker. 

Grimwood's  New  Royal  George.     Forsyth. 

56.  Marlborough.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

57.  Mignonne  Frisee.     Bon  Jard. 

Grosse  Mignonne^  Frisee.     Lelieur. 

58.  Mignonne  Hative.     Ib. 

59.  Neil's  Early  Purple.     Hooker. 

NeaPs  Early  Purple.     Forsyth. 
Johnson's  Early  Purple.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Johnson's  Purple  Avant.     Ib. 
Padley's  Early  Purple.     Ib. 
Purple  Avant.     Ib. 
Early  Purple.     Miller. 
True  Early  Purple.     Forsyth. 
Veritable  Pourpree  Hative.     Duhamel. 
Peche  du  Vin.     French -Catalogues. 

*  This  proves  to  be  the  Harrington  Peach,  No.  49. 


320  NECTARINES. 

60.  Old  Royal  George.     Switzer. 

61.  Royal  Kensington.     Forsyth. 

62.  Smooth-leaved  Royal  George.     Ib. 

63.  Spring  Grove.     Hort.  Trans. 

64.  Superb  Royal.     Forsyth. 

Royal  Sovereign.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

65.  Vineuse  de  Fromentin.     Bon  Jard. 

CLASS  II.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves,  with  globose  glands.  Large  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       MELTERS. 

66.  Pitmaston  Orange.     Hort.  Trans. 

CLASS  II.     DIVISION  2.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves,  with  globose  glands.    Middle  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

67.  Avant  Peche  Jaune.     Lelieur. 

68.  Early  Admirable.     Miller. 

Admirable.     Duhamel.     Miller. 
Belle  de  T^itry.     Bon  Jard. 

CLASS  II.     DIVISION  2.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  1. 
Crenated  leaves,  with  globose  glands.   Small  flowers. 

PEACHES.       PAVIES. 

69.  Braddick's  American.     Forsyth. 

Braddick's  North  American.     Nursery  Cat^ 
American  Clingstone.     Ib. 

CLASS  II.     DIVISION  3.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves,  with  globose  glands.  Small  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

70.  Bellegarde.     Miller.     Duhamel. 

Galande.     Duhamel.     Hooker. 
Gallande.     Miller. 


NECTARINES.  321 

Early  Galande.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Violet  Hdtive.     Ib. 

Noire  de  Montreuil.     French  Catalogues, 

71.  Bourdine.     Miller.     Duhamel. 

Bourdin.     Duhamel. 
Boudin.     Forsyth. 
Boudine.     Bon  Jard.  1822. 
Nar bonne.     Duhamel. 

72.  George  the  Fourth.     Hort.  Trans.     Pom.  Mag. 

73.  Late  Admirable.     Langley. 

Royal.     Miller.     Pom.  Mag. 
Royale.     Duhamel. 

74.  New  Bellegarde.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

New  Galande.     Ib. 
Brentford  Mignonne.     Ib. 

75.  Nivette.     Miller.     Duhamel. 

Nivette  Veloutee.     Duhamel. 
Veloutee  Tardive.     Bon  Jard. 

76.  Pecher  a  feuilles  de  Saule.     Bon  Jard. 
77-  President.     Pom.  Mag. 

78.  Purple  Alberge.     Miller. 

Red  Alberge.     Ib. 

Alberge  Jaune.     Duhamel. 

Peche  Jaune.     Ib. 
79-  Teton  de  Venus.     Miller.     Duhamel. 

80.  Yellow  Chevreux.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

CLASS  III.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  1. 
Crenate  leaves,  with  reniform  glands.    Large  flowers. 

PEACHES.        PAVIES. 

81.  Monstrous  Pavie  of  Pomponne.     Nursery  Cat. 

Monstrous  Pavy  of  Pomponne.     Miller. 

Gros  Melecoton.     Bon  Jard. 

Gros  Perseque  Rouge.     Ib. 
Pavie  de  Pomponne.     Lelieur. 


NECTARINES. 

Pavie  Camu.     Duhamel. 
Pavie  Monstrueux.     Ib. 
Pavie  Rouge.     Ib. 
Pavie  Rouge  de  Pomponne.     Ib. 

CLASS  III.    DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Crenate  leaves,  with  reniform  glands.    Larger/lowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

82.  Abricotee.     Duhamel. 

Admirable  Jaune.     Ib. 

Grosse  Jaune.     Bon  Jard. 

Grosse  Peche  Jaune  Tardive.     Duhamel. 

Orange.     Forsyth. 

Peche  d'Abricot.     Duhamel. 

Peche  de  Burai.     Bon  Jard. 

Pdche  d9  Orange.     Ib. 

Sandalie  Hermaphrodite.     Ib. 

Yellow  Admirable.     Miller. 

83.  Double-blossomed.     Forsyth. 

Pecker  dfleurs  doubles.     Lelieur. 
Pecher  dfleurs  semidoubles.     Duhamel. 
TJie  double  flower.     Miller. 

84.  Flat  Peach  of  China.     Hort.  Trans. 

Java  Peach.     Ib. 

85.  Pourpree  Hative.     Duhamel. 

Vineuse.     Ib. 

86.  Red  Nutmeg.     Miller. 

Brown  Nutmeg.     Forsyth. 
Avant  Rouge.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Avant  Peche  Rouge.     Duhamel. 
Avant  Peche  de  Troyes.     Ib. 

CLASS  III.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  1. 
Crenated  leaves  with  reniform  glands.   Large  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       PAVIES. 

7-  Brugnon  Violet  Musque.     Duhamel. 


NECTARINES.  323 

Bntgnon.     Duhamel. 
Brugnon  Musque.     Lelieur. 
88.  Red  Roman.     Forsyth. 

Roman.     Alton's  Epitome. 

Roman  Red.     Miller. 

Brugnon  Musque.     Alton's  Epitome. 

CLASS  III.     DIVISION  1.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves  with  reniform  glands.    Large  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       MELTERS. 

89«  Desprez.     Jardin  Fruitier. 
Despres.     Bon  Jard. 
Deprez.     Lelieur. 

90.  Fairchild's.     Aiton's  Epitome. 

Fair  child9  s  Early.     Miller. 

91.  Jaune  Lisse.     Duhamel. 

Lisse  Jaune.     Ib. 
Roussanne.     Bon  Jard. 

92.  Neate's  White. 

Emmerton's  New  White.    Nursery  Catalogues. 
New  White.     Forsyth. 
Wliite.     Hooker. 
Flanders.     Ib. 

93.  Old  White.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

94.  Prince's  Golde'n.     Ib. 

95.  Vermash.     Hooker. 

True  J^ermash.     Forsyth. 

CLASS  III.     DIVISION  2.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves  with  reniform  glands.    Middle  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

96.  Belle  Chevreux.     Duhamel.     Miller. 
97»   Chancelliere.     Duhamel. 

f^er  liable  Chancelliere  d  grandes  fleurs.     Ib. 


324  NECTARINES. 

98.  Chevreux  Hative.     Duhamel. 

Early  Chevreuse.     Forsyth. 

CLASS  III.    DIVISION  3.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  1. 
Crenated  leaves  with  reniform  glands.    Small  flowers. 

PEACHES.       PAVIES. 

99.  Catharine.     Miller. 

100.  Incomparable.     Aiton's  Epitome. 

Pavie  Admirable.     Forsyth. 

101.  Pavie  Alberge.     Duhamel. 

Pavie  Jaune.     Bon  Jard. 
Persais  d'Angoumois.     Duhamel. 
Persdque  Jaune.     Bon  Jard. 
Melecoton  Jaune.     Ib.  1822. 
Grand  Myrecoton  Jaune.     Ib» 

102.  Pavie  Jaune.     Duhamel. 

103.  Pavie  Tardif.     Bon  Jard. 

104.  Persique.     Duhamel.     Miller. 

Persdque.     Bon  Jard. 
Persdque  Allonge.     Ib. 
Gros  Persdque.     Ib. 

CLASS  III.    DIVISION  3.     SUBDIVISION  1.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves  with  reniform  glands.    Small  flowers. 

PEACHES.       MELTERS. 

105.  Chancellor.     Miller.  \ 

Chancellidre,  variety.  Duhamel,  p.  24.,  in  text. 

106.  Double  Swalsh.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Double  Swalch.     Forsyth. 
Swalch  or  Dutch.     Miller. 
Swalze  jor  Swolze.     Forsyth. 

107.  Late  Chevreux.     Forsyth. 

Chevreux  Tardive.     Duhamel. 
Pourpree.     Ib. 


- 


NECTARINES.  325 


108.  Late  Purple.     Forsyth. 

Pourpree  Tardive.     Duhamel. 

109.  Petite  Mignonne.     Ib. 

Double  de  Troyes.     Ib. 
Pfolie  de  Troyes.     Ib. 
Early  Mignonne.     Miller. 
Small  Mignonne.     Ib. 

110.  Rosanna.     Miller. 

Rosanne.     Duhamel. 
Petite  Rossanne.     Bon  Jard. 
Alberge  Jaune.     Ib. 
Peche  Jaune.     Ib. 
St.  Laurent  Jaune.     Ib. 

111.  Steward's  Late  Galande.     Forsyth. 
Yellow  Mignonne,     Hort.  Trans. 


CLASS  III.    DIVISION  3.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  1. 
Crenated  leaves  with  reniform  glands.    Small  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       PAVIES. 

113.  Golden.     Miller. 

114.  Italian.     Miller 

Brugnon.     Ibi 

115.  Tawny.     Forsyth. 

Late  Tawny.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

CLASS  III.     DIVISION  3.     SUBDIVISION  2.     SECTION  2. 
Crenated  leaves  with  reniform  glands.     Small  flowers. 

NECTARINES.       MELTERS. 

116.  Aromatic.     Forsyth. 

117.  Brinion.     Switzer. 

Brinion  red  at  stone.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Marbled.     Switzer. 

Triolet  red  at  stone.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

118.  Claremont.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Y  3 


326  NECTARINES. 

119.  Common  Elruge.     Pom.  Mag. 

Elruge.     Alton's  Epitome. 

120.  Due  du  Tellier's.    Nursery  Catalogues. 

Du  Telliefs.     Alton's  Epitome. 
Due  de  Tello.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Dutitty.     Ib. 

121.  Early  Brinion.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

122.  Grosse  Violette.     Bon  Jard. 

Grosse  Violette  Hdtive.     Duhamel. 
Violette  de  Courson.     Bon  Jard. 

123.  Late  Genoa.     Alton's  Epitome. 

Genoa.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

124.  Murry.     Miller. 

Murrey.     Ray. 

125.  Newfoundland.     Forsyth. 

126.  Ord's.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

127.  Peche  Cerise.     Duhamel. 

Cherry.     Forsyth. 

128.  Peterborough.     Miller. 

Late  Green.     Ib. 
Vermash.     Forsyth. 

129.  Royal  Chair  d'Or.     Forsyth. 

130.  Scarlet.     Miller. 

131.  Temple.     Langley. 

Temple's.     Miller. 

132.  Violet  Hative.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Violette  Hdtive.     Bon  Jard. 
Violet.     Forsyth.     Pom.  Mag. 
Early  Violet  (of  Knight).     Hort.  Trans. 
Large  Scarlet.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Lord  Selsey's  Elruge.     Hort.  Trans. 
Petite  Violette  Hdtive.     Duhamel. 

133.  Violette  Tardive.     Duhamel. 

Violette  Marbree.     Ib. 
Violette  Panachee.     Ib. 

134.  Violette  tres  Tardive.     Duhamel. 

Peche  Noix.     Ib. 


NECTARINES. 


327 


ALPHABETICAL  LIST  OF  THE  PEACHES. 


The  figures  refer  to 

Abricotee 

Acton  Scot 

Admirable 

Admirable  Jaune 

Admirable  Tardive 

Alberge  Jaune 

Albcrge  Jaune 

Almond  Peach 

American  Clingstone 

Anne  -  -          - 

Avant  Blanche 

Avant  Pfrhe  Blanche 

Avant  Peche  Jaune 

Avant  Pe*che  Rouge 

Avant  Peche  de  Troyes 

Avant  Rouge 

Barrington 

Bear's  Early 

Belle  Bauce 

Belle  Bausse 

Belle  Beaute 

Belle  Chevreux 

Belle  de  Paris 

Belle  de  Vitry 

Belle  de  Vitry 

Bellegarde 

Bettis 

Betterave 

Bloody     - 

Boudin      - 

Boudine         - 

Bourdin 

Bourdine 

Braddick's  American 

Braddick's  North  American 

Brentford  Mignonne 

Brown  Nutmeg 

Buckingham  Mignonne 

Cambray 

Cardinal 

Cardinale  de  Fitstemborg    - 


the  enumeration  of  the  preceding  list. 

82  Catherine             -  -  99 

48  Chancelliere             -  -  97 

68  Chancelliere  variety  -  105 
82  Chancellor  -  105 
38  Chevreux  Hative     -  -  98 
78  Chevreux  Tardive  -  107 

110  D'Ispahan  -  7 

1  Double-blossomed  -  83 

69  Double  Flower         -  -  83 
9  Double  Montagne  -  8 

25  Double  Swatch  -  106 

25  Double  Swalsh  -  106 

67  Double  de  Troyes      -  -  109 
86  Dragon  -  21 
86  Druselle  -  19 
86  Dwarf  Orleans  -  18 
4-9  Early  Admirable  -  -  68 

37  Early  Anne  -  9 
50  Early  Chevreux    -  -  98 

50  Early  Downton  -  53 

51  Early  Galande         -  -  70 
96  Early  Mignon       -  -  109 
13  Early  Newington       -  *  -  4 

38  Early  Purple         -  -  59 

68  Early  Vineyard         -  -  54 

70  Flat  Peach  of  China  -  84? 
38  Ford's  Seedling     -  -  10 

19  French  Mignon         -  -     55 

19  French  Mignonne  -  55 

71  Galande             -  -  70 
71  Gallande             -  -  70 
71  George  the  Fourth  -  72 
71  Grand Myrecoton  Jaune  •  101 

69  Grimiuood's  Royal  George  55 
69  Grimwood's     New      Royal 

74         George              -  -  55 

86  Gros  Melecoton  •  81 

52  Gros  Perseque  -  104 

5  Gros  Perseque  Rouge  -  81 

6  Grosse  Jaune          -  -  82 
6  Grosse  Mignonne  •  55 

y  4 


328 


NECTARINES. 


Grosse  Mignonne  Frisee  -  57 
Grosse  Peche  Jaune  Tar  dive  82 
Hemskirke  -  11 
Hemskirk  -  11 
Incomparable  -  100 
Italian  -  1 3 
Java  -  -84 
Johnsons  Early  Purple  -  59 
Johnsons  Purple  Avant  -  59 
Keiu  Early  Purple  -  35 
La  Cardinale  -  -  6 
Large  Mignon  -  -  55 
Large  French  Mignonne  -  55 
Late  Admirable  -  73 
Late  Admirable  -  -  38 
Late  Chevreux  -  107 
Late  Purple  -  108 
Lockyer's  Mignonne  -  39 
Lockyers  Peach  -  -  39 
Lord  Fauconberg's  Mignonne  40 
Lord  Falcon  bridge's  Mi- 
gnonne -  -  40 
Madeleine  Blanche  -  24 
Madeleine  de  Courson  -  12 
Madeleine  Rouge  -  -  12 
Madeleine  Tardive  -  41 
Magdalen  -  -  43 
Magdeleine  k  Moyennes 

Fleurs  -     36 

Malta  -     13 

Malte  de  Normandie  -     13 

Marlborough  -     56 

'Mtlecoton  -       3 

Melecoton  Jaune  -  101 

Mellish's  Favourite  -     16 

Merlicoton             -  -       3 

Mignonne           -  -     55 

Mignonne  Frisee    -  -     57 

Mignonne  Hative      -  -     58 

Millet's  Mignonne  -     42 
Monstrous  Pavie  of  Pom- 

ponne                 -  -     81 
Monstrous  PavyofPomponne  81 

Montague             -  -       8 


Montagne  Blanche  -  24 

Montaubon             -  -  14 

Myrecoton  •  3 

Narbonne              -  71 

Neal's  Early  Purple  -  59 

Neil's  Early  Purple  -  59 

Netvington             -  2 

New  Bellegarde         -  74 

A^eto  Galande          -  74 

New  Noblesse  -  15 

New  Royal  Charlotte  -  35 

Nivette  -  75 

Nivette  Veloutee         -  -  75 

Noblesse               -  -  16 

Noblest  -  16 

Noire  de  Montreuil  -  70 

Old  Newington  -  2 

Old  Royal  Charlotte  -  17 

Old  Royal  George  -  60 

Orange  -  82 

Padleys  Early  Purple  -  59 

Pavie  Admirable       -  -  100 

Pavie  Alberge          -  -  101 

Pavie  Blanc            -  -  3 

Pavie  Carnee             -  -  81 

Pavie  de  Pomponne  -  81 

-Pavie  Jaune           -  -  102 

Pavie  Jaune         -  -  101 

Pavie  Madeleine  3 

Pavie  Magdaleine  -  3 

Pavie  Monstrueux     -  -  81 

Pavie  Rouge         -  81 

Pavie  Rouge  de  Pomponne  8 1 

Pavie  Tardive         -  -  10$ 

P&he  d'Abricot      -  -  82 

P<?che  de  Burai     -  -  82 

P&he  de  Malte  -  13 

P^che  d' Orange  -  82 

P&he  de  Troyes  -  109 

Peche  du  Vin         -  -  59 

P^che  Jaune       "  -  -  110 

P&he  Jaune  -  78 

Pecher  a  Feuille  de  Saules  76 

Pecher  a  Fleurs  Doubles  -  83 


NECTARINES. 


329 


Pecker  a  Fleurs  semidoubles     83 

Packer  de  Perse          •  -       7 

Pt^cher  Nain  -     18 

Packer  Nain  a" Orleans  -     18 

Persais  d'Angoumois  -  101 

Persique  -  104? 

Perstque              -  -   104 
Perseque  a  gros  fruit  blanc         3 

Perseque  Allonge"  -   104- 

Perseque  Jaune         -  -  101 

Petite  Mignonne    -  -  109 

Petite  Roussanne        -  -  110 

Pourpree               -  -  107 

Pourpree  Hative  -     85 

Pourpree  Tardive      -  -   108 

President              -  -     77 

Purple  Alberge  78 

Purple  Avant           -  -     59 

Queen  Charlotte     -  -     35 

Red  Alberge  -     78 

Red  Magdalen  -     4-3 

Red  Magdalen          -  -     12 

Red  Nutmeg         -  -     86 

Rosanne           -           -  -  1 10 

Rossanna       -         -  -  110 

Rossanne             -  -  110 

Rouge  Paysanne  -     12 

Royal                      -  -     73 

Royak               -  -     73 

Royal  George          -  -     4-4? 
Royal  George  Mignonne  -     4-5 

Royal  Kensington  -     61 

Royal  Sovereign         -  -     64? 

Saint  Laurent  Jaune  -  110 


Sandalie  Hermaphrodite  -  82 

Sanguinolle  -  19 

Sawed-leaved  -  20 

Scarlet  Admirable  -  21 

Sion         -               -  8 

Small  Mignon  -  109 

Smith's  Newington  -  4> 

Smith's  Early  Neivington  -  4 
Smooth-leaved           Royal 

George              -  -  62 

Spring  Grove         -  -  63 

Steward's  Late  Galande  111 

Sulhampsted  -  22 

Superb  Royal         -  -  64 

Swalch  or  Dutch        -  -  106 

Swalze  or  Swolze  -  106 

Teton  de  Venus     -  -  79 

True  Early  Purple  -  59 

Vanguard  -  23 

Veloutee  -  55 

Veloutee  de  Merlet  -  55 

Veloutee  Tardive     -       .  -  75 

Veritable     Chancelliere  a 

Grandes  Fleurs  -  -  97 

Veritable  Pourpree  Hative  59 

Vineuse      -             -  85 

Vineuse               -  -  55 

Vineuse  de  Fromantin  -  65 

Violet  Hative  -  70 

White  Magdalen  -  -  24 

White  Nutmeg  -  25 

bellow  Admirable  -  82 

Yellow  Chevreuse     -  -  80 

Yellow  Mignonne  -  1 12 


ALPHABETICAL  LIST  OF  THE  NECTARINES. 


Aromatic             -  -  116 

Black  Newington  -     26 

Brinion      -              -  -  117 

Brinion,  red  at  stone  -   117 

Brugnon         -           -  -     87 

Brugnon                -  -  114- 

Brugnon  Musque       -  -     88 


Brugnon  Musque  -         -     87 
Brugnon  Violet  Musque    -     87 

Cherry  -  127 

Claremont  -  118 

Common  Elruge  -         -  119 

Deprez         -  -     89 

Desprez  -     89 


330 


NECTARINES. 


Despres               -  -     89 

Due  du  Tellier's       -  -  120 

Due  de  Tello  -  120 

Du  Telliers  -  120 

Dutilly         -  -  120 

Early  Black  Newington  -     27 

Early  Brinion  -  121 

Early  Newington  -     27 

Early  Violet  -  132 

Elrouge              -  -    47 

Elruge                 -  -  119 

Elruge,  Common        -  -119 

Elruge,  Miller's     -  -     47 

Emmerton's  New  White  -     92 

Fair  child's             -  -     90 

Fairchild's  Early     -  -     90 

Flanders  -     92 

Genoa  -  123 

Golden  -  113 

Grosse  Violette  -  122 

Grosse  Violette  Hdtive  -  122 

Hunt's  Early  Tawny  -     46 

Hunt's  Large  Tawny  -     34 

Hunt's  Small  Tawny  -     46 

Italian  -  114 

Jaune  Lisse             -  -     91 

Large  Scarlet  -  132 

Late  Genoa  -  123 

Late  Green   .     *  -  128 

Late  Newington      -  -     28 

Late  Tawny  •   115 

Lisse  Jaune          -  -     91 

Lord  Selseys  Elruge  -  132 

Lucombe's  Black  -     27 

Lucombe's  Seedling  -     27 

Marbled  -  117 

Miller's  Elruge  -     47 

Murry  -   124 

Murrey  -  124 

Neate's  White         -  -     92 


Newfoundland           -  -   125 

Newington         •*&•     -  -     32 

New  White  -     92 

Old  White  -     93 

Ord's                     ,-,  -  126 

Peche'.Cerise          -'  -  127 

Peche  Noix       •  -  134 

Peterborough           -  -  128 

Petite  Violette  Native  -  132 

Pitmaston  Orange  -     66 

Prince's  Golden       -  -     94 

Princess  Royal         -  -     29 

Red  Roman         -  -     88 

Rogers's  Seedling  -     30 

Roman                 -  -     88 

Roman  Red            -  -     88 

Roussanne            -  -     91 

Royal  Chair  d'Or  -  129 

Saint  Omers  -     31 

Scarlet  -  130 

Scarlet  Newington  -     32 

Tawny  -  115 

Tawny           -  -     33 

Tawny  Newington  -     33 

Temple      -  -  131 

Temples  -  131 

True  Vermash         -  -     95 

Vermash  -  128 

Vermash             -  -     95 

Violet  -  132 

Violet  Hative  -  132 

Violet,  red  at  stone  -  117 

Violette  de  Courson  -  122 

Violette  Hative         -  -  1^2 

Violette  Marbrte    -  -  133 

Violette  Panachee  -133 

Violette  Tardive       -  -  133 

Violette  tres  Tardive  -    134 

White                        -  -     92 


NUTS.  331 

CHAP.  XV. 

NUTS. 

THE  principal  Nuts  cultivated  in  England  for  the 
dessert  are  the  following  :  — 

1.  BOND  NUT.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  6. 

2.  Cob  Nut.     Langley,  t.  57.  fig.  3. 

3.  Cosford  Nut.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  55. 

4.  Frizzled  Filbert.     Ib.  t.  70. 

5.  Lambert's  Nut.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  18. 

6.  Pearson's  Prolific  Nut.     Ib.  No.  26. 

7.  Red  Filbert.     Ib.  No.  27- 

8.  White  Filbert.     Langley,  t.  57.  fig.  1. 
According  to  Langley,  the  White  Filbert  ripened  in 

1727,  July  15.,  and  the  Common  Hazel  and  Cob  Nut, 
July  20.  These,  as  well  as  all  the  other  dates,  men- 
tioned by  Langley,  are  those  of  the  Old  Style.  The 
Style. and  Calendar  having  been  altered  September  2., 
1752,  will  remove  those  two  dates  of  the  Nuts  to  the 
26th  and  31st  of  July. 

Propagation. 

NUTS  never  ought  to  be  propagated  by  sowing  the 
seeds  of  any  of  the  sorts  enumerated  in  the  above  list ; 
but  by  layers,  at  any  time  during  the  winter  or  early  part 
of  the  spring,  before  the  plants  begin  to  open  their  buds. 
If  the  laying  of  them  down  has  been  properly  performed* 
the  layers  will  be  well  rooted  by  the  end  of  the  year, 
when  they  should  be  taken  up,  and  planted  out  in  the 
nursery  rows  three  feet  apart,  and  a  foot  from  each  other 
in  the  rows.  Previously  to  their  being  planted,  they 
should  be  pruned,  leaving  only  one,  and  that  the  best 
shoot,  shortening  it  to  a  foot  or  eighteen  inches,  ac- 


332  NUTS. 

cording  to  its  strength.  As  the  plants  grow  up,  they 
should  be  trained  with  single  stems  of  eighteen  inches 
or  two  feet  high,  which  will  allow  room  to  clear  away 
any  suckers  the  plants  may  afterwards  produce.  When 
the  plants  are  finally  planted  out  where  they  are  intended 
to  remain,  care  must  be  taken,  by  annual  pruning,  to 
form  their  heads  handsomely  ;  keeping  them  thin  and 
open  ;  cutting  away  all  irregular,  superfluous,  vigorous 
shoots ;  and  removing  any  suckers  which  may  spring  up, 
observing,  at  the  same  time,  not  to  injure  the  roots. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

As  soon,  as  the  plant  is  established,  some  pains 
should  be  taken  to  form  its  head,  which  may  be  done  in 
a  similar  manner  to  that  recommended  for  Gooseberries 
and  Currants. 

If  it  is  intended  to  keep  the  plant  under  a  regular 
system  of  pruning,  it  must  be  kept  low,  so  that  its 
upper  part  may  be  reached  by  standing  on  the  ground, 
both  for  the  purpose  of  pruning  and  of  gathering  the 
fruit. 

The  head  must  be  kept  thin,  shortening  the  leading 
shoots  to  nine  or  twelve  inches,  and  cutting  out  such 
other  strong  ones  that  would  otherwise  encumber  the 
head.  Besides  these,  there  will  be  also  produced  from 
the  two  and  three  years'  branches,  annually,  short  twigs 
of  six  or  nine  inches  in  length,  which  generally  bear  a 
great  many  mits  the  following  year  ;  these  should  be 
thinned  out,  but  not  shortened,  leaving  them  in  tolerable 
quantity  wherever  they  are  produced,  cutting  them  clean 
out  the  following  winter,  and  leaving  others  in  the  same 
manner  as  those  had  been  left  the  previous  season. 

In  the  county  of  Kent,  Nuts  are  better  managed  than 
in  any  other  part  of  England,  and  their  produce  is  not 


PEARS.  333 

only  greater,  but  of  a  superior  quality.  The  bushes  are 
pruned  much  in  the  manner  I  have  described ;  and  I 
have  observed  that  they  seldom  exceed  six  feet,  and  a 
great  many  are  not  more  than  five  ;  their  branches  are 
wide  apart,  and  the  middle  of  the  bushes  extremely  open. 
There  are  some,  probably,  who  may  object  to  the 
trouble,  or  who  may  find  it  inconvenient  to  prune  their 
Nut  trees  in  the  regular  way  :  should  this  be  the  case, 
something  still  may  be  done  to  prevent  their  running 
into  a  wild  state.  They  may  be  looked  over,  for  the 
first  two  or  three  years,  till  their  heads  have  been  formed 
with  some  degree  of  regularity,  and  they  may  then  be 
suffered  to  grow  at  length  ;  but,  even  then,  it  can  take 
up  but  little  time,  and,  consequently,  cause  but  little 
expense,  in  having  them  looked  over  once  a  year,  during 
the  winter,  to  clear  away  the  suckers  from  the  roots,  and 
to  thin  out  the  heads  where  the  branches  are  crowding 
or  galling  each  other  ;  remembering  that,  where  the 
heads  are  crowded  with  wood,  the  crop  is  always  defec- 
tive, except  near  the  extremities  ;  and  where  they  are 
kept  thin,  it  is  abundant. 


CHAP.  XVI. 

PEARS. 

As  many  of  the  French  and  Flemish  Pears  succeed 
well  when  grafted  upon  the  quince  stock,  all  such  as 
have  been  ascertained  to  possess  this  property  will  be 
noticed  at  the  end  of  the  descriptions. 

SECT.  I.  —  Summer.     Round-fruited. 

1.  AMBROSIA.     Switzer,  p.  113. 
Early  Beurre.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  13. 


334  PEARS. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish  and  somewhat 
flattened  figure.  Eye  rather  sunk.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,  slender,  and  a  little  bent.  Skin  smooth,  greenish 
yellow,  and  full  of  small  grey  specks.  Flesh  tender, 
with  a  rich,  sugary,  and  perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

This  Pear  was  brought  from  France  soon  after  the 
Restoration,  and  planted  in  the  Royal  Gardens  in 
St.  James's  Park.  It  is  a  very  good  pear,  but  will  not 
keep  long. 

2.  BERGAMOTTE  ROUGE.     Duhamel,  No.  46.  1. 19. 
f.  6. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  shortly  turbinate,  about 
two  inches  deep,  and  two  and  a  quarter  inches  in  dia- 
meter. Eye  rather  flat.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
thick,  and  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
but  of  a  red  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  soft, 
melting,  and  full  of  a  sugary  and  highly-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  quince  and  the  pear  stock. 

3.  EARLY  BERGAMOT.     Pom.  Mag.  1. 101. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish,  flattened,  depressed  at 

the  eye,  towards  which  it  is  slightly  angular,  about  two 
and  a  half  inches  long,  and  two  and  three-quarters 
inches  in  diameter.  Stalk  one  and  a  quarter  inch  long, 
moderately  thick,  inserted  in  a  shallow  cavity.  Skin 
green,  with  a  tinge  of  yellow  when  ripe,  with  a  few 
faint  streaks  of  brownish  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesji 
yellowish  white,  very  juicy,  a  little  crisp  and  gritty,  but 
very  rich  and  sugary. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

This  Pear  was  sent  into  this  country  by  the  late 
M.  Thouin,  to  the  Horticultural  Society,  in  1820, 
where  its  present  name  has  originated.  It  is  a  most 
excellent  variety  of  its  season,  bears  abundantly  as  an 
open  standard,  and  deserves  cultivation. 


PEARS.  335 

4.  EARLY  ROUSSELET.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Rousselet  Hatif.     Duhamel,  No.  33. 
Perdreau.     Ib. 

Poire  de  Chypre.     Ib. 

Fruit  rather  small,  of  a  somewhat  turbinate  figure, 
about  two  inches  long,  and  nearly  the  same  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  and  sunk  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  one 
inch  long.  Skin  smooth,  yellow,  of  a  lively  red  with 
several  grey  specks  interspersed  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  tender,  with  an  agreeable  sugary  perfumed  Juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  succeeds  on  the  quince  as  well  as  the  pear  stock. 

5.  FOND  ANTE  DE  BREST.     Duhamel,  No.  43.  1. 17. 
Inconnu  Cheneau.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  slightly  turbinate,  but  tapering 
both  to  the  stalk  and  the  crowm,  about  two  and  a  half 
inches  long,  and  two  and  a  quarter  inches  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  with  a  connivent  calyx,  seated  on  the  nar- 
rowed apex,  without  any  basin.  Stalk  one  and  a  half 
inch  long,  slender,  a  little  bent,  inserted  without  any 
cavity.  Skin  thin,  smooth,  and  shining,  of  a  bright 
green,  with  a  few  grey  specks,  marbled  with  pale  brown, 
and  shaded  with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white, 
firm,  and  crisp,  but  not  melting,  except  when  past  its 
best,  although  it  has  obtained  a  name  to  this  effect. 
Juice  sweet,  with  an  agreeable  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

This  never  succeeds  well  on  the  quince. 

6.  GREEN  CHISEL.     Langley,  t.  62.  f.  2. 
Green  Chisel.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  3. 

Fruit  small,  nearly  globular,  about  one  inch  and  a 
quarter  across  each  way.  Eye  large  in  proportion  to 
the  size  of  the  fruit,  prominently  placed,  with  an  open 
crumpled  calyx.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
straight,  inserted  without  any  cavity.  Skin  quite  green 
all  round  j  but  sometimes,  when  fully  exposed,  it  has  a 


336  PEARS. 

faint  brownish  tinge  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  gritty. 
Juice  a  little  sugary,  with  a  slight  perfume. 

Ripe  the  beginning  to  the  middle  of  August. 

This  little  Pear  is  common  throughout  England.  It 
does  not  appear  to  have  been  noticed  among  the  French 
writers,  and  is  probably  of  English  origin.  It  is  readily 
known  by  its  growing  in  clusters,  and  by  the  branches 
being  short,  and  growing  erect.  It  is  a  small  growing 
tree,  and  bears  abundantly. 

7.  MUSK  DRONE.     Miller,  No.  15. 
Bourdon  Musque.     Duhamel,  No.  27- 

Fruit  rather  small,  of  a  roundish  figure,  a  little 
flattened  at  the  crown,  somewhat  like  an  orange,  about 
one  inch  and  a  half  each  way.  Eye  rather  large,  placed 
in  a  wide  hollow  basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  quarter 
long,  straight,  slender.  Skin  yellow.  Flesh  white, 
melting,  with  a  rich  juice. 

8.  MUSK  ROBINE.     Miller,  No.  14. 
Muscat  Robert.     Duhamel,  No.  3.  t.  2. 
Poire  a  la  Reine.     Ib. 

Poire  d'Ambre.     Ib. 

Pucelle  de  Saintonge.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  137. 

La  Princesse.     Ib. 

Queen's  Pear.     Forsyth,  Ed.  3.  No.  14. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  turbinate,  but  rounded 
at  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  deep,  and  one  inch  and 
three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  open,  with  a  flat 
spreading  calyx.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  bent,  inserted 
without  any  cavity.  Skin  smooth,  yellowish  green, 
with  a  few  grey  specks  interspersed.  Flesh  tender, 
between  melting  and  breaking,  with  a  rich  musky 
juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  and  beginning  of  August. 

This  grows  strong  on  the  pear,  middling  on  the 
quince. 


PEARS.  337 

9.  ORANGE  MUSQUEE.  Miller,  No.  9.  Duhamel, 
No.  25.  t.  10. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  round,  shaped  somewhat  like  an 
orange,  about  two  inches  deep,  and  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  very  small,  flat  on  the  sum- 
mit. Stalk  an  inch  long,  obliquely  inserted.  Skin 
deeply  reticulated  like  the  orange,  of  a  green  colour, 
changing  to  yellow  as  it  becomes  ripe,  and  marbled  with 
bright  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  rich,  with  an 
agreeable  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  quince  and  pear  stock. 

10.  ROBIXE.     Duhamel,  No.  56.  t.  27. 
Royale  d'E'te.     Ib. 

Fruit  rather  small,  roundish  turbinate,  in  the  man- 
ner of  the  Musk  Robine,  about  one  inch  and  three 
quarters  deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
with  a  closed  calyx,  placed  in  a  somewhat  shallow  plaited 
basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  thick,  inserted  with- 
out any  cavity.  Skin  pale  greenish  yellow,  marbled 
with  a  deeper  green,  becoming  yellow  as  it  ripens. 
Flesh  white,  half  breaking,  with  a  saccharine  musky 
juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  may  be  grafted  on  both  the  pear  stock  and 
quince  ;  on  the  latter  it  grows  stronger,  and  bears  more 
abundantly. 

11.  SALVIATI.     Miller,  No.  25.    Duhamel,  No.  21. 
t.  9. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  nearly  globular,  about  two  inches 
in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  in  a  regular  round 
shallow  basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long, 
slender,  inserted  in  a  rather  narrow  shallow  cavity. 
Skin  of  a  yellow  wax-like  colour,  marbled  with  red  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  tender,  containing  a  rich  sugary 
juice. 

z 


338  PEARS. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  Sep- 
tember. 

This  does  not  succeed  well  on  the  Quince  stock. 

12.  SUMMER  ARCHDUKE.     Miller,  No.  19. 
Brown  Admiral.     Ib. 

Great  Onion.     Ib. 

Archiduc  d'E'te.     Duliamel,  No.  19.  t.  8. 

Amire  roux.     Ib. 

Ognonet.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure, 
about  two  inches  deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye 
small,  open,  with  a  very  short  calyx.  Stalk  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  long.  Skin  smooth,  yellow  on  the 
shaded  side,  but  of  a  brownish  red  when  fully  exposed 
to  the  sun.  Flesh  melting,  with  an  agreeable  well 
flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  does  not  succeed  well  on  the  Quince  stock. 

13.  SUMMER  BERGAMOT.     Miller,No.3l. 
Hamden's  Bergamot.     Ib. 
Bergamotte  d'E'te.     Duhamel,  No.  45. 
Milan  de  la  Beuvriere.     Ib. 

Milan  blanc.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  30. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  round,  and  flattened  at 
both  the  extremities,  about  two  inches  deep,  and  two 
inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  an 
obtuse  closed  calyx,  placed  in  a  very  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  thick,  inserted  in  a  smfll 
round  cavity.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with  a  good  deal 
of  pale  brown  russet,  and  specks  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  melting,  with  a  sugary  high-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  on  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

14.  SUMMER  ROSE.      Pom.  Mag.  t. 


PEARS.  339 


Thorny  Rose,  Miller,  No.  21. 
Epine  Rose,  Duhamel,  No.  57. 


according  to  the 


Poire  de  Rose,  Ib  Pom.  Mag. 

Rosenbirne,  Kraft,  Pom.  Aust. 
Vol.  i.  p.  38.  t.  84. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  round,  depressed,  about 
two  inches  deep,  arid  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diame- 
ter. Eye  open,  placed  in  a  shallow  depression.  Stalk  an 
inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  small  roundish  cavity. 
Skin  inclining  to  yellow,  speckled  with  russet ;  but  of 
a  bright  rich  red,  intermingled  with  brown  spots  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  rich,  and  sugary. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  on  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

The  figure  of  the  Summer  Rose  is  that  of  an  Apple 
rather  than  that  of  a  Pear ;  and  M.  Noisette  remarks, 
that  it  is  so  in  a  greater  degree  than  any  Pear  he  knows. 
It  is  a  most  excellent  and  beautiful  variety,  and  bears 
well  on  an  open  standard. 

SECT.  II.  —  Summer.      Conical-fruited. 

15.  AUGUST  MUSCAT.     Miller,  No.  20. 
Aurate.     DuJiamel,  No.  5.  t.  2. 
Muscat  d'Aout.     Ib. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  turbinate,  compressed 
between  the  middle  and  the  stalk.  Eye  small,  open,  a 
little  depressed  in  a  flattish  crown.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
straight,  inserted  in  a  somewhat  oblique  small  cavity. 
Skin  yellow,  with  a  light  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
breaking,  sugary,  and  perfumed. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

This  grows  strong  on  the  Pear ;  middling  on  the 
Quince. 

16.  CASSOLETTE.  Miller,  No.  17. 
1. 18. 

Friolet.     Ib. 
Lechefrion.     Ib. 


340  PEARS. 

Muscat  verd.      Miller,  No.  17-     Duhamel,  No.  44. 
1. 18. 

Poire  de  Sillerie.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  135. 

Verdasse.     Ib. 

Fruit  small,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure,  two  inches 
and  a  half  long,  and  one  inch  and  three-quarters  in  dia- 
meter. Eye  open  in  a  slightly  plaited  basin.  Stalk  half 
an  inch  long,  thick,  inserted  in  a  hollow  cavity.  Skin 
yellowish  green,  and  marked  with  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  crisp  and  tender,  with  a  sugary,  perfumed, 
musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  on  both  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

17.  CUISSE  MADAME.     Duhamel,  No.  11.  t.  5. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  longish  pyramidal  turbinate 

figure,  widest  at  the  crown,  and  compressed  between 
the  middle  and  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  long,  and  two  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
opens  with  a  rounded  calyx,  seated  in  a  slight  depression, 
nearly  flat.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  straight, 
somewhat  obliquely  inserted  without  any  cavity.  Skin 
smooth  and  shining  all  round,  of  a  yellowish  green 
colour  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  reddish  brown 
when  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  half  buttery,  with 
abundance  of  sugary,  perfumed,  slightly  musky  juice. 
Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 
This  grows  strong  on  the  Pear,  but  ill  on  the  QuinceA 
The  wood  of  the  Cuisse  Madame  is  long,  straight, 
rather  slender,  and  of  a  reddish  or  brownish  red  colour, 
totally  different  from  that  of  the  Windsor  Pear,  and  dif- 
fering also  from  that  of  our  Jargonelle. 

18.  EPINE  D'E'TE.     Duhamel,  No.  62.  t.  30. 
Fondante  Musquee.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  somewhat 
like  a  small  Jargonelle,  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  long,  and  one  inch  and  three  quarters  in  dia- 


PEARS.  34)1 

meter.  Eye  small  with  a  short  calyx,  placed  in  a  very 
shallow,  plaited  basin.  Stalk  an  inch,  strong,  inserted 
without  any  cavity.  Skin  smooth,  thin,  of  a  greenish 
yellow,  with  but  little  more  colour  when  exposed  to  the 
sun.  Flesh  melting,  with  a  rich  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  on  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

This  is  a  very  good  Pear,  and,  it  is  said,  had  its  name 
given  it  by  Louis  XIV. 

19.  GREAT  BLANQUETTE.     Miller,  No.  10. 
Grosse  Blanquette.     Duhamel,  No.  13. 
Roi  Louis.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  P-  305, 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of  a  roundish  turbinate 
figure,  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  one 
inch  and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  rather  large 
and  open.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  stout.  Skin  smooth, 
yellow,  and  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
melting  and  full  of  a  rich  sugary  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  on  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

20.  JARGONELLE.    Langley,  t.  61.  fig.  3.  ;  and  of 
most  English  writers,  but  not  of  Miller.     Pom.  Mag. 
t.  108. 

Epargne.     Duhamel,  No*  17-  t.  7* 

Beau  Present.     Ib. 

Saint  Sampson.     Ib. 

Grosse  Cuisse  Madame.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  27. 

Saint  Lambert,  "1     ,.   ,7       ^        ,     ~      , 

,     ^  . ,      ,          of  the    French    Gardens, 
Poire  des  Tables  des    f  ^         ,.       .    .,    ^        ,, 

according  to  the  Pom.  Mas:. 
Princes,  J 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  somewhat  pyramidal,  from  three 
inches  and  a  half  to  four  inches  long,  and  from  two 
inches  and  a  half  to  three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  open, 
with  long  segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  two  inches 
long,  somewhat  obliquely  inserted.  Skin  greenish 

i  a 


PEAES. 

yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  with  a  tinge  of  brownish  red 
when  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  very 
juicy  and  melting,  with  a  peculiarly  rich  agreeable 
flavour ;  round  the  core  it  is  gritty,  and  more  so,  if 
grafted  upon  the  Quince. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

The  Jargonelle  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7,  on 
the  10th  of  July,  O.  S.,  or  July  21st,  N.  S.  Langley. 
A  month  sooner  than  at  the  present  day. 

This  is  much  better  grafted  upon  the  Pear  than  the 
Quince.  It  is,  like  all  other  summer  Pears  if  left  upon 
the  tree  till  fully  ripe,  of  short  duration  in  a  sound 
state,  not  keeping  above  a  few  days  ;  but  if  gathered 
while  the  fruit  is  firm,  and  kept  in  a  cool  room,  it  may 
be  continued  in  eating  for  several  days  longer.  It  is 
readily  distinguished  from  all  other  Pears  of  its  season, 
by  the  large  size  of  its  fruit,  by  its  long  dangling 
branches,  and  by  its  very  thickly  pubescent  leaves,  par- 
ticularly in  the  early  part  of  the  summer. 

The  Jargonelle  was  certainly  brought  from  France,  of 
which  there  is  abundant  evidence.  The  Jargonelle  of 
the  French  is,  however,  not  ours,  but  an  inferior  kind, 
green  on  one  side,  and  red  on  the  other.  They  call 
ours  the  Grosse  Cuisse  Madame,  distinguishing  it  from 
the  common  Cuisse  Madame.  How  this  became  pos- 
sessed of  so  singular  an  appellation  it  is  difficult  to  say. 
MAYER  tells  a  long  story  of  its  origin,  which  is  not  much 
to  the  purpose  ;  and  MANGER  relates  an  anecdote  about* 
Prince  Eugene  and  one  of  his  officers,  who  did  not 
know  that  Dameschenkel  was  a  Pear  worth  looking  at. 
In  Scotland  the  Jargonelle  is  cultivated  on  walls  as  far 
north  as  Pears  will  grow. 

21.  LAMMAS.     Hort.  Soc.Cat.  No.  373. 

Fruit  rather  small,  of  a  pyramidal  shape.  Stalk  half 
an  inch  long,  straight.  Skin  pale  yellow,  tinged  and 
slightly  streaked  with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
melting.  Juice  plentiful,  of  a  very  good  flavour. 


PEARS.  343 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  Pear  for  the  market  gardener* 
as  it  is  not  only  a  very  good  bearer,  but  the  first  strong 
Pear  that  comes  to  market,  and  the  tree  is  hardy,  and  an 
erect  handsome  grower.  It  is  in  great  plenty  in  the 
Limn  and  Wisbeach  markets. 

22.  LITTLE  MUSCAT.     Miller,  No.  5, 
Petit  Muscat.     Duhamel,  No.  1.  t.  1. 
Sept-en-gueule.     Ib. 

Fruit  very  small,  somewhat  turbinate,  little  more  than 
an  inch  long,  and  scarcely  an  inch  in  diameter.  Eye 
small,  with  a  reflexed  calyx  prominently  placed  on  the 
summit.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  straight,  inserted 
without  any  cavity.  Skin  yellow,  coloured  with  dull 
red  on  the  side  next  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  with  a 
sugary  musky  perfume. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  July  ;  the  first  Pear 
which  ripens. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

23.  LONDON  SUGAR.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  turbinate,  and  rather 

narrowed  at  the  crown,  about  two  inches  long,  and  one 
inch  and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with 
a  connivent  calyx,  rather  prominently  placed,  and  sur- 
rounded by  irregular,  puckered,  apparently  blistered 
plaits.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  small 
oblique  cavity.  Skin  pale  green,  approaching  to  pale 
lemon  colour  when  fully  ripe,  with  a  slight  brownish 
tinge  when  fully  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  tender  and 
melting.  Juice  saccharine,  of  a  rich  musky  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July  and  beginning  of  August. 

The  branches  of  this  tree  are  long,  slender,  and  for 
the  most  part  drooping,  in  the  manner  of  the  Jargonelle. 
It  is  an  excellent  early  fruit,  and  a  hardy  bearer,  and 
may  be  found  in  great  plenty,  in  the  Norwich  markets, 
under  this  name.  It  is  very  much  like  the  Madeleine, 

z  4 


344  PEARS. 

figured  in  the  Pomological  Magazine  ;  but  its  branches 
are  pendulous,  in  the  Madeleine  they  are  ascending. 

24.  LONG  STALKED  BLANQUET.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  41. 
Blanquet  a  longue  queue.  Duhamel,  No.  15.  t.  6.  f.  B. 
Fruit  small,  growing  in  clusters,  inversely  egg-shaped, 

about  two  inches  long,  and  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diame- 
ter. Eye  crumpled,  prominently  seated  on  the  summit. 
Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  inserted  without 
cavity.  Skin  deep  clear  green.  Flesh  tender,  crisp, 
juicy,  sweet,  and  excellent. 

Ripe  near  the  end  of  July. 

This  grows  strong  on  the  Pear,  middling  on  the 
Quince.  A  good  early  Pear,  and  a  great  bearer  ;  very 
sweet,  crisp,  and  juicy,  and  not  rotting  so  soon  as  most 
of  the  Pears  of  the  same  season. 

25.  MADELEINE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  51. 
Magdalene.     Jard.  Fruit.  Vol.  iii.  t.  26. 

Citron  des  Cannes.  Of  the  French,  according  to 
the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  turbinate,  with  a  thick- 
ening on  one  side  of  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and 
three  quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and  one  quarter  in 
diameter.  Eye  slightly  hollowed.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
slender,  rather  obliquely  inserted.  Skin  yellowish  green, 
with  a  little  light  bloom  upon  it,  and  a  slight  tinge  of 
red  when  fully  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  white, 
melting,  buttery,  sweet,  and  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  latter  part  of  July.  ± 

This  is  said  to  have  received  its  name  from  its  ripening 
about  the  time  of  the  Fete  de  Sainte  Magdalene  (22d 
July).  I  have  not  quoted  the  figure  of  the  Madeline, 
or  Citron  des  Cannes,  of  Duhamel,  because  it  does  not 
appear  to  be  what  the  French  now  consider  the 
Madeleine. 

26.  MANSUETTE.     Duhamel,  No.  92.  t.  58.  f.  1. 
Solitaire.     Jb. 


PEARS.  345 

Mansuette  Solitaire.     Jard.  fruit,  t.  43. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  somewhat  turbinate  figure, 
compressed  below  the  middle,  and  a  little  incurved  to- 
wards the  stalk  ;  about  three  inches  and  three  quarters 
long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter. 
Eye  rather  small,  with  an  erect  calyx,  placed  in  a  deep, 
plaited,  angular  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  bent,  very 
obliquely  inserted  in  an  irregular  cavity.  Skin  green, 
spotted  with  brown  ;  but  as  it  ripens  it  becomes  yellow 
and  tinged  with  red.  Flesh  white,  half  melting,  and 
full  of  a  well  flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  is  better  grafted  on  the  Quince  than  on  the  Pear. 

27.  MUSK  SUMMER  BONCHRETIEN.     Nursery  Cat. 
Bonchretien  d'E'te Musquee.  Duhamel^Q.^l.  t.48. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat  pyramidal, 

compressed  between  the  middle  and  the  stalk,  about 
three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  rather  large  and  open,  with  a  crisp  calyx,  placed  in 
a  wide,  irregular,  angular  basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a 
half  long,  enlarged  next  the  branch,  and  somewhat  ob- 
liquely inserted  with  but  little  cavity.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  with  a  little  grey  russet ;  but  on  the  sunny  side 
of  a  brownish  red,  full  of  rough  russetty  specks.  Flesh 
white  and  crisp,  with  an  abundant,  sugary,  high-flavoured 
musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  does  not  succeed  at  all  upon  the  Quince. 

It  is  sold  by  many  nurserymen  for  the  Summer  Bon- 
chretien, a  different  Pear.  The  wood  and  manner  of 
growth  of  the  Musk-  Bonchretien  is  a  good  deal  like  the 
Jargonelle  ;  but  the  leaves  of  this  are  smooth  at  all 
times,  in  the  Jargonelle  they  are  covered  with  a  thick 
pubescent  down,  especially  in  the  spring  and  early  part 
of  the  summer  months. 

28.  ORANGE  TULIPEE.     Duhamel,  No.  79.  t.41. 


346  PEARS. 

Poire  aux  Mouches.     Duhamel,  No.  79.  t.  41. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  an  oval,  turbinate  figure,  about 
three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  with  a  recurved  calyx,  seated  in  a  pretty  deep, 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  narrow  angular 
cavity.  Skin  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  brown- 
ish red,  with  grey  specks,  where  exposed  to  the  sun. 
Flesh  melting,  with  an  agreeable  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  succeeds  equally  on  both  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

29.  PRINCE'S  PEAR.     Miller,  No.  29- 
Chair  a  Dame.     Duhamel,  No.  41.  1. 16. 
Cher  Adame.     Ib. 

Poire  de  Prince.     Ib. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat  round,  but 
turbinate,  and  bent  at  the  neck,  about  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  long,  and  two  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
open,  wjth  an  acute  calyx,  in  a  shallow  slightly  angular 
basin.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  strong,  very  obliquely 
inserted.  Skin  greyish  russet,  turning  yellow  with 
grey  specks  as  it  becomes  ripe,  and  of  a  marbled  red  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  rather  crisp,  with  an  abundant 
sweet  highly-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

30.  RED  MUSCADEL.     Miller,  No.  4. 

Bellissime  d'E'te.     Duhamel,  No.  80.  t.  42.  % 

Supreme.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  turbinate,  about  three  inches  long, 
and  two  inches  and  a  half  broad.  Eye  rather  deeply 
sunk  in  an  obtuse-angled  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
rather  slender,  and  somewhat  obliquely  inserted.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  slightly  covered  with  thin  russet,  on  the 
sunny  side  of  an  orange  or  bright  red.  Flesh  tender. 
Juice  plentiful  and  saccharine* 


PEARS.  347 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

The  Red  Muscadel  generally  produces  a  second  crop 
of  fruit,  which  ripens  about  the  middle  or  end  of  Sep- 
tember, but  they  are  not  so  good  as  the  former.  It  is 
a  handsome  upright  growing  tree,  and  a  very  excellent 
bearer. 

31.  Roi  D'E'TE.     Duhamel,  No.  34.  1. 12. 
Gros  Rousselet.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate  figure, 
about  three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter 
broad.  Eye  small,  open,  placed  on  a  nearly  flat  crown. 
Stalk  one  inch  and  three  quarters  long,  slender,  but 
considerably  thickened  next  the  fruit,  where  it  is  in- 
serted in  a  small  regular  cavity.  Skin  rough,  of  a  pale 
green,  but  on  the  sunny  side  of  a  dull  red,  covered  all 
over  with  numerous  grey  russetty  specks.  Flesh  half 
buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  very  agreeable  sugary  sub- 
acid  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

32.  ROUSSELET  DE  RHEIMS.  Duhamel,  No.  32. 1. 11. 
Petit  Rousselet.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  31. 

Fruit  small,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  about  the  size  and 
shape  of  the  Rousselet  d'Hiver,  but  more  tapering  to 
the  stalk  ;  two  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  one  inch 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  placed 
on  a  flat,  somewhat  depressed  apex.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
thick,  inserted  without  any  cavity.  Skin  greenish  grey, 
becoming  yellow  as  it  ripens,  with  numerous  dark  russetty 
specks,  and  some  dark  colouring  on  the  side  exposed  to 
the  sun.  Flesh  half  buttery,  and  melting,  with  a  very 
high  flavoured  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

This  succeeds  very  well  on  both  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 


348  PEARS.. 

33.  SABINE  D'E'TE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  4,  p.  <2T]5. 
Fruit  of  a  pyramidal  form,  broadest  at  the  crown,  and 

tapering  to  a  round  blunt  point  at  the  stalk.  Eye  small, 
not  deeply  sunk.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a 
shallow  cavity.  Skin  perfectly  smooth  and  even,  of  a 
yellow  colour  on  the  shaded  side,  and  of  a  fine  scarlet, 
minutely  dotted  when  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  white, 
or  nearly  so,  melting,  juicy,  and  highly  perfumed. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

Raised,  in  1819,  by  M.  Stoffels  of  Mechlin,  and 
named  by  him  after  Mr.  Sabine,  at  that  time  Secretary 
to  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London. 

34.  SEIGNEUR  D'E'TE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  276. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  of  a  blunt  oval  figure. 

Skin  of  a  fine  orange,  with  bright  scarlet  on  the  sunny 
side,  sprinkled  with  small  brown  spots,  and  partially 
marked  with  larger  ones  of  the  same  colour.  Flesh 
melting,  with  an  extremely  small  cone,  and  a  rich  high 
flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  very  beautiful  Pear  has  been  known  in  Flanders 
many  years,  fruit  of  which  were  sent  to  this  country  by 
M.  Stoffels  of  Mechlin,  and  exhibited  at  the  Horticul- 
tural Society,  in  1819^ 

35.  SKINLESS  PEAR.     Miller,  No.  13. 
Poire  sans  Peau.     Duhamel,  No.  35.  t.  13. 
Fleur  de  Guignes.     Ib. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of  a  somewhat  pyramidal 
figure,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  one  inch 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  nearly 
closed,  slightly  depressed.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half 
long,  slender,  rather  crooked,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity. 
Skin  extremely  thin,  smooth,  pale  green,  with  a  few 
grey  specks ;  on  the  sunny  side  yellow,  marbled  with 
light  red.  Flesh  melting,  with  a  most  excellent  sweet 
and  perfumed  juice. 


PEARS.  349 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 
This  grows  strong  on  the  Pear,  but  middling  on  the 
Quince. 

36.  SUMMER  BONCHRETIEN.   Miller,  No.  24.   Pom. 
Mag.  1. 14. 

Bonchretien  d'E'te.     Duhamel,  90.  t.  47.  f.  4. 

Gracioli.     Ib.  according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Die  Sommer  Christbirne.     Pom.  Aust.  Vol.  i.  p.  38. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  pyramidal,  about  four  inches 
long,  and  three  inches  in  diameter,  exceedingly  knobby 
and  irregular  in  its  outline,  particularly  about  the  eye. 
Eye  small,  prominent,  in  a  narrow,  shallow,  obtuse- 
angled  basin.  Stalk  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  irre- 
gular and  crooked,  very  obliquely  inserted,  in  a  knobby, 
irregular  cavity.  Skin,  when  fully  ripe,  of  a  pale  lemon 
colour,  very  slightly  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side, 
and  covered  all  over  with  small  green  dots.  Flesh  yel- 
lowish, breaking,  firm,  juicy,  very  sweet  and  excellent. 
Cone  very  small,  placed  near  the  eye. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

This  will  take  on  both  Pear  and  Quince,  but  should 
never  be  grafted  on  the  latter  stock. 

A  very  excellent  old  Pear,  mentioned  by  Parkinson, 
and  by  many  modern  Pomologists  in  France,  Italy, 
Holland,  and  Germany,  under  various  other  names,  not 
necessary  to  quote  here  as  synonymes. 

It  succeeds  best  in  this  country  on  an  east  or  west 
wall,  being  rather  too  tender  for  an  open  standard. 

37.  SUMMER  FRANCREAL.      Pom.  Mag.  t.  106. 
Francreal  d'E'te.    Diels,  Pom.    ^ 

Vol.  iii.  p. 

according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 


Fondante,  Knoop  Pom.  93.  t.  3. 
France  Canneel,  Ib. 


Gros    Micet    d'E'te.      Of  some 

French  Gardens, 
Fruit  rather  large,  turbinate,  thickest  about  two-thirds 


350  PEARS. 

from  the  stalk,  diminishing  a  little  to  the  eye,  about  three 
inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  three  inches  in  diameter. 
Eye  connivent,  moderately  depressed.  Stalk  short  and 
thick.  Skin  green,  nearly  smooth,  becoming  pale  yel- 
lowish-green, after  the  fruit  has  been  gathered  some 
time,  and  is  fit  for  table.  Flesh  white,  firm,  juicy, 
becoming  buttery  and  melting,  rich  and  excellent. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September. 

A  very  hardy  tree,  and  a  great  bearer  as  an  open 
standard. 

38.  WILLIAMS'S    BONCHRETIEN.       Hort.     Trans. 
Vol.  ii.  p.  250.  1. 16. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  an  irregular,  pyramidal,  and 
somewhat  truncated  form,  from  three  to  four  inches 
long,  and  from  two  to  three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye 
seated  on  the  summit,  and  never  in  a  hollow  or  cavity, 
as  in  other  varieties  called  Bonchretien.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,  very  gross  and  fleshy.  Skin  pale  green,  mottled 
all  over  with  a  mixture  of  darker  green  and  russet 
brown,  becoming  yellowish  and  tinged  with  red  on  the 
sunny  side  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  whitish,  very  tender 
and  delicate,  abounding  with  a  sweet  and  agreeably  per- 
fumed juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  to  the  middle  of  September. 

This  Pear  appears  to  have  sprung  up  from  seed  in 
the  garden  of  Mr.  Wheeler,  a  schoolmaster  at  Alder- 
maston,  in  Berkshire,  previously  to  1770,  as  it  was  then 
a  very  young  plant.  An  account  of  it  was  published  by 
the  Horticultural  Society,  as  above,  in  1816,  at  which 
time  the  garden  in  which  the  tree  grew  was  in  the  pos- 
session of  Wm.  Congreve,  Esq. 

39.  WINDSOR.      Of  all  English  Gardens. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  obovate,  not  either  pyra- 
midal or  turbinate,  being  widest  above  its  middle,  taper- 
ing to  the  crown,  and  suddenly  contracted  towards  the 
stalk,  where  it  is  slender ;  about  three  inches  and  a  half 


PEARS.  351 

long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye 
small,  with  a  connivent  calyx,  prominently  placed  on  the 
summit.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender,  convexly  in- 
serted without  any  cavity.  Skin  yellowish  green,  full 
of  small  green  specks,  becoming  yellow  when  fully  ripe, 
and  tinged  with  orange  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white, 
soft,  with  a  little  grit  at  the  core,  and  a  sugary  astrin- 
gent juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

I  have  not  quoted  any  synonymes  of  this  Pear  from 
foreign  authors,  not  being  able  to  satisfy  myself  of  their 
identity  with  it:  DUHAMEL'S  figure  of  Cuisse  Madame 
is  pyramidally  turbinate,  evidently  a  different  fruit. 

The  wood  of  the  Windsor  Pear  is  very  stout,  never 
producing  laterals,  perfectly  erect,  so  much  so  as  to  be 
readily  distinguished  in  the  nursery  from  every  other 
sort.  The  tree  is  by  no  means  a  hardy  one,  being  very 
liable  to  canker,  especially  when  planted  either  on 
gravelly  or  cold  wet  soils. 

40.   YAT.  1 

Y  t  r  Of  the  Dutch  Gardens. 

Fruit  rather  small,  turbinate,  about  two  inches  long, 
and  one  inch  and  three  quarters  in  diameter,  generally 
a  little  flattened  on  the  opposite  sides.  Eye  small, 
opens  with  a  very  short  calyx,  seated  in  a  rather  shallow 
uneven  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  slender,  ob- 
liquely inserted,  without  any  cavity.  Skin  of  a  very 
thick  russetty  brown,  thickly  covered  with  round  grey 
specks,  and  generally  a  little  coloured  when  exposed  to 
the  sun.  Flesh  breaking  and  tender,  with  a  very  sugary, 
rich,  and  highly  perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  September. 

The  trees  of  this  very  valuable  variety  grow  large, 
and  the  branches  are  drooping  like  those  of  the  Jargo- 
nelle, but  much  more  slender  and  numerous.  A  very 
hardy  bearer,  brought  from  Holland  by  the  late  Thomas 


35%  PEARS. 

Harvey,  Esq.,  and  planted  in  his  garden  at  Catton,  near 
Norwich,  about  sixty  years  ago,  along  with  some  plants 
of  the  Dutch  Mignonne  Apple,  both  sorts  of  which  are 
now  growing. 

SECT.  III.  —  Autumnal.     Round-fruited. 

41.  ASTON  TOWN.  Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  1. 18. 
Aston  Town.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  139. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure, 
somewhat  like  a  narrow-crowned  Crasanne,  but  more 
tapered  next  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep, 
and  nearly  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  shallow. 
Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  protruding  in 
a  direct  line  from  the  base,  and  inserted  with  but  little 
cavity.  Skin  pale  greenish  white,  rugose,  covered  with 
numerous  grey  russetty  specks,  like  the  Crasanne.  Flesh 
tender,  buttery,  and  full  of  a  most  excellent  saccharine 
perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  to  the  end  of  October. 
Branches  long  and  rather  slender,  flagelliform,  with 
a  manner  of  growing  peculiar  to  this  tree,  that  is,  a 
tendency  to  twist  round  in  growing  upwards  ;  so  that  at 
a  distance,  when  planted  as  a  standard,  it  may  be  dis- 
tinguished from  every  other  sort. 

This  most  excellent  Pear  is  at  present  but  little 
known  in  many  parts  of  England.  It  is,  however,  well 
known,  and  extensively  cultivated  in  the  north-west 
counties  of  Lancaster,  Chester,  and  Hereford.  In  the 
latter  county,  particularly  at  Shobden  Court,  and  at 
Garnstone,  it  is  grown  in  abundance,  both  on  walls, 
espaliers,  and  on  open  standards,  where  it  furnishes  con- 
stant crops  of  most  perfect  fruit,  fully  equal  in  goodness 
to  those  of  the  Crasanne,  which  it  somewhat  resembles. 
It  was  raised  many  years  ago  at  Aston,  in  Cheshire. 

42.  AUTUMN  BERGAMOT.      Miller,  No.  32.     Pom. 
Mag.  1. 120. 


PEARS.  353 

f  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  52.     Ib. 
Common  Bergamot,  I      NQ  ^    according   to   the 

York  Bergamot,         [      pom  ^ 

Fruit  small,  approaching  the  middle  size,  depressed, 
globular,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  the 
same  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  in  a  regular-formed 
shallow  depression.  Stalk  short  and  thick,  inserted  in 
a  rather  wide  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  rather  rough, 
yellowish  green  ;  but  of  a  dull  brown  on  the  sunny  side, 
and  full  of  grey  scabrous  specks.  Flesh  whitish,  melt- 
ing, a  little  gritty  next  the  core,  with  a  sugary  and 
richly  perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  and  good  till  the  end. 

This  succeeds  well  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

I  have  not  quoted  Duhamel,  as  he  has  given  two 
figures  of  his  Bergamotte  d*  Automne,  neither  of  which 
appears  to  correspond  with  our  Autumn  Bergamot. 

It  is  one  of  the  best  Pears  of  the  season,  and  it  is 
also  one  of  the  most  ancient,  supposed  to  have  been  in 
this  country  ever  since  the  time  of  Julius  Caesar. 

43.  BELLE  ET  BONNE.     Pom.  Mag.  1. 118. 

Belle  et  Bonne.     Baumann's  Catalogue. 

Schone  und  Gute.  Taschenbuchy  p.  431.  according 
to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  large,  globular,  depressed,  about  three  inches 
deep,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye 
large,  open,  with  short  crumpled  segments  of  the  calyx, 
in  a  shallow  and  rather  uneven  depression.  Stalk  one 
inch  and  a  half  long,  curved,  slightly  inserted  in  a  nar- 
row cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow,  mixed  with  green,  a 
little  russetty  on  the  sunny  side,  and  slightly  tinged 
with  a  few  faint  streaks  of  pale  brown.  Flesh  white,  a 
little  gritty,  but  soft  and  mellow,  with  a  saccharine, 
rich,  and  perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  and  is  good  for  two  or 
three  weeks. 


A    A 


354>  PEARS. 

It  succeeds  well  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This  very  valuable  variety  was  introduced  by  the 
Horticultural  Society  in  1826,  to  whom  it  was  sent  by 
Messrs.  Baumann,  of  Bollwiller.  It  has  been  cultivated 
here  under  the  erroneous  names  of  Charles  d'Autriche 
and  Belle  de  Bruxelles,  both  of  which  are  different  fruits 
from  this. 

44.  BERGAMOTTE   CADETTE.     Duhamel,    No.  54. 
t.  44.  f.  2. 

Poire  de  Cadette.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  roundish,  or  sub-turbinate,  about 
two  inches  and  three  quarters  deepy  and  the  same  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  almost  closed,  very  little  sunk  in 
a  somewhat  flatted  apex.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  thick,  in- 
serted in  a  rather  shallow  angular  cavity.  Skin  smooth, 
yellowish,  and  shaded  with  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  and  Juice  excellent,  little  inferior  to  any  of  the 
other  Bergamots. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  October. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

45.  BEZY  D'HERI.     Duhamel,  No.  23. 
Besideri.     Miller,  No.  45. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  somewhat  roundish  ovate 
figure,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches 
and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  open,  flat.  Stalk  one 
inch  and  a  quarter  long,  slender,  curved.  Skin  smooth, 
pale  green,  inclining  to  yellow,  slightly  tinged  with  red 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  rather  dry,  and  but  indifferent 
for  eating,  but  it  bakes  well. 

In  use  October  and  November. 

This  Pear  takes  its  name  from  Heri,  a  forest  in 
Bretagne,  between  Rennes  and  Nantes,  where  it  was 
found  in  a  wild  state. 

46.  BEZY  DE  LA  MOTTE.     Duhamel,  82.  t.  44.  f.  5. 
Pom.  Mag.  1. 143.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  5.  p.  132.  t.  2. 
f.  2.     HorL  Soc.  Cat.  No.  36. 


PEARS.  355 

Bein  Armudi,  1  Of  some    Collections,   ac- 

Beurre  blanc  de  Jersey,  J     cording  to  the  Pom.  Mag, 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure, 

about  three  inches   deep,   and  the  same  in  diameter. 

Eye  small,  open,  sunk  in  a  round  shallow  basin.     Stalk 

an  inch  long,  bent,  strong,  and  inserted  in  a  small  but 

widish  cavity.     Skin  yellowish  green,  covered  with  grey 

russetty  specks,  becoming  yellow  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh 

white  and  melting,  with  a  rich,  sugary,  high-flavoured 

juice. 

Ilipe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  October,  and  will 
keep  till  the  end  of  November. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince.  It 
bears  very  well  on  a  standard,  but  better  as  an  espalier. 
The  fruit  is  generally  larger  than  the  specimen  figured 
in  the  Horticultural  Transactions.  It  is  a  most  excel- 
lent Pear,  and  well  deserves  cultivation. 

47.  CHARLES  D'AUTRICHE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii. 
p.  120.     Ib.  Vol.  iv.  p.  521. 

Fruit  large,  very  handsome,  about  three  inches  and  a 
half  long,  and  three  inches  broad,  in  colour  something 
like  a  white  Beurre,  but  in  shape  more  convex  and  irre- 
gular. Eye  in  a  confined  hollow,  not  deeply  sunk. 
Stalk  an  inch  long.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  profusely 
sprinkled  with  brown  specks,  and  partially  russetted. 
Flesh  white,  melting,  very  juicy,  with  a  rich  high 
flavour,  but  with  little  perfume. 

Ripe  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  November. 

A  very  fine  and  beautiful  fruit,  raised  by  Dr.  Van 
Mons,  and  sent  to  the  Horticultural  Society,  where  it 
was  exhibited  in  November  1816. 

48.  CRASANNE.  Langley,  t.  6,5.  f.  5.  Miller,  No.  46. 
Duhamel,  No.  49.  t.  22. 

Beurre  Plat.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  154. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  of  a  roundish  turbinate 
figure,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  a  little 

A  A  2 


356  PEARS. 

more  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  and  placed  in  a  deep 
narrow  basin,  something  like  the  eye  of  an  apple.  Stalk 
one  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  crooked,  slender,  and  in- 
serted in  an  open  shallow  cavity.  Skin  greenish  yellow, 
thinly  covered  with  a  reticulated  grey  russet.  Flesh  ex-" 
tremely  tender,  buttery,  and  full  of  a  rich  saccharine 
juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  November,  and  will  keep  till 
Christmas. 

The  Crasanne  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7>  °n 
September  20.  O.  S.,  or  October  1.  N.  S.  Langley. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince;  but 
it  is  much  better  grafted  upon  the  Pear  stock.  - 

M.  de  la  Quintinie  says,  the  Crasanne  takes  its  name 
from  ecrase  (flattened  or  crushed),  its  form  generally 
giving  to  the  fruit  the  appearance  of  having  been  pressed 
down.  It  is  a  most  excellent  bearer  upon  an  east  or 
south-east  wall,  and  one  of  the  very  best  Pears  of  its 
season. 

Its  time  of  keeping  in  perfection  may  be  considerably 
lengthened,  by  gathering  the  crop  at  three  different 
times  ;  the  first,  a  fortnight  or  more  before  it  is  ripe  ; 
the  second,  a  week  or  ten  days  afterwards  ;  and  the 
third,  when  fully  ripe  :  this  last  gathering  will  be  the 
first  to  be  brought  to  table,  the  middle  gathering  the 
next,  and  the  first  will  be  the  last  in  succession. 

By  this  mode  of  proceeding,  this,  as  well  as  all  the 
Autumnal  Pears,  may  be  kept  several  wreeks  longer  ki 
perfection,  especially  after  hot  summers,  than  by  the 
usual  method  of  waiting  till  the  crop  is  ripe,  and  then 
gathering  the  whole  at  once. 

49-  DOUBLE  D'AUTOMNE.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  227. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  in  the  form  of  a  Bergamot,  hand- 
somely round,  without  angles,  and  tapering  towards  the 
stalk.  Eye  small,  open,  with  very  slwrt  segments  of 
the  calyx,  sunk  in  a  handsome,  round,  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small 


PEARS.  357 

oblique,  slightly-lipped  cavity.  Skin  an  entire  cinna- 
mon russet,"  through  which  a  little  green  appears,  the 
whole  covered  with  numerous  light  grey  specks.  Flesh 
white,  breaking,  a  little  gritty,  but  mellow.  Juice  sac- 
charine, very  excellent,  with  a  little  perfume. 

Ripe  the  end  of  October,  and  good  all  November. 

A  very  handsome  new  Pear,  and  very  excellent  when 
in  perfection. 

50.  ECHASSERY.    Miller,  No.  55.  Duhamel,  No.  66. 
t.32. 

Bezy  de  Chassery.     Ib. 

Bezy  de  Landey.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  134. 

Poire  d'CEuf.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish,  turbinate  figure, 
something  like  a  Citron,  or  the  Ambrette,  but  smaller 
next  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and 
two  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  an  open  flat 
calyx,  placed  in  a  shallow  plaited  basin.  Stalk  one 
inch  and  a  quarter  long,  straight,  a  little  knobby,  in- 
serted in  an  irregularly  formed  cavity.  Skin  smooth, 
green,  with  a  few  grey  specks,  becoming  yellow  as  it 
ripens.  Flesh  melting  and  buttery,  with  a  rich,  sugary, 
perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  generally  keep  good  till 
Christmas. 

This' succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

51.  ELTOX.     Hort.  Tram.  Vol.  ii.  p.  1.  1. 1. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oval  figure,  a  little  broader 

towards  the  crown.  Eye  very  small,  nearly  free  from 
the  segments  of  the  calyx,  and  very  slightly  imbedded. 
Sf'tlk  rather  stout,  straight,  and  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
of  a  greenish  russetty  grey,  with  numerous  specks  of  a 
darker  russet,  and  tinged  with  orange  on  the  sunny 
side,  which  is  generally  towards  the  stalk,  as  the  fruit  is 
mostly  pendent  from  the  extremities  of  the  branches. 
Flesh  crisp  when  in  perfection,  and  of  an  excellent 

A  A  3 


358  PEARS. 

flavour ;  but  will  be  mealy  if  kept  too  long  upon  the 
tree. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September,  and  by  gathering 
at  different  times,  may  be  kept  five  weeks.  Its  season 
generally  terminates  with  the  commencement  of  the 
Autumn  Bergamot. 

In  1812,  the  original  tree,  about  170  years  of  age,  was 
standing  in  an  orchard  in  the  parish  of  Elton,  in  Here- 
fordshire, from  whence  it  received  its  name  from  Mr. 
Knight,  who  thinks  it  may  remain  in  health  three  cen- 
turies, as  it  is  now  in  a  very  vigorous  state  of  growth. 
It  is  much  better  as  an  open  standard  than  if  cultivated 
against  a  wall. 

52.  GANSEL'S  BERGAMOT.  Hooker,  Pom.Lond.  IJ. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  35. 

Brocas  Bergamot.      Of  some  English  Nurseries. 

Ives's  Bergamot.      Of  the  Norwich  Gardens. 

Bonne  Rouge.      Of  the  French  Gardens. 

Fruit  ovate,  very  much  flattened  at  the  crown,  of  a 
very  regular  figure,  quite  destitute  of  angles,  about 
three  inches  deep,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  very  short  calyx.  Stalk 
short  and  fleshy,  thickening  on  the  back  of  its  bent  part. 
Skin  dull  brown,  like  that  of  the  Brown  Beurre,  a  little 
marked  with  dashes  of  a  deeper  colour.  Flesh  white, 
melting,  very  sweet,  rich,  and  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  November,  and  will  keep  good  a 
month. 

This  most  excellent  Pear  is  a  native  of  our  own 
country,  as  appears  by  a  letter  from  David  Jebb,  Esq., 
of  Worcester,  to  John  Williams,  Esq.,  of  Pitmaston,  in 
1818,  in  which  he  says,  "  the  Gansel's  Bergamot  was 
obtained  from  a  seed  of  the  Autumn  Bergamot,  by  his 
uncle,  Lieutenant- General  Gansel,  at  his  seat  at  Donne* 
land  Hill,  near  Colchester,  about  half  a  century  ago, 
namely,  in  1768."  The  Bonne  Rouge  of  the  French  is 


PEARS.  359 

evidently  the  same  sort,  and  the  name  must  have  been 
given  to  it  after  its  having  been  received  from  this  coun- 
try. How  it  came  to  be  named  Brocas  Bergamot  does 
not  appear ;  the  fruit  bearing  this  name  on  the  Con- 
tinent is  the  Easter  Bergamot.  It  is  much  too  tender 
to  bear  as  an  open  standard  in  any  part  of  England ; 
nor  does  it  succeed  as  an  espalier :  it  requires  an  east 
or  a  south-east  wall,  where  it  ripens  perfectly. 

53.  GREEN  SYLVANGE.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  430. 

Sylvange  Vert.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  585. 

Bergamotte  Sylvange.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  33. 

Fruit  middle  sized,  in  shape  somewhat  like  a  Berga^ 
motte.  It  is  swoln  in  the  middle,  and  irregular  in  its 
outline,  usually  flattened  towards  the  head ;  rounded 
towards  the  stalk,  or  terminated  by  a  very  blunt  point. 
Eye  small,  and  lies  in  a  slightly  depressed  hollow,  the 
edge  of  which  is  studded  with  small  knobs.  Stalk  short, 
slender,  obliquely  inserted  under  a  slight  lip.  Skin 
rough,  of  a  bright  green  on  the  shaded  side  ;  but  where 
exposed  to  the  sun  of  a  deeper  green,  sprinkled  with 
grey  spots,  and  marked  with  almost  black  blotches. 
Flesh  green  near  the  skin,  white  in  the  centre,  fine, 
soft,  and  melting,  with  a  saccharine  juice,  of  a  peculiarly 
agreeable  flavour. 

Ripe  in  October,  and  will  keep  two  months. 

This  succeeds  best  on  the  Pear,  not  on  the  Quince. 

There  are  three  sorts  of  Pears  called  Sylvanges ;  the 
yellow,  the  long,  and  the  green,  which  derive  their  name 
from  a  hamlet,  situated  about  two  miles  west  of  the  road 
leading  from  Metz  to  Thionville  ;  of  these  the  green  is 
the  most  esteemed.  All  the  Sylvanges  are  rather  tender 
where  they  are  natives ;  they  will,  of  course,  require  a 
wall  in  this  country,  and  a  favourable  aspect. 

54.  GREY  DOYENNE.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  74.  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  i.  p.  230.  Duhamel,  84.  t.4rj.  Jard^ 
Fruit.  Vol.  iii.  p.  114.  t.  41. 

A  A    4 


360  PEARS. 

Red  Doyenne, 


Doyenne  Gris, 
Doyenne  Roux, 


of  some   Collections,  accord- 
ing to  the  Pom.  Mag. 


Doyenne  d'Automne,  . 

Fruit  not  quite  so  large  as  that  of  the  White  Doy- 
enne, and  more  turbinate,  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters,  or  three  inches  long,  and  nearly  the  same  in 
diameter.  Eye  very  small,  mostly  closed,  and  placed 
in  a  shallow  impression.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  stout, 
rather  deeply  inserted  in  a  narrow  short-lipped  cavity. 
Skin  covered  with  a  bright  cinnamon  russet ;  occasion- 
ally, in  high  ripened  specimens,  red  next  the  sun.  Flesh 
yellowish  white,  rich,  melting,  and  sugary,  of  excellent 
flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  October,  and  will  keep  a  few  weeks. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

A  very  handsome  and  hardy  fruit,  highly  deserving  of 
cultivation. 

55.  JALOUSIE.     Duhamel,  No.  86.  t.  47.  f.  3. 
Fruit  pretty  large,   of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure, 

pinched  in  a  little  towards  the  stalk,  about  three  inches 
long,  and  nearly  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
rather  deeply  sunk,  in  a  wide  well  formed  hollow.  Stalk 
an  inch  long,  curved,  and  inserted  in  a  small  round 
cavity.  Skin  of  a  thin  russetty  or  chestnut  colour  on 
the  shaded  side  ;  but  of  a  dull  red  where  exposed  to  the 
sun.  Flesh  soft  and  buttery,  with  a  saccharine  juice, 
and  of  an  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  October  and  beginning  of  November. 

This  languishes  and  perishes  in  a  few  years  on  the 
Quince. 

56.  LANSAC.     Miller,  No.  47-     Duhamel,  No*  109. 

t.57- 

D.auphine.     Ib. 

Satin.     Ib. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  nearly  globular,  about 


PEARS.  361 

two  inches  deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
with  a  recurved  calyx,  placed  on  the  convex  part  of  the 
apex.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  straight, 
with  a  strong  curb  or  embossment  next  its  insertion  in 
the  fruit.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  yellowish  green  colour. 
Flesh  yellowish,  melting,  with  a  sugary,  slightly  per- 
fumed juice. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  till  Christmas. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

57.  MOOR-FOWL  EGG.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  416. 
Fruit  rather  small,  of  a  globular-ovate  figure,  abruptly 

tapering  from  the  middle,  both  to  the  crown  and  the 
stalk,  about  two  inches  and  three  quarters  deep,  and  the 
same  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  with  a  short,  slen- 
der, strigose  calyx,  placed  in  a  rather  narrow  and  shallow 
basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slightly  inserted 
by  the  side  of  a  small  elongated  lip.  Skin  pale  yellow, 
mixed  with  green,  and  tinged  on  the  sunny  side  with  a 
lively  orange-brown,  interspersed  with  numerous  minute 
russetty  spots*  Flesh  yellowish  white,  a  little  gritty, 
but  tender  and  mellow.  Juice  sugary,  with  a  slight 
perfume. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  and  will  keep  two  or 
three  weeks. 

This  is  a  Scotch  variety,  and  partakes  something  of 
the  Swan's  Egg.  It  is  a  desirable  and  hardy  fruit. 

58.  PRINCESS  OF  ORANGE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  71- 
Princesse  d'Orange.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  277» 
Fruit  roundish,  turbinate,  about  the  size  of  a  White 

Beurre,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  deep,  and  the  same 
in  diameter.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a 
shallow  cavity.  Skin  a  bright  reddish-orange  russet. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  sugary,  and  rich  ;  it  is  in  some 
seasons  perfectly  melting,  but  occasionally  is  a  little 
gritty. 

It  is  in  perfection  in  October. 


362  PEAES. 

.  This  succeeds  equally  well  upon  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

The  Princess  of  Orange  is  a  very  handsome  and  de- 
sirable autumn  Pear.  It  was  raised  in  1802  by  the 
Comte  de  Coloma,  as  we  learn  from  the  Hort.  Trans. 

69.  Swiss  BERGAMOT.     Miller,  No.  33. 

Bergamotte  Suisse.     Duhamel,  4/7.  t.  20. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  turbinate,  and  pinched 
in  towards  the  stalk  ;  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long, 
and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
in  a  shallow  depressed  basin.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  long,  slender,  a  little  warted,  inserted  in  a  small 
oblique  cavity.  Skin  green,  striped  with  red,  turning 
yellow  as  it  ripens.  Flesh  melting,  and  full  of  juice, 
but  not  so  high  flavoured  as  in  other  Bergamots. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  October. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  on  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

60.  VARIEGATED  CRASANNE. 

Crasanne  Panachee.     Duhamel,  No.  50.  t.  23. 

Fruit  scarcely  differing  from  the  Crasanne  described 
before,  of  which  it  is  a  variety.  The  branches  are  not 
so  strong,  and  the  leaves  have  a  very  lively  appearance, 
the  entire  margin  of  each  being  of  a  pale  yellow  when 
they  first  expand,  and  become  white  when  fully  grown. 

It  makes  a  very  handsome  appearance  in  the  shrub- 
bery among  other  ornamental  trees ;  but  its  fruit  can 
only  be  obtained  by  planting  it  against  a  warm  wall. 

SECT.  IV.  —  Autumnal  Conical-fruited. 

61.  AH,  MON  DIEU.     Duhamel,  No.  38. 

Po^e  d'Amour.  }  °fthe  French  Gardem* 
Fruit  rather  small,  of  an  oblong  turbinate    figure, 
about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  in 


PEARS.  363 

diameter.  Eye  small,  rather  prominent,  surrounded  by 
a  few  slight  plaits.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  stout, 
curved,  with  a  small  embossment  at  its  insertion.  Skin 
yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  beautiful  red,  with 
numerous  darker  dots,  where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  and  full  of  a  very  rich  perfumed  juice. 

It  ripens  upon  the  tree  the  end  of  September,  and 
will  not  keep  above  two  or  three  weeks. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

62.  A  LEX  ANDRE  DE  RUSSIE.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  5. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat  obliquely  pyra- 
midal, with  a  very  uneven  knobby  surface,  about  three 
inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
in  diameter.  Eye  open,  with  short  narrow  segments  of 
the  calyx,  placed  in  a  shallow,  narrow,  plaited  hollow. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  thick,  almost  horizontally  in* 
serted  under  an  elongated  knobby  lip.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  but  almost  wholly  covered  with  a  cinnamon- 
grey  russet.  Flesh  almost  white,  gritty,  but  tender 
and  mellow.  Juice  saccharine,  with  a  slight  musky 
perfume. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  October,  but  will 
not  keep  more  than  two  or  three  weeks. 

This  is  a  very  fine  Bonchretien-shaped  variety,  which 
has  been  lately  raised  in  Flanders,  and  sent  to  the  Hor- 
ticultural Society,  in  whose  garden  it,  in  1830,  produced 
some  uncommonly  fine  fruit  upon  an  open  standard, 
from  which  this  description  is  taken. 

63.  AUTUMN  COLMAR.     Hort.  Gard.  Coll. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  in  shape  that  of  a  Colmar, 

but  irregular  in  its  outline,  about  three  inches  long,  and 
two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a 
short  converging  calyx,  slightly  sunk  in  an  uneven 
depression.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  straight,  inserted  in  a 
small  uneven  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow,  sprinkled  with 
russetty  specks,  which  become  broader  on  the  sunny 


364  PEARS. 

side,  and  spread  into  a  thin  russet.     Flesh  rather  gritty 
but  mellow,  with  a  sugary  and  slightly  perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  but  will  not  keep 
more  than  two  or  three  weeks  in  perfection. 

This  is  another  of  the  new  Flemish  Pears,  grown  in 
the  Horticultural  Society's  Garden  at  Chiswick,  and 
bears  extremely  well  upon  an  open  standard. 

64.  BELLE  LUCRATIVE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  41. 

Fondante  d'Automne.  Ib.  No.  269- 
,  Fruit  middle-sized,  round  in  its  outline,  tapering  to 
the  stalk,  and  a  little  uneven  in  its  surface,  about  three 
inches  deep,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in 
diameter.  Eye  open,  with  a  very  short  calyx,  in  a 
shallow  rather  oblique  impression.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
strong,  curved,  inserted  in  a  very  narrow,  oblique, 
shallow  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow,  mixed  with  green, 
slightly  russetted.  Flesh  a  little  gritty,  but  very  soft, 
mellow,  and  tender.  Juice  abundant,  sugary,  with  a 
slight  musky  perfume* 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  October,  but  will 
not  keep  above  two  or  three  weeks. 

Another  of  the  new  Flemish  Pears,  grown  in  the 
Horticultural  Society's  garden  at  Chiswick,  on  an  open 
standard.  It  is  good  and  handsome. 

6,5.  BELLISSIME  D'AUTOMNE.  .Duhamel,  No.  12. 
1. 19.  f.  1. 

Vermilion.     Ib. 

Petit  Certeau.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  27. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  long  pyramidal  shape,  some- 
what like  the  Jargonelle,  about  three  inches  long,  and 
two  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  pretty  deep.  Stalk  an 
inch  long,  thickened  next  the  fruit,  and  obliquely  in- 
serted. Skin  smooth,  yellow  on  the  shaded  side ;  but 
of  a  bright  red,  and  full  of  grew  specks,  where  fully  ex- 
posed to  the  sun.  Flesh  white,  crisp  ;  on  some  soils  it 
is  half  buttery.  Juice  sweet,  and  highly  flavoured. 


PEARS.  365 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  October. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

66.  BEURRE  KNOX.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  104. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  oblong,  in  form  some- 
what like  the  Brown  Beurre,  about  three  inches  and  a 
quarter  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  dia- 
meter. Eye  small,  open,  in  a  very  narrow  shallow 
depression.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  crooked,  diagonally 
inserted  under  a  short,  knobby,  elongated  lip.  Skin 
pale  green,  with  a  little  thin  brownish-grey  russet  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  a  little  gritty,  but  mellow. 
Juice  saccharine,  but  without  any  peculiar  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  October,  and  will  keep  a 
few  weeks  in  perfection. 

Another  of  th'e  newly  raised  Flemish  Pears,  grown  in 
the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick,  upon  an  open 
standard. 

67.  BEZY  DE  MOXTIGXY.     Duhamel,  No.  83.  t.  44, 
f.  6. 

Trouve  de  Montigny.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  122. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  pyramidal,  somewhat  like  the 
Bezy  de  la  Motte  in  figure,  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter, 
compressed  towards  the  stalk.  Eye  small,  with  a  re- 
flexed  calyx,  in  a  round  shallow  basin.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,  stout,  inserted  in  a  small  oblique-lipped  cavity. 
Skin  very  smooth,  green,  turning  yellow  as  it  becomes 
matured.  Flesh  white,  a  little  gritty,  but  melting,  with 
a  sugary  somewhat  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  Oc- 
tober. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

68.  BEZY  VAET.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  407. 
Fruit  somewhat  of  the  shape   of  a  Swan's  Egg,  but 

larger.     Eye  a  little  sunk.     Stalk  an  inch  long.     Skin 
dull  green,  covered  with  russetty  spots.  Flesh  yellowish, 


366  PEARS. 

perfectly  melting,  remarkably  sweet,  and  very  agreeably 
perfumed. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  a  month  or  more. 

Raised  by  M.  Parmentier,  at  Enghien,  and  exhibited 
at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1820. 

69.  BISHOP'S  THUMB.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  126. 
Fruit  long,  rather  slender,  slightly  tapering  from  the 

crown  to  the  stalk,  having  an  irregular  and  slightly 
knobby  outline,  in  the  manner  of  the  Calebasse,  about 
three  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  two  inches  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  with  slender  segments  of 
the  calyx,  slightly  sunk  in  an  uneven  hollow.  Stalk 
one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  recurved,  and  obliquely 
inserted  in  a  two-lipped  cavity.  Skin  dark  green, 
almost  wholly  covered  with  an  iron-coloured  russet,  on 
the  sunny  side  of  a  dark  rufous  brown,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  grey  russetty  dots.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  melt- 
ing, with  an  abundance  of  rich,  saccharine,  high- 
flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  to  the  end  of  October. 

A  very  excellent  Pear,  although  its  figure  is  far  from 
being  handsome.  Decidedly  distinct  from  Calebasse. 

70.  BONCHRETIEN     FoNDANTE.         Hort.     Soc.    Cat. 

No.  138. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  oblong,  with  a  pretty 
regular  outline,  about  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and 
two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
with  a  closed  calyx,  slightly  sunk  in  a  narrow  and  pretty 
regular  hollow.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
rather  stout,  curved,  and  slightly  inserted  in  a  narrow 
round  cavity.  Skin  pale  green,  a  good  part  of  which 
is  covered  with  a  deep  cinnamon  russet,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  light-coloured  russetty  specks.  Flesh  yellowish 
white,  a  little  gritty,  but  rich  and  buttery,  and  full  of  a 
highly  sacharine  rich-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  October,  and  will  keep  good  a  month. 


PEARS.  367 

This  most  excellent  Pear  is  also  a  newly  raised 
Flemish  variety,  grown  in  the  Horticultural  Society's 
garden  at  Chiswick,  on  an  open  standard. 

71.  BROWN  BEURRE.  Miller,  No.  34.  Pom.  Mag. 
t.  114. 

Beurre.      OfDuhamel,  75.  t.  38. 

Beurre  Gris.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  135, 

Beurre  Rouge.     Ib. 

Beurre  Dore.     Ib. 

Beurre  d'Anjou.     Ib. 

Beurre  d'Or.     Ib. 

Beurre  d'  Ambleuse.     Ib. 

Beurre  d'Amboise.     Ib. 

Poire  d'Amboise.     Ib. 

Isambert.     Ib. 

Red  Beurre,       "],**.•&     /•  *    r<  *  i 

Golden  Beurre,  I  °/  En^  Catalogue,  accord- 

Beurre  du  Roi,  J      m^  to  the  Pom'  MaZ' 

Fruit  large,  of  an  oblong  figure,  about  four  inches 
long,  and  three  inches  in  diameter,  tapering  to  the  stalk. 
Eye  small,  with  a  converging  calyx,  placed  in  a  shallow 
depression.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
rather  stout,  and  thickening  obliquely  into  the  fruit* 
Skin  greenish  yellow,  appearing  through  a  covering  of 
thin  russet,  coloured  more  or  less  with  brown  or  red  on 
the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  with  some  greenish  veins 
through  it,  melting,  buttery,  juicy,  rich  and  excellent. 

Ripe  in  October,  and  will  keep  good  only  a  few  weeks. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  on  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

This  highly  esteemed  and  well  known  Pear  has  had 
many  different  names  assigned  to  it,  as  will  be  seen  by 
the  synonyms  above  quoted,  and  it  has  probably  many 
more.  Those  which  relate  to  colour,  such  as  Grey, 
Golden,  and  Red,  have  originated  from  trees  on  dif- 
ferent stocks,  on  different  soils,  and  in  different  situ- 


368  PEARS. 

ations,  of  climate  and  of  aspect,  which,  the  practical 
gardener  is  well  aware,  contribute  materially,  not  only 
to  the  colour  of  the  Pear,  but  of  the  Apple  and  the 
Peach.  Other  names,  and  of  these  not  a  few,  arise 
from  the  locality  of  places  where  the  fruit  happens  to  be 
cultivated.  The  Beurre  Pear  in  France,  as  well  as  in 
this  country,  is  esteemed  as  the  best  of  its  season.  It 
is,  however,  a  very  tender  tree,  and  more  frequently 
cankered  than  any  other  Pear  cultivated  in  English 
gardens ;  on  this  account  alone  it  is  absolutely  necessary 
to  plant  it  against  a  wall,  upon  a  sound  dry  soil,  and 
against  a  south  or  south-east  aspect.  Without  attend- 
ing to  these  particulars  in  the  Brown  Beurre  Pear,  all 
attempts  to  obtain  fine  and  perfect  specimens  of  fruit 
will  be  attended  with  disappointment. 

72.  CALEB  ASSE.     Hart.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  164. 
Calebasse  Musquee.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  94.  t.  3. 
Fruit  long,  very  irregular  in  figure,  broadly  angular, 

and  knobby,  about  four  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and 
a  half  in  diameter,  compressed  below  the  middle,  and 
bent.  Eye  open,  with  a  very  short  acute  calyx.  Stalk 
one  inch  and  a  half  long,  bent,  obliquely  inserted  under 
one  or  two  knobby  lips.  Skin  greyish  yellow,  tinged 
with  a  deeper  yellow  on  the  sunny  side,  and  partially 
covered  with  a  thin  orange-grey  russet.  Flesh  break- 
ing a  little  gritty,  with  a  very  saccharine  and  plentiful 
juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  and  will  keep  two  fcr 
three  weeks. 

73.  CAPIAUMONT.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  406. 
Capiaumont.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  59. 

Beurre  de  Capiaumont.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  91. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  turbinate,  regularly  tapering  to 
the  stalk,  about  three  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  two 
inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  not  at  all  sunk,  but 
level  with  the  extremity.  Stalk  scarcely  half  an  inch 


PEARS.  369 

long,  inserted  without  any  cavity.  Skin  a  fine  clear 
cinnamon,  fading  into  yellow  in  the  shade,  and  acquir- 
ing a  rich  bright  red  in  the  sun.  Flesh  yellowish, 
melting,  buttery,  very  rich,  and  highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  October,  and  will  keep  for  two  or 
three  weeks. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  upon  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

It  is  one  of  the  best  of  those  varieties  raised  in 
Flanders  during  the  period  when  so  large  an  accession 
was  made  to  the  cultivated  fruits  of  that  country.  It  is 
recorded  to  have  owed  its  origin  to  a  M.  Capiaumont,  of 
Mons.  The  first  specimens  which  were  seen  in  this 
country  came  to  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1820, 
from  M.  Parmentier,  of  Enghien. 

It  bears  well  as  a  standard,  but  is  best  cultivated  as 
an  open  dwarf,  grafted  upon  a  Quince  stock. 

74.  CHAT-BRULE.     Duhamel,  No.  116. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate  figure, 
about  two  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  two 
inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  placed  in  a  shallow 
plaited  hollow.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  obliquely  inserted. 
Skin  smooth,  shining,  of  a  pale  yellow,  but  of  a  dark 
brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  but  not  very 
juicy,  and  if  kept  too  long  is  apt  to  grow  meally. 

75.  DARIMONT.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  215. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  in  some  specimens  slightly 
pyramidal,  tapering  a  little  towards  the  stalk,  about 
three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  the  segments  of  the  calyx 
generally  falling  off  before  the  fruit  is  fully  grown, 
placed  in  a  very  narrow  shallow  depression,  and  sur- 
rounded by  a  few  slightly  radiated  plaits.  Stalk  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  uneven 
cavity,  sometimes  obliquely  inserted  under  a  small 
elongated  lip.  Skin  a  complete  yellowish  grey  russet, 

B  B 


370  PEARS. 

sprinkled  with  numerous  scabrous  specks.  Flesh  white, 
gritty,  but  melting,  with  a  saccharine,  slightly  musky, 
and  somewhat  astringent  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  Oc- 
tober. 

This  is  another  of  the  new  Flemish  Pears,  grown  in 
the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick,  upon  an  open 
standard. 

76.  DELICES   D'ARDENPONT.       Hort.    Soc.    Cat. 
No.  217. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  oblong  pyramidal,  en- 
larged beyond  the  middle,  and  compressed  towards  the 
stalk,  with  an  uneven  and  somewhat  knobby  surface, 
about  three  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  two  inches 
and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  short  con- 
verging calyx,  in  a  narrow  shallow  depression,  sur- 
rounded by  a  few  slight  obtusely  knobby  plaits.  Stalk 
an  inch  long,  rather  thick,  curved,  inserted  in  a  rather 
oblique  narrow  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellow,  full  of  small 
grey  russetty  dots,  and  partially  covered  with  a  thin 
cinnamon-coloured  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  rather 
gritty,  but  very  mellow  when  matured,  and  full  of  a 
sugary,  slightly  astringent,  pleasant,  somewhat  musky, 
perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  October. 

This  is  another  of  those  very  fine  Pears  lately  intro- 
duced from  Flanders,  and  grown  in  the  Horticultural 
Society's  garden  at  Chiswick,  upon  an  open  standard. 
It  was  raised  by  the  late  Counsellor  Hardenpont,  of 
Mons,  by  whom  a  number  of  other  good  Flemish  Pears 
were  obtained  from  seed  some  years  ago. 

77.  DILLEN.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  119. 
Gros  Dillen.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  223. 

Fruit  ovate,  irregularly  turbinate,  about  three  inches 
and  a  half  long,  and  nearly  three  inches  in  diameter, 
flat.   Stalk  short  and  thick.   Skin  yellowish  green, 


PEARS.  371 

slightly  speckled  with  brown.  Flesh  white,  with  a  slight 
musky  flavour,  and  very  little  core. 

Ripe  early  in  October,  and  will  keep  a  few  weeks. 

A  fine  buttery  Pear  of  the  first  order,  and  very  hand- 
some. It  was  received  by  the  Horticultural  Society 
from  Dr.  Van  Mons,  of  Brussels,  in  1817- 

78.  DOYENNE  PANACHE.     Hart.    Trans.  Vol.  vii. 

p.  177- 

Fruit  in  form  the  same  as  the  Grey  Doyenne,  but 
tapers  a  little  more  towards  the  stalk.  Skin  a  bright 
clear  yellow,  faintly  striped  with  green  and  red,  and 
sprinkled  all  over  with  small  russetty  brown  dots. 
Flesh  white,  melting,  sweet,  and  very  agreeable  ;  but  it 
is  not  so  high-flavoured  as  the  Grey  Doyenne. 

In  eating  from  October  till  Christmas. 

79.  DOYENNE  SANTELETE.  Hart.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  241. 
Fruit  above  the  middle    size,  pyramidally   oblong, 

not  much  unlike  a  Chaumantelle  in  shape,  but  narrow  at 
the  crown,  and  more  compressed  towards  the  stalk, 
about  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  and  a 
half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  with  a  very  shut 
strigose  calyx,  slightly  sunk  in  a  narrow  obtusely  angular 
hollow.  Stalk  an  inch  long  or  more,  curved,  very 
slightly  inserted,  sometimes  a  little  obliquely,  in  a  nar- 
row base.  Skin  pale  green,  thinly  covered  with  de- 
tached specks  of  grey  russet,  which  are  more  numerous 
round  the  stalk.  Flesh  white,  a  little  gritty,  but  tender. 
Juice  saccharine,  with  a  slight  musky  perfume. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  and  will  keep  till 
the  end. 

This  is  a  very  fine  handsome  Pear  from  Flanders, 
grown  in  the  Horticultural  Society's  garden  at  Chiswick, 
upon  an  open  standard. 

80.  DUCHESS  OF  ANGOULEME.    Pom.  Mag.  t.  76. 
Duchesse   d'Angouleme.       Hart.    Trans.  Vol.  vii. 

p.  176.  t.  3.     Bon  Jard.  1829,  p.  328. 

B  B  2 


372  PEARS. 

Fruit  large,  roundish-oblong,  tapering  towards  the 
stalk,  with  an  extremely  uneven  knobby  surface,  usually 
measuring  about  three  inches  and  a  half  each  way,  or 
four  inches  deep,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter, 
but  sometimes  much  larger.  Eye  deeply  sunk  in  an 
irregular  hollow.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  stout,  deeply 
inserted  in  an  irregular  cavity.  Skin  dull  yellow, 
copiously  and  irregularly  spotted  with  broad  russet 
patches.  Flesh  rich,  melting,  very  juicy,  and  high- 
flavoured,  with  a  most  agreeable  perfume. 

Ripe  in  October  and  November. 

This  succeeds  extremely  well  on  the  Quince,  as  well 
as  the  Pear. 

The  Duchess  of  Angouleme,  the  very  finest  of  the 
late  autumn  Pears,  is  said  to  have  been  found  wild  in  a 
hedge  of  the  Forest  of  Armaille,  near  Angers.  It 
arrives  at  a  weight  unusual  in  Pears  that  are  fit  for  the 
dessert.  Jersey  specimens  have  been  seen,  which  mea- 
sured four  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  four 
inches  and  a  half  in  diameter,  weighing  twenty-two  ounces. 

The  trees  bear  very  early  and  certainly,  especially  if 
grafted  upon  the  Quince  stock,  for  which  the  sort  is 
particularly  well  adapted. 

It  is  said  to  have  derived  its  name  from  having  been 
found  in  July,  1815,  when  the  reigning  family  in 
France  returned,  for  the  second  time,  to  the  head  of 
the  government. 

81.  ENGLISH  BEURRE,  of  some  Collections.  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  SO?. 

Beurre  d'Angleterre.     Duhamel,  No.  76.  t.  39. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oval  pyramidal  figure,  very 
regularly  formed  at  the  crown,  and  tapering  to  the 
stalk;  about  two  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and 
two  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  short  con- 
nivent  calyx,  very  little  depressed.  Stalk  one  inch  and 
a  quarter  long,  slender,  inserted  without  any  cavity. 


PEARS.  373 

Skin  smooth,  of  a  greenish  grey,  a  little  tinged  with 
red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  very  buttery,  and 
replete  with  a  sugary  and  very  agreeable  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  October. 

This  succeeds  only  on  the  Pear,  not  on  the  Quince. 

It  is  clearly  distinct  from  the  Brown  Beurre,  as  it 
does  not  succeed  when  grafted  upon  the  Quince  ;  the 
other  succeeds  well  on  both. 

82.  FLEMISH  BEAUTY.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  128. 
Bouche  Nouvelle.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  451. 
Brilliant.     Ib.  157. 

Fondante  de  Bois.     Ib.  270. 

Imperatrice  de  la  France.     Ib.  338. 

La  Belle  de  Flandres.  Ib.  40.  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong,  a  little  uneven  in  its  out- 
line, and  somewhat  elongated  on  the  side  opposite  to 
the  branch  on  which  it  grows ;  about  three  inches  and 
a  quarter  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in 
diameter.  Eye  open,  with  a  short  calyx,  prominently 
placed  on  a  flat  crown,  or  in  a  very  slight  depression. 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  oblique  cavity. 
Skin  pale  yellow,  the  greater  part  of  which  is  covered 
with  a  thin  cinnamon  russet,  having  a  faint  streak  or  two 
of  pale  brown  appearing  through  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  yellowish  white,  a  little  gritty,  but  becoming 
tender  and  mellow,  and  full  of  a  rich,  saccharine, 
slightly  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  and  will  keep  a  month 
or  longer. 

A  very  fine  Flemish  variety,  grown  in  the  Horticul- 
tural Garden  at  Chiswick,  upon  an  open  standard.  It 
ought  to  be  gathered  before  it  is  fully  ripe,  otherwise  it 
loses  much  of  its  goodness. 

83.  FRANCHIPANNE.     Duhamel,  No.  85.  t.  47.  f.  2. 
Frangipane. "   Jard.  Fruit,  t.  41. 

B  B  3 


374  PEARS. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate  figure, 
compressed  between  the  middle  and  the  stalk ;  about 
two  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and 
a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  rather  large,  seated  in  a 
shallow  plaited  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  strong,  bent, 
and  obliquely  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  smooth, 
of  a  clear  yellow  or  citron  colour,  but  of  a  bright  red 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  with  a  sugary 
perfumed  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  October  and  beginning  of  November. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

84.  GENDESEIM.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  287. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  pyramidal,  a  little  uneven  in  its 

outline,  about  three  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  two 
inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  rather  open, 
in  a  narrow,  shallow  depression.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
crooked,  diagonally  inserted,  under  a  large,  curved, 
elongated  lip.  Skin  yellowish  green,  full  of  grey  specks, 
and  slightly  covered  with  thin  patches  of  grey  russet. 
Flesh  a  little  gritty,  but  mellow,  and  full  of  a  saccharine, 
rich,  and  slightly  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  Oc- 
tober. 

This  is  another  of  the  new  Flemish  Pears,  which  is 
grown  in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick,  upon 
an  open  standard. 

85.  GREEN  SUGAR.     Miller,  No.  42. 

Sucre-vert.     Duhamel,  No.  68.  t.  34.  ± 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  oblong,  but  very  regu- 
larly formed,  a  little  in  the  manner  of  a  Bergamotte,  but 
narrower  towards  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  open,  with  a  diverging  calyx,  in  a  very  slight, 
narrow  depression.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
strong,  slightly  inserted  in  a  small  uneven  cavity.  Skin 
smooth,  very  green,  which  continues  till  it  is  ripe.  Flesh 


PEARS.  375 

a  little  gritty,  but  very  buttery.  Juice  abundant,  highly 
sugary,  and  of  a  very  agreeable  musky  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  October. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

*85.  HACON'S  INCOMPARABLE. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  turbinate,  and  a  little 
irregular  in  its  outline,  occasioned  by  one  or  two  slightly 
protuberant  angles  near  its  crown  ;  about  two  inches  and 
a  half  deep,  and  three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
open  ;  segments  of  the  calyx  short  and  narrow,  slightly 
sunk  in  a  rather  wide  uneven  depression.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,  rather  stout,  inserted  in  a  somewhat  lipped  and 
rather  deep  cavity.  Skin  rugose,  pale  yellow,  or  yel- 
lowish white,  a  good  deal  mixed  with  green,  and  partially 
covered  with  a  greyish  orange  russet,  particularly  round 
the  stalk.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  slightly  gritty,  but 
very  buttery  and  melting.  Juice  abundant,  very  sac- 
charine, extremely  rich,  and  possessing  a  high,  musky, 
and  perfumed  flavour. 

In  perfection  in  November  and  December. 

This  very  valuable  and  excellent  Pear  was  raised  by 
Mr.  James  Gent  Hacon,  of  Downham  Market,  in  Nor- 
folk, from  a  seed  of  what  is  called  in  that  neighbour- 
hood Rayner's  Norfolk  Seedling.  The  tree  is  an  open 
standard,  about  sixteen  years  old,  and  sixteen  feet  high, 
with  pendulous  branches,  which  reach  nearly  to  the 
ground.  It  bears  most  abundantly,  and  may  be  justly 
considered  one  of  the  best  Pears  ever  raised  in  this 
country.  It  was  exhibited  at  the  meeting  of  the  Horti- 
cultural Society  in  Norwich  on  the  lyth  November, 
1830,  when  it  obtained  the  silver  medal  as  a  prize. 

86.  HAZEL  PEAR.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vii.  p.  310. 

Fruit  rather  small,  oval,  somewhat  turbinate,   about 

*  No.  85.  is  inserted  twice,  in  consequence  of  Hacon's  Incom- 
parable having  been  sent  roe  after  the  numerical  arrangement 
had  been  completed. 

B  B   4 


376  PEARS. 

two  inches  long,  and  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  with  a  very  short  acute  calyx,  placed  in  a 
rather  shallow  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  obliquely  in- 
serted. Skin  yellowish,  very-  much  freckled.  Flesh 
nearly  white,  with  a  very  pleasant  and  agreeable  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  October,  and  will  keep  a  few  weeks 
only. 

It  is  uncertain  where  this  Pear  originated.     It  is  now 
extensively  cultivated  by  the  Scotch  nurserymen ;  and 
for  its  early  bearing,  and  abundant  produce,  it  is  by  them 
highly  esteemed. 
87    •   HENRY  THE  FOURTH. 

Henri  Quatre.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  324. 
Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  pyramidal,  and  somewhat 
oblique  at  the  crown,  about  three  inches  long,  and  two 
inches  and  a  quarter  broad.  Eye  small,  open,  with  a 
short  slender  calyx,  slightly  sunk  in  a  narrow,  shallow, 
oblique  depression.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  crooked,  curved, 
obliquely  inserted  under  a  small  elongated  lip.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  mixed  with  green  ;  on  the  sunny  side  of  an 
orange-brown,  and  full  of  small,  grey,  russetty  specks, 
which  are  the  more  numerous  as  they  approach  the 
crown.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  a  little  gritty,  but  very  ten- 
der and  melting.  Juice  abundant,  highly  saccharine, 
with  a  slight  musky  perfume. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  and  will  keep  a  few  weeks 
only. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  dessert  Pear,  and  is  grown  ii^ 
the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick  upon  an  open 
standard. 

88.  INCOMMUNICABLE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  340. 
L*  Incommunicable.   Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  App.  ii.  p.  6. 
Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  pyramidal,  and  com- 
pressed towards  the  stalk,  about  three  inches  and  a  half 
long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.    Eye  small, 
closed  by  a  very  short  slender  calyx,  and  placed  in  a  very 


- 


PEARS.  377 

slight  narrow  depression.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  stout, 
bent,  diagonally  inserted  beneath  a  small  elongated  lip. 
>'/«///  pale  grass-green,  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  grey 
russetty  specks.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  tinged  near  the 
cone  with  a  light  shade  of  orange  colour,  a  little  gritty,  but 
melting.  Juice  saccharine,  with  a  slight  musky  perfume. 

Ripe  the  middle  to  the  end  of  October. 

It  is  difficult  to  conceive  the  origin  of  this  singular 
name.  It  has  been  attached  to  one  of  those  newly  raised 
Flemish  varieties  which  bear  so  well  and  so  regularly  in 
the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick  upon  an  open 
standard. 

89.  KEISER.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  360. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  turbinate,  gradually  tapering  from 
the  middle  to  the  stalk,  about  three  inches  deep,  and  two 
inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  very 
short  erect  segments  of  the  calyx,  placed  in  a  very  nar- 
row depression.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
thick,  and  woody.  Skin  pale  green,  becoming  yellowish 
green,  thickly  sprinkled  with  small  grey  russetty  specks, 
and  russetty  round  the  stalk.  Flesh  greenish  white,  a 
little  gritty,  but  melting.  Juice  saccharine,  without  any 
peculiar  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  October,  and  will  keep  some  weeks. 

This  is  also  another  of  those  hardy  Pears  which  bear 
so  plentifully  upon  an  open  standard,  in  the  Horticultural 
Garden  at  Chiswick. 

90.  LOUIS-BONNE.      Miller,    No.  53.      Duhqmel, 
No.  97-  t.  53. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  somewhat  pyramidal,  much  in  the 
manner  of  the  Saint  Germain,  but  more  rounded  at  the 
crown,  and  not  so  slender  towards  the  stalk,  about  three 
inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
in  diameter.  Eye  small,  very  little  sunk.  Stalk  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  long,  straight,  rather  obliquely  in- 
serted, with  a  curb  or  embossment  next  the  fruit.  Skin 


378  PEARS. 

very  smooth,  of  a  pale  green,  becoming  a  little  yellow  as 
it  approaches  maturity.  Flesh  extremely  tender,  and 
full  of  an  excellent,  saccharine,  well-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  till  Christmas. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

91.  MARIE  LOUISE.      Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  519- 
t.  20.     Pom.  Mag.  1. 122. 

Fruit  long  ovate,  something  like  a  Saint  Germain, 
but  more  angular  in  its  outline,  about  three  inches  and 
a  quarter  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  open,  placed  in  an  oblique,  somewhat  knobby  hol- 
low. Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  obliquely  inserted 
in  a  small  uneven  cavity.  Skin  greenish,  but  when  fully 
matured  of  a  rich  yellow,  clouded  with  light  brown  russet 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  inclining  to  yellow,  perfectly 
melting,  with  abundance  of  saccharine,  highly  vinous 
juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  October. 

This  most  excellent  Pear,  in  favourable  seasons,  at- 
tains a  much  larger  size,  being  sometimes  five  inches 
long  and  three  inches  broad.  It  was  raised  by  the  Abbe 
Duquesne,  and  sent  by  Dr.  Van  Mons,  of  Brussels,  to 
the  Horticultural  Society  in  1816.  It  bears  well  as  a 
standard. 

92.  MARQUISE.     Duhamel,  No.  93.  t.  49. 
Marchioness.     Miller,  No.  43. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  somewhat  oval,  swelled  very  much 
towards  the  crown,  and  suddenly  narrowed  towards  the 
stalk  ;  about  three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a 
half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  placed  in  a  moderately  deep 
narrow  basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  stout, 
bent,  obliquely  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  pale 
green,  shaded  with  darker,  with  numerous  grey  dots,  but 
which  becomes  yellow  as  it  approaches  maturity,  with  a 
slight  blush  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  breaking, 
replete  with  juice  of  an  agreeable  musky  flavour. 


PEARS.  379 

Ripe  the  end  of  October,  and  will  keep  two  or  three 
weeks. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

93.  MESSIRE  JEAN.     Miller,  No.  37. 
Messire  Jean.     Duhamel,  55.  t.  26. 
Messire  Jean  dore.     Ib. 

Chaulis.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  34. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  flatly  turbinate,  but  somewhat 
narrowed  at  each  extremity,  about  two  inches  and  a  half 
deep,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  open,  with  an  erect  calyx,  placed  in  a  shal- 
low plaited  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  benj,  inserted  in 
a  somewhat  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  rather  rough, 
yellow,  covered  almost  wholly  with  a  fine,  thin,  brown 
russet.  Flesh  white,  crisp,  breaking,  and  full  of  a  rich 
saccharine  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  and  will  keep  a  month. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

The  Messire  Jean  is  a  very  excellent  autumn  Pear, 
and  deserves  to  be  generally  cultivated.  There  have 
been  other  names  given  to  it,  such  as  Gfrey,  Yellow,  and 
Wliite;  they  are  all  the  same  sort,  and  these  colours 
arise,  as  was  said  of  the  Brown  Beurre,  from  the  dif- 
ferent soils,  situations,  and  stocks  on  which  they  are 
grafted,  and  also  from  the  different  ages  of  the  trees 
themselves. 

94.  NAPOLEON.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  104.  and 
Vol.  iv.  p.  215.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  75. 

Medaille.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  401.  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  large,  the  form  of  a  Colmar,  angular  about  the 
eye,  a  good  deal  contracted  in  the  middle,  about  three 
inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  three  inches  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  connivent  calyx,  a  little 
depressed.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  thick,  straight ;  in 
some  specimens  diagonally  inserted  under  a  large,  elong- 


380  PEARS." 

ated,  curved  lip.  Skin  smooth,  bright  green,  in  which 
state  it  remains  for  some  time  after  the  fruit  is  gathered; 
it  finally  changes  to  a  pale  green,  when  the  flesh  becomes 
very  melting,  with  a  most  unusual  abundance  of  rich 
agreeable  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  November,  and  remains  in  per- 
fection several  days. 

This  succeeds  equally  well  upon  the  Pear  and  the 
Quince. 

The  Napoleon  Pear  is  an  excellent  variety,  raised  by 
Dr.  Van  Mons,  at  Louvain,  and  thence  sent  to  this 
country  in  1816.  It  is  a  profuse  bearer  upon  an  east  or 
west  wall ;  it  also  succeeds  as  an  open  dwarf  grafted  upon 
the  Quince,  and  as  a  common  standard. 

95.  NEW  BRIDGE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  430. 
Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of  a  turbinate  figure, 

about  two  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  two  inches 
and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  short  slender 
calyx.  Crown  flat,  not  depressed.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
a  little  obliquely  inserted.  Skin  dull  grey,  covered 
with  thin  grey  russet,  and  of  a  light,  lively,  shining 
brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting,  a  little 
gritty,  with  a  sugary  juice,  but  without  any  peculiar 
flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  October, 
and  will  not  keep  longer  than  a  few  weeks. 

This  is  another  of  the  new  hardy  Pears  which  are 
produced  upon  open  standards  in  the  Horticultural 
Garden  at  Chiswick. 

96.  POIRE  DE  LOUVAINE.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  381. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  pyramidal,  uneven  on  its  surface, 

three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  closed  with  small  short  segments  of  the  calyx, 
sunk  in  a  narrow  hollow.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
curved,  obliquely  inserted.  Skin  dull  green,  mixed 
with  yellow,  full  of  russetty  spots,  and  a  little  russetted 


PEARS.  381 

round  the  eye.  Flesh  very  tender,  slightly  gritty,  and 
full  of  a  rich,  very  saccharine,  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  and  fine  till  the  end. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  Pear,  and  one  of  those  culti- 
vated in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick  as  an  open 
standard.  It  highly  deserves  cultivation. 

97.  POIRE  FIGUE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  266. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  oblong  figure,  irregularly 

formed  by  the  outward  side  being  considerably  more 
elongated  than  the  inner  one  next  the  tree,  giving  it  a 
curved  direction,  about  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and 
two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open, 
with  very  short  segments  of  the  calyx.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,  curved,  diagonally  inserted  under  a  broad,  elong- 
ated lip.  Skin  dull  green,  almost  wholly  covered  with 
a  thin  grey  russet,  with  scarcely  any  additional  colouring 
where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  a  little  gritty,  but 
mellow,  with  abundance  of  rich,  saccharine,  and  slightly 
musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  October,  and  will  keep  good  a 
month. 

This  is  not  the  Poire  de  Figue  of  KNOOP.  It  is 
one  of  those  hardy  varieties  bearing  as  an  open  standard 
in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick  ;  and,  although 
not  handsome,  is  a  very  excellent  Pear. 

98.  POIRE  NEILL.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  431. 
Fruit  large,  pyramidally  turbinate,  generally  a  little 

flattened  on  its  opposite  sides,  and  tapering  to  the  stalk. 
In  some  specimens  the  outer  side  is  considerably  more 
elongated  than  the  inner  one  next  the  branch  on  which 
it  grows,  nearly  four  inches  long,  and  three  inches  and 
a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  open,  rather  deeply  sunk  in  an 
irregular  hollow.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
obliquely  inserted  in  a  narrow  uneven  cavity.  Skin 
pale  yellow,  intermixed  with  green,  a  good  deal  mottled 
and  marked  with  thin  grey  russet.  Flesh  white,  a  little 


382  PEARS. 

gritty,  but  very  soft  and  mellow,  abounding  with  a 
saccharine  and  slightly  musky  juice. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  and  good  to  the  end. 

This  very  fine  and  handsome  Pear  is  one  of  those 
lately  introduced  from  Flanders  into  the  Horticultural 
Garden  at  Chiswick,  where  it  is  grown  as  an  open 
standard. 

99.  RICHE  DEPOUILLE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.v.  p. 409. 
Riche  d'Apoie.     Ib. 

Fruit  somewhat  resembling  the  Saint  Germain  in 
shape  and  size,  and  tapering  considerably  towards  the 
stalk.  Eye  prominent.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half 
long,  rather  thick.  Skin  of  a  clear  citron  yellow,  with 
a  slight  tinge  of  bright  red  on  the  sunny  side,  a  little 
mottled  with  russet,  and  rough  like  the  skin  of  an  orange. 
Flesh  white,  melting,  not  perfumed,  but  sweet  and  very 
pleasant. 

Ripe  in  the  autumn  and  winter  months. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

Raised  some  years  ago  on  the  Continent,  and  was 
brought  into  this  country  under  the  name  of  Riche 
d'Apoie. 

100.  ROUSSELINE.      Miller,    No.  40.      Duhamel, 
No.  37.  t.  15. 

Muscat  a  longue  queue  de  la  fin  d'Automne.     Ib. 

Fruit  small,  of  a  somewhat  oblong  figure,  swelled  out 
in  the  middle,  tapering  to  the  crown,  and  compressed 
towards  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  long, 
and  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  very  small, 
with  a  converging  calyx,  placed  in  a  rather  hollow-,  plaited 
basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  three  quarters  long,  slender, 
inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  greenish 
yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  but  where  fully  exposed  to 
the  sun,  of  a  lively  deep  red,  sprinkled  with  numerous 
grey  specks.  Flesh  very  tender  and  delicate,  with  a 
sweet  and  agreeably  perfumed  juice. 


PEARS.  383 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  October,  and  will  keep  a  month. 
This  succeeds  on  the  Pear,  but  not  at   all  on   the 
Quince. 

101.  SECKLE.     Hort.    Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  256.  t.  9- 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  72. 

New  York  Red  Cheek.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  432. 

Sycle,  1  of  some  Collections,   accord- 

Red-cheeked  Seckle,    J      ing  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  rather  small,  somewhat  turbinate,  a  little  com- 
pressed towards  the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  open,  with  a  very  short  calyx,  prominently 
placed  on  the  convex  apex.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
obliquely  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  dull  brown, 
or  brownish  green,  with  a  very  bright  red  cheek.  Flesh 
tender,  juicy,  melting,  peculiarly  rich  and  high-flavoured, 
with  a  powerful  but  most  agreeable  aroma,  totally  dif- 
ferent from  that  usually  perceived  in  perfumed  Pears. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  October. 

This  beautiful  and  excellent  little  Pear  ranks  among 
the  richest  of  the  American  varieties.  An  account  of  it 
was  transmitted  by  Dr.  Hosack,  of  New  York,  to  the 
Horticultural  Society  in  181 9>  extracted  from  COXE'S 
work  on  American  Fruit  Trees,  p.  189.  It  bears  its 
fruit  in  clusters  at  the  ends  of  the  branches,  is  very  hardy 
as  an  open  standard,  ripening  its  fruit  with  certainty; 
but  they  do  not  keep  in  perfection  more  than  a  few  days. 

102.  SWAN'S  EGG.     Langley,  t.  64.  f.  4.       Of  all 
English  Gardens. 

Fruit  small,  of  an  oval,  turbinate  figure,  about  two 
inches  long,  and  one  inch  and  three  quarters  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  with  a  very  short  calyx,  prominently  placed 
on  the  apex,  surrounded  by  a  few  wrinkled  plaits.  Stalk 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  slender,  somewhat  ob- 
liquely inserted,  with  but  little  cavity.  Skin  greenish 
yellow,  covered  on  the  sunny  side  with  dull  brown,  inter- 


384  PEARS. 

mixed  with  small  russetty  specks.  Flesh  soft  and  melt- 
ing, with  a  very  rich  musky  saccharine  juice. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  October, 
and  will  keep  only  a  few  weeks  in  perfection. 

The  Swan's  Egg  Pear  is  known  to  every  gardener 
and  dealer  in  fruit  in  every  county  in  England ;  its 
great  certainty  in  bearing,  and  the  excellence  of  its 
fruit,  render  it  an  universal  favourite.  The  tree  is 
readily  distinguished  in  the  orchard  from  almost  every 
sort,  by  its  upright  and  spire-like  growth. 

103.  URBANISTE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  411. 

Fruit  pyramidally  ovate,  very  even  in  form,  but  com- 
pressed towards  the  stalk ;  about  three   inches  and  a 
half  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter. 
Eye  a  little   sunk  in  a  very  narrow  crown.      Stalk  an 
inch    long,    obliquely   inserted    in   a    moderately  deep 
cavity.      Skin  pale  green,  inclining  to  yellow,  profusely 
sprinkled  with  greenish  specks,  with  small  patches  of 
grey  russet  dispersed  over  its  whole  surface,  but  more 
particularly  round  the  eye  and  the  stalk.     Flesh  white 
towards  the  outside,  but  deepens  to  a  reddish  yellow 
next  the  core,    which   is  large,   and  possesses  a  small 
quantity  of  grit ;    it    is,   nevertheless,    quite   melting, 
juicy,  and  very  sweet,  with  a  little  perfume. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September  and  beginning  of  Oc- 
tober. 

Raised  by  the  Count  de  Coloma,  of  Malines  ;  and 
specimens  of  the  fruit  were  exhibited  at  the  Horticu^l- 
tural  Society  from  that  gentleman  in  1823. 

104.  VERTE  LONGUE.     Miller,  No.  36.    Duhamel, 
No.  ?3. 

Mouille-bouche.     Ib. 

Muscat-fleure.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  p.  311. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  long  pyramidal  figure,  about 
three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half 
in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  an  open  calyx,  pro- 


PEARS.  385 

minently  seated  on  the  convex  summit.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,  straight,  inserted  without  any  cavity.  Skin  green, 
which  continues  till  its  maturity.  Flesh  white,  melting, 
and  very  full  of  a  saccharine,  well-flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  October,  and  will  keep  a  few 
weeks  only. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince ;  but 
it  is  best  on  the  Pear  on  dry,  hot  soils. 

105.  VERTE   LONGUE   PANACHEE.     Duhamel,  74. 
t.  37. 

Verte  longue  Suisse.     Ib. 

Culotte  de  Suisse.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  38. 

This  in  no  way  differs  from  the  preceding  one,  except 
in  being  rather  less,  and  in  its  striped  fruit,  which  is  beau- 
tifully coloured  with  green,  yellow,  and  red.  It  ripens 
also  at  the  same  time,  and  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear 
and  the  Quince  ;  but,  like  the  former,  it  is  best  on  the 
Pear  for  dry  soils. 

106.  VIGNE.     Miller,  No.  39.     Duhamel,  No.  110. 
t.  58.  f.  2. 

Demoiselle.     Ib. 

Fruit  small,  of  a  turbinate  figure,  about  one  inch  and 
three  quarters  long,  and  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  large  and  open.  Stalk  two  inches  long,  slender, 
inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  rough,  of  a  dull  red 
colour,  quite  round,  and  full  of  grey  specks.  Flesh 
melting,  and  full  of  a  pretty  good  juice. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  October. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

107.  WHITE  DOYENNE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  60. 
Doyenne  Blanc.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  233. 
Doyenne.     Duhamel,  81.  t.  43. 

Beurre  Blanc.     Ib. 
Bonne-ante.     Ib. 
Saint  Michel.     Ib. 

c  c 


386  PEARS. 


Carlisle. 

Citron  de  Septembre. 

Kaiserbirne. 

Poire  a  courte  queue. 


Poire  de  Limon. 
Poire  de  Neige. 


Of  various  Collections,   ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 


Poire  de  Seigneur. 

Poire  Monsieur. 

Valencia. 

White  Beurre. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  roundish  oblong,  narrowest  at  the 
stalk,  about  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  very  small,  with 
small,  acute,  closed  segments  of  the  calyx,  placed  in  a 
shallow  depression.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
long,  rather  thick,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity ;  in  some 
specimens  it  is  diagonally  inserted  under  a  small  elong- 
ated lip.  Skin  pale  citron  yellow,  speckled  throughout, 
more  or  less,  with  cinnamon  russet,  and  tinged  with 
orange  brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  juicy, 
very  buttery,  and  delicious. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  and  good  for  three  or 
four  weeks. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

An  old  and  excellent  Pear,  bearing  well  in  this 
country  upon  an  open  standard.  It  is  one  of  the  best 
to  graft  upon  the  Quince,  and  to  cultivate  en  quenouille. 
It  is  best  known  in  our  gardens,  and  to  English  nursery- 
men, by  the  name  of  White  Beurre. 

SECT.  V.  —  Winter  Hound-fruited. 

108.  AMBRETTE.  Miller,  No.  57.  Duhamel,  No.  65. 
t.  31. 

Ambre  Gris,     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  134. 
Ambrette  Grise.     Ib. 
Ambrette  d'Hiver.     Ib. 


PEARS.  38? 

Belle  Gabrielle.     Ib. 

Troinpe  Valet.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish  figure,  but  rather 
larger  at  the  crown  than  at  the  stalk  ;  about  two  inches 
and  a  half  or  two  inches  and  three  quarters  deep,  and 
the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  an  open,  re- 
flexed,  flat  calyx,  placed  in  a  very  shallow  impression. 
Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  in 
a  very  small  cavity.  Skin  of  a  russet  colour.  Flesh 
melting,  with  a  sugary  musky  juice. 

In  eating  from  November  till  January. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince  ;  but 
it  is  more  productive  upon  the  latter  stock. 

109.  BERGAMOTTE  DE  SOULERS.  Duhamel9No.5lf 
t.44.  f.l. 

Bonne  de  Soulers.     Ib. 

Fruit  rather  large,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure ; 
about  two  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  the  same 
in  diameter,  broadest  in  the  middle,  and  narrowed  to 
each  extremity.  Eye  small,  within  a  shallow  basin. 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  strong,  curved,  and  inserted  in  an 
oblique  cavity.  Skin  smooth,  of  a  greenish  white,  full 
of  green  specks,  but  of  a  brownish  red  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  buttery  and  melting,  with  a  sweet  agree- 
able juice. 

In  eating  in  January  and  through  March. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

110.  EASTER  BERGAMOT.     Miller,  No.  69. 
Bergamotte  Bugi.     Ib. 

Bergamotte  de  Paques.     Duhamel,  52.  t.  24. 

Bergamotte  d'Hiver.     Ib. 

La  Grilliere.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  134. 

Paddington. 


Tarling. 
Terling. 
Winter  Bergamot. . 


Of  some  Nurseries. 


c  c 


388  PEARS. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure  ; 
three  inches  or  more  deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter, 
but  broadest  at  the  crown.  Eye  small,  closed,  and 
sunk  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  short,  thick,  inserted  a 
little  obliquely  in  a  small  shallow  cavity.  Skin  green, 
quite  round,  and  covered  with  numerous  grey  specks ; 
but  when  matured  it  turns  of  a  yellowish  grey.  Flesh 
white,  half  buttery,  with  a  sugary,  well-flavoured  juice. 

In  eating  from  January  till  April  or  May. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

The  Easter  Bergamot  has  been  a  long  time  in  this 
country,  having  been  planted  at  Hampton  Court  in  the 
time  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  It  requires  a  south  or  south- 
east wall,  and  a  dry  bottom  ;  on  colder  aspects  it  never 
ripens  perfectly.  The  Brocas  Bergamot  of  M.  Par- 
mentier's  list,  in  Hort.  Trans,  vol.  v,  is  undoubtedly 
this  Pear. 

111.  FRANCREAL.     Miller,  No.  68. 
Franc-real.     Duhamel,  No.  60. 
Fin  or  d'Hiver.     Ib. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  somewhat  globular  figure,  a 
little  compressed  at  both  extremities  ;  about  three  inches 
and  a  half  long,  and  nearly  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye 
small,  placed  in  a  shallow  narrow  basin.  Stalk  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  long.  Skin  yellow,  very  much 
mottled  with  a  pale  russetty  brown,  particularly  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  rather  dry,  and  apt  to  be  gritty. 
Juice  rather  insipid,  but  is  excellent  when  stewed. 

In  use  from  January  till  March. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

112.  GERMAN  MUSCAT.     Miller,  No.  70. 
Muscat  d' Allemagne.     Duhamel,  No.  7#.  t.  36, 
Fruit  pretty  large,  broadly  turbinate,  and  somewhat 

compressed  towards  the  stalk,  about  three  inches  deep, 
and  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  seated  in  a  small 
shallow  basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender, 


PEARS,  389 

inserted  in  a  very  small  cavity.  Skin  covered  with 
russet  quite  round,  and  coloured  with  brown  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  buttery,  and  melting. 
Juice  sugary,  musky,  and  perfumed. 

In  eating  from  March  till  May. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

113.  GILOGIL.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  65. 

Gile-6-gile.     Noisette  Manuel  Complet.  p.  531. 

Gros  Gobet.    1  Of  some  French  Gardens,  according 

Dagobert.        J      to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  large,  somewhat  obovate,  flattened  at  the  top, 
and  tapering  but  little  to  the  stalk,  about  three  inches 
and  a  quarter  deep,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  dia- 
meter. Eye  large,  and  deeply  sunk  in  a  plaited  radiated 
hollow.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  deeply  inserted  in 
an  uneven  and  mostly  two-lipped  cavity.  *  Skin  a  deep 
close  russet,  rather  deeply  tinged  with  a  brownish  red 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white,  juicy,  breaking,  a  little 
gritty,  sweet,  and  pleasant. 

In  use  from  December  till  March  or  April. 

A  valuable  winter  Pear,  although  not  of  first-rate  ex- 
cellence. It  is  very  handsome,  and  an  excellent  bearer. 
It  will  succeed  as  an  open  standard  in  a  sheltered  warm 
situation.  Fine  specimens  are  thus  produced  in  the 
Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick ;  but  it  is  better,  per- 
haps, to  grow  it  against  an  east  or  south-east  wall. 

114.  HOLLAND  BERGAMOT.     Miller,  No.  71- 

Bergamotte  d'Hollande.     Duhamel,  No.  53.  t.  25. 

Bergamotte  d'Ale^on.     Ib. 

Amoselle.     Ib. 

Lord  Cheney's.  Of  some  Gardens. 
Fruit  large,  of  a  regular  roundish  figure,  but  some- 
what broadest  at  the  crown,  about  three  inches  deep,  and 
nearly  the  same  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  divested  of  its 
calyx,  sunk  pretty  deep  in  a  depressed  and  wide  basin. 
Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  crooked,  inserted 

c  c  3 


390  PEARS. 

in  a  slightly  angular,  but  not  deep  cavity.  Skin  in  thd 
autumn  green,  marbled  all  over,  more  or  less,  with  a 
thin  brown  russet;  but  as  it  acquires  maturity,  the  skin 
becomes  yellow,  and  the  russetty  colouring  of  a  more 
lively  character.  Flesh  half  buttery,  with  a  plentiful 
and  highly  flavoured  juice. 

In  eating  from  March  till  May  or  June. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This  very  valuable  Pear,  if  ever  in  the  possession  of 
Lord  Cheney,  must  have  been  in  this  country  previously 
to  1595.  It  originated  at  Alen9on  in  France,  and  is 
highly  deserving  of  cultivation.  Its  late  period  of 
ripening  requires  it  should  be  planted  against  a  south  or 
south-east  wall,  in  order  to  have  it  in  the  greatest 
perfection. 

1 15.  POIRE  DU  JARDIN.     Duhamel,  28.  t.  19.  f.  3. 
Fruit  pretty  large,  round,   and  flattened  somewhat 

like  a  Bergamot,  about  two  inches  and  three  quarters 
deep,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
placed  in  a  very  shallow  depression.  Stalk  three  quar- 
ters of  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity. 
Skin  yellow  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  soft  red  where 
exposed  to  the  sun,  and  marked  with  a  few  yellow 
specks.  Flesh  half  buttery,  with  an  excellent  saccharine 
juice. 

In  eating  in  December  and  January. 

116.  WINTER  ORANGE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.v.  p.  139- 
t.  2.  f.  3. 

Orange  d'Hiver.     Duhamel,  No.  29.  1. 19.  f.  4. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  globular,  a  little  flattened  at  the 
crown,  about  two  inches  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  two 
inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  placed 
in  a  very  shallow,  perfectly  round  basin.  Stalk  an  inch 
long,  thickj  and  inserted  in  a  small  oblique  cavity.  Skin 
smooth,  rich,  yellow,  covered  with  numerous  brown 


PEARS.  391 

specks.      Flesh  white,    crisp,    witli    a   sugary,   highly 
flavoured,  musky  juice. 

In  eating  in  February,  and  will  keep  till  April. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

SECT.  VI Pointer  Conical-fruited. 

117-  ANGELIQUE  DE  BORDEAUX.  Z>uhamel,No.88. 
t.47.  f.5. 

Poire  Angelique.     Miller,  No.  77- 

Saint  Martial.     Ib. 

Saint  Marcel.     Bon  Jard.  1827,  p.  311. 

Gros  Franc-real.     Ib. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate  figure, 
somewhat  like  a  Bon-chretien,  about  three  inches  and  a 
quarter  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  placed  in  a  narrow  and  rather  deep 
hollow.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  strong,  crooked, 
inserted  in  an  oblique  but  not  deep  cavity.  Skin  smooth 
and  yellowish,  but  on  the  sunny  side  it  is  of  a  faint  purple 
colour.  Flesh  tender  and  buttery,  with  a  sugary  juice. 

In  eating  from  February  till  ApriL 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince,  but  not 
so  well  on  the  latter  stock. 

This  Pear  was  introduced  into  this  country  about  the 
year  1700,  and  first  planted  by  the  Duke  of  Montague 
at  Ditton ;  it  requires  to  be  grown  against  a  south  or 
south-east  wall. 

118.  ANGELIQUE  DE  ROME.  Duhamel,  No.  108. 
Jard.  Fruit,  t.  42. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  a  little  more  long  than  broad, 
being  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches 
and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  very  small,  placed  in  a 
narrow  shallow  basin.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
inserted  in  a  very  small  cavity.  Skin  rough,  pale  yellow 

c  c  4 


392  PEARS. 

or  citron  colour,  and  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  yellowish,  tender,  and  melting.  Juice  sugary, 
with  a  rich  poignant  flavour. 

In  eating  in  December,  and  till  February  or  March. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  Pear  on  a  good  soil  and 
favourable  situation.  It  is,  of  course,  inferior  when  it 
has  not  these  advantages. 

119.  BEURRE  D'AREMBERG.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vii. 
p.  178.  t.  4.  f.  1.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  83. 

Beurre  d'Arembert.     Bon  Jard.  1827,  P-  308. 

Due  d'Aremberg.      ~\ 

-r,  .      „  A        i  Of  some  French  Catalogues, 

Poire  d'Aremberg.      \    J  & 

r^  i        T*      -L          o        according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 
Colmar  Deschamps  ?  J 

Fruit  pretty  large,  turbinate,  on  an  average  about  three 
inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quar- 
ters wide  at  the  broadest  part,  where  it  is  obtusely 
angular,  and  a  little  contracted  towards  the  setting  on  of 
the  stalk.  Eye  small.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  strong, 
straight,  inserted  in  an  oblique,  angular  cavity  ;  in  some 
specimens  it  is  diagonally  inserted  under  a  broad,  elon- 
gated lip.  Skin  delicate  pale  green,  very  slightly  dotted 
with  russet,  which  becomes  a  deeper  yellow  when  ripe. 
Flesh  whitish,  firm,  very  juicy,  perfectly  melting,  without 
any  grittiness,  and  of  a  very  extraordinary  rich,  sweet, 
high  flavoured  quality. 

In  eating  from  October  till  February. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This  most  excellent  Pear  is  supposed  to  have  been 
raised  by  M.  Deschamps,  and  was  first  sent  to  the  Hor- 
ticultural Society  by  M.  Parmentier  of  Enghien,  along 
with  the  Glout  Morceau,  in  November,  1820.  It  is 
usually  cultivated  as  a  dwarf,  being  grafted  upon  the 
Quince  stock,  and  trained  against  an  east  or  west  wall  j 
but  it  succeeds  perfectly  well  as  an  open  standard. 

BEURRE  DIEL.  Pom.  Mag.  t.19.  and  Ib.  t.131. 


PEARS.  393 

Diel's  Butterbirne.  DieVs  Versuch,  fyc.  Vol.  xix. 
p.  70. 

Dorothee  Royale.      Van  Mons,  Cat.  p.  £5. 

Beurre  de  Gelle.   |  Ofvarious  Colledi        according 

S6"1"6,    ^  to  *e  Pom.  Mag. 

Poire  de  Melon.    J 

Fruit  large,  about  the  size  and  figure  of  the  sum- 
mer Bon-chretien,  without  the  protuberances  of  that 
variety  :  it  is  much  swollen  a  little  above  the  middle, 
going  off  to  the  eye  either  abruptly  or  gradually,  and 
tapering  straight  to  the  stalk,  without  any  contraction  of 
figure ;  when  fully  grown,  it  is  four  inches  and  a  half 
long,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye 
close,  in  a  deep  hollow,  surrounded  by  knobs,  ribs,  or 
broad  protuberances.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long, 
strong,  bent,  woody,  inserted  in  a  deep,  irregularly  and 
obtusely  angled  cavity.  Skin  bright  green  when  first 
gathered,  changing  in  a  short  time  to  a  bright  orange, 
with  a  little  trace  of  russet.  Flesh  clear  white,  a  little 
gritty  towards  the  core,  but  otherwise  perfectly  tender 
and  melting,  juicy,  with  a  delicious,  rich,  aromatic,  sac- 
charine flavour. 

In  eating  from  November  till  January. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

The  above  description  is  taken  from  a  very  fine  fruit 
produced  against  a  wall>  and  figured  in  the  5th  No.  of 
the  Pom.  Mag.  No.  19-  As,  however,  it  varies  con- 
siderably from  this,  when  grown  upon  an  open  standard, 
another  figure  of  it  has  been  published  in  the  same 
work,  No.  131.,  which  exhibits  it  in  its  more  general 
character,  and  fully  corresponds  with  the  description  I 
had  written  of  the  Dorothee  Royale,  in  December, 
1829,  from  a  fruit  grown  in  the  Horticultural  Garden 
at  Chiswick  ;  viz. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  oblong,  somewhat  narrowed  to- 
wards the  stalk,  and  a  little  angular  on  the  sides,  in  the 


394.  PEARS. 

manner  of  a  Chaumontelle  ;  about  three  inches  and  a 
half  long,  and  three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  narrow, 
open,  with  a  coriaceous  calyx,  placed  in  a  shallow  uneven 
basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted  in  a  narrow 
cavity.  Skin  dull  lemon  colour,  covered  with  numerous 
grey  specks,  and  marbled  with  various  ramifications  of 
grey  russet.  Flesh  yellowish  white,  melting,  very 
buttery.  Juice  plentiful,  very  saccharine,  and  of  a  very 
high  flavour. 

This  noble  Pear  was  raised  by  Dr.  Van  Mons  at 
Louvaine,  and  by  him  named  in  honour  of  Dr.  Augustus 
Frederick  Adrian  Diel,  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
of  the  German  pomologists.  Its  great  merit,  independ- 
ent of  its  excellence,  is  its  fertility,  both  when  trained 
against  a  wall  and  as  a  standard.  In  the  former  case  it 
succeeds  perfectly  on  an  eastern  aspect ;  in  the  latter,  its 
fruit  retains '  its  good  qualities  in  as  high  a  degree  as 
when  grown  upon  a  wall. 

121.  BEURRE  RANGE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  130. 
t.  2.  f.  4.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  88. 

Beurre  Ranee.  Van  Mons,  Arb.  Fruit,  p.  373. 
according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Beurre  Epine.  1 

Hardenpont  de  Prmtemps.    j  °fsome  Cottectems. 

Fruit  about  the  same  size  as  that  of  the  Saint  Ger- 
main, and  not  much  unlike  it  in  shape;  oblong,  and 
tapering  to  the  stalk ;  about  three  inches  and  a  half 
long,  and  three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open* 
with  a  very  short  calyx,  scarcely  or  but  very  slightly 
sunk.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  rather  slender, 
inserted  without  any  cavity ;  in  some  specimens  it  is 
diagonally  inserted  under  a  broad  elongated  lip.  Skin 
dark  green  at  all  times,  even  when  most  ripe,  sprinkled 
with  many  russetty  specks.  Flesh  greenish  white,  melt- 
ing, rather  gritty  at  the  core,  but  of  a  delicious  rich 
flavour*  The  fruit  generally  shrivels  in  ripening. 


PEARS.  395 

In  eating  from  December  till  March  or  April. 

This  very  excellent  Pear  was  raised  by  the  late  Coun- 
sellor Hardenpont,  at  Mons,  and  fruit  of  it  was  sent, 
by  M.  Parmentier  of  Enghien,  to  the  Horticultural  So- 
ciety, in  November,  1820. 

122.  BEZY  DE  CAISSOY.     Duhamel,  No.  59.  t.  29. 
Bezy  de  Quessoy.     Ib. 

Rousette  d'Anjou.     Ib. 

Petite  Beurre  d'Hiver.     Ib. 

Wilding  of  Caissoy.     Miller,  No.  63. 

Terreneuvaise.      Of  Jersey. 

Nutmeg  Pear.      Of  the  London  Markets. 

Fruit  small,  of  an  oblong  figure,  a  little  enlarged  at 
the  crown  ;  about  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  the 
same  in  diameter.  Eye  very  small,  with  a  short  flat 
calyx,  placed  in  a  very  small,  shallow,  circular  basin. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  cavity. 
Skin  green,  turning  yellow  as  it  becomes  ripe  ;  marked 
and  spotted  with  red  on  the  sunny  side,  flesh  buttery, 
with  a  very  rich  juice. 

In  eating  from  November  till  March. 

This  succeeds  on  the  Pear,  but  not  on  the  Quince. 

The  Bezy  de  Caissoy  was  discovered  in  the  Forest  of 
Caissoy,  in  Bretagne,  where  it  is  called  Roussette  d*An- 
jou.  It  is  a  most  productive  bearer  in  an  open  standard, 
and  well  deserving  of  cultivation. 

123.  CHAUMONTEL.     Miller,  No.  78. 

Bezy  de  Chaumontelle.     Duhamel,  No.  78.  t.  40. 

Beurre  d'Hiver.     Ib. 

Fruit  large,  of  an  oblong,  and  somewhat  irregular 
figure,  having  some  slightly  obtuse  angles,  which,  more 
or  less,  extend  from  the  stalk  to  the  crown ;  generally 
about  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  three  inches 
broad.  Eye  small,  deeply  sunk  in  a  very  angular  basin. 
Stalk  short,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  angular  cavity. 
Skin  a  little  scabrous,  yellowish  green  on  the  shaded 


396  PEARS. 

side,  but  of  a  brown  or  purplish  colour  when  fully  ex- 
posed to  the  sun  and  highly  ripened.  Flesh  melting, 
and  full  of  a  sugary  and  highly  perfumed  juice. 

In  eating  from  November  till  January  or  February. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This -very  valuable  Pear  was  found  wild  at  Chaumon- 
tel,  a  lordship  in  the  department  of  the  Oise  ;  and  Du- 
ll AMEL,  in  1765,  says  the  original  tree  was  then  alive 
and  in  health.  It  is  a  very  hardy  tree,  and  bears  well 
in  this  country  as  an  open  standard,  and  particularly  so 
on  an  espalier,  where,  if  well  managed,  the  fruit  grows 
large,  and  in  fine  seasons  ripens  extremely  well.  Not- 
withstanding this,  it  ought  to  be  planted  on  a  south 
or  south-east  wall,  in  case  of  cold  and  unfavourable 
seasons. 

The  French  say  it  succeeds  best  when  grafted  on  the 
Quince,  and  planted  on  rich  light  soil.  The  Jersey 
gardeners  grow  the  Chaumontelle  to  a  much  larger  size 
than  what  is  described  above,  and  fruit  from  thence  I 
have  seen  exhibited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  far 
exceeding  belief.  Specimens  like  these  are  not  to  be 
expected  from  gardeners  in  this  country  ;  but  they  may 
do  a  great  deal  towards  accomplishing  this  object,  by 
planting  their  trees  on  a  good  soil  and  upon  a  favour- 
able aspect ;  keeping  them  in  a  high  state  of  health  ; 
training  their  branches  ten  or  twelve  inches  apart  ;  se- 
lecting and  allowing  only  strong  young  spurs  to  remain ; 
and  thinning  out  the  fruit,  so  that  they  shall  not  b<* 
nearer  e,ach  other  than  the  branches  are  apart.  We 
have  a  sufficient  proof  of  what  may  be  effected  by 
judicious  management,  in  the  exhibitions  of  gooseberries 
at  the  shows  in  Lancashire  and  Cheshire.  John  Bra- 
therton  produced  a  specimen  of  his  Roaring  Lion  at 
Nantwich,  in  1825,  which  weighed  thirty-one  penny- 
weights sixteen  grains;  an  ample  confirmation  of  what 
may  be  done  by  skill  and  perseverance. 


PEARS.  397 

124.  COLMAR.    Miller,  No.  54.    Duhamel,'  No.  94. 
t.50. 

Poire  Manne.     7&. 

Bergamotte  Tardive.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  134. 

Incomparable.     Ib. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate^  figure  ; 
about  three  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  two  inches 
and  three  quarters  in  diameter,  Eye  large,  and  deeply 
hollowed.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  thick,  bent,  in- 
serted in  a  tolerably  deep. oblique  cavity.  Skin  smooth, 
green,  with  a  few  yellowish  grey  specks  ;  as  it  becomes 
mature,  it  turns  more  yellow,  and  has  sometimes  a  little 
colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  white,  very 
tender,  and  full  of  a  saccharine,  rich,  highly-flavoured 
juice. 

In  eating  from  November  till  January. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

125.  D'AucH.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  68. 
Poire  d'Auch.      Of  some  Collections. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate  figure, 
greatly  resembling  the  Colmar  in  almost  every  respect, 
except  in  being  a  little  more  full  next  the  stalk,  and  in 
being,  perhaps,  a  fortnight  later  in  arriving  at  maturity ; 
its  flesh  is,  moreover,  never  yellow,  and  it  has  the  ad- 
vantage of  a  higher  flavour. 

A  similarity  of  appearance  has  led  some  to  suppose 
they  were  both  the  same.  Experience,  however,  does 
not  warrant  this  supposition  ;  for,  in  every  situation 
where  it  has  been  tried,  it  has  proved  far  more  produc- 
tive, and  also  a  much  hardier  tree.  It  was  introduced 
into  this  country  before  1817»  by  the  late  Duke  of 
Northumberland. 

126.  EASTER  BEURRE.     Pom.Mag.t.^S. 
Bergamotte  de  la  Pentecote.    Nois.  Manuel,  Vol.  ii. 

p.  537. 

Beurre  d'Hiver  de  Bruxelles.    Taschenluch,  p.  420. 


398  PEARS. 

Dayenne  d'Hiver.  Of  some  Collections,  according 
to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  large,  roundish  oblong,  broadest  towards  the 
eye,  nearly  four  inches  long,  and  three  inches  and  a  half 
in  diameter.  Eye  small  with  a  connivent  calyx,  sunk 
in  a  moderately  deep  depression.  Stalk  short,  thick, 
sunk  in  a  deep  obtuse-angled  cavity.  Skin  green,  thickly 
mottled  with  small  russetty  dots  ;  when  ripe  becoming 
yellowish,  and  coloured  with  brown,  somewhat  streaky, 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  whitish,  inclining  to  yellow, 
perfectly  buttery  and  melting,  and  extremely  high- 
flavoured. 

In  eating  from  November  till  May. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince, 

Of  all  the  very  late  keeping  Pears  this  is  decidedly 
the  best.  It  has  been  recently  introduced  into  this 
country  from  the  Continent,  but  its  origin  there  is  not 
known.  It  is  a  most  profuse  bearer,  grafted  upon  the 
Quince,  and  requires  a  south  or  south-east  wall. 

This  must  not  be  confounded  with  the  Easter  Berga- 
mot,  a  good  but  inferior  variety ;  from  which  it  is  dis- 
tinguishable, not  only  by  its  fruit,  but  also  by  its  wood, 
which  is  reddish  brown,  not  green,  as  that  of  the  former 
sort. 

The  Easter  Beurre  bears  well  as  an  open  standard  in 
the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick.  The  specimens 
produced  there  in  1830,  were  very  beautiful;  three 
inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  three  inches  in  diameter^ 

127-  FLEMISH  BON-CHRETIEN. 

Bon-chretien  Nouvelle  Espece.     Hort.  Gard.  Coll. 

Fruit  large,  oblong,  turbinate,  tapering  towards  the 
stalk,  where  it  is  slightly  compressed  ;  about  four  inches 
and  a  half  long,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  open,  with  a  very  short  calyx,  sunk  in  a  rather 
shallow,  round,  even,  depression.  Stalk  one  inch  and 
a  half  long,  embossed  next  the  fruit,  a  little  curved, 


PEARS.  399 

and  obliquely  inserted  under  an  elongated  single  or 
double  lip  ;  in  some  specimens  which  are  more  conical, 
the  stalk  is  direct  and  straight,  and  not  obliquely  in- 
serted. Skin  green,  becoming  yellow,  thickly  sprinkled 
with  grey  russetty  specks,  and  which  form  a  mottled 
russet  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellowish  white, 
breaking,  a  little  gritty,  but  becoming  mellow  when 
matured.  Juice  saccharine,  with  a  slight  musky  per- 
fume. 

In  eating  from  the  beginning  of  November  till  the 
middle  or  end  of  January. 

It  succeeds  very  well  upon  the  Quince  stock. 

This  very  fine  Pear  has  been  lately  raised  in  Flanders, 
and  sent  to  the  Horticultural  Society  of  London,  in 
whose  garden  at  Chiswick  it  (in  1830)  produced 
some  uncommonly  fine  fruit  upon  an  open  standard, 
from  which  this  description  was  taken.  , 

128.  FORELLE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  408.  t.  17. 
Pom.  Mag.  t.  112. 

Forellen-birne.     Diel,  PomoL  Vol.  v.  p.  51. 

Poire  Truite.  Of  the  French,  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  rather  below  the  middle  size,  not  very  constant 
in  form,  but  generally  obovate,  and  more  or  less  elong- 
ated; about  three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a 
half  in  diameter.  Eye  rather  shallow.  Stalk  half  an 
inch  long  or  more,  slender,  straight,  inserted  in  a  rather 
shallow  but  oblique  cavity.  Skin,  when  fresh  gathered, 
green  on  one  side,  and  red  on  the  other,  changing  to  a 
deep  rich  sanguine,  speckled  with  greyish,  ocellate,  broad 
spots  next  the  sun,  and  a  clear  lemon  on  the  other  side. 
Flesh  white,  juicy,  buttery,  with  a  rich,  aromatic,  sub- 
acid,  vinous  flavour. 

In  eating  from  November  till  January. 

It  never  shrivels,  but  remains  quite  melting  to  the 
last. 


400  PEARS. 

This  is  a  very  beautiful  Pear,  and  bears  well  as  a 
standard.  It  is  called  the  Forelle,  Truite,  or  Trout 
Pear,  from  a  fancied  resemblance  between  the  spots  and 
colour  of  its  skin  and  those  of  the  fish  so  called.  Dr. 
Diel  supposes  it  originated  in  Northern  Saxony. 

It  was  brought  to  this  country  a  few  years  ago,  and 
fruited  by  Mr.  Knight  of  Downton  Castle,  who  sent  it 
for  exhibition  to  the  Horticultural  Society  about  1823. 

129.  GLOUT  MORCEAU.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  291. 
Gloux  Morceaux.*     Hort.   Trans.  Vol.  vii.  p.  179. 

t.4. 

Fruit  very  like  the  Beurre  d'Aremberg,  but  larger, 
more  oval,  not  so  turbinate  in  its  shape,  about  four 
inches  long,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  -deeply  sunk,  in  an  uneven  oblique  hollow. 
Stalk  an  inch  long,  rather  deeply  inserted  in  an  oblique 
cavity.  Skin  pale  dull  olive  green,  a  little  inclining  to 
yellow,  and  covered  with  numerous  grey  russetty  specks, 
with  russetty  blotches  round  the  stalk.  Flesh  whitish, 
firm,  very  juicy,  but  a  little  gritty  at  the  core. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  till  February  or 
March. 

This  very  beautiful  and  very  fine  variety  was  sent  to 
the  Horticultural  Society  by  M.  Parmentier  of  Enghien, 
along  with  the  Beurre  d'Aremberg,  in  November,  1820. 
It  requires  an  east  or  south-east  wall  to  grow  it  in 
perfection;  but  very  fine  specimens  were  (in  1830) 
grown  upon  open  standards  in  the  Horticultural 
Garden  at  Chiswick,  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and 
three  inches  in  diameter. 

130.  GRUMKOWER. 

Grumkower  Winterbirne.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  316. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  in  shape  somewhat  like  a  Bon- 

*  M.  Dumortier  Rutteau  of  Tournay,  in  a  letter  recently  re- 
ceived from  him,  asserts  that  the  proper  orthography  of  this  name 
is  Glout  Morceau. 


PEARS.  401 

Chretien,  having  a  few  obtuse  angles  or  ribs  extending 
from  the  middle  of  the  fruit  to  the  crown,  and  narrowed 
towards  the  stalk  ;  usually  about  three  inches  long,  and 
two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  narrow. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  without  any  cavity. 
Skin  smooth,  pale  green,  sprinkled  with  a  few  grey 
specks.  Flesh  melting.  Juice  plentiful,  saccharine, 
with  a  good  deal  of  musky  flavour. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  till  Christmas. 

131.  LENT    SAINT    GERMAIN.       Hart.    Soc.    Cat. 
No.  514. 

Easter  Saint  Germain.      Of  some  Gardens. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  an  oblong  figure,  broadest  in 
the  middle,  and  tapering  to  each  extremity.  Eye  small 
and  prominently  seated.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender, 
obliquely  inserted  under  an  elongated  lip.  Skin  pale 
green,  full  of  small  white  specks.  Flesh  firm  and  break- 
ing, with  a  veiy  good  flavoured  juice. 

In  eating  in  March  and  April. 

This,  although  not  a  high-flavoured  Pear,  deserves 
cultivation,  as  it  comes  into  eating  when  most  Winter 
Pears  are  gone. 

132.  MARTIN   SEC.     Miller,   No.  48.      Duhamel, 
No.  36.  t.  14. 

Ronville.     /6. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  somewhat 
turbinate,  about  three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and 
a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  seated  in  a 
somewhat  deep  obtuse-angled  basin.  Stalk  one  inch 
and  a  half  long,  inserted  in  a  small  angular  cavity.  Skin 
of  a  deep  russet  colour  on  the  shaded  side,  but  where 
exposed  to  the  sun,  of  a  lively  red,  covered  with  numer- 
ous grey  specks.  Flesh  crisp.  Juice  sugary,  with  an 
agreeable  perfume. 

In  eating  from  November  till  January. 


402  PEARS. 

It  succeeds  on  the  Pear,  and  equally  well  on  the 
Quince. 

This  is  the  Martin  Sec  of  Champagne.  In  Burgundy 
they  have  a  Martin  Sec,  which  is  a  different  fruit. 

133.  MARTIN  SIRE.      Miller,  No.  64.      Duhamel, 
No.  30.  1. 19.  f.5. 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  somewhat 
like  that  of  a  Jargonelle,  a  little  more  swelled  on  one 
side  than  the  opposite  one  ;  about  three  inches  and  a 
quarter  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  prominent.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
long,  bent,  inserted  in  an  oblique  cavity.  Skin  green, 
very  smooth,  changing  to  yellow  as  it  becomes  ripe,  with 
a  lively  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  crisp,  sometimes 
a  little  gritty  near  the  core.  Juice  plentiful,  sugary, 
and  highly  perfumed. 

In  eating  from  December  till  February. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

134.  MERVEILLE  D'HIVER.      Duhamel,    No.   67. 
t.  33. 

Petit  Oin.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat  turbinate,  tapering 
regularly  to  the  stalk  ;  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long, 
and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  large, 
and  deeply  hollowed.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  inserted 
a  little  obliquely  in  a  small  irregular  cavity.  Skin  green, 
occasionally  a  little  warted,  and  becoming  yellow  when 
fully  ripe.  Flesh  very  fine  and  melting.  Juice  sugary, 
and  of  a  high  musky  flavour. 

In  eating  in  November  and  December. 

This  succeeds  on  the  Pear,  but  not  well  on  the 
Quince. 

It  is  one  of  our  best  Pears,  and  deserves  cultivation. 

135.  NAPLES.     Duhamel,  107.  t.  56. 
Poire  de  Naples.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  36. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure, 


PEARS, 


403 


compressed  between  the  middle  and  the  stalk ;  about 
two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  with  a  converging  calyx,  seated  in  a  rather 
deep  basin.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  bent, 
and  inserted  in  a  small  oblique  cavity.  Skin  green, 
becoming  yellow  as  it  approaches  maturity,  with  a  pale 
brown  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting  and  buttery, 
with  a  saccharine  and  agreeable  juice. 

In  eating  from  January  till  nearly  April. 
This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 
Miller  says  this  Pear  is  called  in  England  the  Easter 
Saint  Germain,  but  in  this  he  cannot  be  right,  as  Du- 
hamel's  figure  and  description  is  wholly  at  variance  with 
that  variety. 

136.  OAK-LEAVED  IMPERIAL. 

Imperiale  a  feuilles  de  Chene.      Duhamel,   No.  98. 
t.54. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  turbinate,  in  the  manner 
of  a  small  Bonchretien  ;  about  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  with  an  acute  spreading  calyx,  placed  in  a 
shallow  basin.      Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  straight,  in- 
serted with  but  little  cavity.      Skin  smooth,  green,  ap- 
proaching to  yellow,  as  it  becomes  matured.    Flesh  half 
buttery,  with  a  sugary  well-flavoured  juice. 
In  eating  from  January  till  May. 
It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 
This  tree  is  at  once  distinguished   by  its   singular 
leaves,  which  are  sinuated  like  those  of  the  Oak.     The 
fruit,  although  not  so  good  as  many  others,  has  con- 
siderable merit  at  this  late  season,  of  the  year. 

137.    PASSE-COLMAR.      Pom.  Mag.  t.  64.     Hort. 
Tram.  Vol.  v.  p.  410. 
Passe-Colmar  Gris,  dit  Precel.     Ib. 
Passe-Colmar  Epineux.       Van  Mons,  Arb.  Fruit. 
p.  373. 

D  D    2 


404"  PEARS, 

Fondante  de  Panisel.   Van  Mons,  Arb.  Fruit,  p.  373. 

Poire  Precel.     Ib.  p.  874. 

Colmar  E'pineux.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  452. 

Beurre-Colmar  Gris,  dit  Precel.     Ib.  No.  454. 

Chapman's.  Ib.  No.  177.  according  to  the  Pom. 
Mag. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  obconical,  flattened  at  the  crown, 
about  three  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  three  inches  in 
diameter.  Eye  open,  slightly  sunk.  Stalk  one  inch 
and  a  half  long,  strong,  inserted  in  an  oblique  obtusely- 
angled  cavity.  Skin  green,  when  ripe  becoming 
yellowish,  and  sprinkled  with  russet,  and  if  well  exposed 
having  a  considerable  tinge  of  red  ;  the  surface  is  some- 
what uneven,  with  some  slight  longitudinal  furrows 
running  from  the  stalk  end.  Flesh  yellowish,  melting, 
juicy,  very  rich,  and  most  excellent. 

In  perfection  in  December  and  January. 

A  most  abundant  bearer,  either  as  a  standard  or  upon 
a  wall.  I  have  seen  a  full  crop  of  inferior  fruit  even 
upon  a  north  wall ;  but  to  grow  it  in  perfection  it 
should  have  an  east  or  south-east  wall. 

It  was  raised  in  Flanders  by  Counsellor  Hardenpont, 
to  whom,  in  conjunction  with  Dr.  Van  Mons,  and  some 
others  of  his  countrymen,  we  are  indebted  for  several 
very  excellent  varieties  of  the  Pear. 

138.  PASTORALE.  Miller,  No.  ^5.  Duhamel, 
No.  100.  t.  55. 

Musette  d'Automne.     Ib.  t 

Petit  Rateau.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  40. 

Fruit  large,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate  figure,  a  little 
compressed  near  the  stalk,  about  four  inches  long,  and 
two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  small, 
with  a  connivent  calyx,  prominently  seated.  Stalk  an 
inch  long,  straight,  stout,  with  a  curb  or  embossment  at 
its  insertion  in  the  fruit.  Skin  somewhat  rough,  of  a 
yellowish  grey  colour,  speckled  with  red  on  the  sunny 


PEARS.  405 

side.  Flesh  tender  and  buttery,  with  an  excellent 
saccharine  and  musky  juice. 

In  eating  from  November  till  February  or  March. 

This  succeeds  better  on  the  Pear  than  on  the  Quince. 

It  is  said  to  have  been  raised  by  the  Capuchins  of 
Louvain. 

139.  POIRE  DU  VITRIER.     Duhamel,  No.  24.  t.  44. 
f.  4. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oblong,  somewhat  of  the  shape  of 
a  Chaumontel,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and 
two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter,  swelling  a  little  in 
the  middle,  and  a  little  narrowed  at  each  extremity. 
Eye  large,  open,  seated  in  an  irregularly-formed  depres- 
sion. Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  rather  deeply  in  an 
irregularly-angled  cavity.  Skin  smooth,  green  on  the 
shaded  side,  but  deeply  tinged  with  red  on  the  side  next 
the  sun,  and  covered  with  numerous  grey  specks.  Flesh 
white,  with  a  very  agreeable  juice. 

In  eating  in  November  and  December. 

This  succeeds  well  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

140.  ROYALE  D'HIVER.     Duhamel,  No.  71.  t.  35. 
Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  pyramidal  turbinate  figure, 

decreasing  a  little  irregularly  from  the  crown  to  the 
stalk,  about  three 'inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  three 
quarters  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  in  a  deeply  depressed 
basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  slender,  bent, 
and  inserted  in  a  small,  oblique,  irregular  cavity.  Skin 
smooth,  yellow,  but  of  a  fine  red  on  the  sunny  side, 
marbled  with  numerous  brown  specks  and  dots.  Flesh 
yellowish,  half  buttery,  melting,  and  containing  a  rich, 
saccharine,  well-flavoured  juice. 

In  eating  in  December,  January,  and  February. 

This  succeeds  well  on  the  Pear,  not  on  the  Quince. 

141.  SAINT  AUGUSTIN.    Miller,  No.  60.   Duhamel, 
No.  99.  i.  58.  f.  3. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of  a  long  pyramidal 
D  D  3 


406  PEARS. 

shape,  oval  at  its  apex,  and  compressed  on  one  side  near 
the  stalk,  about  two  inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and 
two  inches  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  recurved 
calyx,  prominently  placed.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  strong, 
bent,  a  little  everted,  and  obliquely  inserted  without  any 
cavity.  Skin  of  a  fine  citron  colour,  spotted  with  red 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  firm,  and  full  of  a  saccharine, 
musky  juice. 

In  eating  in  December,  January,  and  February. 
It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 
142.  SAINT  GERMAIN.  Langley,  t.66.  fig.  2.    Miller •, 
No.  59.     Duhamel,  No.  96.  t.  52. 
Inconnu  de  la  Faire.     Ib. 

Fruit  large,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  tapering  from  the 
crown  to  the  stalk,  about  three  inches  and  three  quarters 
long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in  diameter. 
Eye  small,  in  a  shallow  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
curved,  inserted  very  obliquely  in  the  fruit  without  any 
cavity.  Skin  yellowish  green,  when  fully  matured  with 
a  few  brownish  specks  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white, 
melting,  and  full  of  a  very  rich,  saccharine,  high-flavoured 
juice. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  good  till  Christmas. 
This  Pear  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  1727>   on  a 
south  wall,  Oct.  10.  O.  S.,  or  Oct.  21.  N.  S.    Langley. 
It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 
This  most  excellent  Pear,  known  to  almost   every 
gardener  in  England,  was  discovered  on  the  banks  of  the 
river  Faire,  in    the   parish  of  Saint  Germain,    in   the 
ci-devant  province  of  the  Isle  of  France* 

It  requires  a  good  soil,  and  a  south  or  south-east  wall. 
If  planted  in  a  cold  soil  it  is  apt  to  be  ill-shaped  and 
gritty. 

143.  SAINT-PERE.     Duhamel,  No.  117. 

Saint-Pair.     Ib. 

Poire  de  Saint-Pere.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  P-  315. 


PEARS.  407 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of  a  turbinate  figure, 
about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  sunk  in  a  shallow 
plaited  basin.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  rough,  yellow.  Flesh 
white,  tender,  full  of  an  astringent  juice,  which  renders 
it  too  austere  to  be  eaten  raw  by  some  palates,  but  is 
excellent  when  stewed. 

In  use  from  February  till  May. 

144.  SPANISH  BONCHRETIEN.     Miller,  No.  61. 
Bonchretien  d'Espagne.     Duhamel,  No.  89.  t.  46. 
Fruit  large,    somewhat    angularly  pyramidal,   about 

four  inches  long,  and  three  inches  in  diameter.  Eye 
small,  with  a  short  erect  calyx,  deeply  sunk.  Stalk  one 
inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted  in  an  oblique,  obtuse- 
angled  cavity.  Skin  pale  yellowish  green,  tinged  on 
the  sunny  side  with  streaks  of  dull  red,  thickly  covered 
with  brown  specks.  Flesh  white,  breaking.  Juice  not 
plentiful,  subacid,  with  a  pleasant  astringency. 

In  eating  in  November  and  December. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

145.  TILLINGTON.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  521. 
Fruit  of  the  shape  and  size  of  the  Grey  Doyenne, 

but  more  perfectly  rounded  at  the  crown,  about  two 
inches  and  three  quarters  long,  and  two  inches  and  a 
half  in  diameter.  Stalk  short,  fleshy  at  its  insertion. 
Skin  dull  green  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  dull  brick- 
dust  red  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  the  whole  a  good 
deal  russetted.  Flesh  white,  nearly  buttery,  with  a  little 
grit  at  the  core,  particularly  rich  and  sweet,  though  not 
very  juicy. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  November,  and  will  keep  a  con- 
siderable time  without  spoiling. 

This  hardy  Pear,  for  orchard  purposes,  was  raised 
from  the  seed  of  an  autumn  Bergamot,  the  blossom  of 
which  had  been  impregnated  with  the  Jargonelle,  in  the 

D  D  4f 


408  PEARS. 

village  of  Tillington,  near  Hereford.  Its  fruit  was  sent 
to  the  Horticultural  Society  by  Mr.  Knight,  of  Downton 
Castle,  in  the  autumn  of  1820,  the  first  year  of  the  tree 
producing  fruit. 

146.  VIRGOULEUSE.     Langley,  t.  67.  fig.  2.     Du- 
hamel,  No.  95.  t.  51.     Miller  9  No.  56. 

Bujaleuf.     Ib. 

Chambrette.     Ib* 

Poire-glace.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  32, 

Fruit  pretty  large,  of  a  very  regular  obovate,  pyra- 
midal figure,  about  three  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and 
two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  rather 
deeply  sunk.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  rather 
small  oblique  cavity.  Skin  very  smooth,  grass-green, 
turning  to  a  pale  yellow  or  citron  colour  as  it  ripens, 
sprinkled  with  numerous  red  dots,  and  occasionally  a 
little  tinged  with  red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  melting, 
buttery,  and  full  of  an  excellent,  rich,  and  highly 
flavoured  juice. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  two  months. 

The  Virgouleuse  Pear  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in 
1727?  on  a  south  wall,  September  20.  O.  S.,  or  October 
1.  N.  S.  Langley. 

It  will  succeed  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This  is  a  most  excellent  Pear,  requiring  a  good  soil, 
and  an  east  or  south-east  wall. 

It  takes  its  name  from  Virgoule,  a  village  of  that 
name  in  the  neighbourhood  of  St.  Leonard,  in  Limousin^ 
where  it  was  raised,  and  sent  to  Paris,  by  the  Marquis  of 
Chambrette. 

147.  WINTER  BONCHRETIEN.  Langley,  t.  68.  fig.  3. 
Miller,  No.  73. 

Bonchretien  d'Hiver.     Duhamel,  No.  87-  t.  45. 
Poire  d'Angoisse.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  42. 
Fruit  very  large,  of  an  irregular,  pyramidal  figure  ; 
it  is  very  broad  at  the  upper  end,  and  compressed  below 


PEARS.  409 

the  middle  towards  the  stalk,  where  it  is  still  broad,  and 
somewhat  obliquely  truncate  ;  a  good-sized  fruit  is  about 
four  inches  long,  and  three  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Eye  of  a  middling  size,  with  a  long  calyx,  placed  in  a 
wide  and  deep  hollow.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  quarter 
long,  a  little  bent,  and  obliquely  inserted  in  a  somewhat 
deep  obtuse-angled  cavity.  Skin  yellowish  when  fully 
matured,  with  a  brown  tinge  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh 
very  tender,  and  breaking.  Juice  plentiful,  very  rich, 
saccharine,  and  highly  perfumed. 

In  eating  in  January  and  February. 

This  Pear  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  17^7,  on  a  west 
wall,  October  10.  O.  S.,  or  October  21.  N.  S.  Langley. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  very  best  winter  Pears, 
and  is  held,  both  in  France  and  in  this  country,  in  the 
highest  estimation.  It  requires  to  be  planted  in  a  good 
soil,  and  against  a  south  or  south-east  wall,  in  order  to 
have  it  perfectly  ripened. 

148.  WINTER  NELIS.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  126* 

Nelis  d'Hiver.  Of  many  Flemish  and  English 
Gardens. 

Bonne  de  Malines.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  353. 

La  Bonne  Malinoise.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  408. 
t.  17.,  according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  somewhat  oval,  broadest 
in  the  middle,  narrowed  towards  the  crown,  and  a  little 
more  so  towards  the  stalk,  about  three  inches  and  a 
quarter  long,  and  two  inches  and  three  quarters  in 
diameter.  Eye  open,  slightly  sunk  in  a  rather  narrow 
basin.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  inserted  in  a 
narrow  and  rather  deep  cavity.  Skin  dull  greyish  green, 
full  of  grey  dots,  covered  partly,  especially  on  the  sunny 
side,  with  a  brownish-grey  russet.  Fle*h  yellowish  white, 
melting,  buttery.  Juice  plentiful,  sugary,  rich,  high 
flavoured,  with  a  musky  perfume. 


410  PEARS. 

In  perfection  in  December  and  January. 

This  most  excellent  and  valuable  Pear  was  raised  by 
M.  Nelis,  of  Mechlin,  in  honour  of  whom  it  has  been 
named ;  but  before  its  present  title  was  settled,  it  had 
acquired,  in  a  few  gardens,  the  name  of  Bonne  de  Ma- 
lines,  which  it  is  but  justice  to  put  aside  in  favour  of  that 
here  adopted. 

It  bears  well  as  a  standard  in  the  Horticultural  Gar- 
den at  Chiswick,  where  the  present  description  was  taken 
in  December,  1829 ;  but  it  succeeds  better  on  an  east 
wall,  where  the  fruit  grows  also  larger. 

149.  WINTER  ROUSSELET.     Miller,  No.  63. 
Rousselet  d'Hiver.     Duhamel,  No.  31.  1. 19.  f.  2. 
Fruit  small,  of  a  pyramidal  figure,  about  two  inches 

and  a  quarter  long,  and  one  inch  and  three  quarters  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  open,  prominently  seated  on  a 
well-rounded  summit.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  thick, 
bent,  obliquely  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  green, 
becoming  yellow  as-  it  ripens,  with  a  little  colouring  of 
red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  buttery  and  melting. 
Juice  plentiful,  and  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  in  January,  and  will  keep  till  March. 

It  succeeds  equally  well  on  the  Pear  and  on  the 
Quince. 

150.  WINTER  THORN.     Miller,  No.  58. 
E'pine  d'Hiver.     Duhamel,  No.  64.  t.  44.  f.  3. 
Fruit  pretty  large,  rather  long  and  turbinate,  about 

three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  ki 
diameter.  Eye  small,  placed  in  a  round  shallow  de- 
pression. Stalk  an  inch  long  or  more,  stout,  curved, 
and  inserted  somewhat  obliquely  without  any  cavity. 
Skin  smooth,  pale  green,  becoming  yellow  as  it  ripens. 
Flesh  melting  and  buttery,  with  a  plentiful  saccharine 
juice. 

Ripe  in  November,  and  will  keep  till  January. 

This  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince  ;  but, 


PEARS.  411 

like  other  Pears,  if  it  is  intended  to  be  planted  upon  a 
dry  soil,  the  Pear  stock  is  by  far  the  best* 

SECT.  VII.  —  Baking  and  Stewing  Pears. 

151.  BELLISSIME  D'HIVER.     Duhamel,  No.  103. 
Teton  de  Venus.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  P-  306. 
Fruit  very  large,  more  so  than  the  Catillac,  and  of  a 

similar  turbinate  figure,  generally  about  four  inches 
long,  and  a  little  more  in  diameter.  Eye  large,  rather 
deeply  sunk.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  some- 
what angular  cavity.  Skin  smooth,  yellowish  brown, 
with  grey  specks,  but  of  a  fine  red  on  the  sunny  side. 
Flesh  tender,  and  free  from  the  gritty  nature  of  most 
baking  Pears,  for  which  purpose  this  is  <excellent. 

In  use  from  November  till  March  or  April. 

The  Bellissime  is  so  named  in  consequence  of  its  size 
and  beauty. 

152.  BLACK  PEAR  OF  WORCESTER.   Miller,  No.  62. 
Parkinson's  Warden.     Ib. 

Pound  Pear.  Ib.,  but  not  the  Pound  Pear  of  Lang- 
ley,  t.7L  fig.  3. 

Livre.     Duhamel,  No.  104. 

Gros  Rateau  Gris.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  P-  315. 

Grand  Monarque.     Knoop.  Pom.  p.  125.  t.  8. 

Groote  Mogol.     Ib. 

Fruit  very  large,  of  a  roundish  turbinate  figure* 
usually  about  four  inches  long,  and  three  inches  and  a 
half  in  diameter.  Eye  small,  placed  in  a  wide  and 
deep  hollow.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  stout,  inserted 
in  a  slight  cavity.  Skin  rough,  of  an  obscure  red  or 
brown  colour  on  the  sunny  side,  but  more  pale  on  the 
shaded  part.  Flesh  very  hard,  course,  of  an  austere 
taste,  but  very  good  when  baked  or  stewed. 

In  use  from  November  till  February. 

This  grows  very  vigorously  on  the  Pear,  but  does  not 
succeed  upon  the  Quince. 


412  PEARS. 

153.  CATILLAC.  Miller,  No.  7 '4.  Duhamel,1$o.IQ2. 
t.  58.  f.  4. 

fruit  very  large,  of  a  broad  turbinate  figure,  some- 
what in  the  shape  of  a  Quince ;  usually  about  three 
inches  and  a  half  or  four  inches  deep,  and  the  same  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  with  a  short  neat  calyx,  placed 
in  a  deep  and  wide  plaited  hollow.  Stalk  an  inch  long, 
stout,  curved,  and  a  little  obliquely  inserted  in  a  very 
small  cavity.  Skin  yellow,  and  when  well  matured  in 
a  warm  season,  of  a  deep  orange,  with  a  red  tinge  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  hard,  with  an  austere  juice. 

In  use  from  December  till  April. 

This  succeeds  better  on  the  Pear  than  on  the  Quince. 

The  Catillac  is  a  most  excellent  Pear  for  baking  and 
stewing.  The  tree  is  very  hardy,  a  handsome  grower, 
and  a  very  good  bearer  upon  a  common  standard,  and 
deserves  a  place  in  every  choice  collection  of  fruit. 

154.  DOUBLE-BLOSSOMED.     Miller,  No.  76. 
Double-fleur.     Duhamel,  No.  58.  t.  28. 
Armenie.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  3(). 

Fruit  shaped  very  much  like  the  Swiss  Bergamot, 
about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  the  same  in 
diameter.  Eye  small,  with  an  erect  calyx,  placed  in  a 
very  regular  shallow  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  inserted 
in  a  very  small  cavity.  Skin  green,  but  yellow  when 
ripe,  and  of  a  red  or  pale  purple  colour  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  pretty  crisp,  with  plenty  of  juice  ;  but  is 
more  fit  for  baking  or  stewing  than  for  eating  raw.  ^ 

In  use  from  February  till  April  or  May. 

It  succeeds  on  both  the  Pear  and  the  Quince. 

This  is  a  desirable  tree  to  plant  for  ornament.  Its 
large  double  flowers,  which  contain  twelve  or  fifteen 
petals,  make  a  very  handsome  appearance  in  the  spring. 
It  sometimes  produces  variegated  leaves ;  then  the  fruit 
is  striped  with  green,  yellow,  and  red. 

155.  TRESOR.     Duhamel,  No.  105. 


PEARS.  413 

Amour.     Duhamel,  No.  105. 

Tresor  d'  Amour.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  p.  315. 

Fruit  very  large,  more  so  than  the  Black  Pear  of 
Worcester,  in  shape  somewhat  like  it,  but  more  com- 
pressed both  towards  the  crown  and  the  stalk  ;  full 
four  inches  and  three  quarters  deep,  and  five  inches  in 
diameter,  sometimes  even  larger  than  this.  Eye  small, 
in  a  wide  hollow  basin.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  very  stout, 
inserted  in  a  deep  cavity.  Skin  rough,  yellowish,  but 
of  a  brownish  colour  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  white, 
and  when  fully  matured  rather  melting,  with  a  plentiful 
and  tolerable  juice,  but  is  n't  only  for  stewing ;  for  this 
purpose,  DUHAMEL  observes,  it  is  far  preferable  to 
either  the  Catillac  or  Poire  de  Livre. 

In  use  from  December  till  March. 

This  is  best  on  the  Pear  stock,  being  too  vigorous  to 
subsist  upon  the  Quince. 

156.  UVED ALE'S  SAINT  GERMAIN.     Miller,  No.  80. 

Union.     Ib. 

Udale's  Warden.     Langley,  t.  71.  fig.  1. 

Pickering.     Ib. 

Tonneau.     Duhamel,  No.  106.  t.  58.  f.  5. 

Poire  de  Tonneau.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  43. 

Belle  de  Jersey.      Of  the  French  Gardens. 

Fruit  very  large,  of  an  oblong  figure,  tapering  to  the 
crown,  but  compressed  between  the  middle  and  the 
stalk  ;  its  usual  size  is  about  four  inches  long,  and  three 
inches  broad,  but  sometimes  much  larger.  Eye  wide, 
in  a  deep  hollow.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  bent,  and  rather 
deeply,  inserted  in  an  oblique  angular  cavity.  Skin 
smooth,  dark  green,  and  of  a  dull  brown  on  the  sunny 
side  ;  but  as  it  becomes  matured  it  is  of  a  red  colour  on 
a  yellowish  ground.  Flesh  white,  hard,  and  a  little 
gritty  next  the  core,  with  an  austere  astringent  juice, 
which  renders  it  unfit  for  eating  raw,  but  it  is  excellent 
for  baking  and  stewing. 


414  PEARS. 

In  use  from  Christmas  till  April. 

This  does  not  succeed  on  an  open  standard  ;  but  it 
may  be  trained  as  an  espalier,  where  it  has  a  warm  aspect, 
when  it  will  bear  and  ripen  very  well. 

It,  however,  deserves  an  east  or  south-east  wall,  and 
if  well  managed  it  will  grow  to  a  very  large  size.  I 
have  gathered  it  of  seventeen  inches  its  greatest,  and 
fifteen  inches  its  least,  circumference,  weighing  thirty- 
one  avoirdupois  ounces  ;  but  a  Pear  of  this  sort,  sent 
from  Mr.  Maisson,  of  Jersey,  was  exhibited  at  the  Hor- 
ticultural Society,  December  19.  1826,  which  weighed 
forty-four  ounces. 

Dr.  Uvedale,  whose  name  appears  to  this  Pear,  was 
one  of  the  most  eminent  horticulturists  of  his  time. 
He  lived  at  Eltham  in  1690,  and  had  a  garden  at  En- 
field  in  17^4,  which  is  noticed  by  Miller  in  the  first 
edition  of  his  Dictionary  in  that  year. 

SECT.  VIII.  —  Perry  Pears. 

157.  BARLAND.     Pom.  Herefordiensis,  t.  27- 

Fruit  rather  small,  of  an  oval  figure,  but  broadest 
towards  the  crown.  Eye  prominent,  and  the  segments 
of  the  calyx  nearly  erect.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
slender.  Skin  dull  green,  russetted  with  a  muddy 
grey. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  juice  1070. 

The  Barland  Pear  appears  to  have  been  extensively 
cultivated  prior  to  the  publication  of  Evelyn's  Pomorla 
in  1674,  and  many  thousand  hogsheads  of  its  perry  are 
yet  made  annually  in  Herefordshire  and  the  adjoining 
counties,  in  a  productive  season.  It  may  be  mixed  in 
considerable  quantity  with  new  port  without  its  taste 
becoming  perceptible.  It  sells  well  whilst  new  to  the 
merchants,  and  as  it  is  comparatively  cheap,  it  probably 
forms  one  of  the  ingredients  employed  in  the  adulter- 
ation of  this  wine.  The  original  tree  grew  in  a  field 


PEARS.  415 

called  the  Bare  Lands,  in  the  parish  of  Bosbury,  in 
Herefordshire,  whence  the  variety  obtained  its  name, 
and  was  blown  down  a  few  years  previous  to  1811. 

158.  HOLMORE.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  20. 

Fruit  small,  globular,  frequently  growing  in  clusters 
of  three  and  four  together,  with  a  very  stiff,  half-closed 
calyx.  Stalk  short  and  thick.  Skin  a  muddy  yellowish 
olive-green,  thickly  reticulated,  with  a  thin  epidermis, 
and  tinged  with  a  fine  red  on  the  sunny  side. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  juice  1066. 

The  original  tree,  in  1811,  was  growing  in  a  hedge 
on  the  estate  of  Charles  Cooke,  Esq.,  of  the  Moor,  in 
the  parish  of  Holmore,  between  Hereford  and  Leo- 
minster,  and  appeared  then  to  be  seventy  or  eighty  years 
old.  The  young  trees  are  very  productive,  and  the 
perry  is  of  an  excellent  quality. 

159.  HUFFCAP.     Pom.  Heref.  t.  24. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  somewhat  broader  at  the 
crown,  and  drawn  towards  the  stalk.  Eye  with  the 
segments  of  the  calyx  slender  and  pointed.  Stalk  long, 
irregular  in  its  thickness,  and  curved,  having  now  and 
then  a  small  leaf  growing  upon  its  lower  part  next  the 
branch.  Skin  pale  green,  marked  with  grey  russet. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  juice  about  1070. 

There  are  several  varieties  of  the  HufFcap  Pear  in 
Herefordshire,  such  as  the  Brown,  Red,  and  Yellow ; 
but  this  is  by  far  the  most  deserving  of  cultivation.  Its 
perry  is  rich,  strong,  and  said  to  be  very  intoxicating, 
It  is  of  great  excellence. 

160.  LONGLAND.     Pom.  Heref.  1. 18. 

Fruit  very  handsome,  not  much  unlike  the  Swan's 
Egg  in  shape,  except  being  broader  towards  its  crown. 
Eye  somewhat  large,  with  a  converging  calyx.  Stalk 
short,  stiff,  and  inserted  into  an  unequal  base.  Skin 
bright  gold  colour,  tinged  and  mottled  all  over  with  a 
russetty  lively  orange. 


416  PEARS. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  juice  1063. 

The  tree  of  this  sort  grows  handsome  and  upright. 
It  is  hardy  when  in  blossom,  and  consequently  an 
abundant  bearer.  The  name  of  Longland  is  supposed 
to  have  been  derived  from  the  field  in  which  the  original 
tree  grew. 

161.  OLDFIELD.     Pom.  Heref.  1. 11. 

Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  turbinate,  somewhat 
narrowed  at  the  crown.  Eye  small,  converging.  Stalk 
half  an  inch  long,  slender.  Skin  a  very  pale  green, 
spotted  and  marbled  with  a  darker  colour,  and  inter- 
mixed with  a  thin  grey  russet. 

Specific  gravity  of  the  juice  1067« 

The  perry  produced  from  this  Pear  is  excellent ;  and 
from  its  being  a  very  hardy  tree,  and  an  abundant  bearer, 
is  more  extensively  planted  in  Herefordshire  and  the 
adjoining  counties,  than  any  other  Pear.  Its  name  is 
believed  to  have  originated  from  an  inclosure  called  the 
Oldfield,  near  Ledbury,  a  noted  place  for  the  finest 
perry. 

162.  TEINTON  SQUASH.     Pom.  Heref.  1. 13. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  of  angular  shape,  somewhat  like 

that  of  a  Bergamot,  but  more  tapering  at  the  stalk. 

Crown  even,  divisions  of  the  calyx  spreading.     Stalk 

half  an  inch  long,   slender.      Skin  a  muddy  russetty 

green,  marbled  on  the  sunny  side  with  a  pale  brown  or 

dull  orange,  interspersed  with  a  few  ash-coloured  specks. 

Specific  gravity  of  its  juice  not  mentioned.  ^ 

Its  name  of  Teintori  is  supposed  to  have  originated 

from  Teinton,  in  Gloucestershire,   where   it  has  been 

much  planted.     There  are  some  very  old  trees  of  it  in 

this  neighbourhood  and  in  Herefordshire,  and  the  perry 

they  produce  is  of  the  very  highest  quality,  something 

approaching  in  colour  and  briskness  to  Champagne,  for 

which  fine  samples  of  it  have  sometimes  been  sold. 

It  is  always  in  demand,  and  at  a  high  price  \  but  from 


PEARS. 


417 


the  great 
limited. 


uncertainty  of  its  crop,  the  supply  is  very 


A  Selection  of  Pears  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 

SUMMER    PEARS. 

Early  Bergamot       -          -       3     Musk  Robine  -       8 

Jargonelle  -  -    20     Summer  Bonchre'tien          -     36 

Madeleine  -  -25     Williams's  Bonchre'tien      -     38 


Autumn  Bergamot 

Bezy  d'Heri 

Bezi  de  la  Motte 

Brown  Beurre 

Capiaumont 

Duchess  of  Angoul£me 


AUTUMN    PEARS. 

-  42  Echassery  -  50 

-  45  Gansel's  Bergamot  -  52 

-  46  Marie  Louise  -  90 

-  71  Napoleon  -  94 

-  73  Princess  of  Orange  -  58 

-  80  White  Doyenne"     -  -  107 


Ange*lique  de  Bordeaux 

Beurre*  d'Aremberg  - 

Beurre  Diel 

Chaumontel 

Colmar 

D'Auch 


WINTER  PEARS. 

-  117  Easter  Bergamot  -  110 

-  119  Easter  Beurre'  -  126 

-  120  Glout  Morceau  -  129 

-  123  Holland  Bergaraot  -  114 

-  124  Virgouleuse  -  146 

-  125  Winter  Bonchre'tien  -  147 


Bellissime  d'Hiver 
Catillac     - 


FOR    BAKING. 

-  151     Tresor  -  -  155 

-  153     Uvedale's  St.  Germain       -  156 


Northern  Counties  of  England,  and  Southern  of  Scotland. 


Jargonelle 
Madeleine 
Summer  Bergamot 


SUMMER  PEARS. 

-  20  Summer  Franc-real  -  37 

-  25  Summer  Rose          -  -  14 

-  13  Yat                          -  -  40 


Aston  Town 
Belle  et  Bonne 


AUTUMN    PEARS. 


-  41     Bezy  d'Heri 

-  43     Echassery 

E   E 


-  45 

-  50 


418 


PEARS. 


Elton 

Flemish  Beauty         *•",, 

Hacon's  Incomparable 


-  51     Henry  the  Fourth 

-  82     Seckle 

-  *85     Swan's  Egg 


87 
101 
102 


WINTER    PEARS. 


Angelique  de  Bordeaux 
BeurnS  d'Aremberg 
Beurr£  Diel 
Beurre  Ranee 
Bezi  de  Caissoy 
Chaumontel 

-  117     D'Auch 
-  119     German  Muscat 
-  120     Glout  Morceau 
-  121     Martin  Sec 
-  122     Passe  Colmar 
-  123     Winter  Nelis 

125 
112 

129 
132 

137 
148 


Catillac 


FOR    BAKING. 

-  153     Uvedale's  St.  Germain 


-  156 


Lammas 
London  Sugar 
Madeleine 


Highlands  of  Scotland. 


SUMMER    PEARS. 

-  21     Prince's  Pear 

-  23     Summer  Bergamot 

-  25     Yat 


29 
13 
40 


AUTUMN    PEARS. 


Alexandre  de  Russie 
Autumn  Bergamot 
Bishop's  Thumb 
Grey  Doyenne 
Hazel 


-  62 

-  42 

-  69 

-  54 

-  86 


Jargonelle 
Moorfowl  Egg 
Poire  Neill 
Swan's  Egg 
White  Doyenn£ 


20 

57 

98 

102 

107 


WINTER  PEARS. 


Beurre  d'Aremberg 
Beurre  Diel 
Beurre  Ranee 
Chaumontel 
D'Auch 


-  119 

-  120 

-  121 

-  123 

-  125 


Gilogil 
Marie  Louise 
Passe  Colmar 
Saint  Germain 
Winter  Nelis 


91 
137 
142 
148 


Catillac     - 


FOR    BAKING. 

-153     Uvedale's  St.  Germain 


-  156 


PEARS.  419 


Propagation. 

Pears  are  propagated  by  budding  and  grafting,  either 
upon  the  common  Pear  stock  or  upon  the  Quince.  The 
Pear  stock  is  intended,  and  indeed  it  is  the  only  one, 
for  all  such  varieties  of  the  Pear  as  are  intended  for  open 
standards,  or  for  orchard  planting  ;  and  it  is  probably  the 
best,  also,  generally  speaking,  for  such  other  sorts  as  are 
intended  for  training  against  walls,  where  durability  is 
required. 

The  Quince  stock,  for  Pears,  has  long  since  been 
made  use  of  by  the  French  gardeners,  and  for  almost 
every  purpose ;  but  in  this  country  it  is  used  only  for 
such  sorts  as  are  intended  for  open  dwarfs,  and  those  low 
standards  lately  introduced  by  the  French,  and  trained, 
as  they  term  it,  en  quenouille,  from  its  faint  resemblance 
in  form  to  the  distaff  formerly  used  in  spinning. 

These  latter  occupy  but  little  space  in  a  garden,  are 
productive,  and  the  fruit  they  produce  is  far  superior  to 
that  which  is  grown  upon  the  common  standard. 

In  raising  of  Standard  Pears  for  the  orchard,  it  is 
necessary  to  have  strong  stocks,  and  such  as  have  been 
quartered  out,  at  least  two  years,  in  order  that  they  may 
throw  up  the  young  shoot  with  vigour.  As  I  have 
stated  before,  it  is  by  far  the  most  preferable  way  to  bud 
them  instead  of  grafting  them  ;  by  this  method,  many 
of  the  most  vigorous  will  attain  a  height  of  six  or  seven 
feet  the  first  year  of  their  growth,  and  make  fine  stand- 
ards the  second,  whilst  those  sorts  possessing  less  vigour 
will  come  in  the  year  following. 

For  Dwarfs,  those  which  have  been  grafted  are  the 
best,  as  the  plant  divides  itself  into  branches  the  first 
year,  and  more  regularly  so  than  those  which  have  been 
obtained  from  grafts  will  in  the  second. 

Those  for  training  en  quenouille,  as  just  stated,  must 
E  E  2 


420  PEARS. 

be  propagated  upon  the  Quince,  this  stock  having  a 
similar  effect  upon  the  Pear  to  that  upon  the  Apple  by 
the  Doucin  stock,  diminishing  its  vigour  and  increasing 
its  fertility. 

PRUNING  AND  TRAINING. 

Open  Standards. 

There  is  not  any  particular  management  required  for 
standard  Pears  that  is  not  applicable  to  the  Apple,  as 
detailed  under  that  head.  The  principal  thing  to  be 
attended  to  at  first  is  to  have  the  tree  with  a  straight 
healthy  stem,  and  a  head  composed  of  four  equally 
strong  well-placed  shoots. 

All  open  standards  should  be  staked  as  soon  as 
planted,  to  keep  their  stems  straight,  perfectly  upright, 
and  to  secure  them  against  high  winds. 

If  the  branches  in  the  head  are  equal  in  strength,  and 
well  placed,  they  will  not  require  to  be  pruned  back,  but 
must  be  allowed  to  grow  at  their  full  length,  unless  the 
sort  be  one  of  a  pendent  growth  ;  in  this  case,  more 
than  four  shoots  will  be  required,  as  this  number  gene- 
rally bends  downwards,  and  must  be  augmented  by  others 
to  form  the  upper  part  of  the  head.  This  is  to  be 
effected  by  heading  down  the  four  shoots  to  six  inches 
at  the  end  of  the  second  year  after  the  tree  has  been 
planted,  and  when  it  has  got  a  firm  hold  of  the  soil ;  for 
the  greater  its  vigour  at  this  time,  the  more  upright  wrtl 
its  young  shoots  be  directed ;  and,  on  the  contrary, 
young  shoots  from  weak  trees  of  this  description  are 
chiefly  pendent. 

As  the  heads  become  enlarged  from  year  to  year, 
they  must  be  looked  over,  to  keep  them  thin  of  wood, 
and  to  remove  any  branch  which  is  likely,  by  its  further 
progress,  to  injure  any  of  the  others :  the  pendent 
growers  will  require  more  attention  paid  to  them  in  this 


PEARS. 

respect  than  the  upright,  because  they  are  perpetually 
throwing  up  vigorous  young  shoots  from  the  upper  side 
of  those  branches  which  are  making  a  curved  direction 
downwards. 

Quenouille  Training. 

As  trees  for  this  purpose  require  but  one  main  stem, 
those  obtained  by  budding  are  preferable,  being  always 
the  most  upright  and  handsome,  although  a  grafted 
plant,  with  early  attention,  will  fully  answer  the  purpose. 

Quenouille  training  is  a  method  adopted  by  the 
French  gardeners,  and  of  which  specimens  are  exhibited 
in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick.  It  consists 
in  training  the  plant  perpendicularly,  with  a  single  stem, 
to  the  height  of  about  seven  feet,  and  in  having  branches 
at  regular  distances  from  the  bottom  to  the  top  ;  these 
are  generally  about  eighteen  inches  long,  and  pendent, 
being  brought  into  this  direction  by  bending  the  young 
shoot  downwards  as  it  grows,  and  tying  it  by  a  string 
till  it  has  finished  its  growth  in  the  autumn. 

If  the  plant  be  strong,  and  in  a  state  of  vigour,  it  will 
throw  out  many  more  side  branches  than  will  be  re- 
quired ;  these  must  be  thinned  out,  selecting  those 
which  are  the  strongest  and  best,  and  placed  so  that 
they  may  be  from  nine  to  twelve  inches  apart  when 
trained.  The  luxuriance  of  these  shoots  is  materially 
checked  by  bringing  them  into  this  form  ;  they  are,  in 
consequence,  always  well  furnished  with  fruit-bearing 
spurs,  which  produce  very  fine  fruit. 

Quenouille  training  possesses  this  advantage,  that  a 
plant  under  such  management  requires  but  little  room, 
a  square  of  four  feet  each  way  being  amply  sufficient ; 
its  fruit  being  within  reach  may  be  thinned  out  to  en- 
large its  size,  and  it  can  also  be  secured  against  high 
winds,  thus  acquiring  considerable  size ;  and  being  near 

E  E  3 


422 


PEARS. 


the  ground,  the  additional  warmth  it  receives  adds  ma- 
terially to  its  ripening  in  perfection. 

Espaliers. 

Several  very  valuable  sorts  of  Pears  may  be  success- 
fully cultivated  in  Espaliers,  which  would  not  succeed 
on  the  tall  and  exposed  orchard  standard,  and  such  as 
do  not  necessarily  require  a  wall.  The  Quenouille 
training,  which  has  been  explained  under  the  head  of 
Propagation,  is  admirably  adapted  for  small  gardens, 
and  for  ripening  many  of  our  finest  autumnal  fruit ;  but 
the  Espalier  possesses  some  advantages  over  that,  being 
less  exposed  to  high  winds,  and  affording  greater  security 
to  heavy  fruit. 

Pears  intended  for  Espaliers,  as  well  as  for  Quenouille 
training,  should  be  propagated  upon  the  Quince  stock ; 
and  grafted  plants,  as  I  have  observed  before,  are  pre- 
ferable to  those  which  have  been  raised  from  buds. 
Horizontal  training,  as  recommended  for  Apples,  is 
that  which  is  best  adapted  for  the  Pear,  and  the  method 
laid  down  for  forming  the  tree  the  same  :  the  horizontal 
branches  may  also  be  trained  at  nine  or  ten  inches  apart, 
unless  it  be  for  those  sorts  whose  fruit  are  very  large  ; 
these  will  be  better  if  they  are  allowed  a  foot. 

In  July,  the  superfluous  young  shoots  should  be 
shortened  to  two  inches,  and  the  extreme  ones  con- 
tinued at  their  full  length.  By  the  beginning  or  middle 
of  September,  most  of  the  spurs,  which  had  been  cut 
back  at  the  former  pruning,  will  have  thrown  out 
another  shoot  from  the  extreme  bud  of  each ;  such, 
therefore,  should  now  be  cut  back  below  this  shoot, 
which  will  then  leave  the  spur  one  inch  instead  of  two. 
Should  these  artificial  spurs  be  nearer  to  each  other  than 
three  inches,  they  should  be  thinned  out,  which  will 
finish  the  pruning  for  the  summer  season. 

In  the  winter  pruning,  these  must  be  looked  over 


PEARS.  423 

again,  and  wherever  there  are  any  natural  spurs,  the 
artificial  ones  must  be  cut  out  close,  so  as  to  give  them 
room  ;  and  such  of  the  older  ones  which  have  produced 
fruit  reduced  in  length,  by  cutting  off. that  part  which 
produced  the  fruit  to  the  next  bud :  this  will  keep  the 
spurs  close,  and  render  them  productive. 

Trained  Pears,  both  as  espaliers  and  against  walls, 
through  negligence  and  mismanagement,  always  abound 
with  long  naked  spurs,  not  one  in  twenty  of  which  pro- 
duces fruit ;  and  on  those  which  do,  it  is  small,  ill-shaped, 
and  worthless.  When  trees  are  found  in  this  state, 
those  spurs  must  be  reduced  by  degrees,  cutting  some 
clean  out  where  they  have  stood  too  close  together,  and 
shortening  others.  On  the  neck  part  of  some  of  these 
long  spurs,  there  will  be  frequently  one  or  two  good 
buds  to  be  found  ;  if  so,  the  spurs  must  be  cut  back  to 
those  buds ;  and  where  there  are  none,  they  should  be 
shortened  to  within  one  or  two  inches  of  the  main 
branch.  In  the  course  of  the  following  summer  there 
will,  in  all  probability,  be  buds  formed  at  their  base, 
where  the  old  spurs  should  at  the  winter  pruning  be 
finally  removed. 

In  the  course  of  two  or  three  years,  by  following  up 
this  method,  the  trees  in  most  cases  may  be  reduced 
into  a  fruit-bearing  state ;  if,  however,  they  have  been 
too  long  and  too  much  neglected  to  be  reduced  in  this 
manner,  they  must  be  headed  down. 

Pears  against  Walls. 

The  management  of  this  description  of  wall  trees 
scarcely  differs  from  that  of  the  espalier  :  they  should 
be  formed  in  the  same  manner,  by  having  an  upright 
stem  furnishing  horizontal  branches  on  each  side,  and 
which  require  both  in  the  winter  and  summer  a  similar 
treatment. 

The  spurs  on  wall  trees  can  only  be  allowed  from  the 
E  E  4- 


PEARS. 

sides  and  front  of  the  branches,  as  those  produced  from 
the  back  or  near  to  it  would,  in  the  progress  of  their 
growth,  not  only  derange  in  some  measure  the  straight 
direction  of  the.  branch,  but  receive  material  injury  by 
their  pressure  against  the  wall  ;  such,  therefore,  should 
at  all  times  be  removed  on  their  appearance,  leaving 
those  only  which  are  either  situated  on  the  front,  or  so 
far  from  the  wall  as  not  to  be  injured  by  it,  at  any 
future  stage  of  their  growth. 

The  spurs  of  Pears,  indeed,  require  the  principal  part 
of  the  gardener's  attention  in  the  management  of  the 
tree,  for  on  these  depend  the  bulk  and  value  of  the  crop : 
short  spurs,  at  a  moderately  wide  distance,  produce  fine 
fruit,  whilst  those  on  long  ones  in  a  crowded  state  are 
proportionately  inferior  ;  on  the  contrary,  very  vigorous 
sound  spurs,  at  wide  distances,  produce  fruit  of  the  very 
largest  size,  and  of  the  greatest  excellence.  This  I  have 
before  noticed,  when  describing  the  Chamnontel  Pear, 
as  grown  by  the  Jersey  gardeners. 

Pear  trees  which  have  been  too  long  neglected  to  be 
recovered  by  the  reduction  of  their  spurs,  should  be 
headed  down  in  the  following  manner :  — 

In  February  or  the  beginning  of  March,  with  a  thin 
fine-toothed  saw,  cut  every  branch  back  to  within  nine 
inches  of  the  main  stem  from  which  it  issued,  making 
the  cut  in  a  sloping  direction,  and  as  little  exposed  to 
view  in  front  as  possible,  smoothing  it  afterwards  with  a 
sharp  knife,  and  particularly  the  bark  round  the  edge,  i 
so  that  its  lacerated  parts  may  be  effectually  removed ; 
at  the  same  time  every  spur,  whether  good  or  bad,  upon 
the  remaining  part  of  the  tree  should  be  cut  off*  close 
and  smooth,  but  not  so  close  as  to  touch  the  ring  of 
bark  at  its  base,  from  beneath  which  the  young  shoots 
will  make  their  appearance. 

After  this  operation  is  finished,  the  wounds  should  be 
covered  with  a  small  portion  of  well-beaten  grafting 


PEARS. 

clay,  reduced  into  a  paste  with  water,  or  with  Mr.  For- 
syth's  composition*,  which  is  very  excellent,  and  at  the 
same  time  washing  over  with  a  brush  both  the  head  and 
the  stem  with  the  same  composition  in  a  .diluted  state. 

When  the  young  shoots  make  their  appearance,  they 
must  be  allowed  to  grow  till  they  are  long  enough  to  be 
nailed  to  the  wall,  when  two  of  the  most  regular  and 
best  placed  from  each  branch  cut  down  must  be  trained, 
and  the  others  removed,  cutting  them  off  close  and 
smooth. 

If  the  branches  headed  down  in  the  spring  had  been 
at  regular  and  proper  distances  from  each  other,  two 
shoots  from  each  will  be  double  the  number  subsequently 
required.  It  is,  however,  necessary  this  number  should 
be  trained  the  first  year,  as  they  will  grow  as  strong 
and  extend  quite  as  far  as  if  half  the  number  only  had 
been  retained  ;  and  it  will  give  an  opportunity  of  select- 
ing the  best  shoot  of  the  two  in  the  winter  pruning ; 
and  in  case  of  any  accident  happening  to  one,  the  other 
will  supply  its  place,  so  that  a  full  number  of  branches 
will  thus  be  secured  to  furnish  every  part  of  the  tree. 

This  being  accomplished,  the  branches  must  be  con- 
tinued at  their  full  length,  as  before  directed,  and  the 
superfluous  shoots  and  spurs  treated  accordingly. 

INDEX  OF  THE  PEARS. 

Ah  Mon  Dieu        -  -  61  Amoselle  -  114- 

Alexandra  de  Russie  -  62  Amour                     *  155 

Ambre  Gris  -  108  Angelique  de  Bordeaux  -  117 

Ambrette  -  108  Angelique  de  Rome  -  118 

Ambrette  cTHiver  -  -  108  Archiduc  d'E'te  -     12 

Ambrette  Grise  -  108  Armenie  -  154? 

Ambrosia               -  -  1  Aston  Town         -  -     4-1 

Amire  Roux            -  -  12  August  Muscat          -  -     15 

*  The  preparation  and  application  of  this  composition  will  be 
given  at  the  end  of  this  work. 


426 


PEARS, 


Aurate              -  -     15 

Autumn  Bergamot  -     42 

Autumn  Colmar       -  -     63 

Barland     -  -  157 

Beau  Present  -     20 

Bein  Armudi         -  46 

Belle  de  Jersey  -  156 

Belle  et  Bonne  -     43 

Belle  Gabrielle       -  -  108 

Belle  Lucrative  -     64 

Bellissime  d'Automne  -     65 

Bettissime  d'E'te         -  -     30 

Bellissime  d'Hiver  -   151 

Bergamotte  Bugi        -  -  110 

Bergamotte  Cadette  -     44 

Bergamotte  d'Alenpon  -   114 

Bergamotte  d"E'te      -  -     13 

Bergamotte  d*  Hiver  -  110 

Bergamotte  de  Hollande  -  114 
Bergamotte  de  la  Pentecote     126 

Bergamotte  de  Paques  -  110 

Bergamotte  de  Soulers  -  109 

Bergamotte  Rouge  *       2 

Bergamotte  Suisse      -  -     59 

Bergamotte  Sylvange  -     53 

Bergamotte  Tardive  -  124 

Besidere1                -  -     45 

Beurrt                       -  -     71 

Beurre  Blanc              -  -  107 

Beurre  Blanc  de  Jersey  -   107 

Beurre  Colmar  Gris,  fyc.  -  137 

Beurre  d'Amboise  -     71 

Beurre  d1  Amblcuse     -  -71 

Beurre  d' Angleterre  -     81 

Beurre  d'Anjou          -  -     71 

Beurre  d' Aremberg  -   119 

Beurre  d' Arembert  -  119 

Beurre  de  Capiaumont  -     73 

Beurre  d'Hiver  -   123 
Beu  rre  d'  Hiver  de  Bruxelles  \  24 

Beurred'Or  -     71 

Beurre  de  Yelle  -  120 

Beurre  du  Roi          -  71 

Beurrt  Did          -  -  120 


Beurre"  Dore           -  -     71 

Beurrt  Epine  -  121 

Beurre  Gris      -         -  -     71 

Beurre  Knox  -     66 

Beurre  Plat       -  -     48 

Beurre  Ranee  -  121 

Beurre  Rouge         -  -     71 

Beurre  Roy  ale  -  119 

Bezy  de  Caissoy  -   122 

J5e:zy  flfe  Chassiez       -  -     50 

Bezy  de  Chaumontelle  -123 

Bezyd'Heri  -     45 

Bezy  de  la  Motte      -  -     46 

Bezy  de  Landry    -  -     50 

Bezy  de  Montigny  -     67 

Bezy  de  Qiiessoy       -  -  122 

Bezy  Vaet  -     68 

Bishop's  Thumb         -  -     69 
Black  Pear  of  Worcester  -  152 

Blanquet  a  longue  queue  -     24 

Bonchretien  d'Espagne  -   144 

Bonchretien  d'E'te     -  -     36 
Bonchretien  d'E'te  Musque      27 

Bonchretien  d* Pliver  -  147 

Bonchretien  Fondante  -     70 
Bonchretien  Nouvelle  espece  1 27 

Bonne  de  M alines      -  -  148 

Bonne  de  Soiders   -  -  109 

Bonne- ente  -  107 

Bonne  Malinoise       -  -  148 

Bonne  Rouge          -  -     52 

Bouche  Nouvelle        -  -     82 

Bourdon  Musque  -       7 

Brilliant              -  -     82* 

Brocas  Bergamot       -  -     52 

Broivn  Admired         -    .  -     12 

Brown  Beurre  -     71 

Bujaleuf  -  146 

Calebasse  -     72 

Cabelasse  Musquee  -     72 

Capiaumont  -     73 

Carlisle     -             -  -  107 

Cassolette  -     16 

Catillac      -             -  -  153 


PEARS. 


427 


Chair  a  Dame        -  -     29 

Chambrette  -146 

Chapman's         -         -  -  137 

Charles  d'Autriche  -     47 

Chat-brute  -     74- 

Chaulis               -  -     93 

Chaumontel  -  123 

Chere  Adame  -     29 

Citron  des  Carmes      -  25 

Citron  de  Septembre  -  107 

Col  mar  -   124 

Colmar  Deschamps  -  119 

Colmar  Epineux         -  -  137 

Common  Bergamot  -     42 

Crasanne              -  -48 

Crasanne  Panachee  -     60 

Citisse  Madame         -  -     17 

Cw/otfe  fife  Saw*?         -  -  105 

Dagobert  -  113 

Darimont               -  -     75 

D'Auch                     -  -  125 

Dauphine              -  -56 

Delices  d'Ardenport  -     76 

Demoiselle             -  -  106 

Die  Sommer  Christbirne  -     36 

Diets  Butterbirne      -  -  120 

Dillen            -  -     77 

Dorothee  Roy  ale       -  -  120 

Double-blossomed  -   154 

Double  d'Automne  -     49 

Double-feur  -  154 

Doyenne                -  -  107 

Doyenne  Blanc         -  -   107 

Doyenne  d' Automne  -     54 

Doyenne  d'Hiver       -  -  126 

Doyenne  Gris  -     54 

Doyenne  Panache  -     78 

Doyenne  Roux            -  *•     54 

DoyennS  Santile"te  -     79 

Due  d'Aremberg         -  -  119 

Duchesse  a" Angouleme  -     80 

Duchess  of  Angouleme  •     80 

Early  Bergamot  3 

Early  Beurre  -       1 


Early  Rousselet         -  .       4, 

Easter  Bergamot     -  -  110 

Easter  Beurr^  -  126 

Easter  Saint  Germain  -  131 

Echassery              -  -     50 

Elton                  .         -  -     51 

English  Beurr4  -     81 

Epargne              -  -20 

Epine  d'E'te  -     18 

Epine  d'Hiver         -  -  150 

Epine  Rose             -  -     14 

Fin  Or  d'Hiver  -  111 

Flemish  Beauty         -  -     82 

Flemish  Bonchre'tien  -  127 

Fleur  de  Guignes       -  -35 

Fondante             -  -     37 

Fondante  d'Automne  -     64 

Fondante  de  Bois       *  *     82 

Fondante  de  Brest  -       5 

Fondante  de  Panisel  -  137 

Fondante  Musquee     -  -     18 

Forelle  -  128 

Forellen-birne  -  128 

France  Canned         -  37 

Franchipanne         -  -     83 

Francre"al  -  111 

Francreal  d'E'te  •     37 

FrancrtSal,  Summer  -     3? 

Frangipane             -  -     83 

Friolet        -  -     16 

Gansel's  Bergamot  -     52 

Gendeseim             -  -     84 

German  Muscat        -  -  112 

Gilogil  -  113 

Gile-o-gile                   -  -  113 

Glout  Morceau  -  129 

Gloux  Morceaux        -  -  129 

Golden  Beurre         -  -     71 

Gracioli  -     36 

Grand  Monarque      -  -  152 

Great  Blanquet  -     19 

Great  Onion  -     12 

Green  Chisel  -       6 

Green  Sugar  -     86 


428 


PEARS. 


Green  Sylvange         -  -     53 

Grey  Beurre              -  1 

Grey  Doyenne         -  -54 

Groote  Mogol  -152 

Grosse  Blanquette  •     19 

Grosse  Cuise  Madame  -    20 

Gros  Dillen  -     77 

Gros  Francreal  -  117 

Gros  Gobet              -  -  113 

Gros  Mfce*  d'E'te  -     37 

Gros  Rateau  Gris       -  -  152 

Gros  Rousselet         -  31 

Grumkower         X*   -  -  ISO 

Grumlfouer  Wintertime  -  120 

Hacon's  Incomparable  -  85* 

Hamdens  Bergamot  -     13 

Hardenpont  du  Printems  121 

Hazel  -     86 

Henri  Quatre  -     87 

Henry  the  Fourth  -     87 

Holland  Bergamot    -  -  114- 

Holmore             -•••..'  -  158 

Huffcap  -  159 

Imperatrice  de  la  France  -     82 
Imperiale  ajeuilles  de  Chtfne  136 

Incommunicable      -  -     88 

Incomparable  -  124? 

Inconnu  Cheneau  -       5 

Inconnu  de  la  Fare    -  -   14-2 

Isambert                -  71 

Ives's  Bergamot          -  -     52 

Jalousie               -  -55 

Jargonelle          -  -     20 

Kaiserbirne             -  -  107 

Keiser        -  -     89 

La  Belle  de  Flandres  -     82 

La  Bonne  Malinoise  -  148 

ia  Grilliere  -   110 

L' Incommunicable  -     88 

Z<«  Princes se          -  -       8 

Lammas         -           -  -     21 

Lansac  -     56 

Lechefrion     -         -  16 

Lent  Saint  Germain  -  130 


Little  Muscat 
Livre 

London  Sugar 
Longland 


-  22 

-  152 

-  23 

-  160 


Long-stalked  Blanquet  -  24? 

Lord  Cheneys            -  -  114? 

Louise-bonne  -  90 

Madeleine  -  25 

Magdalene             -  -  25 

Mandieu         -  -  61 

Mansuette  -  26 

Mansuette  Solitaire  -  26 

Marchioness           -  -  92 

Marie  Louise          -  -  91 

Marquise               -  -  92 

Martin  Sec       «  -  132 

Martin  Sire  -  133 

Medaille  -  94« 

Merveille  d'Hiver  -  134" 

Messire  Jean          -  -  93 

Messire  Jean  dore  -  93 

Milan  Blanc  -  13 

Milan  de  la  Beuvriere  -  13 

Moor-fowl  Egg         -  -  57 

Mouille-bouche  -  104 

Muscat  a  longue  queue  -  1 00 

Muscat  d'Aout          -  -  15 

Muscat  Fleurt  -  104 

Muscat  d'Allemagne  -  112 

Muscat  Robert         -  8 

Muscat-vert           -  -  16 

Musette  d'Automne  -  138 

Musk  Drone          -  .    -  7 

Musk  Robine  -  8i 
Musk  Summer  Bonchretien    27 

Naples  -  135 

Napoleon  -  94 

Nelis  d'Hiver  -  148 

New  Bridge       -  rr;-  95 

New  York  Red  Cheek  -  101 

Nutmeg  -  122 

Oak-leaved  Imperial  -  136 

Ognonet                -  12 

Oldfield         -             •  -  161 


TEARS. 


429 


Orange  d'Hiver 
Orange  Musquee  - 
Orange  Tulipee 
Paddington 
Parkinsons  Warden 
Passe  Colmar 
Passe-  Colmar  Epineux 
Passe- Colmar      Gris, 

Prtcel 
Pastorale 
Perdreau 

Petit  Beurrt  d'Hiver 
Petit  Certeau 
Petit  Muscat 
Petit  Oie 
Petit  Rateau 
Petit  Rousselet 
Pickering 

Poire  d  courte  queue 
Poire  a  la  Reine 
Poire  Ang&ique 
Poire  aux  Mouches 
Poire  d"Amboise 
Poire  d'Ambre 
Poire  d'  Amour 
Poire  d"Angoise 
Poire  d'Aremberg 
Poire  d'Auch 
Poire  de  Cadette 
Poire  de  Chypre 
Poire  de  Jardin 
Poire  de  Limon 
Poire  de  Louvaine 
Poire  de  Melon 
Poire  de  Naples 
Poire  de  Neige 
Poire  d'CEuf 
Poire  de  Prince 
Poire  de  Rose 
Poire  de  Saint-pere 
Poire  de  Seigneur 
Poire  de  Sillerie 
Poire  de  Tonneau 
Poire  de  Vitrier 


-  116 

Poire  des  Tables  des  Princes 

20 

-       9 

Poire  Figue 

97 

-     28 

Poire-glace 

146 

-  110 

Poire  Manne 

124 

-  152 

Poire  Monsieur 

107 

-  137 

Poire  Neill 

98 

-  137 

Poire  Prfael 

137 

dit 

Poire  sans  peau 

35 

-  137 

Poire  Truite 

128 

-  138 

Pound 

152 

-       4 

Princesse  d'  Orange 

58 

-  122 

Princess  of  Orange    - 

58 

-     65 

Prince's  Pear 

29 

-     22 

Pucelle  de  Saintonge 

8 

-  134 

Queen's  Pear 

8 

-  138 

Red  Beurre 

71 

-     32 

Red-cheeked  Seckle 

101 

-  156 

Red  Doyenne 

54 

-   107 

Red  Muscadel 

30 

-       8 

Riche  Depouille 

99 

-  117 

Riche  d'Apoie 

99 

-     28 

Robine 

10 

-    71 

Roi  d'E'te" 

31 

-       8 

Roi  Louis 

19 

-     61 

Ronmlle 

132 

-  14-7 

Rosenbirne 

14 

-  119 

Rousselet  d'Hiver 

149 

-  125 

Rousselet  de  Reims 

32 

-     44 

Rousselet  Hatif 

4 

-       4 

Rousseline 

100 

-  115 

Rousette  d'Ary'ou 

122 

-  107 

Royale  d'E'te 

10 

-     96 

Royale  d'Hiver 

140 

-  120 

Sabine  d'E'te" 

33 

-  135 

Saint  Augustin 

141 

-  107 

Saint  Germain 

142 

-     50 

Saint  Lambert 

20 

-     29 

Saint  Marcel 

117 

-     14 

Saint  Martial 

117 

-  143 

Saint  Michel 

107 

-  107 

Saint  Pair 

143 

-     16 

Saint  Pere 

143 

-  156 

Saint  Samson 

20 

-  139 

Salviati         - 

11 

430 


PINE   APPLES. 


Satin         -  -  -     56 

Schone  und  Gute  -     43 

Seckle       -  -  101 

Seigneur  d'E'te*     —  -     34 

Sept-en-gueule       -  -     22 

Skinless  -     35 

Solitaire  -     26 

Spanish  Bonchreti  en  -  144 

Sucre-vert  -  -     85 

Summer  Archduke  -     12 

Summer  Bergamot  -     13 

Summer  Bonchretien  -     36 
Summer  Francreal    -.*•  .       -     37 

Summer  Rose     -'.f  -     14 

Supreme  -  -     30 

Swan's  Egg  -  102 

Swiss  Bergamot  -     59 

Sycle  -  101 

Sylvange-vert         -  -     53 

Tarling  -  110 

Teinton  Squash         -  -  162 

Terling  -  110 

Teton  de  Venus  -  151 

Thorny  Rose         -  -     14 

Tillington         -          -  -  145 

Tonneau  -  -  156 

Terreneuvaise  -  122 

Tresor  -  155 

Tresor  a" Amour     -  -  155 


Tromp  Valet        ?  -  108 

Trouve  de  Montigny  -     67 

Uvedales  Warden  '  -  -  156 

Union  '  *  -  156 

Urbaniste  ,.>    ,  -  103 

Uvedale's  Saint  Germain  -  156 

Valencia  -  107 

Variegated  Crasanne  -     60 

Verdasse  -  -     16 

Vermillion  -  -     65 

Verte  Longue  -  104 

Verte  Longue  Panache'e  -  105 

Verte  longue  Suisse    -  -  105 

Vigne    -  -  106 

Virgouleuse  -  -   146 

White  Beurrc  -  107 

White  Doyenn6  -  107 

Wilding  of  Caissoy  -  122 

Williams's  Bonchr4tien  -     38 

Windsor  -  -     39 

Winter  Bergamot       -  -  110 

Winter  Bonchr^tien  -  147 

Winter  Nelis  -  148 

Winter  Orange         -  -  116 

Winter  Rousselet       -  -  149 

Winter  Thorn  -  150 

Yat  -     40 

York  Bergamot          -  -     42 

Yut  -  -     40 


CHAP.  XVII. 

PINE  APPLES. 

1.  ANSON'S.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  2. 

Anson's  Queen.     Ib. 

Leaves  resembling  those  of  the  Brown  Sugar-loaf,  but 
of  a  lighter  brown,  with  fine  spines.  Fruit  almost  like 
the  Queen,  but  the  pips  are  flat,  fourteen  or  fifteen 
deep.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  of  pretty  good  flavour. 


PINE    APPLES.  431 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

2.  ANTIGUA  QUEEN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  60. 
Leaves  light  brown,  mottled,  and  very  mealy  ;  spines 

coarse.     Fruit  oval,  pips  large,  prominent.    Flesh  deep 
yellow,  rich,  and  highly  flavoured. 
Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

3.  BLACK  ANTIGUA.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  3. 
Brown  Antigua.     Ib.     No.  4. 

Leaves  long,  narrow,  dark  green,  shaded  with  purple, 
mealy  ;  spines  coarse.  Fruit  large,  somewhat  oval ;  pips 
large,  prominent.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  high-flavoured. 

Weight  from  four  to  six  pounds. 

4.  BLACK  JAMAICA.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  42. 
Jamaica.     Ib. 

Leaves  long,  narrow,  dark  green,  mottled,  and  tinged 
with  brownish  purple.  Fruit  large,  pyramidal,  of  a 
brownish  yellow  when  ripe  ;  pips  prominent.  Flesh 
deep  yellow,  very  highly  flavoured. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

5.  BLOOD  RED.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  13. 
Blood.     Ib. 

Claret.     Ib. 

Leaves  large,  broad,  dark  coloured  ;  spines  large, 
wide.  Fruit  oval,  flattened  at  the  top  ;  pips  red,  rather 
flat.  Flesh  pale  yellow. 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

Although  the  flesh  is  pale,  the  pips  contain  juice  as 
red  as  blood. 

6.  BROWN  SUGAR-LOAF.     Speedily. 

Leaves  broad,  dark  green,  tinged  with  brown,  mealy ; 
spines  regular.  Fruit  oval,  dull  reddish  orange  ;  pips 
large.  Flesh  deep  yellow,  high  flavoured. 

Weight  from  three  to  five  pounds. 

7.  BROWN-LEAVED   SUGAR-LOAF.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  81. 

.    Striped  Brown  Sugar-loaf.     Ib. 


432  PINE    APPLES. 

Leaves  short,  dark  green,  tinged  with  brown.  Fruit 
rather  long,  deep  yellow  ;  pips  large.  Flesh  rich,  yellow, 
high-flavoured. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

8.  ENVILLE.     Hart.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  30. 
Cockscomb.     Ib. 

Old  Enville.     Ib. 

Leaves  large,  broad,  very  mealy.  Fruit  pyramidal 
or  longish  oval,  deep  orange ;  pips  large,  rather  flat, 
pale  yellow,  well  flavoured. 

Weight  from  five  to  six  pounds. 

9.  GLOBE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  33. 
English  Globe.     Ib. 

Leaves  narrow,  erect,  mealy.  Fruit  roundish  or  ob- 
long, dull  yellow  ;  pips  prominent.  Flesh  yellow,  well 
flavoured. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

10.  GREEN  ANTIGUA.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  6. 
Smooth  Green  Havannah.      Of  some  Collections. 
Leaves  broad,  short ;    spines  a  few  only,  and  those 

towards  the  tips.     Fruit  roundish  oval ;  pips  rather  flat. 
Flesh  deep  yellow,  pretty  good. 
Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

11.  GREEN  PROVIDENCE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  56. 
New  Green  Olive.     Ib.  No.  50. 

Leaves  large,  broad,  light  green,  longer  than  those  of 
the  Old  Queen.  Fruit  pyramidal,  or  longish  oval,  of  a 
yellowish  olive  colour ;  pips  prominent.  Flesh  pfcle 
yellow,  very  good. 

Weight  from  two  to  three  pounds. 

12.  GREEN  QUEEN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  63. 
Smooth-leaved  Queen.      Of  some  Collections. 
Leaves  strong,  broad,  dark  green,  mealy ;  spines  few, 

placed  at  distant  intervals.     Fruit  cylindrically  oval  ; 
pips  prominent.     Flesh  yellow,  very  good. 
Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 


PINE    APPLES.  4-33 

13.  HAVANNAH.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  3?. 
Brown  Havannah.     Ib. 

Smooth-leaved  Antigua.      Of  some  Collections. 

Leaves  narrow,  light  green,  mottled  with  brown  ; 
spines  none,  except  a  few  small  ones  near  the  tips. 
Fruit  large,  cylindrically  oval,  deep  orange  ;  pips  large, 
flat.  Flesh  pale  lemon  colour,  pretty  good. 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

14.  HUSSAR.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  40. 

Leaves  long,  narrow,  pale  green  ;  spines  rather  coarse. 
Fruit  tun-shaped  ;  pips  large.  Flesh  bright  yellow, 
pretty  good. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

15.  KING.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  46. 
Common  King.     Ib. 
Grass-green  King.     Ib. 

Old  King.     Ib. 

Leaves  long,  erect,  pale  green  ;  spines  none.  Fruit 
ovate,  or  somewhat  cylindrical,  bright  orange.  Flesh 
rich,  yellow,  saccharine  mixed  with  acid. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

16.  LEMON  QUEEN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  64. 
Barbadoes  Queen.     Ib. 
Lemon-coloured  Barbadoes  Queen.     Ib. 

Leaves  broad,  very  mealy  ;  spines  fine,  and  on  -  some 
of  the  leaves  incurved.  Fruit  large,  oval,  of  a  pale 
lemon  colour  ;  pips  rather  prominent.  Flesh  pale 
yellow,  well  flavoured. 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

17.  MONTSERRAT.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  48. 
Copper.     Ib. 

Leaves  longish,  somewhat  keel-shaped,  dark  glossy 
green,  tinged  with  brown  ;  spines  few.  Fruit  oval, 
copper-coloured  ;  pips  flat.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  of  a 
pretty  good  flavour. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

I'     F 


434  PINE    APPLES. 

18.  NEW  BLACK  JAMAICA.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  43. 

Leaves  long,  thin,  light  green,  mottled  with  deeper 
green.  Fruit  pyramidal,  dark  brown.  Flesh  pale 
yellow,  rich,  and  very  highly  flavoured. 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

19-  NEW  DEMERARA.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  27. 

Leaves  rather  long,  dark  green,  mealy  ;  spines  fine. 
Fruit  round,  reddish  orange  ;  pips  large.  Flesh  pale 
yellow,  well  flavoured. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

20.  NEW  ENVILLE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  31. 

Leaves  large,  mealy  ;  spines  strong.  Fruit  pyra- 
midal or  long  oval,  pale  yellow  ;  pips  large,  prominent. 
Flesh  pale  yellow,  well  flavoured. 

Weight  from  five  to  six  pounds. 

21.  NEW  MEALY-LEAVED  SUGAR-LOAF.    Hort.  Soc. 
Cat.  No.  85. 

Leaves  long,  broad,  mottled  with  brown,  mealy. 
Fruit  pyramidal,  long,  pale  yellow  ;  pips  small,  flat. 
Flesh  pale  yellow,  sweet. 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

22.  OTAHEITE.      Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  52.      Pom. 
Mag.  t.  29. 

Anson.     Ib.     Ib. 

Leaves  unusually  erect,  narrow,  regularly  and  rather 
strongly  serrated.  Fruit  roundish,  tun-shaped,  deep 
olive  green,  becoming  deep  orange  yellow  ;  pips  flat, 
unusually  large.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  sweet,  and  high 
flavoured. 

Weight  from  four  to  six  pounds. 

23.  QUEEN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  59. 
Common  Queen.     Ib. 
Narrow-leaved  Queen.     Ib. 

Old  Queen.     Ib. 

Leaves  short,  broad,  and  mealy  ;  spines  strong.  Fruit 
cylindrically  oval,  deep  yellow  ;  pips  prominent.  Flesh 
bright  yellow,  juicy,  and  sweet,  with  a  very  pleasant  acid. 


PINE    APPLES.  435 

» 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

2K  HIPLEY.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  70.  Pom.  Mag. 
1. 134. 

Montserrat  of  some.     According  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Heaton  House  Montserrat.     Ib. 

Indian  Black  Pine.     Ib. 

Old  Ripley.     Ib. 

Leaves  broad,  rather  long,  slightly  recurved,  tinged 
with  reddish  brown,  mealy  on  both  sides  ;  spines  middle- 
sized,  irregular.  Fruit  roundish  ovate,  pale  copper 
colour  when  perfectly  ripe  ;  pips  middle-sized,  angular, 
rather  pointed.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  very  sweet,  rich, 
and  high  flavoured.  Crown  about  the  middle  size, 
deeply  stained  with  dark  red. 

25.  RIPLEY  QUEEN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  67. 
Leaves   short,   broad,   mealy.      Fruit   long,   nearly 

cylindrical,  deep  yellow ;  pips  prominent,  from  twelve 
to  fourteen  deep.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  saccharine,  mixed 
with  a  pleasant  acid. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

26.  RUSSIAN  COCKSCOMB.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  23. 
Leaves  strong,   short,   tinged  with  brown,   mealy ; 

spines  coarse.  Fruit  roundish  oval,  pale  orange  when 
ripe  ;  pips  flat.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  juicy,  and  well 
flavoured. 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

27.  RUSSIAN  GLOBE.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  265. 
Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  35. 

Leaves  short,  broad,  dark  brown ;  spines  coarse. 
Fruit  large,  oval,  dark  orange  ;  pips  large,  flat.  Flesh 
rich  yellow,  rich,  and  high  flavoured. 

Weight  from  four  to  five  pounds.  A  very  excellent 
Pine. 

28.  SAINT  VINCENT'S.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  75. 
Green  Olive.     Ib. 

Green  St.  Vincent's.     Ib. 

F  F  2 


436  PINE    APPLES. 

Leaves  something  longer  than  those  of  the  Queen, 
broad,  light  green,  rather  mealy.  Fruit  longish  oval, 
dull  yellow  when  ripe ;  pips  flat.  Flesh  pale  yellow, 
rich,  and  high  flavoured. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

29-  SILVER-STRIPED  QUEEN.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  66. 

Gold-striped  Queen.      Of  some  Collections. 

Leaves  broad,  short,  with  cream-coloured  stripes, 
tinged  with  red.  Fruit  oval ;  pips  full  and  prominent. 
Flesh  yellow,  pretty  good. 

Weight  from  two  to  three  pounds. 

SO.  SMOOTH-LEAVED  SUGAR-LOAF.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  87. 

Leaves  upright,  narrow,  smooth,  striped  with  dull 
purple.  Fruit  cylindrical  ;  pips  small,  prominent. 
Flesh  yellow,  soft,  of  but  indifferent  flavour. 

Weight  from  two  to  three  pounds. 

31.  STRIPED-LEAVED  SUGAR-LOAF.    Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  88. 

Purple-striped  Queen.     Ib. 

Leaves  large,  broad,  pale  green,  with  brown  or  cho- 
colate-coloured stripes.  Fruit  rather  long,  bright 
yellow;  pips  prominent.  Flesh  rich  yellow,  juicy,  and 
sweet. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

32.  STRIPED  QUEEN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  68. 
Striped-leaved  Olive.     Ib.  No.  51. 

Leaves  broad,  short,  erect,  striped  with  greenish 
yellow,  and  tinged  with  red  ;  spines  few.  Fruit  oval ; 
pips  prominent.  Flesh  bright  yellow,  pretty  well 
flavoured. 

Weight  from  two  to  three  pounds. 

33.  STRIPED  SURINAM.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  92. 
Striped  Silver  and  Pink  Surinam.     Ib. 
Ribbon-grass.     Ib.  69- 


PINE    APPLES.  437 

Leaves  beautifully  striped  with  broad  and  narrow, 
silver,  cream,  and  pink  coloured  stripes. 

The  plant  is  difficult  to  bring  into  a  fruiting  state, 
requiring  from  ten  to  twenty  years,  or  probably  more ; 
even  without  fruit,  this  Pine  deserves  to  be  cultivated  on 
account  of  its  great  beauty. 

Striped-leaved  varieties  of  Pine  are  materially  affected 
by  cultivation ;  those  which  are  grown  in  a  close  pit, 
heated  writh  dung,  never  being  so  rich  in  their  colours 
as  if  grown  in  an  airy  stove,  where  the  pit  is  heated  with 
bark. 

34.  SURINAM.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  91. 

Leaves  long,  narrow,  mealy  ;  spines  coarse.  Fruit 
oval,  deep  orange  when  ripe  ;  pips  prominent,  flesh 
pale  yellow,  of  a  pretty  good  flavour. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

35.  WAVED-LEAVED.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  94.  Pom. 
Mag.  1. 1. 

Leaves  large,  flaccid,  spreading,  wavy,  stained  with 
dull  purple.  Fruit  oblong,  or  tun-shaped,  dull  yellow  ; 
pips  projecting,  pointed,  flesh  yellow,  transparent, 
very  delicate,  juicy,  extremely  pleasant. 

Weight  from  two  to  three  pounds. 

36.  WELBECK  SEEDLING.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  95. 
Cockscomb.     Ib. 

Crown.     Ib. 

Leaves  long,  narrow,  sharp-pointed,  of  a  light  green ; 
spines  wide  and  coarse.  Fruit  cylindrical,  or  oval,  pale 
yellow  when  ripe  ;  pips  large,  flat.  Flesh  pale  yellow, 
of  a  pretty  good  flavour. 

Weight  from  three  to  four  pounds. 

37-  WHITE  PROVIDENCE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  57- 

Mealy-leaved  Providence.     Ib. 

New  Providence.     Ib. 

Providence.     Speechly. 

Leaves  very  large,  long,  and  broad,  having  a  purplish 
F  F  3 


438  PINE    APPLES. 

tinge,  mealy  ;  spines  small  and  close.  Fruit  pyramidal, 
or  longish  oval,  the  largest  of  the  whole  tribe  of  Pines ; 
pips  very  large,  flat.*  Flesh  very  pale,  sweet,  and  full 
of  juice. 

Weight  generally  from  six  to  eight  pounds  ;  but  it 
frequently,  under  good  management,  will  attain  the 
weight  of  from  twelve  to  fourteen  pounds. 

A  Selection  of  Pine  Apples  for  a  small  Garden. 

Black  Antigua  -       3  Queen  -  23 

Black  Jamaica  -       4  Ripley  *  -  24- 

Enville  &$  8  Russian  Globe  -  27 

New  Black  Jamaica  -     18  White  Providence  -  37 

Propagation  and  Cultivation. 

It  is  known  to  every  Pine-grower,  that  this  species 
of  fruit  is  increased  by  suckers,  and  by  its  crown. 

In  its  cultivation  it  is  managed  in  various  ways  by 
different  gardeners,  and  with  different  degrees  of  suc- 
cess. One  of  the  best  methods,  without  entering  into 
any  lengthened  detail  of  operations,  seems  to  be  that 
which  has  been  recommended  by  Mr.  Sweet,  which  is, 
to  pot  the  young  plants  in  a  mixture  of  one  third  loam 
and  two  thirds  of  half-decayed  leaves,  in  which  they 
root  very  freely ;  they  may  then  be  plunged  in  frames, 
or  a  stove,  but  not  in  too  much  bottom  heat,  as  that 
will  injure  their  roots,  as  is  often  done  by  those  who  ex- 
pect to  force  them  on  by  bottom  heat,  but  who  by  tnat 
means  kill  their  plants,  or  injure  them  so  much  that  they 
never  perfectly  recover.  They  do  not  consider  that 
giving  plants  a  strong  bottom  heat  is  working  against 
nature;  for  in  their  native  climate  it  is  the  sun  that 

*  It  must  be  observed,  that  when  speaking  of  the  pips  of  Pines 
being  prominent  or  flat,  it  is  to  be  understood  that  they  are  so 
at  the  time  when  the  fruit  is  fully  ripe. 


FINE    APPLES.  439 

warms  the  ground  in  which  they  grow,  and  this  heat 
should  not  be  exceeded  here. 

Pines  thrive  much  the  best  by  keeping  the  house 
very  warm  and  moist,  and  by  giving  air  early  in  the 
morning,  and  shutting  it  up  early  in  the  afternoon.  As 
soon  as  shut  up,  give  a  gentle  sprinkling  of  water  all 
over  the  plants  with  an  engine,  which  causes  a  fine 
steam  to  rise,  and  the  leaves  never  burn,  but  the  plants 
grow  with  increased  vigour.  When  they  are  larger 
and  require  larger  pots,  add  more  loam  to  the  soil  in 
which  they  are  potted,  and  keep  the  pots  well  drained 
with  small  potsherds  in  the  bottom.  In  shifting  them 
into  larger  pots,  care  must  be  taken  not  to  injure  their 
roots.  When  they  are  put  into  the  fruiting  house,  first 
turn  the  tan-bed  all  over  to  the  bottom,  adding  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  fresh  tan,  so  as  to  give  a  strong  heat ; 
then  set  the  plants  upon  the  tan,  but  do  not  plunge  them 
till  the  heat  begins  to  decline.  Where  plenty  of  leaves 
can  be  had,  they  need  not  be  plunged  at  all ;  but,  as  soon 
as  the  heat  declines,  fill  up  between  the  pots  with  them. 
Oak  or  chesnut  leaves  are  the  best ;  these  cause  the 
heat  to  rise  as  strongly  as  is  required ;  when  the  heat 
again  declines,  add  another  quantity  of  leaves,  and  so 
on  till  the  plants  are  half  buried,  and  water  them  fre- 
quently, but  little  at  a  time,  and  they  will  root  in  the 
leaves,  and  swell  off  their  fruit  to  a  great  size ;  the  suckers 
root  also  into  the  leaves,  and  grow  to  large  plants  before 
they  are  taken  off,  so  that  these  plants  produce  their 
fruit  when  potted  off,  much  earlier  than  by  any  other 
means. 

When  the  plants  are  wanted  to  show  fruit,  they  should 
be  checked  by  keeping  them  dry  for  a  considerable  time ; 
then  by  watering  them,  and  giving  them  a  little  fresh 
heat,  they  fruit  immediately.  The  pine-house  should 
be  kept  up  as  near  as  possible  to  seventy  degrees  of 
Fahrenheit's  thermometer  in  winter  ;  in  summer  it  may 

F  F  4- 


440  PINE    APPLES. 

be  shut  up  at  an  hundred  degrees  or  more.  This  heat 
may  be  said  to  apply  to  a  collection  of  Pines  when  grown 
together  in  one  house ;  but  when  there  is  a  sufficiency 
of  room,  it  will  be  more  advisable  to  grow  the  Queen 
Pines  by  themselves,  and  those  called  Black  Pines  in 
another  department,  as  these  latter  require  a  heat  of  at 
least  twenty  degrees  more  to  grow  them  well  than  what 
ought  to  be  allowed  to  the  Queens. 

The  White  Providence  Pine  being  a  much  larger 
grower  than  any  other,  it  would  be  desirable  to  grow  it 
in  a  third  house,  or  in  a  large  pit  constructed  for  the 
purpose.  This  does  not  require  a  greater  degree  of  heat 
than  any  of  the  Black  Pines ;  but  its  leaves  being 
so  much  longer  and  larger  than  any  other,  prevents  its 
being  arranged  in  the  pit,  so  as  to  allow  the  others  an 
equal  advantage. 

INDEX  TO  THE  PINE  APPLES. 

Ansbn's  -  1  Globe       -              -  9 

Ansons  -  22  Gold-striped  Queen  -  29 

Ansons  Queen  -  1  Grass-green  King      -  -  15 

Antigua  Queen  -  2  Green  Antigua         -  -  10 

Barbadoes  Queen  -          -  16  Green  Olive  -  28 

Black  Antigua  -           -3  Green  Providence  -  11 

Black  Jamaica  -  4  Green  Queen  -  12 

Blood  -  5  Green  St.  Vincent's  -  28 

Blood  Red  -  5  Havannah  -  13 

Brown  Antigua  -  3  Heaton  House  Montserrat  24? 

Brown  Havannah  -  13  Hussar  -  14« 

Brown  Sugar-loaf  6  Indian  Black  Pine  -  g4 

Brown-leaved  Sugar-loaf  7  Jamaica          -  4 

Claret        -  -  5  King  -  15 

Cockscomb  -  8  Lemon-coloured  Barbadoes 

Cockscomb  -     .    -  36          Queen  -  16 

Common  King  -  15  Lemon  Queen       -  -  16 

Common  Queen  -         -  23  Montserrat             -  -  17 

Copper      -  -  17  Montserrat  -  24 

Crown  -  36  Mealy-leaned  Providence  -  37 

English  Globe  *  9  Narrow-leaved  Queen  -  23 

Enville         -  8  New  Black  Jamaica  -  18 


s 
PLUMS. 


441 


New  Demerara  -  -  19 
New  Enville  -  20 
New  Green  Olive  -  -  11 
New  Mealy-leaved  Sugar- 
loaf  -  -  21 
New  Providence  -  -37 
Old  Enville  -  8 
Old  King  *  -"  -  15 
Old  Queen  *'-V  -  23 
Old  Ripley  '  *{  *  -  24 
Otaheite  -  22 
Providence  -  37 
Purple-striped  Queen  -  31 
Queen  -  23 
Ribbon-grass  -  33 
Ripley  -  -  24 
Ripley  Queen  -  25 
Russian  Cockscomb  -  26 


Russian  Globe         -           -  27 

Saint  Vincent's                    -  28 

Silver-striped  Queen          -  29 

Smooth-leaved  Antigua       -  13 

Smooth  Green  Havannah  -  10 

Smooth  leaved  Queen          -  12 

Smooth -leaved  Sugar-loaf  30 

Striped  Brown  Sugar-loaf  7 

Striped-leaf  Olive       -         -  32 

Striped-leaved  Sugar-loaf  31 

Striped  Queen                     -  32 
Striped     Silver    and  Pink 

Surinam             -              -  33 

Surinam              -                 -  34 

Waved-leaved                      -  35 

Welbeck  Seedling              -  36 

White  Providence     -         -  37 


CHAP.  XVIII. 


PLUMS. 
SECT.  I.  —  Black  or  Blue-fruited, 

1.  BLUE  GAGE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  22. 
Azure  Hative.     Poit.  et  Turp.  t.  78. 

Branches  long,  slender,  and  downy.  Fruit  small, 
quite  round,  about  three  inches  and  a  half  in  circumfer- 
ence. Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long.  Skin  dark 
blue,  covered  with  a  pale  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish 
green,  and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice  smart,  with 
but  little  richness  of  flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

2.  BLUE   PERDRIGON.      Langley,  p.  92.      Miller, 
No.  7. 

Perdigon.     Parkinson,  No.  19- 

Branches  downy.     Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  a  little 


442  PLUMS. 

narrowed  towards  the  stalk,  which  is  short.  Skin  deep 
purple,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  and 
separates  from  the  stone.  Juice  excellent. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

Ripened  at  Twickenham  in  1727,  on  a  west  wall, 
July  20.  O.  S.,  or  July  31.  N.  S.  —  Langley. 

This  Plum  has  been  a  long  time  in  our  gardens. 
HAKLUYT,  in  1582,  says,  "  Of  late  time  the  Plum 
called  the  Perdigevena,  was  procured  out  of  Italy, 
with  two  kinds  more,  by  the  Lord  Cromwell,  after  his 
travell." 

3.  GREAT  DAMASK  VIOLET  OF  TOURS.      Miller, 
No.  4. 

Gros  Damas  de  Tours.     Duhamel,  No.  4. 

Branches  long,  downy.  Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a 
somewhat  oval  figure,  about  one  inch  and  a  quarter  long, 
and  something  less  in  diameter.  Skin  dark  blue,  covered 
with  a  violet  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  and  loosely  adheres 
to  the  stone.  Juice  sugary  and  pleasant. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

4.  GROSSE  NOIRE  HATIVE.     Duhamel,  No.  3. 
Noire  de  Montreuil.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  somewhat  oblong  figure, 
about  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  one  inch  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter.  Skin  of  a  violet  colour,  covered 
with  a  blue  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  yellowish  when  fully 
ripe,  and  separates  from  the  stone,  leaving  a  few  de- 
tached pieces  of  the  pulp  behind.  Juice  sugary  an^ 
brisk-flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

5.  KIRKE'S  PLUM.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  111. 
Branches   smooth.      Fruit  rather  large,    roundish 

oval,  rather  broadest  at  the  base,  about  one  inch  and 
three  quarters  deep,  and  two  inches  in  diameter;  suture 
slightly  depressed.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
long,  very  little  sunk  at  its  point  of  insertion  ;  apex  not 


PLUMS.  443 

depressed.  Skin  dark  purple,  covered  with  a  copious 
azure  bloom,  through  which  appear  a  few  golden  specks  : 
this  bloom  is  extremely  remarkable,  and  does  not  readily 
rub  off.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  firm,  juicy,  rich,  and 
separates  from  the  stone,  which  is  middle-sized,  irregu- 
larly and  broadly  oval,  flattened,  with  a  groove  or  chan- 
nel along  one  face. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  variety,  and  a  most  excellent 
bearer,  both  as  a  standard  and  upon  a  west  wall,  ripen- 
ing something  later  than  the  Orleans.  It  was  brought 
into  notice  a  few  years  ago  by  Mr.  Kirke,  of  Brompton, 
and  is  believed  to  be  of  foreign  origin. 

6.  MOROCCO.     Pom.  Mag.  1. 103. 

Early  Black  Damask.     Langley,  Pom.  t.  20.  f.  3. 

Black  Damask. 


Of  various  Collections,    accord- 


Black  Damascus. 

Black  Morocco. 

^    !    T.  ing  to  the  Pom.  Mas:. 

Early  Damask. 

Early  Morocco. 

Branches  downy.  Leaves  with  globose  glands.  Fruit 
middle-sized,  roundish,  its  suture  moderately  depressed 
along  one  side  ;  the  apex  a  little  flattened  ;  about  one 
inch  and  three  quarters  deep,  and  the  same  in  diameter. 
Stalk  thick,  scarcely  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  deep 
blackish  purple,  covered  with  a  light  blue  bloom.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  slightly  adhering  to  the  stone,  juicy, 
rich,  and  high  flavoured.  Stone  middle-sized,  oval, 
compressed. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

Ripened  at  Twickenham  in  1727>  on  an  east  wall, 
July  14.  O.  S.,  or  July  25.  N.  S.  Langley. 

It  is  very  hardy,  and  bears  well  as  a  standard,  ripen- 
ing three  weeks  or  a  month  before  the  Orleans. 

7.  PRECOCE  DE  TOURS.  Duhamel,  No.  2.  Hooker, 
Pom.  L/ond.  t.  34. 


444  PLUMS. 

Early  Tours.     Hitt.  p.  348. 

Branches  downy.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size, 
oval,  about  one  inch  and  a  quarter  deep,  and  an  inch  in 
diameter.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  deep  purple, 
covered  with  a  thick  blue  bloom.  Flesh  brownish  yellow, 
with  a  few  red  streaks  near  the  stone,  from  which  it 
separates.  Juice  sweet,  with  an  agreeable  flavour. 

Ripe  on  a  south  wall  the  end  of  July. 

8.  PRUNE  DAMSON.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Branches  downy.  Fruit  of  the  smallest  size  among 
Plums,  oval,  two  inches  and  three  quarters  longitudinal 
circumference.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  dark 
blue,  covered  with  a  thick  pale  blue  bloom.  Flesh 
green,  adhering  to  the  stone.  Juice  smart,  but  not 
rich. 

Ripe  in  the  middle  of  September. 

There  are  several  sorts  of  Damson  with  black  fruit 
cultivated  in  England ;  such  as  the  Common  Black, 
with  smooth  spiny  branches ;  Royal  Damson,  similar 
to  the  Prune  Damson,  but  said  to  be  larger ;  and  the 
Shropshire  Damson,  with  smooth  branches,  but  not 
spiny.  These  are  much  alike  in  figure,  but  they  differ 
a  little  in  size,  and  possess  different  degrees  of  merit. 
This  latter  quality,  however,  depends  upon  the  manner  in 
which  the  tree  has  been  propagated ;  the  soil  and  situ- 
ation in  which  it  grows  ;  and  the  health  and  vigour  of 
the  tree  itself.  Damsons  raised  from  suckers,  and 
planted  in  hedge-rows,  or  grown  among  nut-bushes,  or 
crowded  among  and  under  other  trees,  can  never  be  ex- 
pected to  produce  such  fine,  thick-fleshed,  high-flavoured 
fruit,  as  those  which  are  grown  upon  sound  healthy 
standards,  in  proper  situations,  unincumbered  with  coarse 
strong-growing  trees. 

9.  VIOLETTE  HATIVE.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Violet.     Langley,  p.  92.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  262. 

Early  Violet.     Ib.,  No.  263. 


PLUMS.  445 

Branches  numerous,  slender,  downy.  Fruit  small, 
oval,  rather  pointed  at  the  apex,  and  compressed  towards 
the  stalk;  about  one  inch  and  three  eighths  long,  and 
an  inch  in  diameter.  Suture  shallow,  in  some  extend- 
ing from  the  stalk  to  the  apex.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  small  shallow  cavity.  Skin 
purple,  when  fully  ripe  of  a  deep  blue  or  violet  colour, 
and  covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  green,  and 
adheres  to  the  stone.  Juice  sugary,  with  an  agreeable 
acid. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

Ripened  at  Twickenham  in  1729,  on  a  west  wall, 
July  15.  O.  S.,  or  July  26.  N.  S.  Langley. 

An  old  Plum,  cultivated  by  John  Tradescant  before 
1629.  It  is  a  most  excellent  bearer,  and  ought  to  be 
planted  in  the  garden  of  every  poor  cottager  throughout 
the  kingdom.  It  might  then  not  unaptly  be  called  the 
Cottager's  Plum. 

SECT.  II.  —  Green-fruited. 

10.  GREEN  GAGE.  Langley,  p.  94.  t.  24.  fig.  4. 
Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  38. 

Dauphine.     Duhamel,  25.  t.  11. 

Grosse  Reine  Claude.     Ib. 

Abricot  Vert.     Ib. 

Verte  Bonne.      Ib. 

Branches  smooth.  Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  hav- 
ing a  narrow  suture  extending  from  the  stalk  to  the 
apex.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  a  little  bent,  and  in- 
serted in  a  small  funnel-shaped  cavity.  Skin  yellowish 
green,  but  when  fully  exposed  to  the  sun  of  a  purplish 
colour,  marbled  with  russetty  muddy  red.  Flesh 
yellowish  green,  very  melting,  and  separates  partly  from 
the  stone,  leaving  part  of  the  pulp  behind.  Juice 
abundant,  saccharine,  of  the  richest  and  most  exquisite 
flavour. 


446  PLUMS. 

Ripe  on  the  open  standard  the  middle  of  August. 

Ripened  at  Twickenham  in  17^7>  °n  an  east  wall, 
July  30.  O.  S.,  or  August  10.  N.  S. 

This  is,  without  exception,  the  best  Plum  in  England ; 
and  when  grown  upon  a  healthy  standard,  and  fully  ex- 
posed to  the  sun,  although  not  so  large,  is  much  richer 
than  when  produced  against  a  wall.  It  is  also  a  hardy 
and  most  excellent  bearer. 

A  plant  of  this  sort  was  sent  from  France  by  the 
Earl  of  Stair  to  the  second  Duke  of  Rutland,  by  the 
name  of  Green  Spanish.  The  name  of  Green  Gage 
is  said  to  have  originated  from  the  following  accident : — 
The  Gage  family,  in  the  last  century,  procured  from 
the  Monks  of  the  Chartreuse  at  Paris,  a  collection  of 
fruit  trees.  When  they  arrived  in  England,  the  ticket 
of  the  Reine  Claude  had  been  rubbed  off  in  the  passage. 
The  gardener  being  from  this  circumstance  ignorant 
of  the  name,  called  it,  when  it  bore  fruit,  Green  Gage. 
Vide  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  i.  Appendix,  p.  8.  by  the  Right 
Honourable  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  Bart. 

11.  LITTLE  QUEEN  CLAUDE.     Miller,  No.  16. 
Petite  Reine  Claude.     Duhamel,  No,  26. 
Branches  slender,  downy.   Fruit  small,  of  a  roundish 

figure,  having  a  small  suture,  and  being  a  little  more 
swelled  on  one  side  than  on  the  other,  about  one  inch 
and  a  quarter  deep,  and  a  little  more  in  diameter. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  hollow. 
Skin  yellowish  green,  covered  with  a  thick  blooiH. 
Flesh  pale  yellow,  and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice 
rich  and  well  flavoured.  Stone  oval,  with  an  obtuse  point. 
Ripe  the  end  of  August. 

12.  LUCOMBE'S  NONESUCH.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  99. 
Branches  smooth.     Fruit  extremely  like  a  Green 

Gage  in  colour,  but  more  streaked  with  yellow,  covered 
with  a  fine  glaucous  bloom5  generally  compressed  in  the 
direction  of  its  suture,  which  is  the  reverse  of  the  usual 


- 


PLUMS.  447 

mode  of  compression  in  stone  fruit ;  about  one  inch  and 
three  quarters  deep,  and  rather  more  than  two  inches  in 
diameter.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  straight,  inserted  in 
a  rather  wide  hollow.  Flesh  firm,  of  the  colour  and 
consistence  of  a  Green  Gage,  and  adheres  to  the  stone. 
Juice  plentiful,  of  a  flavour  better  than  an  Orleans,  but 
inferior  to  that  of  a  Green  Gage.  Stone  ovate,  not  very 
uneven. 

Ripe  about  the  end  of  August. 

A  valuable  variety,  lately  raised  from  seed  by  Messrs. 
Lucombe,  Prince,  and  Co.  of  Exeter. 

It  bears  well  as  a  standard,  is  remarkably  handsome, 
as  it  were  variegated  with  dull  yellow  and  orange,  and 
larger  than  the  usual  size  of  the  Green  Gage. 

SECT.  III.  —  Red  or  Purple-fruited. 

13.  CHERRY.     Miller,     No.  27. 

Virginian  Cherry.     Ib. 

Mirabolan.     Duhamel,  46.  t.  20.  f.  15. 

Prunus  Cerasifera.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  285. 

Branches  slender,  wiry,  smooth.  Fruit  small,  heart- 
shaped,  somewhat  like  the  Bigarreau  Cherry,  except 
having  a  small  slender  prickle  at  its  summit ;  about  one 
inch  and  three  quarters  deep,  and  a  little  more  in  dia- 
meter. Suture  obliterated.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  long,  very  slender,  inserted  in  a  very  small  round 
cavity.  Skin  pale  red,  sprinkled  with  a  few  small  grey 
specks,  rather  thick,  very  acid.  Flesh  yellow,  soft,  very 
juicy,  sweet,  mixed  with  a  little  acid,  and  slightly  adheres 
to  the  stone. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

This  is  planted  chiefly  in  shrubberies  and  in  the 
pleasure  ground,  for  its  early  flowering.  The  fruit, 
however,  is  very  handsome  in  the  dessert,  and  also 
makes  very  excellent  tarts. 


448  PLUMS. 

14.  CHESTON.     Miller,  No.  12. 
Matchless.     Langley,  Pom.  t.  23.  f.  2. 
Branches  downy.     Fruit  small,  a  little  more  long 

than  broad,  somewhat  oval,  pointed.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long.  Skin  deep  purple,  covered  with  a  blue  bloom. 
Flesh  deep  yellow,  and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice 
sweet,  brisk,  and  agreeable. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  1727,  on  a  west  wall, 
July  15.  O.  S.,  or  July  26.  N.  S.  Langley. 

In  1811  this  ripened  on  my  south  wall,  July  31.,  but 
in  the  following  year  it  did  not  ripen  till  August  31. 

15.  DIAPER.     Miller,  No.  15. 
Red  Diaper.     Ib. 

Diapree  Rouge.     Duhamel,  No.  37.  t.  20.  f.  12. 

Roche-Corbon.     Ib. 

Branches  smooth.  Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  oval, 
about  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  an  inch  in  diameter. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  rather  deeply  inserted.  Skin 
pale  red,  mottled  with  amber  j  but  when  exposed  to 
the  sun  it  is  marbled  with  a  deeper  red,  full  of  russetty 
specks,  and  covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh 
greenish  yellow,  melting,  and  separates  from  the  stone. 
Juice  plentiful,  and  of  an  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  September,  and  will  hang 
some  time  upon  the  tree,  like  the  Imperatrice. 

16.  EARLY  ORLEANS.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  181. 
Hampton  Court.     Nursery  Catalogues.  \ 
Branches  downy,  somewhat  red  at  the  extremities. 

Fruit  about  the  size  of  the  common  Orleans,  somewhat 
globular  ;  in  some  specimens  a  little  elongated,  having 
a  shallow  suture  extending  from  the  base  to  the  apex. 
Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long.  Skin  deep  red, 
or  purple,  marbled  with  darker  and  lighter  shades, 
sprinkled  with  pale  dots,  and  covered  with  a  pale  blue 


PLUMS.  449 

bloom.    Flesh  yellowish  green,  and  separates  clean  from 
the  stone. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

17.  EARLY  RED  PRIMORDIAN.     Parkinson,  No.  2. 
Red  Primordian.     Ib. 

Branches  slender,  downy.  Fruit  small,  in  form 
somewhat  like  the  Jaune  Hative,  oval,  compressed  next 
the  stalk.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  oval.  Skin  deep 
red,  covered  with  a  thick  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  rather 
dry,  and  adheres  to  the  stone.  Juice  sweet,  with  a 
slight  bitter,  but  very  pleasant. 

Ripe  the  end  of  July,  after  the  Jaune  Hative. 

18.  FOTHERINGHAM.      Miller,   No.  6.      Langley, 
Pom.  t.  20.  f.6. 

Sheen.     Ib. 

Branches  smooth.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat 
oblong,  compressed  next  the  stalk,  and  swelled  a  little 
more  on  one  side  of  the  suture  than  on  the  other.  Stalk 
an  inch  long.  Skin  bright  red  on  the  shaded  side, 
covered  with  small  specks,  but  of  a  deep  red  or  purple 
where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  covered  with  a  violet 
bloom.  Flesh  pale  greenish  yellow,  and  separates  from 
the  stone.  Juice  saccharine,  with  a  little  but  agreeable 
tartness. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^9,  on  a  south-east 
wall,  July  14.  O.  S.,  or  July  25.  N.  S.  Langley. 

This  very  useful  and  hardy  Plum  has  been  in  England 
many  years,  having  been  cultivated  by  Sir  Wm.  Temple, 
at  his  seat  at  Sheen,  near  Richmond,  in  Surrey,  before 
1700,  whence  it  was  called  the  Sheen  Plum. 

19.  GERMAN  PRUNE.     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Quetsche.     Knoop.  Fruit,  p.  61.  t.  3. 
Quetzen.     Ib. 

Branches  smooth.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of 
an  oval  figure,  compressed  next  the  stalk,  which  is  half 

G  G 


450  PLUMS. 

an  inch  long,  slender.  Skin  deep  red,  becoming  purple. 
Flesh  yellow,  and  closely  adheres  to  the  stone.  Juice 
sweet,  with  a  slight  acid,  somewhat  astringent. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

The  fruit  of  the  Quetsche  Plum  is  grown  for  the 
purpose  of  drying,  and  sold  in  the  shops  in  this  country 
under  the  name  of  Prunes.  It  is  cultivated  and  well 
known  throughout  all  Germany,  Thuringia,  Saxony, 
Silesia,  Moravia,  Bohemia,  and  Hungary. 

20.  GOLIATH.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  39. 
Saint  Cloud.     Nursery  Catalogues. 

Branches  resembling  those  of  the  Orleans,  downy. 
Fruit  pretty  large,  a  little  more  long  than  broad,  oblique 
at  both  extremities,  and  swelled  more  on  one  side  of  the 
suture  than  on  the  other.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  long.  Skin  pale  red  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a 
deep  red  or  violet  colour  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and 
covered  with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  and 
slightly  adhering  to  the  stone.  Juice  similar  to  that  of 
the  Orleans. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  is  a  very  fine  handsome  Plum,  a  very  great 
bearer,  and  deserving  of  cultivation. 

21.  IMPERATRICE.     Langley,    p.  95.    t.  25.    f.  3. 
Miller,  No.  25.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  33. 

Imperatrice  Violette.     Duhamel,  39.  t.  18. 

Branches  long,  smooth.  Fruit  oblong,  blunt  at  each 
end,  but  tapering  rather  more  to  the  base  than  to  the 
apex.  Stalk  nearly  an  inch  long.  Skin  rich  deep 
purple,  covered  with  a  thick  bloom,  which  is  more 
copious  than  on  any  plum  in  Covent  Garden  market. 
Flesh  firm,  yellowish  green,  rather  dry,  but  exceedingly 
sweet  and  rich,  and  adheres  to  the  stone. 

Ripe  in  October,  and  will  keep,  if  well  managed,  till 
the  middle  of  December. 


PLUMS.  451 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7>  on  a  south-east 
wall,  Sept.  10.  O.  S.,  or  Sept.  21.  N.  S.  Langley. 

It  requires  to  be  planted  against  an  east  or  south-east 
wall,  where  it  bears  abundantly  ;  but  it  does  not  ripen 
perfectly  if  grown  on  a  more  unfavourable  aspect. 

22.  IMPERIAL  DIADEM.   Hort.  Trans.  Vol.iv.  p.  208. 
Branches  smooth.     Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  a  little 

compressed  near  the  stalk,  and  swelling  more  on  one 
side  of  the  suture,  which  is  deep,  than  on  the  other, 
about  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  the  same  in  diameter. 
Skin  light  red,  with  a  few  purplish  specks,  and  covered 
with  a  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  and  separates 
from  the  stone.  Juice  plentiful,  sugary,  and  when  per- 
fectly ripe  highly  perfumed. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

This  very  handsome  Plum  was  raised  from  seed,  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Ducken field,  near  Manchester,  a 
few  years  previous  to  1819. 

23.  ITALIAN  DAMASK. 

Damas  d' Italic.     Duhamel,  No.  12.  t.  4. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  nearly  round,  about  one  inch  and 
a  half  in  diameter,  a  little  flattened  at  the  base,  and 
having  a  well  marked  suture  extending  from  the  stalk 
to  the  apex.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted 
in  a  small  round  cavity.  Skin  of  a  violet  colour,  be- 
coming brown  when  fully  ripe.  Flesh  yellowish  green, 
firm,  and  separates  clean  from  the  stone.  Juice  very 
sweet  and  high  flavoured.  Stone  oval,  rather  thick. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

24.  LA  DELICIEUSE.     Nurs.  Catalogues. 
Branches  long  and  smooth.     Fruit  oval,  about  two 

inches  long,  and  one  inch  and  three  quarters  in  diameter. 
Suture  rather  broad,  shallow,  swelled  a  little  more  on 
one  side  than  on  the  other.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  slender, 
slightly  inserted.  Skin  pale  yellow  on  the  shaded  side, 
but  where  exposed  to  the  sun  of  a  deep  purple,  and  full 

G  G  2 


452  PLUMS. 

of  brown  specks.  Flesh  yellow,  and  separates  from  the 
stone.  Juice  peculiarly  rich  and  abundant. 

Ripe  in  October,  about  the  same  time  with  the  Im- 
peratrice. 

This  very  fine  Plum  was  brought  to  this  country  from 
New  Jersey,  about  ten  years  ago,  and  first  sold  by  Mr. 
Kirke,  of  Brompton,  by  advertisement,  at  a  guinea  per 
plant,  in  the  autumn  of  1825. 

25.  LA  ROYALE.     Hooker,  Pom.  Lond.  t.  47. 
Royale.     Duhamel,  No.  24.  1. 10.     Hitt,  p,  349. 
Branches  downy,  almost  white.    Fruit  middle-sized, 

round,  not  deeply  cleft,  rather  narrowed  towards  the 
stalk,  about  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Stalk 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  round 
cavity.  Skin  bright  purplish  red,  full  of  brown  specks, 
and  covered  thickly  with  a  pale  blue  bloom.  Flesh  firm, 
dull  yellow  or  amber  colour,  quite  melting,  and  separates 
from  the  stone.  Juice  plentiful,  saccharine,  and  very 
highly  flavoured.  Stone  roundish-ovate,  pointed  at 
both  ends. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September, 
succeeding  the  Green  Gage. 

This  is  too  tender  to  succeed  in  this  country  as  an 
open  standard :  it  requires  an  east  or  south-east  wall. 

26.  MIMMS.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  6. 

Mimms  Plum.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iv.  p.  208. 

Branches  smooth.  Leaves  with  two  small  glands  at 
the  base  of  each.  Fruit  oblong,  with  an  oblique  apek, 
and  broad  shallow  suture,  of  the  largest  size  among 
Plums,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  deep,  and  the  same 
in  diameter.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
slender,  pubescent.  Skin  of  a  light  clear  purple  colour, 
upon  a  greenish  ground,  marked  with  brownish  specks, 
and  covered  copiously  with  bloom,  which  is  easily  rubbed 
off.  Flesh  pale,  dull  greenish  yellow,  tender,  juicy,  and 
very  agreeably  flavoured,  like  an  Orleans  in  perfection, 


PLUMS.  453 

and  separating  from  the  stone,  which  is  very  nigged, 
with  a  thin  irregular  edge. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  is  said  to  have  been  raised  many  years  ago,  from 
a  stone  of  the  Blue  Pudrigon,  in  the  garden  of  Henry 
Browne,  Esq.,  at  North  Mimms,  in  Hertfordshire,  and 
was  exhited  at  the  Horticultural  Society  in  1819-  It 
is  a  distinct  Plum  from  the  Imperial  Diadem. 

27.  MONSIEUR.      Duhamel,  No.  15.  t.  7«     Jctrd. 
Fruit,  t.  57. 

Branches  downy,  somewhat  like  those  of  the  Orleans. 
Fruit  middle-sized,  about  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diame- 
ter, of  a  flattish  globular  figure,  having  a  slight  suture 
extending  the  length  of  the  fruit.  Stalk  scarcely  half 
an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  cavity.  Skin  bluish 
purple.  Flesh  yellow,  very  melting  when  fully  matured, 
and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice  good,  but  not  very 
highly  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

28.  MONSIEUR  HATIF.  Duhamel,  No.  16.  t.  20.  f.  1. 
Monsieur  Hatif.     Jard.  Fruit,  t.  56. 

Branches  downy,  somewhat  like  the  Orleans.  Fruit 
middle-sized,  nearly  globular,  about  one  inch  and  a  half 
in  diameter,  having  a  well  marked  suture  extending 
from  the  base  to  the  apex,  where  it  is  a  little  flattened. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  slender,  inserted  in  a  narrow 
and  somewhat  deep  cavity.  Skin  deep  purple,  or 
violet  colour,  when  fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  and 
covered  with  a  thick  bloom  ;  it  is  bitter,  but  readily 
peels  off.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  melting,  and  separates 
from  the  stone.  Juice  plentiful  and  excellent.  Stone 
small,  oblong,  with  an  obtuse  point,  not  very  rugose. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

This  is  somewhat  like  the  last  sort,  but  of  a  deeper 
colour,  and  ripens  a  fortnight  earlier. 

G  G  3 


454  PLUMS. 

28.*  NECTARINE  PLUM.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  114. 
Syn.  Pom.  Mag.  t.  148. 

Caledonian.      Of  some  Collections. 

Howell's  Large.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  128. 

Prune  Peche.  Ib.,  No.  119.  Syn.,  according  to  the 
Pom.  Mag. 

Branches  glabrous,  brownish  violet  when  exposed  to 
the  sun.  Fruit  very  large,  like  a  Nectarine  in  shape 
and  size.  Stalk  smooth,  about  half  an  inch  long,  and 
of  moderate  thickness.  Skin  purple,  covered  with  a 
fine  azure  bloom.  Flesh  dull  greenish  yellow,  some- 
what adhering  to  the  stone,  but  less  so  than  in  the  Go- 
liath, compared  with  which  it  is  much  finer  and  richer, 
being  decidedly  the  best  Plum  yet  known  of  its  size. 
Stone  middle-sized,  oval,  compressed. 

Ripe  against  a  wall  the  end  of  July  or  the  beginning 
of  August,  considerably  earlier  than  the  Goliath. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  Plum,  and  a  good  bearer 
either  on  a  wall  or  as  a  standard. 

The  Nectarine  Plum  has  been  satisfactorily  ascer- 
tained, in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick,  to  be 
wholly  distinct  from  the  Goliath,  and  its  synonyms 
settled  in  the  Pom.  Mag.  above  referred  to. 

29.  ORLEANS.     Miller,  No.  5. 

Red  Damask.     Langley,  Pom.  t.  20.  f.  4. 

Branches  downy.  Fruit  middle-sized,  nearly  glo- 
bular, swelling  a  little  more  on  one  side  of  the  suture 
than  on  the  other.  Skin  dark  red,  and  when  fully  ei- 
posed  to  the  sun,  of  a  purplish  colour,  covered  with  a 
thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  and  separates  clean 
from  the  stone,  like  an  Apricot.  Juice  a  little  sugary, 
with  a  portion  of  astringency. 


^  No.  28.  is  inserted  twice  in  consequence  of  the  Nectarine 
Plum,  having  been  published  in  the  Pom.  Mag.  after  the  nu- 
merical arrangement  had  be.en  completed. 


PLUMS.  455 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

The  Orleans  is  one  of  our  most  common  Plums,  and 
known  in  every  market  throughout  England.  It  is  a 
most  hardy  tree,  a  constant  bearer,  and  an  extremely 
useful  fruit.  It  does  not  appear  to  have  been  known  to 
either  Parkinson  or  Ray. 

30.  PRUNE  SUISSE.     Duhamel,  No.  19.  t.  20.  f.  7. 
Prune  d'Altesse,     Ib. 

Monsieur  Tardif.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  P-  290. 

Simiana.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  252. 

Branches  smooth.  Fruit  nearly  spherical,  about 
four  inches  and  a  half  in  circumference,  rather  more 
protruded  in  the  middle  than  at  either  extremity.  Stalk 
an  inch  long,  slender,  curved.  Skin  amber  coloured  on 
the  shaded  side,  very  full  of  small  red  specks,  but  where 
fully  exposed  to  the  sun  it  is  of  a  beautiful  red*  Flesh 
gold  colour,  and  closely  adheres  to  the  stone.  Juice 
somewhat  sharp,  but  when  well  matured  it  has  an  ex- 
cellent flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  and  will  keep  for  some 
weeks  upon  the  tree. 

This  requires  an  east  or  south-east  wall,  in  order  to 
have  it  in  perfection  ;  on  colder  aspects  it  cannot  be  ex- 
pected to  be  equally  good.  The  same  precaution  should 
be  observed  with  regard  to  the  Imperatrice,  Saint 
Catharine,  and  Coe's  Plum ;  and  indeed  with  all  other 
late-ripening  Plums ;  for  to  suppose  they  will  succeed 
equally  well  in  less  favourable  situations,  is  contrary 
both  to  reason  and  practice. 

31.  PURPLE  GAGE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  129. 

Reine  Claude  Violette.  According  to  the  Pom. 
Mag.  Nois.  Man.  Comp.  p.  496. 

Reine  Claude  Violette.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  P-  291. 

Die  Violette  Konigin  Claudie.  Sicklery  Teutsch. 
Obst.  Gart.  Vol.  xxi.  p.  64.  t.  6. 

Branches  smooth,  almost  like  the  Green  Gage. 
G  G  4 


456  PLUMS. 

Fruit,  except  in  colour,  very  like  the  Green  Gage, 
middle-sized,  roundish  oval,  somewhat  flattened  at  the 
ends.  Suture  moderately  depressed.  Stalk  about  an 
inch  long,  rather  thick.  Skin  violet,  powdered  with  a 
light  blue  bloom,  beneath  which  it  is  engrained  with 
pale  yellow  dots.  Flesh  greenish  amber,  rich,  sugary, 
and  strikingly  high  flavoured.  Stone  oval,  inclining  to 
ovate,  compressed. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

The  origin  of  this  variety  is  unknown  ;  it  must,  how- 
ever, be  recent,  as  it  is  not  mentioned  by  Duhamel,  nor 
by  any  of  the  older  French  writers,  and  is  even  omitted 
by  Noisette  in  his  Javelin  Fruitier.  It  is  of  very  high 
quality,  fully  equal  to  the  Green  Gage  in  all  respects, 
and  having  this  superiority,  that  while  the  latter  is  apt 
to  crack  in  wet  summers,  and  will  never  keep  after 
having  been  gathered,  this,  on  the  contrary,  will  endure, 
if  the  climate  be  dry,  through  August  and  September, 
even  till  October,  and  is  scarcely  at  all  disposed  to 
crack. 

A  good  bearer  as  a  standard.  It  is  also  well  adapted 
to  an  east  or  west  wall,  where  its  flavour  becomes  im- 
proved. 

32.  QUEEN  MOTHER.  Ray,  No.  19»  Langley, 
p.  94.  t.  24.  fig.  3.  Hitt,  p.  353. 

Branches  smooth.  Fruit  of  a  smallish  size,  nearly 
globular,  about  three  inches  and  a  half  in  circumference. 
Stalk  short.  Skin  dark  red  next  the  sun,  on  the  othftr 
side  pale  .yellow,  full  of  reddish  spots.  Flesh  yellow, 
and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice  saccharine  and 
rich.  Stone  very  small  in  proportion  to  the  fruit. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  1727>  on  a  south  wall, 
August  12.  O.  S.,  or  August  23.  N.  S.  —  Langley. 

A  very  good,  neat,  little  Plum  ;  it  will  succeed  on 
either  an  east  or  west  wall,  but  not  as  an  open  standard. 


- 


PLUMS.  457 

33.  RED  MAGNUM  BONUM.     Miller ',  No.  10. 
Imperiall.     Parkinson,  No.  9. 

Imperial.     Langley,  p.  92.  t.  20.  fig.  5. 

Imperiale  Violette.     Duhamel,  No.  32.  1. 15» 

Branches  smooth.  Fruit  pretty  large,  oval,  about 
two  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  one  inch  and  three 
quarters  in  diameter,  swelled  much  more  on  one  side  of 
the  suture  than  on  the  other.  Stalk  one  inch  and  a 
quarter  long,  slender.  Skin  pale  green  on  the  shaded 
side,  but  of  a  deep  red  colour,  with  numerous  grey 
specks,  where  fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  covered  with 
a  very  thin  blue  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish  green,  and 
separates  from  the  stone.  Juice  harsh,  subacid.  Stone 
oval,  sharp-pointed. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  1727*  on  a  north-west 
wall,  July  15.  O.  S.,  or  July  26.  N.  S.  Langley. 

An  old  Plum  of  our  gardens,  cultivated  by  John 
Tradescant,  previously  to  1629.  A  very  hardy  bearer 
as  an  open  standard. 

34.  RED  PERDRIGON.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  10. 
Perdrigon  Rouge.     Duhamel,  No.  22.  t.  20.  f.  6* 
Branches  downy.    Fruit  middle-sized,  of  a  roundish 

oval  figure,  about  one  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  and 
nearly  the  same  in  diameter.  Stalk  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  small  round  hollow.  Skin 
of  a  fine  red  inclining  to  violet,  sprinkled  with  small 
brownish  yellow  specks,  and  covered  with  a  thick  bloom. 
Flesh  bright  yellow,  or  greenish  yellow,  firm,  sweet, 
and  juicy,  and  separates  from  the  stone. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

35.  ROYAL  DAUPHIN.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  238. 
Branches   smooth.      Fruit   large,    oval,    about   six 

inches  in  circumference,  some\vhat  broader  at  the  apex 
than  at  the  base.  Stalk  an  inch  long,  stout.  Skin  of 
a  pale  red  on  the  shaded  side,  marked  with  green  specks, 


4*58  PLUMS. 

but  of  a  darker  red  next  the  sun,  mottled  with  darker 
and  lighter  shades,  and  covered  with  a  violet  bloom. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  and  separates  from  the  stone, 
which  is  large.  Juice  sweet,  mixed  with  a  little  sub- 
acid. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

36.  ROYALE  BE  TOURS.  Duhamel,  No.  17.  t.  20. 
f.  8. 

Fruit  above  the  middle  size,  of  a  roundish  figure,  with 
a  well  marked  suture  extending  from  the  base  to  the 
apex,  and  somewhat  more  swelled  on  one  of  its  sides 
than  on  the  other ;  about  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  and 
nearly  the  same  in  diameter.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
slightly  inserted.  Skin  bright  red  on  the  shaded  side, 
but  when  fully  exposed  to  the  sun  of  a  deep  violet, 
sprinkled  over  with  numerous  small  yellow  spots,  and 
covered  with  a  thick  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow. 
Juice  plentiful  and  high  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

37-  VIOLET  DAMASK.     Nursery  Catalogue. 

Damas  Violet.     Duhamel,  No.  5.  t.  2. 

Branches  downy.  Fruit  small,  of  an  oblong  figure, 
somewhat  larger  at  the  apex  than  at  the  base,  about  one 
inch  and  a  quarter  long,  and  little  more  than  an  inch  in 
diameter.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  of  a  purplish 
violet  colour,  covered  with  a  thin  bloom.  Flesh  yellow, 
firm,  and  separates  from  the  stone,  leaving  a  few  slightly 
attached  pieces  of  the  pulp  behind.  Juice  very  sweeY, 
with  a  smart  and  pleasant  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

38.  VIOLET  DIAPER.     Nursery  Catalogue. 

Diapree  Violette.     Duhamel,  No.  36.  1. 17- 

Branches  downy.  Fruit  below  the  middle  size,  of 
an  oval  figure,  about  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  one 
inch  and  quarter  in  diameter,  having  a  rather  deep 
suture,  on  one  side  of  which  it  is  swelled  considerably 


PLUMS.  459 

more  than  on  the  other.  Stalk  short,  slender,  rather 
deeply  inserted.  Skin  thin,  of  a  purplish  red,  covered 
with  a  thick  bloom.  Flesh  yellowish,  firm,  and  separ- 
ates from  the  stone.  Juice  saccharine,  plentiful,  of  an 
agreeable  flavour.  Stone  narrow,  with  a  long  sharp 
point. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  August. 

This  is  a  fleshy  firm  Plum,  very  good  in  the  dessert, 
and  excellent  when  dried  as  a  Prune. 

39-  VIOLET  PERDRIGON.     Miller,  No.  8. 

Perdrigon  Violet.     Duhamel,  No.  21.  t.  9- 

Branches  downy.  Fruit  middle-sized,  a  little  more 
long  than  broad,  and  enlarged  a  little  at  the  apex,  about 
one  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  nearly  as  much  in  diameter. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  curved,  slender.  Skin  of  a  dull 
greenish  brown,  full  of  small  brown  specks,  and  covered 
with  a  thick  pale  bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  pretty 
firm,  and  adheres  to  the  stone.  Juice  sweet,  and  of  a 
very  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  end  of  August  and  beginning  of  September. 

40.  WHEAT  PLUM.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  271. 

Wheaten.     Ray,  No.  17» 

Whitton.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  271. 

Nutmeg.     Parkinson,  No.  18. 

Branches  numerous,  slender,  smooth.  Fruit  small, 
somewhat  oblong,  about  one  inch  and  one  eighth  long, 
and  an  inch  in  diameter,  mostly  growing  in  pairs,  a  little 
swelled  on  one  side  of  the  suture  more  than  on  the 
other,  which  is  shallow.  Stalk  five  eighths  of  an  inch 
long,  inserted  in  a  small  narrow  cavity.  Skin  pale 
amber  on  the  shaded  side,  but  of  a  bright  red,  marbled 
with  a  deeper  colour,  where  exposed  to  the  sun,  and 
covered  with  a  thin  white  bloom.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  rather  firm,  and  adheres  to  the  stone.  Juice 
sugary,  with  a  little  subacid. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 


460  PLUMS. 

This  is  called  Wheat  Plum,  in  consequence  of  its 
being  ripe  about  the  time  of  the  wheat  harvest. 

41.  WILMOT'S    EARLY    ORLEANS.      Hort.    Trans. 
Vol.  iii.  p.  392.  1. 14. 

Wilmot's  Orleans.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  274. 

Wilmot's  New  Early  Orleans.     Ib. 

Wilmot's  Late  Orleans.  Ib.  According  to  the  Hort. 
Soc.  Cat. 

Branches  downy,  like  the  Common  Orleans.  Fruit 
above  the  middle  size,  round,  rather  deeply  cleft,  more 
compressed  than  the  Old  Orleans,  especially  at  the  apex. 
Stalk  short.  Skin  pale  red  on  the  shaded  side,  but 
where  exposed  to  the  sun  of  a  dark  purple  tint,  and 
covered  with  a  fine  thin  bloom.  Flesh  of  a  rich  greenish 
yellow,  inclining  to  amber  when  quite  ripe,  of  a  pleasant 
consistence,  being  much  softer  and  more  juicy  than  the 
Orleans,  and  separates  clean  from  the  stone.  Juice 
plentiful,  sweet,  combined  with  acid,  of  excellent  flavour. 
Stone  round,  rather  small,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of 
the  fruit. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August,  as  early  as  the  Mo- 
rocco, or  the  Precoce  de  Tours. 

Raised  in  1809  by  Mr.  John  Wilmot,  in  his  garden 
at  Isleworth,  near  London. 

42.  WINESOUR.     Forsyth,  Ed.  7.  No.  32. 
Rotherham.      Of  the  Old  Gardens. 

Branches  slender,  downy.  Fruit  rather  larger  than 
a  Damson,  oblong.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Skfa 
dark  bluish  purple,  covered  with  dark  purple  specks, 
particularly  where  exposed  to  the  sun.  Flesh  greenish 
yellow,  and  adheres  to  the  stone,  near  which  there  are 
some  red  streaks  in  the  flesh.  Juice  subacid.  Stone 
long,  slender,  and  acute-pointed. 

Ripe  about  the  middle  of  September. 

This  Plum  is  said  to  have  originated  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Rotherham,  in  Yorkshire,  many  years  ago. 


PLUMS.  461 

The  Winesour  is  the  most  valuable  of  all  our  Plums  for 
preserving,  and  great  quantities  of  it  in  this  state  are 
sent  annually  from  Wakefield  and  Leeds  to  distant  parts 
of  England.  As  a  preserve,  they  will  keep  one  or  two 
years,  and  are  preferable  to  those  imported  from  abroad. 

SECT.  IV White  or  Yellow  fruited. 

43.  APRICOT.     Switzer,  p.  105.     Miller,  No.  13. 
Abricotee.     Duhamel,  No.  28.  t.  13. 
Abricote'e  de  Tours.     Ib.  t.  13. 

Branches  covered  with  a  whitish  down.  Fruit  pretty 
large,  of  a  roundish  figure,  divided  by  a  deep  suture, 
about  one  inch  and  a  half  deep,  and  one  inch  and  three 
quarters  in  diameter.  Stalk  short,  scarcely  more  than 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  long.  Skin  yellow,  tinged  with 
red  on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered  with  a  white  bloom. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  but  melting,  and  separates  clean 
from  the  stone.  Juice  sweet,  of  a  very  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

This  very  fine  Plum  is  considered  by  Duhamel  as 
nearly  equal  to  the  Green  Gage :  as  it  is  too  tender  for 
an  open  standard,  it  is  better  to  plant  it  against  an  east 
or  south-east  wall. 

44.  BRIGNOLE.     Miller,  No.  24. 
Brignole  Jaune.     Knoop.  Fruit,  p.  55. 
Prune  de  Brignole.     Bon  Jard.  1827.  P«  290. 
Fruit  large,  oval.      Skin  pale  yellow,  mixed- with  red 

on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  rather  dry. 
Juice  saccharine,  of  excellent  flavour. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  August. 

This  Plum  is  so  named,  from  Brignole,  a  town  of 
France,  famous  for  its  Prunes,  of  which  this  ranks 
among  its  best  sorts. 

45.  COE'S  PLUM.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  57. 
Coe's  Golden  Drop.     Ib. 


462  PLUMS. 

Coe's  Imperial.     Ib. 

Bury  Seedling.     Ib. 

New  Golden  Drop.     Ib. 

Fair's  Golden  Drop.  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  103.  ac- 
cording to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Branches  smooth.  Leaves  with  two  globular  glands 
at  the  base.  Fruit  oval,  of  the  largest  size  among 
Plums,  about  two  inches  and  a  half  long,  and  two  inches 
in  diameter,  deeply  marked  by  the  suture,  pitted  at  the 
point,  abruptly  tapering  and  hollowed  out  at  the  base 
for  the  reception  of  the  stalk.  Stalk  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  long,  slender.  Skin  greenish  yellow,  with 
numerous  rich  spots  of  bright  violet  red  next  the  sun. 
Flesh  greenish  yellow,  adhering  firmly  to  the  stone. 
Juice  very  sweet  and  delicious.  Stone  sharp-pointed. 

Ripe  the  end  of  September,  and  will  hang  some  time 
upon  the  tree  after  it  is  matured. 

This  will  keep  for  a  considerable  length  of  time, 
after  it  is  gathered,  either  by  suspending  it  by  the  stalk 
upon  a  string,  withinside  a  window  facing  the  sun,  or  by 
wrapping  it  in  soft  paper,  and  keeping  it  in  a  dry 
room.  By  this  latter  method,  I  have  eaten  it  exceed- 
ingly good  in  October,  twelve  months  after  it  had^been 
gathered. 

It  was  raised  by  the  late  Jervaise  Coe,  a  market  gar- 
dener at  Bury  St.  Edmund's,  in  Suffolk,  more  than 
thirty  years  ago.  He  informed  me  it  was  from  the 
stone  of  a  Green  Gage,  the  blossom  of  which,  he  sup- 
posed, had  been  fertilised  by  the  White  Magnum  Bonum, 
the  two  trees  of  which  grew  nearly  in  contact  with  each 
other  in  his  garden.  It  requires  an  east  or  a  west  wall ; 
on  the  former  the  fruit  attains  its  greatest  perfection. 

46.  DOWNTON  IMPERATRICE.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v. 
p.  383. 

Branches  long,  smooth.  Fruit  shaped  almost  like 
the  Blue  Imperatrice,  but  larger,  and  not  so  much 


PLUMS.  463 

lengthened  at  the  stalk  end.  Skin  dull  yellow,  very 
thin.  Flesh  yellow,  soft,  juicy,  with  a  high  flavoured 
acidity. 

Ripe  in  October,  and  will  keep  a  month. 

Raised  by  Mr.  Knight,  of  Downton  Castle,  from  a 
seed  of  the  White  Magnum  Bonum,  the  blossom  of 
which  had  been  impregnated  by  the  pollen  of  the  Blue 
Imperatrice.  Its  fruit  was  exhibited  at  the  Horticul- 
tural Society,  December  1.  1823, 

The  young  wood  has  much  the  appearance  of  the 
White  Magnum  Bonum,  but  grows  much  stronger, 
more  so  indeed  than  any  Plum  I  have  ever  seen,  fre- 
quently, on  vigorous  stocks,  shooting  from  buds  eight 
feet  the  first  year. 

47.  DRAP  D'On.   Langley^  p.  94.  t.24.  f.5.  Miller •, 
No.  20. 

Cloth  of  Gold.     Ib. 

Mirabelle  double.     Duhamel,  No.  30. 

Branches  smooth,  but  downy  at  the  ends.  Fruit 
rather  small,  of  a  roundish  figure,  somewhat  like  the 
Little  Queen  Claude,  with  but  very  little  suture,  and 
a  small  dimple  at  each  end  :  about  an  inch  deep,  and 
rather  more  in  diameter.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long, 
slender.  Skin  bright  yellow,  spotted  or  marbled  with 
red  on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellow,  melting,  and 
separates  clean  from  the  stone.  Juice  sugary  and  ex- 
cellent. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham  in  17^7?  °n  &  west  wall, 
July  20th  O.  S.  or  July  31st  N.  S.  Langley. 

48.  EARLY  AMBER.     Nurs.  Catalogues. 

Fruit  small,  somewhat  oblong,  and  broadest  at  the 
apex.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long.  Skin 
pale  greenish  yellow,  with  a  few  small  crimson  specks 
on  the  sunny  side,  and  covered  with  a  thin  whitish 
bloom.  Flesh  greenish  yellow,  and  adheres  to  the 


464  'PLUMS. 

stone.     Juice  sub-acid,  but  not  possessing  any  peculiar 
flavour. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  August. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  little  fruit ;  although  inferior 
to  some  of  the  early  sorts,  it  deserves  cultivation. 

49«  JAUNE  HATIVE.     Duhamel,  No.  1.  1. 1. 

Prune  de  Catalogne.     Ib. 

Prune  de  St.  Barnabe.     Bon  Jard.  1897-  p.  289. 

White  Primordian.  Langley,  p.  90.  t.  20.  fig.  1 . 
Miller,  No.  1. 

Amber  Primordian.     Parkinson,  No.  1, 

Catalonian.      Of  the  Old  Gardens. 

Branches  slender,  downy.  Fruit  small,  oblong, 
broader  at  the  apex  than  at  the  base,  having  a  shallow 
suture  extending  the  length  of  the  fruit,  about  one 
inch  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  Stalk  half  an  inch 
long,  slender.  Skin  pale  yellow,  covered  with  a  very 
thin  white  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  melting,  and  separates 
from  the  stone.  Juice  sweet. 

Ripe  on  a  south  wall  the  middle  of  July. 

Langley,  in  his  Pomona,  says  this  plum  ripened  in 
1727,  at  Twickenham  in  Middlesex,  on  a  south-east 
wall,  June  9.  O.  S.,  or  June  20.  N.  S. 

The  Jaune  Hative,  although  not  possessing  much 
flavour,  deserves  to  be  cultivated  against  a  south  wall, 
being  the  first  plum  which  ripens.  It  is  an  old  inhabit- 
ant of  our  gardens,  having  been  cultivated  by  John 
Tradescant*,  who  obtained  the  title  of  gardener  to 
King  Charles  the  First,  and  settled  at  his  garden  at 
Lambeth,  about  the  year  1629. 

50.  MAITRE  CLAUDE.  Langley,  Pom.  t.  23.  f.  6. 
Miller,  No.  14. 

Branches  slender,  downy.  Fruit  middle-sized, 
rather  more  broad  than  long,  a  little  compressed  at  its 

*  Rees's  Cyclop. 


PLUMS. 

apex.  Stalk  short.  Skin  yellow,  marbled  with  red 
on  the  sunny  side.  Flesh  yellow,  and  separates  from 
the  stone.  Juice  sugary,  and  well  flavoured. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August.  . 

This  plum  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  1727>  on  a 
south-east  wall,  July  23.  O.  S.,  or  August  3.  N.  S. 
Langley. 

The  Maitre  Claude  was  known  both  to  Switzer  and 
Hitt ;  but  is  not  mentioned  either  in  Duhamel's  Traite, 
or  in  the  Bon  Jardinier  of  JVf.  Noisette. 

51.  MIRABELLE.  Miller,  No.  23.   Duhamel,1So.29. 
1. 14. 

White  Mirable.     Langley,  p.  93.  t.  23.  f.  7. 

Fruit  small,  a  little  more  long  than  broad,  about  an 
inch  in  length.  Stalk  half  an  inch  long.  Skin  yellow, 
becoming  of  an  amber  colour  as  it  ripens.  Flesh  yel- 
low, and  separates  from  the  stone.  Juice  rich  and 
sugary. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  August. 

Ripened  at  Twickenham,  1729,  on  a  standard, 
July  20.  O.  S.,  or  July  31.  N.  S.  Langley. 

52.  SAINT  CATHARINE.  Langley,  p.  94.  t.  24.  fig.  4. 
Miller,  No.  21. 

Sainte  Catherine.  Duhamel,  No.  43.  t.  19- 
Branches  smooth.  Fruit  middle-sized,  of  an  ob- 
long figure,  being  broadest  at  the  apex,  and  tapering 
to  the  base,  and  having  a  narrow  suture  about  one  inch 
and  a  half  long,  and  nearly  the  same  in  diameter  in  its 
widest  part.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long, 
slender.  Skin  whitish,  turning  to  a  pale  yellow  as  it 
ripens,  and  tinged  with  a  little  russetty  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  pretty  firm,  yellow,  and  adheres  to 
the  stone.  Juice  rich,  sugary,  and  high-flavoured. 

Ripe  the  middle  of  September,  with  the  Imperatrice, 
and,  like  that,  will  hang  and  shrivel  upon  the  tree. 

H  H 


466 


PLUMS. 


53.  WASHINGTON.     Pom.  Mag.  t. 16. 
New  Washington.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  270. 
Franklin.     Ib.,  according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 
Branches  downy.     Fruit  regularly  oval,  with  a  very 

obscure  suture  just  at  the  stalk,  where  it  is  rather  deep, 
about  one  inch  and  three  quarters  long,  and  one  inch 
and  five  eighths  in  diameter.  Stalk  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  long,  slightly  pubescent.  Skin  dull  yellow, 
broken  a  little  with  green,  assuming  an  orange  cast  on 
the  sunny  side,  with  a  purplish  bloom,  and  more  or 
less  mottled  with  crimson  dots.  Flesh  yellow,  firm, 
very  sweet  and  luscious,  separating  freely  from  the 
stone.  Stone  oval,  acute  at  each  end,  wrinkled  all 
over,  and  nearly  even  at  the  edges. 

Ripe  in  September. 

The  parent  tree  of  the  Washington  Plum,  it  appears, 
was  purchased  in  the  market  of  New  York,  towards  the 
end  of  the  last  century.  It  remained  barren  several 
years,  till  during  a  violent  thunder-storm,  the  whole 
trunk  was  struck  to  the  earth  and  destroyed.  The  root 
afterwards  threw  up  a  number  of  vigorous  shoots,  all 
of  which  were  allowed  to  remain,  and  finally  produced 
fruit.  It  is  therefore  to  be  presumed,  that  the  stock 
of  the  barren  kind  was  the  parent  of  this.  Trees  were 
sent  to  Robert  Barclay,  Esq.,  of  Bury  Hill,  in  1819  ; 
and  in  1821,  several  others  were  presented  to  the  Hor- 
ticultural Society  by  Dr.  Hosack,  of  New  York.  It 
fruits  equally  well  on  an  east  and  west  wall ;  but  om  a 
south  it  is  found  to  be  too  hot,  the  fruit  becoming 
smaller,  with  many  black  specks.  There  is  no  doubt 
it  will  bear  abundantly  as  a  standard. 

54.  WENTWORTH.    Miller,  No.  26.  Langley,  Pom. 
t.  25.  f.  4. 

Dame  Aubert.     Duhamel,  No.  41.  t.  20.  f.  10. 
Grosse  Luisante.     Ib. 


PLUMS.         ,  467 

Fruit  of  the  largest  size,  of  an  oval  figure,  having  a 
deep  suture  extending  from  the  base  to  the  apex,  about 
two  inches  and  a  quarter  long,  and  one  inch  and  three 
quarters  in  diameter.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
long,  inserted  in  a  rather  deep  cavity.  Skin  thick  and 
leathery,  of  a  yellow  colour,  tinged  with  green  on  the 
shaded  side,  and  covered  with  a  white  bloom.  Flesh 
yellow,  rather  coarse,  and  separates  from  the  stone. 
Juice  subacid,  somewhat  austere. 

Ripe  in  September. 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7»  °n  a  south-east 
wall,  Aug.  20.  O.  S.,  or  Aug.  31.  N.  S.  Langley. 

This  has  a  good  deal  the  appearance  of  the  White 
Magnum  Bonum,  but  is  not  so  much  pointed,  of  a 
deeper  colour,  and,  like  that,  fit  only  for  preserving  ;  but 
for  this  it  is  excellent. 

The  Wentworth  Plum  is  said,  by  Langley,  to  have 
been  so  called  from  its  having  been  first  planted  in  the 
gardens  of  the  Right  Honourable  Thomas  Wentworth 
Earl  of  Strafford,  at  Twickenham.  MILLER  has 
strangely  confounded  this  with  the  Monsieur  of 
DUHAMEL,  in  which  he  has  been  followed  by  MARTYN 
and  FORSYTH  ;  but  no  two  plums  can  be  more  distinct. 

55.   WHITE  BULLACE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  4. 

Branches  slender,  twiggy,  downy.  Fruit  small, 
round,  mostly  growing  by  pairs.  Skin  yellowish  white, 
and  when  fully  ripe,  a  little  mottled  with  red  on  the 
sunny  side.  Flesh  greenish  white,  firm,  and  closely 
adheres  to  the  stone.  Juice  acid,  but  so  tempered  by 
sweetness  and  roughness  as  not  to  be  unpleasant,  espe- 
cially after  it  is  mellowed  by  frost. 

Ripe  in  October. 

Large  quantities  of  the  White  Bullace  are  brought 
into  the  market  in  Norwich,  and  elsewhere  in  the 
county  of  Norfolk,  where  they  are  highly  esteemed 

H  H  2 


468  PLUMS. 

for  tarts  :  they  are  by  some  preserved  by  boiling  them 
in  sugar,  and  in  this  state  they  will  keep  twelve 
months. 

56.  WHITE  DAMASK.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  71- 
Petit  Damas  Blanc.     Duhamel,  No.  6.  t.  3. 
Fruit   small,    nearly    globular,    about    an    inch     in 

diameter.      Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  very  slender.      Skin 
greenish  yellow,  rather  thick,  covered  with  a  thin  white 
bloom.     Flesh  yellow,  melting,  and  separates  from  the 
stone.     Juice  sugary,  of  an  agreeable  flavour. 
Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

57.  WHITE  DAMSON.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  88. 
White  Prune  Damson:     Nursery  Catalogues. 
Brandies  long,   smooth.     Fruit  small,   oval,  about 

three  inches  and  a  half  in  its  long  circumference.  Stalk 
half  an  inch  long,  slender.  Skin  pale  yellow,  covered 
with  a  thin  white  bloom.  Flesh  yellow,  adhering  to 
the  stone.  Juice  plentiful,  a  little  sugary,  mixed  with 
a  small  portion  of  acid. 

Ripe  the  middle  and  end  of  September. 

.58.  WHITE  IMPERATRECE.     Pom.  Mag.  t.  38. 

Imperatrice  Blanche.     Duhamel,  40.  1. 18.  f.  2. 

Die  Weisse  Kaiserpflaume.  Pom.  Aust.  %.  33. 
1. 181.  f.  2.,  according  to  the  Pom.  Mag. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  oval,  with  an  indistinct  suture, 
very  blunt  at  each  end ;  about  one  inch  and  three 
quarters  long,  and  one  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter. 
Stalk  half  an  inch  long,  inserted  in  a  narrow  cavity. 
Skin  bright  yellowish  ochre  colour,  with  a  slight 
evanescent  bloom.  Flesh  firm,  juicy,  sweet,  and  rather 
more  transparent  than  that  of  most  plums,  separating 
freely  from  the  stone. 

It  ripens  on  a  west  wall  about  the  beginning  of  Sep- 
tember. It  will  scarcely  succeed  as  an  open  standard, 
except  in  warm  situations. 


PLUMS.  469 

59.  WHITE    MAGNUM    BONUM.     Langley,    p.  95. 
t.  25.  fig.  6.     Miller,  No.  11. 

White  Mogul.     Ib. 

White  Holland.     Ib. 

Egg  Plum.     Ib. 

Imperiale  Blanche.     Duhamel,  No.  35. 

Branches  long,  smooth.  Fruit  of  the  largest  size, 
oval.  Skin  yellow,  covered  with  a  thin  white  bloom. 
Flesh  yellow,  firm,  closely  adhering  to  the  stone. 
Juice  acid,  not  fit  to  be  eaten  raw,  but  excellent  for 
sweetmeats.  Stone  oval,  lance-pointed. 

Ripe  the  beginning  and  middle  of  September. 

It  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7>  on  a  south-east 
wall,  Aug.  20. 

60.  WHITE    PERDRIGON.      Langley,    p.  92.    t.  23. 
fig.  5.     Miller,  No.  9- 

Perdrigon  Blanc.     Duhamel,  No.  30.  t.  8. 

Branches  downy.  Fruit  middle-sized,  somewhat 
oblong,  enlarged  towards  the  apex  and  tapering  a  little 
towards  the  stalk ;  about  one  inch  and  a  quarter  long, 
and  the  same  in  diameter.  Stalk  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  long.  Skin  pale  yellow,  full  of  small  white  specks, 
with  a  few  red  spots  on 'the  sunny  side,  and  covered 
with  a  thin  white  bloom.  Flesh  pale  yellow,  separating 
clean  from  the  stone.  Juice  rich  and  saccharine.  Stone 
small,  lanceolate. 

Ripe  the  beginning  of  September. 

This,  as  well  as  the  other  Perdrigons,  is  too  tender 
to  bear  in  this'  country  as  an  open  standard,  or  even 
in  espalier  ;  it  should  be  planted  against  an  east  or 
south-east  wall :  on  these  aspects  all  the  September 
plums  ripen  better  than  on  any  other,  and  are  more 
certain  in  their  produce. 


H  H  3 


470 


PLUMS. 


A  Selection  of  Plums  for  a  small  Garden  in  the  Southern  and 
Midland  Counties  of  England. 


RIPE    IN    JULY    AND    AUGUST. 


Early  Amber 
Green  Gage 
La  Royale 
Morocco 

-     48 
-     10 
-     25 
-       6 

Nectarine 
Prdcoce  de  Tours 
Violette  Hative 
Wilmot's  Early  Orleans 

-  28* 
-  7 
-  9 

-  41 

RIPE    IN 

AUGUST 

AND    SEPTEMBER. 

Diaper 
Imperial  Diadem     - 
Kirke's           <  "^  ; 
Lucombe's  Nonsuch 

-       15 

-     22 

1   ^.l::5i' 

-     12 

Prune  Damson 
Purple  Gage 
Washington 
Wentworth 

8 
-  31 
-  53 
-  54 

Mimms 

-     26 

White  Magnum  Bonum 

-  59 

RIPE   IN 

SEPTEMBER   AND    OCTOBER. 

Coe's  Plum 

-     45 

Prune  Suisse 

-  30 

Imperatrice 
La  Delicieuse 

-     21 
-     24 

St.  Catharine 
White  Bullace 

-  52 
-  55 

Northern  Counties  of  England,  and  Southern  of  Scotland. 

RIPE    IN    JULY    AND    AUGUST. 


Early  Amber 
Early  Orleans 
Green  Gage 
Morocco 


48  Nectarine  -  -  28* 

16  Precoce  de  Tours  -       7 

10  Violette  Hative  -       9 

6  Wilmot's  Early  Orleans  -    41 


RIPE    IN    AUGUST    AND    SEPTEMBER. 


Fotheringham 

Goliath 

Imperial  Diadem     - 

Kirke's 

Lucombe's  Nonsuch 


18     Mimms 
20     Prune  t)amson 
22     Purple  Gage 
5     Washington            » 
1  1     Wentworth           * 

-'20 
-       8 
•     31 
-     53 

-     54 

RIPE    IN    SEPTEMBER    AND    OCTOBER* 


Coe's  Plum 
Imperatrice 
La  Delicieuse 


-  45 

-  21 

-  24 


Prune  Suisse 
St.  Catharine 
White  Bullace 


-  30 

-  52 

-  55 


PLUMS.  4*71 

Highlands  of  Scotland. 

RIPE    IN    AUGUST    AND    SEPTEMBER. 

Early  Orleans  -     16     Kirke's  -  5 

Fotheringham       -  -     18     Morocco  -       6 

Goliath  -    20     Violette  Hative  -       9 

RIPE    IN    SEPTEMBER    AND    OCTOBER. 

Coe's  Plum  -  45  Orleans  -  29 

Diaper  -  15  Prune  Suisse  -  ,  -  30 

Green  Gage  -  10  Purple  Gage  -  31 

Imperatrice  -  -  21  Red  Magnum  Bonum  •  33 

Lucombe's  Nonsuch  -  11  Wentworth  -  -  54? 

Propagation. 

Plums  are  propagated  by  budding  and  grafting  upon 
the  Brussels  and  the  Common  Plum  stock.  The  former 
is  principally  employed  for  such  sorts  as  are  intended  to 
be  worked  standard  high  ;  it  is  used  also  for  dwarfs. 

The*  Common  stock  is  used  likewise  for  both  standards 
and  dwarfs  ;  but  then  the  former  are  worked  below,  the 
same  as  for  dwarfs,  and  the  strongest  of  the  plants  are 
allowed  to  run  up  for  standards. 

The  Brussels  stock  is  a  very  useful  one  for  the  nur- 
seryman, being  a  vigorous  grower ;  if  it  is  planted  out 
one  year,  and  then  cut  down  to  the  ground,  it  will 
throw  up  a  straight,  smooth,  handsome  shoot,  six  feet 
high  the  first  year,  on  which  Apricots  and  Plums  may 
be  budded  standard  high  the  following  summer,  and 
they  will  make  handsome  plants  at  the  end  of  another 
year ;  but  this  excess  of  vigour  in  the  Brussels  stock  is 
not  in  favour  of  its  durability.. 

In  raising  standard  Plums,  however,  I  have  found  it 
the  best  \vay  to  bud  them  upon  the  Common  stock,  nine 
inches  from  the  ground.  If  the  stocks  are  strong  and 
in  health,  and  upon  a  good  soil,  they  will  throw  up  the 
vigorous  growing  sorts  standard  high  the  first  yearj 

H  H  4> 


472  PLUMS. 

those  which  are  of  a  more  moderate  growth  will  attain 
that  height  the  following  year.  For  dwarfs,  as  I  have 
observed  before,  those  which  are  obtained  by  grafting 
are  to  be  preferred. 

The  Common  stock  possesses  sufficient  vigour,  if 
planted  on  a  good  soil,  to  throw  up  its  shoot  standard 
high  the  first  year  after  cutting  down,  and  may  be 
budded  the  second  either  with  Apricots  or  the  weaker 
growing  Plums  :  these  make  not  only  handsome  but 
durable  standards. 


DAMSONS    AND    BULLACE. 

The  Prune  Damsons  and  White  Bullace  should  be 
budded  upon  the  Muscle  stock,  as  they  succeed  much 
better  upon  it  than  upon  any  other.  If  budded  nine 
inches  from  the  ground,  upon  vigorous  stocks,  they  will 
grow  five  or  six  feet  high  the  first  year,  and  make  fine 
standards  the  year  following ;  or  they  may  be  budded 
standard  high  upon  stocks  which  have  been  cut  down 
for  the  purpose,  the  same  as  directed  for  standard 
Peaches  and  Nectarines. 


Pruning  and  Training. 

Open  Standards. 

Open  standards  of  Plums  should  be  chosen,  such  as 
are  straight  and  clean  in  their  stems,  with  regular  heads 
of  four  equally  strong  well-placed  shoots.  If  the  trees 
have  been  planted  in  the  autumn,  they  will,  by  the  fol- 
lowing April,  have  made  fresh  roots,  and  their  buds  will 
begin  to  push  ;  they  must  at  this  time  be  headed  down 
to  three  or  four  inches,  after  which  they  will  furnish 
three  or  four  others  from  each  shoot. 

If,  however,  at  the  next  winter  pruning  a  sufficient 


PLUMS.  473 

number  cannot  be  selected  to  form  the  head,  the  best 
must  be  selected  and  cut  down  again  as  before,  which, 
if  the  tree  be  in  a  state  of  health,  must  furnish  abundance 
for  the  purpose.  The  best  of  those  being  selected,  they 
must  be  allowed  to  grow  at  their  full  length,  without 
ever  shortening  them  again,  unless  through  some  acci- 
dent there  should  be  a  vacancy  in  the  head  which  re- 
quires to  be  filled  up. 

Standards,  when  thus  fully  established,  require  nothing 
further  than  to  be  looked  over  from  time  to  time,  in 
order  to  remove  any  superfluous  shoots,  or  such  others 
as  may,  by  their  further  growth,  be  likely  to  injure 
others. 

Espaliers. 

Espalier  Plums  are  to  be  formed  precisely  upon  the 
same  principle  as  espalier  Pears,  having  a  central  up- 
right stem  with  horizontal  branches  issuing  from  each 
side ;  these  should  be  trained  at  nine  inches  apart,  ex- 
cept in  such  sorts  as  are  of  a  very  slender  wiry  growth, 
in  which  they  may  be  somewhat  nearer. 

The  branches  of  Plums  require  to  be  continued  at 
length,  without  ever  shortening  the  leading  shoot,  and 
their  spurs  should  be  managed  as  directed  for  Pears,  ex- 
cept in  the  first  pruning  in  the  summer,  when  the  fore- 
right  and  side  shoots  must  be  shortened  to  one  inch 
instead  of  two,  as  they  are  not  so  likely  to  throw  out 
additional  shoots  from  these  artificial  spurs  in  the  same 
season* 

Some  of  the  strongest,  however,  of  these  spurs  will  be 
likely  to  make  a  second  shoot,  which  must,  in  the  second 
pruning,  be  cut  off  below  the  eye  whence  it  originated  ; 
never  shortening  a  second  shoot  like  the  first,  as  a  repe- 
tition of  this  alone  causes  the  spurs,  in  every  description 
of  espalier  and  wall  tree,  to  be  what  are  termed  bush- 
headed,  instead  of  having  any  tendency  to  acquire  a 


PLUMS. 

more  natural  character :  they  are  at  all  times  unsightly, 
and  never  productive  of  fruit. 

Plums  against  Walls. 

The  wall  tree  may,  in  all  cases,  be  considered  as  an 
espalier,  having  the  wall  for  its  support,  without  any 
reference  to  its  influence  in  the  ripening  of  its  fruit, 
hence  the  term  espalier  is  applied  by  the  French,  not 
as  by  us,  but  "  to  a  tree  fixed  against  a  wall  in  the 
form  of  a  fan  ;  "  to  this  we  are  indebted,  probably,  for 
our  method  of  fan-training,  as  it  is  now  applied  to  the 
Peach,  the  Nectarine,  the  Apricot,  and  the  Morello 
Cherry.  Plums,  when  trained  against  the  wall,  require 
the  same  management  as  our  English  espalier,'  the  same 
horizontal  method  of  training  being  pursued. 

When  Plum  trees  have  been  neglected  for  a  length  of 
time,  and  their  spurs  become  long,  naked,  and  unpro- 
ductive, the  latter  may,  if  the  trees  are  sound,  be  re- 
moved by  the  same  method  as  directed  for  the  Pear; 
that  of  heading  them  down. 

When  the  young  shoots  are  long  enough  to  be  nailed 
to  the  wall,  two  of  the  strongest  and  best  placed  from 
each  shortened  limb  must  be  selected  and  trained  as  be- 
fore, till  the  next  winter  pruning,  when  the  best  of  the 
two  must  be  selected  and  continued  at  its  full  length, 
cutting  the  other  away. 

The  spurs  must  be  managed  also  as  directed  for  th£ 
espalier,  and  in  other  respects  the  treatment  must  be  the 
same. 

INDEX  TO  THE  PLUMS. 

Abricotee               -  -  43  Apricot     •*           .  .,•  ;„  -  43 

Abricotee  de  Tours  -  43  Azure  Hative         -  -  1 

Abricot-Vert  -  10  Black  Damascus  6 

Amber  Primordian  -  49  Black  Damask         -  -  6 


PLUMS. 


475 


Black  Morocco         -  -  6 

Blue  Gage  •  1 

Blue  Perdrigon         -  2 

Brignole  -  -44 

Brignole  Jaune         -  -  44 

Bury  Seedling         -  45 

Caledonian              -  -  28* 

Catalonian             -  -  49 

Cherry  -  13 

Cheston  -  1 4 

Cloth  of  Gold  -  47 

Coe's  -  45 

Coe's  Go/efen  Drop  -  45 

Coe's  Imperial          -  -  45 

Damas  d' Italic         -  -  23 

Damns  Violet  -  37 

Dame  Aubert             -  *  54 

Dauphine             -  -  10 

Diaper      -             -  -  15 

Diapree  Rouge         -  15 

Diapree  Violette         -  -  38 

J)*>  Violette  Konigin  -  31 

Dze  Weisse  Kaiserpjlaume  58 

Downton  Imperatrice  -  46 

Drap  d'Or  -  47 

Early  Amber  -  48 

Early  Black  Damask  -  6 

Early  Damask         -  *  6 

Early  Morocco         -  6 

Early  Orleans  -  16 

Early  Red  Primordian  -  17 

Early  Tours  -  7 

Early  Violet  -  9 

Egg  59 

Fairs  Golden  Drop  -  45 

Fotheringham          -  -  18 

Franklin             -  -  53 

German  Prune         -  -  19 

Goliath  -  20 

Great  Damask  Violet  -  3 

Green  Gage  -  10 

Gros  Damas  de  Tours  •  3 

Grosse  Luisante         -  -  54 

Grosse  Noire  Hative  -  4 


Grosse  Reine  Claude  -  10 

Hampton  Court         -  -  16 

Howeirs  Large      -  -  28* 

Imperatrice  -  21 

Imperatrice  Blanche  -  58 

Imperatrice  Violette  -  -  21 

Imperial              -  -  33 

Imperiall              -  -  33 

Imperiale  Blanche     -  -  59 

Imperial  Diadem  -  -  22 

Imperiale  Violette  -  33 

Italian  Damask         -  -  23 

Jaune  Hative  -  4-9 

Kirke's  -  5 

La  Delicieuse          •  -  24 

La  Royale             -  -  25 

Little  Queen  Claude  -  1 1 

Lucombe's  Nonsuch  -  12 

Maitre  Claude         •  -50 

Matchless            -  -  14 

Minims      -             •  -  26 

Mirabelle         -  -  51 

Mirabelle  Double  -  -  47 

Mirabolan          -  -13 

Monsieur              -  -  27 

Monsieur  Hatif  -  28 

Monsieur  Tardif      -  *  30 

Morocco  -  6 

Nectarine             *  *  28* 

New  Golden  Drop  -  45 

New  Washington        *  -  53 

Noire  de  Montreuit  -  4 

Nutmeg     -            -  -  40 

Orleans  *  29 

Perdrigon             -  2 

Perdrigon  Blanc       i  -  60 

Perdrigon  Rouge  -  -  34 

Perdrigon  Violet       -  -  39 

Petit  Damas  Blanc  -  56 

Petite  Reine  Claude  -  1 1 

Precoce  de  Tours     - '  -  7 

Prune  d"Altesse          -  -  30 

Prune  Damson       -  -  8 

Prune  de  Brignole  -  44 


QUINCES. 


Prune  de  Catalogue 

Prune  de  St.  Barnabe 

Prune  Peche 

Prune  Suisse 

Prunus  Cerasifera 

Purple  Gage 

Queen  Mother 

Quetsche 

Quetzen  - 

Red  Damask 

Red  Diaper 

Ked  Magnum  Bonum 

Red  Perdrigon 

Red  Primordian 

Heine  Claude  Violette 

Roche-  Corbon 

Rotherham 

Royale 

Royal  Dauphin 

Royale  de  Tours  - 

Saint  Catharine 

Sainte  Catherine 

Saint  Cloud 

Sheen 

Simiana 

Verte-bonne 

Violet 


49 

Violet  Damask         -          - 

37 

49 

Violet  Diaper 

38 

28* 

Violette  Hative 

9 

30 

Violet  Perdrigon  - 

39 

13 

Virginian  Cherry     -* 

13 

31 

Washington              *            * 

53 

32 

Wentworth 

54 

19 

Wheat 

40 

19 

Wheat  en 

40 

29 

White  Bullace 

55 

15 

White  Damask 

56 

33 

White  Damson 

57 

34 

White  Holland 

59 

17 

White  Imperatrice 

58 

31 

White  Imperial 

59 

51 

White  Magnum  Bonum 

59 

42 

White  Mirable 

51 

25 

White  Mogul 

59 

35 

White  Perdrigon   - 

60 

36 

White  Primordian 

49 

52 

White  Prune  Damson 

57 

52 

Whit  ton 

40 

20 

Wil  mot's  Early  Orleans     - 

41 

18 

Wilmot's  Late  Orleans 

41 

30 

Wilmofs  New  Early  Orleans 

41 

10 

Wil  mot's  Orleans 

41 

9 

Winesour 

42 

CHAP.  XIX. 

QUINCES. 

MR.  MILLER  has  three  varieties  of  the  Quince,  the 
only  hardy  kinds  known  in  this  country,  viz. 

1.  CYDONIA  OBLONGA.     PEAR-SHAPED  QUINCE. 
Leaves  oblong-ovate.     Fruit  lengthened  at  the  base. 

2.  CYDONIA  MALIFORMIS.  APPLE-SHAPED  QUINCE. 
Leaves  ovate.     Fruit  rounder  than  that  of  the  last. 

3.  CYDONIA  LUSITANICA.     PORTUGAL  QUINCE. 
Leaves  obovate.     Fruit  oblong. 


QUINCES.  477 

The  last  variety  is  of  a  fine  purple  colour  when 
dressed  ;  is  more  juicy  and  less  harsh,  and  much  better 
for  marmalade,  than  either  of  the  others.  It  is  the  only 
sort  now  cultivated  in  England  for  domestic  purposes, 

Propagation. 

The  Quince  is  propagated  by  layers  at  any  time 
during  the  winter  months.  When  the  young  shoots  are 
laid  down,  there  should  not  be  more  than  two  eyes  left 
above  ground,  and  when  those  have  grown  five  or  six 
inches  long,  one  of  them  should  be  cut  clean  off,  leaving 
the  other  to  form  the  plant,  which  by  the  autumn  will 
be  three  feet  high. 

The  layers  must  be  taken  off  the  stools  as  soon  as  the 
leaves  are  fallen,  and  planted  out  in  rows  at  three  feet 
apart  from  row  to  row,  and  ten  or  twelve  inches  from 
plant  to  plant  in  the  row.  At  the  end  of  one  or  two 
years  they  will  be  fit  to  bud  or  graft  with  the  different 
sorts  of  Pear,  for  quenouille  or  for  espalier  training  ;  or 
they  may  be  allowed  to  grow  up  and  form  standards  for 
orchard  planting. 

Those,  however,  which  are  intended  for  budding  or 
grafting,  should  be  shortened  to  eighteen  inches,  as  soon 
as  quartered  out  in  the  rows,  which  will  keep  them  up- 
right, firm,  and  steady;  but  those  intended  for  stand- 
ards should  be  staked  and  tied  up  as  soon  as  planted, 
and  at  the  end  of  three  years  they  ought  to  be  fit  to  be 
planted  out  where  they  are  intended  to  remain. 

Cultivation. 

The  Quince  is  cultivated  in  no  other  way  in  this 
country  than  as  an  open  standard.  Its  management  is 
the  same  as  that  of  the  Plum. 

The  Quince  may  very  safely  be  planted  out  in  the 
orchard,  without  any  fear  of  its  degenerating  either  the 


478 


RASPBERRIES. 


Apple  or  the  Pear,  an  idea  entertained  both  by  Miller 
and  Forsyth;  which  see,  under  the  head  of  MEDLAR, 


CHAP.  XX. 


RASPBERRIES. 


1.  Antwerp,    Double  Bearing 

Yellow. 

2.  Antwerp,  Late  Bearing. 
Knevett's  Antwerp. 

3.  Antwerp,  Red. 

Burley  Antwerp. 

4.  Antwerp,  Yellow. 

White  Antwerp. 

5.  Barnet. 

Cornwall 's  Prolific. 
Cornwall's  Red. 
Cornwall's  Seedling. 
Large  Red. 

6.  Cane,  Brentford. 

7.  Cane,  Red. 

Smooth  Cane. 

8.  Cane,  Rough. 

9.  Cornish. 

Large  Cornish. 


10.  Double  Bearing. 

Perpetual  Bearing. 
Red  Double  Bearing. 
Siberian. 

1 1 .  Double  Bearing,  Williams's. 

Pitmaston  Double  Bearing. 

12.  Lord  Exmouth. 

13.  Oakhill. 
Jillard's  Seedling. 

14.  Old  White. 
15    Prolific,  Early. 

16.  Red  Malta. 

17.  Spring  Grove. 

18.  Superb. 

19.  Taylor's  Paragon. 

Scarlet  Paragon. 

20.  Williams's  Preserving. 

21.  Wilmot's  Early  Red. 

22.  Woodward's  Red  Globe. 


A  Selection  of  Raspberries  for  a  small  Garden. 

Barnet  -  5     Red  Antwerp         -  -3 

Cornish          -  9     Williams's  Preserving         -     20 

Double-bearing     -  10     Yellow  Antwerp        -         -4 

There  are,  no  doubt,  many  other  sorts  besides  the 
above  to  be  found  in  different  parts  of  England,  and  pos- 
sessing different  degrees  of  merit ;  those  already  enume- 
rated are,  however,  amply  sufficient  for  every  useful 
purpose. 


RASPBERRIES.  479 


Cultivation. 

The  propagation  of  Raspberries  is  so  well  known  to 
every  gardener  to  be  by  suckers,  that  nothing  need  be 
said  under  this  head ;  but  the  raising  of  a  new  plant- 
ation of  stools  is  not  by  every  one  accomplished  in  the 
shortest  space  of  time,  and  a  collection  is  scarcely  ever 
arranged  so  as  to  give  all  the  sorts  of  which  it  may  con- 
sist an  equal  advantage.  In  order  to  this,  it  is  necessary 
that  the  respective  heights  should  be  known,  to  which 
the  different  varieties  attain.  This  will  enable  the 
planter  to  arrange  them  to  the  greatest  advantage. 

This  will  be  by  placing  the  tallest  growers  at  the 
back,  the  middle  growers  next,  and  the  shortest  growers 
in  front.  By  this  mode  of  arrangement,  the  shorter 
and  middle  growers  will  receive  their  due  proportion  of 
sun,  without  being  interrupted  by  those  which  attain 
the  greatest  degree  of  elevation.  The  necessity  of  such 
an  arrangement  as  this  must  be  obvious  to  those  who 
are  aware  of  the  advantage  to  be  derived,  in  wet  and 
cloudy  seasons,  in  having  this  delicate  and  tender  fruit 
fully  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  receiving  a  free  and 
plentiful  admission  of  air. 

In  making  such  a  plantation  as  this,  it  will  be  advis- 
able, if  possible,  to  have  the  rows  extend  from  east  to  west. 
These  should  be  four  feet  at  least  from  each  other ;  and 
supposing  one  row  only  can  be  allotted  to  each  sort,  and 
that  six  rows  are  to  form  the  extent  of  the  plantation, 
then  the  first  or  north  row  may  be  planted  with 
the  Cornish,  No.  9. ;  the  second  with  Woodward's 
Red  Globe,  No.  22. ;  the  third  with  Red  Antwerp, 
No.  3. ;  the  fourth  with  Yellow  Antwerp,  No.  4. ;  the 
fifth  with  Cane,  No.  6,  7>  or  8. ;  the  sixth  with  Double 
Bearing,  No.  10.  or  11. 

The  stools  in  the  first  and  second  row  should  be  four 


480  RASPBERRIES. 

feet  apart ;  those  in  the  third  and  fourth,  three  feet  and 
a  half;  and  those  in  fifth  and  sixth,  three  feet.  In 
planting,  young  suckers  should  be  made  choice  of;  and 
if  in  plenty,  three  of  these  should  be  allowed  to  each 
stool,  placing  them  in  a  triangle  of  six  inches  apart.  If 
fruit  are  not  wanted  the  first  year,  the  plants  will  gain 
considerable  strength  by  being  cut  down  within  six 
inches  of  the  ground  as  soon  as  planted,  instead  of  leav- 
ing them  three  or  four  feet  high  in  order  to  obtain  from 
them  a  crop  of  fruit. 

In  selecting  the  sorts  for  the  above  six  rows,  it  is 
intended  only  to  show  their  arrangement  as  far  as 
regards  their  relative  heights,  not  as  a  proper  proportion 
of  each ;  because  a  single  row  of  yellow-fruited  will 
not,  by  many,  be  deemed  sufficient  for  five  rows  of 
red. 

When  a  larger  collection  is  intended  to  be  planted 
out,  the  additional  varieties  may  readily  be  placed  so  as 
to  correspond  with  those  which  I  have  selected  as  a 
specimen. 

After  the  stools  are  established,  and  fruit  of  the 
largest  size  acquired,  care  must  be  taken  to  select  the 
strongest  canes,  and  a  few  of  these  only  from  each 
plant,  in  proportion  to  its  strength,  shortening  each  to 
about  four-fifths  of  its  original  height :  these  should  be 
supported  singly  by  a  small  stake  to  each.  For  general 
purposes  stakes  are  unnecessary,  as  three,  four,  five,  or 
six  canes  from  the  same  stool  may  be  tied  together  on 
their  tip-ends :  this  may  be  done  so  as  to  give  each 
cane  a  bow-like  direction,  which  will  give  much  more 
room  for  their  laterals  to  grow  than  if  tied  up  in  a  more 
perpendicular  manner. 

As  a  succession  of  this  very  favourite  fruit  must 
always  be  desirable  in  the  dessert,  it  may  be  prolonged 
considerably  beyond  its  usual  time  by  cutting  down 
some  of  the  stools  wholly  to  within  a  few  inches  of  the 


STRAWBERRIES.  481 

ground,  instead  of  leaving  the  canes  at  four  fifths  of 
their  length. 

This  operation  may  be  practised  upon  both  the  Red 
and  the  Yellow  Antwerp,  as  well  as  upon  several  of  the 
other  varieties,  from  which  good  crops  of  fruit  may  be 
obtained  in  August. 

The  double-bearing  varieties  should  have  every  alter- 
nate stool  cut  down  annually :  these  will  furnish  an 
abundance  of  fruit  so  late  as  September,  and  in  a  fine 
warm  autumn  even  to  a  later  period. 

As  the  finest  and  best  of  these  fruits  are,  in  all  cases, 
the  produce  of  strong  and  well-ripened  canes,  it  becomes 
necessary  that  the  stools  should  have  every  advantage 
afforded  them.  This  may  be  readily  effected  by  causing 
all  the  former  year's  canes  to  be  cut  down  to  the  ground 
as  soon  as  they  have  produced  their  crop,  instead  of 
allowing  them  to  stand  till  the  winter  or  spring :  this 
removes  an  unnecessary  incumbrance,  and  at  a  season 
when  sun  and  air  are  of  infinite  importance  to  the 
young  canes,  consequently  to  the  succeeding  crop  of 
fruit. 


CHAR  XXL 

STRAWBERRIES. 
CLASS  I.  —  Alpine  and  Wood  Strawberries. 

The  habits  and  general  character  of  these  are  very 
similar ;  the  principal  difference  being  in  the  shape  of 
the  fruit,  which  is  usually  conical  in  the  former,  and 
more  globose  in  the  latter.  The  Alpines  produce 
fruit  in  the  autumn,  which  the  Wood  Strawberries  do 
not.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  149. 

1.  RED  ALPINE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  89. 

Fraisier  des  Alpes.     Duhamel,  No.  7.  t.  2. 

i  i 


482  STRAWBERRIES. 

Fruit  scarlet,  conical ;   bearing  strong  through  the 
summer  and  autumn. 

2.  WHITE  ALPINE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  90. 
Fraisier  des  Alpes  a  fruit  blanc.      Of  the  French. 
Fruit  white,  conical ;  bearing  through  the  summer 

and  autumn. 

3.  RED  WOOD.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  92. 
Fraisier  Commun.     JDuhamel,  No.  1.  t.  1. 
Fruit  scarlet,  round  ;  bearing  in  the  summer  only. 

4.  WHITE  WOOD.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  93. 
Fraisier  Commun  a  fruit  blanc.      Of  the  French. 
Fruit  white,  round  ;  bearing  in  the  summer  only. 

CLASS  II.  —  Black  Strawberries. 

This  is  not  a  numerous  class,  the  Old  Black  Straw- 
berry being  the  type,  and  the  remainder  derived  from 
Its  seeds,  either  impregnated  by  itself  or  by  others. 
Their  character  is  to  have  the  leaves  rugose,  pale  green, 
and  small ;  the  fruit  middle-sized,  conical,  with  a  neck, 
very  dark-coloured  when  ripe  ;  the  seeds  slightly  em- 
bedded ;  the  flavour  very  rich,  and  highly  perfumed. 
Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  148. 

5.  DOWNTON.     Pom.  Mag.  No.  52. 

Knight's  Seedling.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  185. 

Knight's  Strawberry.     Ib. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  having  a  neck  ;  some  of  the  early 
berries  are  cockscomb-shaped,  dark  purplish  scarlet. 
Grains  but  little  embedded.  Flesh  scarlet,  firm. 

6.  GIBBS'S  SEEDLING  BLACK.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  184. 

Fruit  conical,  small,  hairy,  with  a  neck,  dark  purplish 
red.  Seeds  slightly  embedded  in  the  skin.  Flesh 
scarlet,  firm,  very  high-flavoured. 

7.  OLD  BLACK.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  182. 
Black.  Black  Pine. 

Black  Beacon.  Mulberry. 

Black  Canterbury.  Turkey  Pine. 


STRAWBERRIES.  483 

Fruit  middle-sized,  conical,  elongated  and  pointed, 
with  a  neck,  hairy,  very  dark  purplish  red.  Flesh  scarlet, 
firm,  with  a  buttery  core,  very  rich  and  high-flavoured. 

8.  PITMASTON  BLACK.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  183. 
Late  Pitmaston  Black.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  ovate,  with  a  neck,  slightly  hairy, 
very  dark  purplish  red.  Seeds  slightly  embedded.  Flesh 
solid,  scarlet,  very  firm,  buttery,  and  richly  flavoured. 

9.  SWEET   CONE.      Hort.    Trans,  vol.  vi.  p.  186. 
Pom.  Mag.  No.  4. 

Fruit  small,  cone-shaped,  with  a  neck  hairy,  bright 
shining  scarlet.  Seeds  prominent.  Flesh  firm,  of  a 
brighter  colour  than  the  skin,  hollow,  very  high-flavoured. 
Plant  tender. 

CLASS  III.  —  Carolina  or  Pine  Strawberries. 

The  general  character  of  this  class  is  to  have  the 
leaves  almost  smooth,  dark  green,  of  firm  texture,  and 
with  obtuse  serratures ;  the  fruit  large,  varying  from 
nearly  white  to  almost  purple  ;  the  seeds  prominent,  on 
a  smooth  surface ;  the  flavour  sweet,  and  often  per- 
fumed. Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  148. 

10.  BATH  SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  6.  p.  200. 
Bath  Strawberry.  Milne's  Seedling. 
Devonshire.                        New  Bath  Scarlet. 
Golden  Drop.                   North's  Seedling. 
Liverpool. 

Fruit  roundish  or  ovate,  with  a  short  neck,  small  for 
the  class,  scarlet.  Seeds  very  prominent,  of  a  dark 
varnished  red.  Flesh  soft,  with  a  large  core,  pale 
scarlet,  and  very  coarse,  without  any  particular  flavour. 

11.  BLACK  PRINCE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  203. 
Wilmot's  Black  Imperial.     Ib.  Vol.  v.  p.  398. 
Fruit    middle-sized,     depressed,     spherical,    with    a 

furrow  at  the  apex,  hairy,  of  a  very  dark  violet  colour. 
Seeds  slightly  embedded.   Skin  highly  polished.  Flesh 

i  i  2 


484  STRAWBERRIES. 

solid,  firm,  of  a  rich  dull  scarlet,  with  a  small  core. 
Juice  dark,  high-flavoured. 

12.  BLOOD  PINE.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  61. 

This  is  a  sub  variety  of  the  Old  Pine,  or  Carolina. 
The  scapes  are  considerably  stronger ;  and  is  distin- 
guishable by  its  leaves  being  of  a  darker  colour  and 
thicker  texture,  with  stronger  footstalks. 

13.  BOSTOCK.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  187. 
Beattie's  Seedling.  Rostock. 

Byram.  Rostock  Pine. 

Caledonian,  Rostock  Scarlet. 

Cone.  Rostock  Seedling. 

Montague's  Vernon's. 

New  Bath.  Wellington. 

Prolific  Bath.  Whitley's  Pine. 

Fruit  very  large,  slightly  hairy,  nearly  round,  with  a 
small  neck  ;  the  largest  fruit  irregularly  swelled  towards 
the  base,  terminating  in  an  obtuse  point,  of  a  dark 
shining  red  next  the  sun,  light  scarlet  on  the  other 
side.  Seeds  prominent,  brown  on  one  side  of  the  fruit, 
yellow  on  the  other.  Flesh  pale  scarlet,  firm,  coarse, 
with  a  small  hollow  arid  core,  without  any  particular 
flavour. 

14.  BULLOCK'S  BLOOD.  Hort.  Trans.  VoJ.vi.  p.199- 
Fruit  large,  ovate,  of  a  light  shining  red.      Seeds 

dark  red  on  the  sunny  side,  yellow  on  the  other,  pro- 
jecting from  a  polished  surface.  Flesh  pale  red,  firm, 
juicy,  with  but  indifferent  flavour.  i 

15.  CHINESE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  191. 
North's  large  Scarlet.  Red  Chili. 
North's  Seedling. 

Fruit  apparently  compressed,  nearly  round,  middle- 
sized,  of  a  pale  varnished  red.  Seeds  brown  and  pro- 
minent. Flesh  soft,  light  pink,  with  a  large  core, 
woolly ;  flavour  indifferent. 

16.  DUTCH.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  195. 


STRAWBERRIES.  485 

Fruit  large,  round,  of  a  bright  shining  red.  Seeds 
projected  from  a  polished  smooth  surface.  Flesh  pale 
red,  woolly,  hollow  in  the  centre,  with  a  core ;  flavour 
indifferent. 

17.  DWARF   WHITE    CAROLINA.       Hort.    Trans. 
Vol.  vi.  p.  206. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  ovate,  brownish  next  the 
sun,  white  on  the  other  side,  hairy.  Seeds  scarcely 
embedded,  prominent,  darker  than  the  fruit.  Flesh 
white,  soft,  woolly,  with  a  large  core  ;  flavour  indif- 
ferent. 

18.  ELTON  SEEDLING.     Pom.  Mag.  135. 

Fruit  large,  ovate,  often  compressed,  or  cockscomb- 
shaped,  of  a  rich,  shining,  dark  red.  Seeds  yellow, 
regularly  embedded  between  ridged  intervals.  Flesh 
firm,  with  a  small  core,  deep  red,  juicy,  and  having  a 
sharp  rich  flavour. 

19.  GLAZED  PINE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.vi.  p.  198. 
Knott's  Pine.  Scarlet  Pine  Apple. 
Fruit  variable  in  shape ;  the  largest  frequently  appear 

as  if  compressed,  but  they  are  generally  conical,  with  a 
neck,  large,  hairy,  of  a  darkish  shining  scarlet.  Seeds 
prominent.  Flesh  pale  scarlet,  firm,  with  a  large  core  ; 
flavour  good,  but  inferior  to  that  of  the  Old  Pine. 

20.  KEEN'S  IMPERIAL.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.ii.  p.  101. 

t.  7- 

Black  Imperial.  Keen's  Black. 

Black  Isleworth.  Keen's  Black  Pine. 

Imperial.  Keen's  Large-fruited. 

Imperial  Pine.  Large  Black. 

Isleworth  Pine.  Large  Black  Imperial. 

Fruit  very  large,  roundish,  somewhat  bluntly  pointed, 
of  a  very  deep  purplish  red.  Seeds  projecting  from  the 
surface,  which  is  shining.  Flesh  not  juicy,  but  very 
firm,  coarse,  hollow  in  the  centre,  with  a  core  j  the 
flavour  tolerable,  not  high-flavoured. 

I  I  3 


486  STRAWBERRIES. 

21.  KEEN'S  SEEDLING.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  v.  p.  261. 
t.  12.     Pom.  Mag.  91. 

Keen's  Black  Pine.  Keen's  New  Seedling. 

Keen's  New  Pine.  Murphy's  Child. 

Fruit  very  large,  round,  or  ovate,  some  of  the  largest 
assuming  a  cockscomb  shape,  of  a  dark  purplish  scarlet, 
slightly  hairy.  Seeds  a  little  embedded  in  a  polished 
surface,  which  has  usually  a  furrow  at  the  apex.  Mesh 
firm,  solid,  scarlet,  without  any  separable  core.  Juice 
high  flavoured. 

22.  MULBERRY.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  203. 
Cherokee.  Mahone. 

King. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  ovate,  with  a  short  neck,  of  a 
dark  purplish  red.  Seeds  embedded  slightly  in  the 
skin.  Flesh  soft,  coarse,  red,  with  a  long  core ;  the 
flavour  but  moderate. 

23.  OLD  PINE,  or  CAROLINA.    Hort.  Trans.  Vol.vi. 
p.  195. 

Old  Pine.     Pom.  Mag.  47. 

Barham  Down.  North's  Seedling. 

Black  Carolina.  Old  Carolina. 

Cockscomb  Pine.  Old  Scarlet  Pine. 

Devonshire  Scarlet  Pine.  Pine. 

Kew  Pine.  Regent's  Favourite. 

Large  Carolina.  Scarlet  Pine. 

"Large  Pine.  Varnished. 

Miss  Gunning's.  Windsor  Pine. 

Fruit  large,  slightly  hairy,  with  a  neck  of  an  uniform 
bright  scarlet,  ovate-conical,  occasionally  compressed, 
and  when  luxuriant  the  early  fruits  are  cockscomb- 
shaped.  Seeds  slightly  embedded.  Flesh  pale  scarlet, 
rich,  and  juicy,  with  a  very  grateful  flavour. 

24.  ROUND  WHITE  CAROLINA.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.vi. 
p.  205. 


STRAWBERRIES.  487 

Chili.  Large  White  Chili. 

Large  Blush  Pine.  White  Bath. 

Large  Flesh-coloured       White  Carolina. 
Chili.  White  Chili. 

Large  Pale  Chili.  White  Pine. 

Large  White. 

Fruit  large,  irregularly  ovate,  sometimes  roundish, 
having  a  tendency  to  form  a  neck,  of  a  brownish  colour 
towards  the  sun,  the  other  side  white.     Seeds  deeply 
embedded,  with  ridged  intervals.     Flesh  soft,  white/ 
woolly,  with  a  large  core  ;  flavour  indifferent. 

25.  SURINAM.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  193. 
Devonshire  Scarlet.          Red  Pine. 
Oldaker's  New  Pine.        Red  Pine  Apple. 
Red  Chili.  Sutton's  Large. 

Fruit  very  large,  irregularly  ovate  or  round,  without 
a  neck,  of  a  light  shining  red  next  the  sun,  pale  on  the 
opposite  side.  Seeds  yellow  and  prominent.  Flesh 
firm,  pale  red,  with  a  large  core ;  flavour  indifferent. 
The  fruit  is  entirely  concealed  by  the  leaves. 

26.  VARIEGATED    PINE.      Hort.    Trans.   Vol.  vi» 
p.  192. 

A  Strawberry  having  leaves  much  variegated  with 
white,  is  often  seen  in  the  gardens  of  the  curious. 

As  a  fruit  it  has  no  merit,  the  plants  being  weak  and 
very  shy  bearers. 

CLASS  IV.  —  Chili  Strawberries. 

The  character  of  this  class  is  to  have  the  leaves  very 
villous,  hoary,  with  small  leaflets,  of  thick  texture,  with 
very  obtuse  serratures ;  the  fruit  very  large  and  pale ; 
the  seeds  prominent;  the  flesh  insipid  in  the  type — the 
True  Chili.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  148. 

27.  TRUE  CHILI.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  206. 
Fraisier  du  Chili.     Duhamel,  No.  9.  t.  3.  ' 

i  i  4< 


488  STRAWBERRIES. 

GreenwelPs  French.         Patagonian. 

GreenwelPs  New  Giant. 

Fruit  particularly  large,  irregularly  shaped,  but 
usually  ovate  or  bluntly  conical ;  when  ripe,  of  an  uni- 
form dull  varnished  brownish  red.  Seeds  dark  brown 
and  projecting.  Flesh  slightly  tinged  with  red  near 
the  outside,  the  rest  whitish,  very  firm,  hollow  in  the 
centre,  with  a  small  core. 

The  fruit  ripens  late,  and  the  foliage  mostly  perishes 
in  the  winter ;  but  the  succeeding  varieties,  which  have 
been  bred  from  it,  keep  their  leaves. 

28.  WILMOT'S    SUPERB.       Hort.    Trans.   Vol.  vi. 
p.  208. 

The  first  fruits  are  very  large,  irregularly  rounded, 
ovate,  or  flattened,  sometimes  growing  of  a  cockscomb 
shape ;  the  other  berries  are  invariably  round ;  all  are 
hairy,  pale  scarlet,  appearing  as  if  polished.  Seeds  pro- 
jecting, brown.  Flesh  very  firm,  pale  scarlet  next  the 
outside,  within  whitish,  with  a  small  hollow  in  the 
centre,  and  a  core  ;  flavour  very  good,  buttery,  and  rich, 
mixed  with  acid. 

29.  YELLOW  CHILI.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  209- 
Fruit  very  large,  irregularly  ovate,  frequently  com- 
pressed, and   sometimes   cockscombed  brown ;    on  the 
exposed  side,  and  yellow  on  the  other.      Seeds  brown, 
slightly  embedded,  with  flat  intervals.    Flesh  very  firm, 
buttery,  yellowish,  with  a  core  ;  flavour  very  rich,  with 
some  acidity. 

CLASS  V.  —  Green  Strawberries. 

The  French  cultivate  several  kinds  which  appear  to 
be  varieties  of  this  Strawberry ;  the  one  at  present  much 
known  with  us  is  called  the  Green  Pine,  which,  gene- 
rally speaking,  is  kept  in  gardens  more  as  an  object  of 
curiosity  than  of  use,  for  it  rarely  produces  perfect  fruit, 
though  in  some  particular  situations  it  bears  well. 


STRAWBERRIES.  489 

In  general  character  the  plants  are  akin  to  the  Wood 
Strawberry;  its  habit  is  dwarf;  the  leaves  light  green, 
and  strongly  plaited.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  149. 

30.  GREEN  STRAWBERRY.     Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  85. 
Fraisier  Vert.     Dutiamel,  No.  17.  t.  9. 
Caucasian.  Green  Wood. 

Green  Alpine.  Pine  Apple. 

Green  Pine.  Powdered  Pine. 

Fruit  small,  globular  ;  of  a  whitish  green  when  fully 
ripe,  and  tinged  with  a  reddish  brown  on  the  sunny 
side.  Flesh  firm,  of  a  rich  and  high  musky  flavour. 
This  is  generally  represented  as  a  very  bad  bearer.  It 
appears  to  me,  that  defect  arises  principally  from  the 
multitude  of  its  young  runners  ;  they  are  extremely 
slender,  short-jointed,  covering  the  ground  so  com- 
pletely, that  in  a  few  months  the  mother  plants  can 
scarcely  be  found.  To  remedy  this,  the  runners  should 
be  cut  off  before  they  have  taken  root,  keeping  the 
plants  free  from  this  incumbrance.  By  adopting  this 
method,  I  have  little  doubt  of  this  sort  being  rendered 
productive. 

CLASS  VI.     Hautbois  Strawberries* 

The  character  of  this  class  is  to  have  tall,  pale  green, 
rugose  leaves,  of  thin  texture ;  the  scapes  tall  and 
strong  ;  the  fruit  middle-sized,  pale,  greenish  white, 
tinged  with  dull  purple  ;  the  seeds  slightly  embedded ; 
tKe  flavour  musky.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  149. 

31.  BLACK     HAUTBOIS.      Hort.    Trans.     Vol.  vi* 
p.  213. 

New  Hautbois.     Ib. 

Fruit  conical,  more  lengthened  than  in  the  prolific 
Hautbois  ;  of  a  very  dark,  dingy  purple  colour,  when 
ripe.  Seeds  scarcely  embedded ;  flavour  high,  and 
flesh  buttery.  This  kind  is  a  great  bearer,  and  rather 


490  STRAWBERRIES. 

earlier   than  the  others,  occasionally  producing  a  few 
berries  in  the  autumn.     It  is  a  very  valuable  variety. 

32.  COMMON    HAUTBOIS.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  213. 

Capron  Demelle.     Duhamel,  No.  14.  t.  8. 

Dioecious  Hautbois.  Old  Hautbois. 

Musky  Hautbois.  Original  Hautbois. 

Fruit  rather  small  or  middle-sized,  spherical,  of  a 
pale  greenish  white,  tinged  with  dull  purple,  Seeds 
slightly  embedded  ;  flavour  musky.  The  flowers  called 
the  males  produce  occasionally  a  small  imperfect  fruit, 
with  projecting  seeds. 

In  the  Cultivation  of  Hautbois  Strawberries,  it  will 
be  recommended  that  the  plants  called  males  should  be 
wholly  rooted  up  as  useless. 

33.  GLOBE     HAUTBOIS.       Hort.    Trans.    Vol.  vi. 
p.  212. 

Fruit  nearly  spherical,  small,  becoming  dark  purple 
when  ripe.  /Seeds  prominent.  Flesh  greenish,  firm, 
with  a  separable  core ;  flavour  good,  with  the  aroma 
peculiar  to  the  class. 

34.  LARGE  FLAT  HAUTBOIS.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  215. 

Bath  Hautbois.  Salter's  Hautbois. 

Formosa  Hautbois.  Weymouth  Hautbois. 

Lowder's  Hautbois.  White  Hautbois. 

Fruit  large,  roundish,  depressed,  light  red,  and  pale 
on  the  under  side.  Flesh  greenish,  without  core,  juicy,v 
but  though  delicate,  not  so  high-flavoured  as  the  other. 
Seeds  embedded  in  the  skin. 

35.  PROLIFIC    OR    CONICAL    HAUTBOIS.      Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.vi.  p.  21 3. 

Double  Bearing.  Regent's. 

Dwarf.  Sacombe. 

Hermaphrodite.  Sir  Joseph  Banks's. 

Hudson's  Bay.  Spring  Grove. 


STRAWBERRIES.  491 

Fruit  large,  conical,  shorter  and  more  obtuse  than 
the  Black  Hautbois  ;  the  colour  is  dark,  but  not  so 
deep  as  in  that.  Seeds  slightly  embedded.  Flesh  solid, 
greenish,  and  high-flavoured.  A  very  abundant  bearer  ; 
and  it  usually  produces  a  partial  second  crop,  blossom- 
ing in  August  and  September,  and  the  fruit  ripening  in 
October  :  the  autumnal  berries  are  much  larger  than 
the  summer  ones,  and  nevertheless  high-flavoured. 
This  is  by  far  the  best  of  the  Hautbois  Strawberries  ; 
the  flowers  the  largest  of  the  class  yet  known,  with 
numerous  stamens. 

CLASS  VII.     Scarlet  Strawberries. 

The  type  of  this  class  is  the  Fragaria  Virginiana  of 
botanists.  The  character  is  to  have  the  leaves  nearly 
smooth,  dark  green,  of  thin  texture,  and  with  sharp- 
pointed  serratures  ;  their  fruit,  mostly  of  small  size  and 
bright  colour,  with  the  seeds  more  or  less  deeply  em- 
bedded, with  ridged  intervals  j  the  flavour  acid,  with 
slight  perfume.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  147. 

36.  AMERICAN  SCARLET.      Hort.    Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  160. 

Black  American.     Ib. 

Fruit  large,  conical,  and  pointed,  with  a  neck,  of  a 
deep  rich  shining  blood  red,  rough.  Seeds  numerous, 
brownish,  not  deeply  embedded,  with  sharp  intervals. 
Flesh  dark  scarlet,  firm,  with  a  core  ;  flavour  rich  and 
agreeable. 

37.  AUSTRIAN    SCARLET. 

Cluster  Scarlet.  Globe  Scarlet. 

Duke  of  Kent's  Scarlet.*      Nova  Scotia  Scarlet. 

*  In  the  Hort.  Trans,  this  is  called  the  Duke  of  Kent's  Straw- 
berri/j  and  the  Austrian  Scarlet  one  of  its  synonyms  :  this  I 
have  not  adopted,  for  this  simple  reason,  —  it  was  introduced 
into  this  country  from  Germany  in  1798,  the  Duke  of  Kent's 


492  STRAWBERRIES. 

Duke  of  York's  Scarlet.       Oatlands  Scarlet. 

Early  Prolific  Scarlet.  Prolific  Scarlet. 

Fruit  nearly  globular,  of  a  moderate  or  rather  small 
size,  of  a  rich  bright  scarlet.  Seeds  deeply  embedded, 
with  sharply  ridged  intervals.  Flesh  solid,  pale  scarlet  5 
flavour  peculiar,  sharp,  and  pleasant. 

This  Strawberry  is  the  earliest  of  all  the  sorts,  ripen- 
ing at  least  a  week  before  the  Old  Scarlet,  and  a  most 
abundant  bearer.  Its  runners  are  produced  very  early  ; 
they  are  numerous,  small,  and  of  a  reddish  colour. 

38.  AUTUMN    SCARLET.       Hort.    Trans.    Vol.  vi. 
p.  176. 

Fruit  about  the  size  of  the  Old  Scarlet,  ovate,  with  a 
neck,  of  an  uniform  dark  shining  red.  Seeds  yellow, 
deeply  embedded,  with  ridged  intervals.  Flesh  solid, 
firm,  pale  scarlet ;  the  flavour  good. 

39.  BISHOP'S   SEEDLING  SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  vi.  p.  172. 

Fruit  of  moderate  size,  round,  with  a  neck,  hairy, 
light  scarlet.  Seeds  deeply  embedded,  with  ridged 
intervals.  Flesh  solid,  firm,  pale  scarlet,  with  a  mode- 
rate flavour. 

40.  BLACK  ROSEBERRY.     Pom.  Mag.  20. 

Fruit  of  good  size,  bluntly  conical,  deep  purplish 
red,  and  shining.  Seeds  slightly  embedded,  with 
flattened  intervals*  Flesh  dark  red  next  the  outside, 
solid,  buttery,  and  juicy,  with  a  very  excellent  flavour, 
differing  much  from  other  strawberries. 

41.  CARMINE   SCARLET.       Hort.     Trans.    Vol.  vi. 
p.  158. 

Carmine  Roseberry.     Ib. 

from  Nova  Scotia  in  1802.  Its  priority  of  introduction,  there- 
fore, from  Germany,  is  thus  established;  and  its  name  as  Austrian 
Scarlet  was  published  in  my  Catalogue  of  1815,  ten  years  previ- 
ously to  this  part  of  the  Horticultural  Transactions  making  its 
appearance. 


STRAWBERRIES.  493 

Fruit  large,  bluntly  conical,  with  a  neck,  of  a  bril- 
liant, shining,  varnished  red.  Seeds  slightly  embedded, 
with  sharp  ridged  intervals.  Flesh  pale  scarlet,  tinted 
with  red,  firm,  and  very  high-flavoured. 

42.  CHARLOTTE.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  155. 
Princess  Charlotte's  Strawberry.     Ib. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  hairy,  of  a  dark  purplish 
red.     Flesh  scarlet,  firm,  and  high-flavoured. 
A  very  moderate  bearer,  but  ripens  early. 

43.  CLUSTERED   SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  164. 

Clustered  Wood  Pine.     Ib. 

Fruit  of  a  moderate  size,  obtusely  conical,  or  nearly 
round,  very  dark  purplish  red.  Seeds  of  the  same 
colour  as  the  fruit,  unequally  embedded  between  the 
intervals,  which  are  sometimes  flat  and  at  other  times 
bluntly  ridged.  Flesh  scarlet,  firm,  and  well  flavoured. 

44.  COCKSCOMB    SCARLET.     Hort   Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  180. 

Fruit  large,  compressed,  with  a  furrow  along  the 
apex,  which  appears  as  a  simple  indenture  when  the 
berry  does  not  put  on  a  cockscomb  shape ;  the  early 
berries  are  completely  cockscombed,  so  much  so  as  to 
enclose  the  calyx  within  the  fruit  by  surrounding  the 
end  of  the  peduncle ;  colour  bright  scarlet.  Seeds 
pale,  slightly  embedded  between  flat  intervals.  Flesh 
pale  scarlet,  solid,  with  a  large  core,  well-flavoured,  but 
without  acid. 

45.  GARNSTONE  SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  171. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  hairy,  with  a  short  neck, 
of  a  rich  glossy  scarlet.  Seeds  red,  deeply  embedded, 
with  round  intervals.  Flesh  scarlet,  firm,  with  a  sharp 
agreeable  flavour. 

46.  GRIMSTONE  SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  166. 


494  STRAWBERRIES. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  conical,  with  a  neck,  of  a  dark 
scarlet  colour.  Seeds  numerous,  variously  but  deeply 
embedded,  with  regular  acutely  ridged  intervals. 
Flesh  solid,  pale  scarlet,  of  excellent  flavour,  and  pos- 
sessing a  peculiar  sweetness. 

4-7.  GROVE  END  SCARLET.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  159-  Pom^  Mag.  7. 

Atkinson's  Scarlet.     Ib. 

Wilmot's  Early  Scarlet. 

Fruit  of  considerable  size,  depressed,  spherical,  of 
an  uniform  bright  vermilion  colour.  Seeds  slightly 
embedded,  between  flat  intervals.  Flesh  pale  scarlet, 
firm,  with  a  core  ;  flavour  agreeable,  and  slightly  acid. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  Strawberry,  an  excellent 
forcer,  and  an  abundant  bearer ;  ripening  its  berries  in 
succession,  and  early. 

48.  HUDSON'S  BAY  SCARLET.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  168. 

American  Scarlet.  Late  Scarlet. 

Hopwood's  Scarlet,  York  River  Scarlet. 

Hudson's  Pine. 

Fruit  large,  with  a  neck,  irregularly  shaped,  ap- 
proaching to  ovate,  of  a  rich  dark  shining  red.  Seeds 
unequal  in  size,  deeply  embedded,  with  ridged  intervals. 
Flesh  pale  scarlet,  firm,  hollow,  with  a  core  ;  of  a  mode- 
rate flavour,  with  much  acidity. 

This  should  remain  ungathered  till  it  assumes  a  dark 
colour  and  is  fully  ripe  ;  otherwise  the  acid  which  it  con-t 
tains  predominates,  and  injures  the  flavour  of  the  fruit. 

49.  KNIGHT'S    LARGE   SCARLET.       Hort.    Trans. 
Vol.  vi.  p.  178. 

American  Scarlet.  Knight's  Scarlet. 

Great  American  Scarlet.      Large  Scarlet. 
Hairy-leaved  Scarlet. 

Fruit  above  the  middle-size,  roundish,  or  slightly 
conical,  of  a  light  vermilion  colour.  Seeds  deeply 


STRAWBERRIES.  495 

embedded,  with  ridged  intervals.     Flesh  nearly  white, 
soft,  of  a  pleasant  flavour. 

50.  LEWISHAM   SCARLET.      Hort.   Tram.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  163. 

Scarlet  Cluster.     Ib. 

Fruit  small-sized,  roundish,  with  a  short  neck,  of 
an  uniform  dark,  shining,  purplish  red,  growing  in 
clusters,  slightly  hairy.  Seeds  embedded,  but  not 
deep,  with  flat  intervals.  Flesh  scarlet,  firm,  and 
solid  ;  the  flavour  very  moderate. 

51.  METHVEN    SCARLET.     Hort.    Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  172. 

Methven  Castle.  Southampton  Scarlet. 

Fruit  very  large,  cordate,  compressed,  inclining  to 
cockscomb  in  the  earliest  fruit,  the  late  ones  conical, 
dark  scarlet.  Seeds  pale  yellow,  not  deeply  embedded, 
regularly  and  closely  set  with  ridged  intervals.  Flesh 
scarlet,  very  woolly,  and  tasteless,  with  a  large  hollow 
in  the  centre. 

52.  MORRISANIA  SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  162. 

Fruit  very  small,  round,  dark  red,  growing  in  clus- 
ters. Seeds  not  numerous,  more  deeply  embedded, 
with  wide  rounded  intervals.  Flesh  whitish,  soft,  with 
a  detached  core  ;  flavour  tolerable. 

53.  NAIRN'S    SCARLET.       Hort.     Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  169. 

Fruit  of  moderate  size,  irregularly  ovate,  sometimes 
with  a  short  neck,  of  a  deep  rich,  shining  red.  Seeds  very 
deeply  embedded,  with  sharp  intervals.  Flesh  pale 
scarlet,  firm,  with  a  core :  the  flavour  not  rich,  though 
agreeable,  with  less  acid  than  the  Hudson's  Bay.  It  is  a 
good  bearer,  ripening  rather  late. 

54.  NARROW-LEAVED     SCARLET.     Hort.    Trans. 
Vol.  vi.  p.  177- 

Fruit  middle-sized,  conical,  with  a  neck,   hairy,  of 


496  STRAWBERRIES/ 

an  uniform  bright  scarlet.  Seeds  projecting,  with  flat 
intervals.  Flesh  firm,  solid,  pale  scarlet,  with  a  tole- 
rably rich  flavour. 

55.  OBLONG     SCARLET.      Hort.    Trans.    Vol.  vi. 
p.  153. 

Long  Scarlet.  Padley's  Early  Scarlet. 

Long-fruited  Scarlet. 

Fruit  rather  large,  oblong,  with  a  long  neck,  which 
part  being  without  seeds  has  a  peculiar  glossy  or  shining 
appearance,  of  a  bright  light  scarlet.  Seeds  few,  deeply 
embedded,  between  ridged  intervals.  Flesh  nearly  of 
the  same  colour  as  the  outside,  but  a  little  paler,  firm, 
and  well-flavoured. 

56.  OLD  SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  152. 
Scarlet.     Langley,  p.  120.  t.  55.  fig.  1. 

Ecarlate  de  Virginie.     Duhamel,  No.  11.  t.  5. 
Early  Scarlet.  Scarlet- 

Original  Scarlet.  Virginian  Scarlet. 

Fruit  middle-sized,  globular,  of  an  uniform  light 
scarlet,  slightly  hairy.  Seeds  deeply  embedded,  with 
ridged  intervals.  Flesh  pale  scarlet,  firm,  and  high- 
flavoured.  A  very  good  bearer,  and  ripens  early. 

This  Strawberry  ripened  at  Twickenham,  in  17^7> 
May  10.  O.  S.,  or  May  21.  N.  S. 

57.  PITMASTON   BLACK   SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  vi.  p.  175. 

Early  Pitmaston  Black.     Ib. 

Fruit  of  a  moderate  size,  oblong,  with  a  neck,  of,  a 
dark  purplish  red,  slightly  hairy.  Seeds  of  the  same 
colour  as  the  fruit  on  the  exposed  side,  on  the  other 
yellow,  not  deeply  embedded,  with  rather  flat  intervals. 
Flesh  tinted  with  scarlet,  having  a  small  core,  tender, 
sweet,  mixed  with  a  pleasant  acid,  and  has  a  little  of 
the  raspberry  flavour. 

58.  ROSEBERRY.      Hort.    Trans.    Vol.  ii.   p.  380. 
t.  27.     Vol.  vi.  p.  156. 


STRAWBERRIES.  4Q7 

Aberdeen.  Rose  Strawberry. 

Aberdeen  Seedling.  Scotch  Scarlet. 

Prolific  Pine. 

Fruit  large,  conical  and  pointed,  with  a  very  short 
neck,  dark  red,  hairy  ;  the  early  fruits  assume  a  cocks- 
comb shape  where  the  plants  are  luxuriant.  Seeds 
yellow,  deeply  embedded,  between  ridged  intervals. 
Flesh  firm,  pale  scarlet,  with  a  core  j  the  flavour  is 
not  rich,  it  is  however  agreeable,  and  best  when  fully 
ripe.  It  is  much  admired  by  many,  and  even  thought 
by  some  superior  to  the  Old  Scarlet. 

59.  SCONE  SCARLET.   Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  170. 
Fruit  of  a  moderate  size,  round,  without  a  neck,  of 

a  light  shining  red  on  the  upper  side,  paler  on  the 
other,  hairy.  Seeds  dark  brown,  deeply  embedded, 
with  round  intervals.  Flesh  firm,  pale  pink;  the 
flavour  sharp,  with  abundance  of  acid. 

It  is  a  great  bearer,  ripening  late,  and  contains  more 
acid  than  any  other  known  strawberry. 

60.  SIR  JOSEPH  BANKS'S  SCARLET.     Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  vi.  p.  161. 

New  Scarlet.     Ib. 

Fruit  of  moderate  size,  oblong,  with  a  neck,  the 
apex  blunt,  of  a  bright  scarlet.  Seeds  nearly  promi- 
nent, with  very  flat  intervals.  Flesh  bright  scarlet, 
firm,  and  high-flavoured.  This  Strawberry  is  very 
closely  allied  with  the  Austrian  Scarlet,  with  which  it 
has  probably  sometimes  been  confounded,  it  ripens 
nearly  at  the  same  time,  and  though  not  so  prolific, 
yet  has  a  superior  flavour. 

61.  VERNON'S    SCARLET.      Hort.    Trans.  Vol.  vi. 
p.  174. 

White's  Scarlet.     Ib. . 

Fruit  middle-sized,  round,  dark  red,  rather  hairy 
Seeds  slightly  embedded,  with  flat  intervals.  Flesh 

K  K 


498  STRAWBERRIES, 

pale  vermilion,  white  in  the  centre,  solid,  and  well- 
flavoured. 

A  good  bearer,  arid  ripens  early. 

62.  WILMOT'S  LATE  SCARLET.  Hort.  Trans. 
Vol.  iii.  p.  115. 

Wilmot's  Late  Scarlet.     Ib.  Vol.  vi.  p.  181. 

Large  Scarlet.  Wilmot's  Scarlet. 

Late  Scarlet.  Wilmot's  New  Scarlet. 

Late  Virginian.  Wilmot's  Seedling. 

Fruit  very  large,  bluntly  conical,  irregularly  shaped, 
of  a  shining  light  red.  Seeds  small,  deeply  embedded, 
with  ridged  intervals.  Flesh  white,  hollow  in  the 
centre  ;  flavour  moderate. 

It  is  a  good  bearer,  ripening  late  enough  to  succeed 
the  Old  Scarlet,  and  producing  its  berries  in  succession, 
so  as  to  afford  a  continued  supply ;  to  be  tasted  in 
perfection,  it  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as  gathered. 

Note.  —  In  mentioning  the  size  of  fruit,  it  is  to  be 
understood  that  the  comparison  is  only  made  between 
those  belonging  to  each  particular  class,  and  not  to  those 
of  any  other. 

When  it  is  stated  that  the  fruit  of  the  variety  under 
description  has  a  core,  the  idea  intended  to  be  con- 
veyed is,  that  the  core  readily  separates,  adhering  to  the 
calyx  when  the  receptacle  is  removed. 

A  Selection  of  Strawberries  for  a  small  Garden. 

Austrian  Scarlet       -  -     37  Old  Pine  -     23 

Black  Prince  -  -11  Old  Scarlet  -     56 

Black  Roseberry  -  -     40  Prolific  Hautbois       -  35 

Downton  -       5  Red  Alpine 

Elton  Seedling         -  -18  Roseberry 


Grove  End  Seedling  -     47     Sweet  Cone 

Keen's  Seedling  -     21     White  Alpine 

Large  Flat  Hautbois         -    34    Wilmot's  Superb    - 


1 

58 
9 


28 


STRAWBERRIES.  499 

Cultivation. 

As  early  in  the  summer  as  the  young  runners  of 
strawberries  have  taken  root,  they  should  be  taken  up 
and  planted  out  in  nursery  beds,  at  a  distance  of  five  or 
six  inches  from  each  other.  These,  in  the  course  of  the 
summer  and  autumn,  will  make  fine,  large,  well-rooted 
plants,  and  many  of  the  kinds  will  be  sufficiently  strong 
to  produce  fruit  the  following  summer. 

In  preparing  the  ground  for  the  reception  of  these 
plants,  it  should  be  trenched  two  spades  deep  (twenty 
inches),  with  a  quantity  of  half-rotten  dung  mixed  with 
the  first  spit.  In  planting  them  out,  the  most  econo- 
mical method  perhaps  will  be,  to  plant  in  beds  of  four 
rows  each,  with  intervals  of  two  and  a  half  or  two  feet 
between  the  beds,  according  to  the  sorts  to  be  planted. 

The  strongest  growers,  such  as  Wilmot's  Superb, 
and  all  the  varieties  of  the  third  Class,  may  be  fifteen 
inches  from  row  to  row,  and  fifteen  inches  between  each 
plant ;  the  next  strongest  may  have  the  rows  fifteen 
inches  apart,  and  the  plants  twelve  inches  ;  the  third 
size,  comprising  all  those  of  the  sixth  and  seventh 
Classes,  may  have  the  rows  twelve  inches  apart,  and  the 
plants  twelve  inches ;  the  fourth  size,  those  of  Class  I. 
and  V.,  may  have  the  rows  twelve  inches  apart,  and  the 
plants  nine  inches. 

During  the  first  year,  all  the  runners  should  be  cut 
off  the  plants  some  time  before  they  have  taken  root, 
which  will  give  the  stool  plants  full  possession  of  the 
soil.  Such  sorts  as  show  fruit  should  have  the  ground 
covered,  when  coming  into  blossom,  with  either  short 
grass  or  with  straw,  which  will  keep  the  blossoms  clean, 
and  the  fruit  free  from  soil  when  ripe ;  besides,  the 
surface  of  the  ground  will  be  protected  from  the  scorch- 
ing rays  of  the  sun,  and  in  case  of  heavy  showers  the 
rain  will  thus  be  prevented  from  running  off.  As  soon 

K  K  2 


500  STRAWBERRIES. 

as  the  fruit  is  gathered,  however,  this  covering  should 
be  removed,  and  the  ground  kept  clean  by  the  hoe.  In 
the  winter,  and  not  before,  as  the  plants  will  not  have 
finished  their  growth,  the  leaves  must  be  cut  off,  and  the 
spaces  among  the  plants,  as  well  as  the  alleys,  dug  care- 
fully over,  so  as  not  to  injure  their  roots  :  this  will  be 
best  done  with  a  three-pronged  fork,  instead  of  the 
spade.  The  second  summer,  the  plants  will  bear  their 
best  crop  and  finest  fruit ;  the  beds  and  outside  of  the 
alleys  should  be  covered  with  mown  grass  or  with  straw, 
as  before,  three  or  four  inches  thick  :  by  this  method  I 
have  found  the  fruit  not  only  more  abundant,  but  much 
finer  than  by  any  other. 

In  cultivating  the  Hautbois  Strawberry,  plants  from 
bad  collections  produce  a  number  of  what  some  gar- 
deners call  male  or  sterile  plants ;  and  many  are  of 
opinion,  that  because  they  are  males,  it  is  necessary  they 
should  be  preserved  in  their  beds,  in  order  to  fertilise 
the  others  ;  and  some  have  gone  so  far  as  to  plant  them 
with  a  rather  numerous  regularity  for  this  purpose. 
The  consequence  has  been,  that  their  beds  have  proved 
more  fertile  in  leaves  than  in  fruit,  and  the  stock  has  at 
length  been  condemned  as  bad ;  whereas  its  sterility 
has  proceeded  from  those  favourite  males,  the  stools  of 
which  having  no  crop  of  fruit  to  support  always  pro- 
duce a  superabundance  of  runners,  which  being  also 
much  stronger  than  the  fertile  ones  have  consequently 
overrun  and  overpowered  them,  and  literally  annihilated 
the  only  ones  capable  of  producing  fruit. 

Having  had  a  parcel  of  Hautbois  plants  given  to  me 
some  years  ago,  I  planted  them  out,  and  suspecting 
there  were  many  sterile  plants  among  them,  I  did  not 
suffer  a  runner  to  remain  the  first  year.  The  second 
year,  five  plants  out  of  six  proved  to  be  so,  which  I  im- 
mediately destroyed  ;  and  as  soon  as  the  runners  of  the 
fertile  ones  became  rooted,  I  planted  out  the  bed  afresh : 


STRAWBERRIES.  501 

these  produced  me  one  of  the  most  fertile  crops  I  ever 
saw,  and  the  runners  from  them  produced  their  succes- 
sive crops  the  same. 

I  selected  a  few  of  the  finest  of  the  first  berries  of 
those  which  bore  the  first  year,  and  sowed  the  seeds; 
these  produced,  as  might  be  expected,  both  fertile  and 
sterile  plants,  the  latter  of  which  I  again  destroyed, 
and  saved  a  few  only  of  those  which  produced  the  finest 
fruit,  and  of  similar  size,  figure,  and  quality ;  the  runners 
from  these  I  planted  out  as  before,  and  they  produced 
me  a  perfect  crop  of  fruit,  without  a  single  sterile  plant 
being  found  among  them :  thus  was  my  first  stock  of 
prolific  Hautbois  obtained. 

After  stating  thus  much  relative  to  this  class  of 
Strawberries,  it  can  hardly  be  necessary  for  me  to  point 
out  the  necessity  of  closely  examining  all  new-made  beds 
of  them,  and  of  entirely  extirpating  those  worse  than 
useless  sterile  plants. 

Alpine  Strawberries  have  been  recommended  by 
some  to  be  always  raised  from  seed.  I  have  raised  many 
this  way,  and  I  have  found  myself  disappointed,  in  hav- 
ing a  portion  of  them  produce  inferior  fruit  to  those 
from  which  the  seeds  were  obtained.  Thus  a  mixture 
of  Alpines  is  the  result,  which  in  my  opinion  is  no  way 
desirable,  as  in  all  cases  a  crop  of  the  best  fruit  can 
never  be  equalled  by  a  mixture  of  the  best  with  inferior 
varieties. 

In  propagating  the  Alpine  Strawberry  by  the  runners 
from  one  single  plant,  all  its  offspring  must  be  the  same  ; 
it  therefore  becomes  necessary  to  select  the  very  finest 
kind  for  the  purpose  ;  the  fruit  large,  broad  at  its  base, 
and  sharply  conical.  t 

If  the  runners  are  planted  out  in  August  or  the 
beginning  of  September,  the  beds  will  be  covered  with 
runners  by  the  spring  ;  these  should  not  be  removed,  as 
directed  for  the  other  classes,  because  the  first  and 

K  K  3 


502  STRAWBERRIES. 

strongest  of  them  will  produce  fruit  during  the  autumn, 
and  continue  in  succession  to  a  late  period  of  the 
season.  But  a  succession  of  finer  fruit  than  these  is 
produced  by  cutting  off  all  the  flower  stems  as  soon  as 
they  begin  to  blossom,  from  their  commencement  in 
the  spring  till  the  end  of  June.  By  this  means  a  most 
abundant  supply  of  the  very  finest  fruit  is  produced 
from  the  end  of  July  till  the  frost  sets  in. 

In  pursuing  this  latter  mode  of  management,  it  would 
be  most  advisable,  perhaps,  to  plant  a  small-sized  bed  for 
the  purpose,  allowing  the  plants  a  space  of  six  or  eight 
inches  from  each  other,  instead  of  more,  which  will 
ensure  $  thicker  crop ;  and  in  all  cases  with  Alpines,  it 
would  be  still  better  to  have  some  of  both  Red  and 
Willie  planted  upon  a  north  aspect,  and  that  these 
plantings  should  be  removed  annually. 

The  Wood  Strawberry  requires  the  same  manage- 
ment, except  in  this,  that  as  it  does  not  produce  its 
fruit  in  the  autumn,  its  flower  stems  must  not  be  cut 
down  in  the  spring,  in  expectation  of  a  succession  crop. 

Forcing  of  Strawberries. 

Strawberries  are  in  such  general  estimation,  that  a 
supply  of  them  during  the  season  when  they  cannot  be 
obtained  in  the  open  ground  is  one  of  the  principal 
objects  of  the  gardener's  attention.  The  produce  of 
outdoor  strawberries  is  terminated  by  the  frosts  in 
October  and  November,  until  the  following  June  :  the 
assistance  of  the  forcing-house  is  required  to  furnish  the 
dessert  during  this  interval.  The  Alpines  are  the  first 
to  be  brought  into  bearing  by  artificial  heat.  For  this 
purpose,  pots  of  six  inches  deep  and  six  inches  wide  at 
the  top  should  be  made  use  of,  planting  four  or  five 
young  runners  in  each,  in  the  month  of  March  or  April : 
they  must  be  kept  through  the  summer,  plunged  in  the 


STRAWBERRIES.  503 

earth,  in  a  shady  part  of  the  garden  :  kept  clear  from 
weeds,  and  well  supplied  with  water.  In  October, 
before  the  frosty  mornings  set  in,  put  them  under 
shelter  :  they  will  by  this  time  be  in  flower ;  and  in  the 
latter  part  of  November,  they  may  be  removed  into  the 
forcing-house  or  pinery,  where  they  will  bear  fruit 
through  the  winter. 

The  next  sorts  are  the  Scarlets  and  Roseberries.  The 
last  year's  late  runners  of  these  are  to  be  potted  in  May 
or  early  in  June,  using  the  same  sized  pots  as  before, 
putting  four  or  five  plants  in  each  pot :  some  of  these 
will  be  showing  bloom  at  this  time,  which  must  be 
picked  off,  as  well  as  any  flowers  or  runners  which  may 
be  put  forth  in  the  summer. 

Keep  the  pots  in  the  shade  till  the  plants  are  well 
rooted,  watering  them  frequently;  they  may  then  be 
plunged  in  the  earth,  in  an  open  part  of  the  garden, 
where  they  may  remain  till  wanted.  In  January,  place 
them  in  the  forcing-house,  on  shelves  eighteen  inches 
from  the  glass,  or  next  the  front  sashes :  they  should 
be  placed  in  pans,  and  watered  as  often  as  they  become 
dry,  taking  care  to  supply  water  to  the  pans  only,  when 
the  plants  are  in  flower,  as  watering  the  leaves  and 
flowers  at  this  time  is  very  injurious  to  the  crop. 

When  the  fruit  begins  to  swell,  some  of  the  leaves 
should  be  pinched  off,  to  give  light  and  air  to  the  fruit, 
by  which  means  it  becomes  both  larger  and  better 
flavoured.  To  ensure  a  supply  of  fruit,  it  is  necessary 
to  have  a  succession  of  plants,  which  must  be  kept  in 
frames,  ready  to  be  removed  into  the  forcing-house 
when  wanted. 

The  Pine  Strawberries  are  those  which  succeed  the 
Scarlets ;  their  management  is  similar,  and  they  are 
generally  brought  into  the  forcing-house  in  February  or 
March.  When  the  fruit  has  been  gathered  off  the 
plants,  the  pots  may  be  plunged  into  a  shady  border : 

K  K  4 


504  STRAWBERRIES. 

when  thus  managed,  they  will  produce  another  equally 
good  crop  in  the  forcing-house  the  following  season. 

Notwithstanding  this,  it  will  be  desirable  to  have 
some  of  all  the  sorts  intended  for  forcing  potted  annually, 
particularly  those  of  the  Roseberry,  which,  instead  of 
being  kept  in  pots  for  the  second  season,  would  answer 
a  much  better  purpose,  if  turned  out  into  a  bed  of  rich 
soil,  as  soon  as  they  are  removed  from  the  forcing- 
house,  cutting  off  their  leaves  at  the  same  time  : 
by  this  means  a  very  fine  second  crop  of  fruit  will  be 
produced  in  August  and  September,  after  which  the 
plants  may  be  destroyed,  leaving  room  for  a  succession 
the  following  year. 

The  Roseberry  Strawberry  is  undoubtedly  the  most 
valuable  variety  for  forcing  the  first  in  the  season,  as  it 
succeeds  with  less  light  than  any  other  sort ;  and 
Keens'  Seedling  is  the  most  valuable  to  succeed  it.  For 
a  small  family  there  can  be  no  two  sorts  better  employed, 
from  the  beginning  of  the  year  to  the  end  of  the  forcing 
season. 

INDEX  TO  THE  STRAWBERRIES. 

Aberdeen            -  -  58  Black  Beacon         -  7 

Aberdeen  Seedling  -  58  Black  Canterbury  -  7 

American  Scarlet  -         -  36  Black  Carolina         -  -23 

American  Scarlet  -           -  48  Black  Hautbois       •  -  -  31 

American  Scarlet  -  49  Black  Imperial         -  -  20 

Atkinsons  Scarlet  -  47  Black  Isleivortk  -  2Q 

Austrian  Scarlet  -         -  37  Black  Pine  -  7 

Autumn  Scarlet  -  38  Black  Prince          -  -  11 

Barham  Down  -  23  Black  Roseberry  -  -  40 

Bath  Hautbois  -  34  Blood  Pine  -  12 

Bath  Scarlet        -  -  10  Bostock  -  13 

Bath  Strawberry  -           -  10  Bullock's  Blood     ~  V  -  14, 

Seattle's  Seedling  -  13  By  ram             -         -  -  13 

Bishop's  Seedling  Scarlet  39     Caledonian             -  -  13 

Black     -  7     Caperon  Femelle       -  -  32 

Black  American  -        -  36     Carmine  Roseberry  -  41 


STRAWBERRIES, 


505 


Carmine  Scarlet        -  -41 

Carolina  -  23 

Charlotte  -  42 

Cherokee         -  -  22 

Chili  .  24 

Chinese               -  -  15 

Chester  Scarlet         -  -  37 

Clustered  Scarlet  -  43 

Clustered  Wood  Pine  ~-  43 

Cockscomb  Pine          -  -  23 

Cockscomb  Scarlet  -  44 

Common  Hautbois  -  32 

Cone                           -  -13 

Conical  Hautbois  -  -  35 

Devonshire             -  -  10 

Devonshire  Scarlet  -  25 

Devonshire  Scarlet  Pine  -  23 

Dioecious  Hautbois  -  32 

Double-bearing  Hautbois  35 

Downton  .  5 

Duke  of  Kent's  Scarlet  -  3? 

Duke  of  York's  Scarlet  -  37 

Dutch        -             -  -  16 

Dwarf  Hautbois         -  -  35 

Dwarf  White  Carolina  -  17 

Early  Pitmaston  Black  -  57 

Early  Prolific  Scarlet  -  37 

Early  Scarlet           -  -  56 

Ecarlate  de  Virginie  -  56 

Elton  Seedling  -  18 

Formosa  Hautbois  -  34 

Fraisier  Commun     -  -  3 

Fraisier  Com.  a  fruit  blanc  4 

Fraisier  des  Alpes  1 
Fraisier  des  Alpes  3  fruit 

blanc         -  2 

Fraisier  du  Chili       -  -27 

Fraisier  de  Virginie  -  56 

Garnstone  Seedling  -  45 

Gibbs's  Seedling  Black  -  6 

Glazed  Pine  -  19 

Globe  Hautbois     -  -  33 

Globe  Scarlet         -  -  37 

Golden  Drop  -  10 


Great  American  Scarlet  -  49 

Green                 -  *  30 

Green  Alpine            •  *  30 

Green  Pine          •  -  30 

Green  Wood           *  -  30 

Greenweirs          -  -  27 

GreenweWs  French  *  27 

GreenweWs  New  Giant  -  27 

Grimstone  Scarlet     -  -46 

Grove  End  Scarlet  -  47 

Hairy-leaved  Scarlet  -  49 

Hautbois           -  -  32 

Hautbois  or  Musky  -  32 

Hermaphrodite  Hautbois   -  35 

Hopewood  Scarlet  -  48 

Hudson's  Bay  Hautbois  -  35 

Hudson's  Bay  Scarlet  -  48 

Hudson's  Pine         -  -  48 

Imperial                 -  -  20 

Imperial  Pine         -  -  20 

Isleworth  Pine         -  -  20 

Keens  Black         -  -  20 

Keens  Black  Pine  -  20 

Keens'  Imperial       -  -  20 

Keens'  Large-fruited  -  20 

Keens'  New  Pine    -  -  21 

Keens'  New  Seedling  -  21 

Keens'  Seedling     -  -  21 

Kew  Pine  -  23 

King  .  22 

Knight's  Large  Scarlet  -  49 

Knight's  Scarlet     -  -  49 

Knight's  Seedling  .  5 

Knight's  Strawberry  -  5 

Knott's  Pine             -  -  19 

Large  Black  .  20 

Large  Black  Imperial  -  20 

Large  Blush  Pine      -  -  '  24 

Large  Carolina     -  -  23 

Large  Flesh-coloured  Chili  24 

Large  Flat  Hautbois  -  34, 

Large  Pale  Chili       -  -  24 

Large  Pine  .  23 

Large  Scarlet         -  -  62 


506 


STRAWBERRIES. 


Large  Scarlet 
Large  Virginian 
Large  White 
Large  White  Chili 
Late  Pitmaston Black 
Late  Scarlet 
Late  Virginian 
Lewisham  Scarlet 
Liverpool 

Long-fruited  Scarlet 
Long  Scarlet 
Lowder's  Hautbois 
Mahone 
Methven  Castle 
Methven  Scarlet 
Milne  s  Seedling     - 
Miss  Gunning's 
Montague' s 
Morrisania  Scarlet 
Mulberry 
Mulberry 
Murphy's  Child 
Musky  Hautbois 
Nairn's  Scarlet 
Narrow-leaved  Scarlet 
New  Bath 
New  Bath  Scarlet 
New  Hautbois 
New  Scarlet 
North's  Large  Scarlet 
North's  Seedling 
North's  Seedling 
North's  Seedling 
Nova  Scotia  Scarlet 
Oatland's  Scarlet 
Oblong  Scarlet 
Oldaker's  New  Pine 
Old  Black 
Old  Carolina 
Old  Hautbois 
Old  Pine 
Old  Scarlet 
Old  Scarlet  Pine 
Original  Hautbois 


-  49     Original  Scarlet         -  -  56 

-  62  Padley's  Early  Scarlet  -  55 

-  24  Patagonian            -  -  27 

-  24  Pine             -             -  -  23 

8  Pine  Apple             -  -  30 

-  62  Pitmaston  Black    -  -  8 

-  62  Pitmaston  Black  Scarlet  -  57 

-  50  Powdered  Pine         •  -  30 

-  10  Princess  Charlotte's  -  42 

-  55  Prolific  Bath          -  -  13 

-  55  Prolific  Hautbois  -  35 

-  34-  Prolific  Pine             -  -  58 

-  22  Prolific  Scarlet  -  37 

-  51  Red  Alpine           -  -  1 

-  51  Red  Chili             .  -  25 

-  10  Red  Pine          :^»,.\  -  25 

-  23  Red  Pine- Apple        -  -  25 

-  13  Red  Wood  -  3 

-  52  Regent's  Favourite  -  23 

-  22  Regent's  Hautbois  -  35 

7  Roseberry             -  -  58 

-  21  Rose  Strawberry        -  ••  58 

-  32  Rostock  -  13 

-  53  Rostock  Pine  -  13 

-  54  Rostock  Scarlet         -  -  13 

-  13  Rostock  Seedling    -  -  13 

-  10  Round  White  Carolina  -  24 

-  31  Sacombe  Hautbois  -  35 

-  60  Salters  Hautbois  -  34 

-  15  Scarlet           .     -  -  56 

-  10  Scarlet  Cluster  -  50 

-  15  Scarlet  Pine             -  -  23 

-  23  Scarlet  Pine-Apple  -  19 

-  37  Scarlet  Virginian     -  -  56 

-  37  Scone  Scarlet  -  59 

-  55  Scotch  Scarlet  -  58 
25  Sir  Joseph  Banks' s  Hautbois  35 

7  Sir  Joseph  Banks's  Scarlet  60 

-  23  Southampton  Scarlet  -  51 

-  32  Spring  Grove  Hautbois  -  35 

-  23  Surinam             -  -  25 

-  56  Suttons  Large         -  -  25 

-  56  Sweet  Cone  -  9 

-  32  True  Chili             -  -  27 


FORSYTH'S  COMPOSITION.  50? 

Turkey  Pine  -      7  White  Wood  -  4 

Variegated  Pine  -         -     26  White  Scarlet  -  61 

Varnished  -     23  Whitleys  Pine       -  -  13 

Vernoris              •  -     1 3  Wilmot's  Black  Imperial  -  11 

Vernon's  Scarlet    -  -61  Wilmot's  Early  Scarlet  -  47 

Virginian  Scarlet  -     56  Wilmot's  Late  Scarlet  -  62 

Wellington  •   *.   13  Wilmot's  JWtu  Scarlet  -  62 

Weymouth  Hautbois  -     34?  Wilmot's  Scarlet    -  -  62 

White  Alpine  '    -'      2  Wilmot's  Seedling      -  -  62 

White  Bath  -     24-  Wilmot's  Superb  -  -  28 

Carolina  -         -     24  Windsor  Pine        -  -  23 

Chili  -     24  Yellow  Chili  -  29 

Hautbois  -         -     34  Yor&  JZt'ver  £ozrfe*  -  48 

White  Pine          -  -     24 


Mr.  Forsyth's   Composition. 

Mr.  Forsyth,  May  11.  1791,  gives  the  following 
directions  "  for  making  a  composition  for  curing  dis- 
eases, defects,  and  injuries  in  all  kinds  of  fruit  and  forest 
trees,  and  the  method  of  preparing  the  trees  and  laying 
on  the  composition. 

"  Take  one  bushel  of  fresh  cow-dung,  half  a  bushel 
of  lime  rubbish  of  old  buildings  (that  from  the  ceil- 
ings of  rooms  is  preferable),  half  a  bushel  of  wood-ashes, 
and  a  sixteenth  part  of  a  bushel  of  pit  or  river  sand : 
the  three  last  articles  are  to  be  sifted  fine  before  they 
are  mixed  ;  then  work  them  well  together  with  a  spade, 
and  afterwards  with  a  wooden  beater,  until  the  stuff  is 
very  smooth,  like  fine  plaster  used  for  ceilings  of  rooms. 

"  The  composition  being  thus  made,  care  must  be 
taken  to  prepare  the  tree  properly  for  its  application, 
by  cutting  away  all  the  dead,  decayed,  and  injured  part, 
till  you  come  at  the  fresh  sound  wood,  leaving  the 
surface  of  the  wood  very  smooth,  and  rounding  off  the 
edges  of  the  bark  with  a  draw-knife  or  other  instrument, 
perfectly  smooth,  which  must  be  particularly  attended 
to  ;  then  lay  on  the  plaster  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch 


508  FORSYTH'S  COMPOSITION. 

thick,  all  over  the  part  where  the  wood  or  bark  has  been 
so  cut  away,  finishing  off  the  edges  as  thin  as  possible. 
Then  take  a  Quantity  of  dry  powder  of  wood-ashes  mixed 
with  a  sixth  part  of  the  same  quantity  of  the  ashes  of 
burnt  bones ;  put  it  into  a  tin  box  with  holes  in  the 
top,  and  shake  the  -powder  on  the  surface  of  the  plaster 
till  the  whole  is  covered  with  it,  letting  it  remain  for 
half  an  hour,  to  absorb  the  moisture  ;  then  apply  more 
powder,  rubbing  it  on  gently  with  the  hand,  and  repeat- 
ing the  application  of  the  powder  till  the  whole  plaster 
becomes  a  dry  smooth  surface. 

"  If  any  of  the  composition  be  left  for  a  future  occa- 
sion, it  should  be  kept  in  a  tub  or  other  vessel,  and  urine 
poured  on  it  so  as  to  cover  the  surface,  otherwise  the 
atmosphere  will  greatly  hurt  the  efficacy  of  the  appli- 
cation. 

"  When  lime  rubbish  of  old  buildings  cannot  be  easily 
got,  take  pounded  chalk  or  common  lime,  after  having 
been  slaked  a  month  at  least. 

"  As  the  growth  of  the  trees  will  gradually  affect  the 
plaster,  by  raising  up  its  edges  next  the  bark,  care 
should  be  taken,  when  that  happens,  to  rub  it  over  with 
the  finger  when  occasion  may  require  (which  is  best 
done  when  moistened  by  rain),  that  the  plaster  may  be 
kept  whole,  to  prevent  the  air  and  wet  penetrating  into 
the  wound." 

Mr.  Forsyth  says,  farther  on,  "  As  the  best  way  of 
using  the  composition  is  found  by  experience  to  be  in 
a  liquid  state,  it  must  therefore  be  reduced  to  the 
consistence  of  a  pretty  thick  paint,  by  mixing  it  up  with 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  urine  and  soap-suds,  and  laid  on 
with  a  painter's  brush.  The  powder  of  wood-ashes  and 
burnt  bones  is  to  be  applied  as  before  directed,  patting 
it  down  with  the  hand." 

Although  I  do  not  feel  disposed  to  go  the  length  of 
admitting  of  all  that  has  been  said  of  the  virtues  of  this 


A    WASH    FOR    THE    STEMS,    ETC.  509 

composition,  I  believe  it  to  be  a  very  excellent  one  to 
be  applied  to  trees  where  their  limbs  have  been  ampu- 
tated, or  their  bark  injured  by  wounds.  I  have  there- 
fore inserted  its  preparation  here,  verbatim,  from  Mr. 
Forsyth's  Treatise,  and  recommend  its  application  in 
the  manner  he  has  directed,  particularly  in  a  liquid 
state. 

A  Wash  for  the  Stems  of  Fruit  Trees. 

Take  a  peck  of  fresh  cow-dung,  half  a  peck  of  quick- 
lime, half  a  pound  of  flour  of  sulphur,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  lamp-black.  Mix  the  whole  together  with  as 
much  urine  and  soap-suds  in  a  boiling  state  as  will  form 
the  ingredients  into  a  thick  paint. 

This  composition  may  be  applied  to  the  stems  of 
young  standard  trees  when  planted  out  into  the  orchard, 
to  prevent  their  being  injured  by  the  depredations  of 
hares  and  rabbits. 

A  Wash  for  the  Stems  and  Branches  of  Fruit  Trees. 

Take  half  a  peck  of  quick  lime,  half  a  pound  of  flour 
of  sulphur,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lamp-black. 
Mix  the  whole  together  with  as  much  boiling  water  as 
will  form  the  ingredients  into  a  thick  paint.  This 
composition  is  recommended  to  be  applied  to  the  stems 
and  limbs  of  apple  trees  which  are  infested  with  the 
White  Mealy  Insect,  having  previously  removed  the 
moss  and  loose  bark  by  scraping  them  off  with  a  strong 
knife,  or  some  other  instrument  adapted  to  the  purpose. 

In  using  the  composition,  it  will  be  most  efficacious 
if  applied  in  a  warm  state,  or  something  more  than 
blood  heat. 

On  young  trees,  No.  24.  Vinegar  will  effectually 
destroy  this  insect,  and  I  have  for  many  years,  in  my 
own  nursery,  used  it  for  this  purpose ;  but  this  would 
be  too  expensive  to  be  applied  when  the  trees  are  large. 


510  A    KALENDAR    OF    WORK 


A  KALENDAR  OF  WORK  IN  THE  FRUIT  GARDEN. 

January. 

Trench  and  manure  ground  for  early  planting. 

Prune,  nail,  and  train  wall  and  espalier  trees,  Goose- 
berries, Currants,  Raspberry,  and  Nuts.  Figs  must  not 
be  pruned  till  April.  The  manner  in  which  the  differ- 
ent operations  are  to  be  performed  will  be  found  under 
the  different  heads  of  Pruning  and  Training,  which 
see. 

Plant  out  fruit  trees,  Gooseberries,  Currants,  Rasp- 
berries, and  Nuts,  if  not  already  done. 

Look  over  fruit  in  the  fruit  room ;  keep  out  frost, 
and  pick  out  all  decayed  fruit. 

Force  Strawberries ;  the  Roseberry  is  now  the  best. 
See  Forcing  of  Strawberries. 

Should  the  weather  prove  mild,  those  pots  of  Straw- 
berries which  are  in  frames  for  the  purpose  of  furnishing 
a  succession,  must  have  plenty  of  air  during  the  day'; 
but  the  glasses  must  be  shut  down  in  the  night,  in  order 
to  secure  them  against  frost. 

February. 

Trench,  manure,  and  prepare  ground  for  planting. 

Prune  and  train  wall  trees  and  espaliers. 

Finish  pruning  also  of  all  orchard  and  dwarf 
fruit  trees,  Gooseberries,  Currants,  Raspberries,  and 
Nuts. 

Plant  out  fruit  trees  and  bushes  which  have  been 
omitted  in  the  former  months. 

Protect  the  blossoms  of  Apricots,  particularly  those 


IN    THE    FRUIT    GARDEN.  511 

of  the  Masculine,  by  fixing  up  nets  at  six  or  nine 
inches  from  the  wall,  either  single  or  double,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  meshes. 

Instead  of  net,  fern  may  be  used,  by  pushing  the 
ends  of  the  fronds,  or  leaf-stalks,  under  the  branches, 
allowing  the  leaves  to  form  a  thin  covering  all  over 
the  tree.  This  covering  must  be  allowed  to  remain  till 
the  fruit  has  attained  the  size  of  a  small  hazel-nut, 
when,  during  a  mild  showery  day,  the  whole  may  be 
removed. 

Where  Apple  trees  are  infested  with  the  White  Mealy 
Insect  (aphis  lanigera)  commonly  called  the  American 
blight,  the  limbs  and  trunk  should  be  completely 
divested  of  their  loose  bark ;  and  all  places  where  the 
insects  have  formed  excrescences  round  the  knots,  or 
otherwise  secreted  themselves,  should  be  pared  off 
smooth  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  the  other  scraped  off 
clean  to  the  live  bark.  The  Wash  for  the  Stems  and 
Branches  of  Fruit  Trees  (p.  509.)  must  be  now  ap- 
plied with  a  strong  painter's  brush,  till  the  bark  is  com- 
pletely covered  with  it.  As  this  insect  penetrates  the 
ground,  fixing  itself  upon  the  bottom  of  the  stem  and 
large  roots  immediately  connected  with  it,  the  mould 
must  be  removed  round  the  bottom  of  the  tree  to  the 
principal  roots,  and  the  composition  applied  as  far  as 
any  trace  of  it  is  to  be  found.  It  will  be  necessary 
also,  as  far  as  it  is  practicable,  to  apply  it  to  every  part 
of  the  branches  where  it  has  made  its  appearance.  The 
aphis  lanigerabecomes  winged  in  the  month  of  August, 
and  spreads  itself  from  one  tree  to  another ;  if,  therefore, 
any  of  it  at  that  time  is  found  to  have  escaped  the  first 
dressing,  the  composition  should  be  repeated  again  as 
before,  taking  the  early  part  of  the  month  for  this  pur- 
pose. By  pursuing  this  plan,  this  deadly  enemy  to  our 
Apple  trees  may  be  destroyed,  or  its  depredations  so 
much  checked,  as  to  cause  but  a  very  trifling  injury  to 


A    RALENDAR   OF    WORK 

the  trees.  The  application  of  oily  or  resinous  substances 
to  the  stems  or  branches  of  fruit  trees  ought  to  be  at 
all  times  carefully  avoided. 

Keep  up  a  succession  of  Roseberry  Strawberries  in 
the  forcing-house  ;  and,  towards  the  end  of  the  month, 
Keens'  Seedling  will  be  a  proper  sort  to  be  made  use 
of  for  a  succession  from  this  time  till  the  end  of  the 
forcing  season. 

Look  over  the  fruit  room,  and  pick  out  all  decayed 
fruit. 

March. 

Finish  planting  of  all  sorts  of  fruit  trees  and  bushes, 
and  mulch  newly  planted  trees  with  rotten  or  half- 
rotten  dung. 

Plant  out  Strawberries,  as  directed  under  that  head. 

The  pruning  of  fruit  trees  must  be  completed  as  early 
in  this  month  as  possible,  if  it  has  not  been  done  already, 
except  the  Fig,  which  must  be  deferred  till  the  next 
month. 

Grafting  of  all  sorts  of  Apples,  Pears,  Plums,  and 
Cherries,  must  be  performed  this  month. 

Thin  out  early  Grapes  in  the  stove  and  forcing-house ; 
and  continue  to  force  Keen's  Seedling  Strawberries  for 
succession  crops  to  those  of  the  last  month. 

Look  over  the  fruit  in  the  fruit  room,  picking  out 
all  which  are  unsound ;  and  should  the  house  be 
damp,  give  air  in  a  dry  day  for  a  few  hours,  but  shujb 
up  again  close  towards  night.  If  straw  has  been  used 
for  a  covering  to  the  fruit,  and  has  become  damp,  or 
contracted  any  unpleasant  smell,  it  must  be  removed, 
and  sweet  dry  straw  supplied  in  its  room. 

April. 

Prune  and  train  Figs,  as  directed  under  that  head. 
In  very  bleak  situations,  the  blossoms  of  Pqaches  and 


IN    THE    FRUIT    GARDEN.  513 

Nectarines  should  be  protected,  in  the  manner  directed 
for  the  Apricot  in  February ;  in  sheltered  situations, 
where  the  trees  have  ripened  perfectly  their  last  year's 
wood,  they  do  not  require  protection,  unless  the  weather 
should  prove  very  severe.  Should  insects  appear  on  the 
young  leaves,  let  them  be  dusted  over  with  flour  of 
sulphur;  but  do  not  attempt  to  wash  them  with  the 
engine  till  the  blossoming  season  is  over  and  the  fruit 
set. 

Plant  out  Strawberries,  if  the  plantations  have  not 
been  completed  previously.  If  Alpine  Strawberries 
have  been  raised  from  seed  in  the  hot-bed,  the  young 
plants  may  be  pricked  out  on  a  warm  border,  under 
hand-glasses,  or  in  pans  or  boxes  under  a  frame,  till 
they  are  fit  to  plant  out  finally  where  they  are  to  re- 
main. 

Thin  out  Grapes  in  the  stove  or  forcing-house,  and 
suspend  by  strings  the  shoulders  of  those  bunches 
which  require  it. 

May. 

Thin  out  the  young  fruit  of  Apricots,  leaving  double 
the  quantity  intended  for  the  crop. 

Disbud  all  sorts  of  fruit  trees  against  walls,  except 
Figs,  from  fore-right  and  side  shoots  which  are  not  re- 
quired, and,  where  long  enough,  train  the  rest  to  the 
wall. 

Espalier  trees  must  be  looked  over  in  the  same 
manner. 

All  curled  and  blistered  leaves  of  Peaches  and  Nec- 
tarines should  be  picked  off  and  burnt,  without  suffering 
them  to  fall  on  the  ground,  and  the  trees  washed  over 
with  the  engine  after  the  middle  of  the  day,  but  not  so 
late  as  to  prevent  the  trees  getting  dry  before  sun-set. 
If  the  trees  are  much  infested  with  insects,  and  mildew 

L    L 


A   KALENDAR    OF    WORK 

appear,  dust  the  young  shoots  and  leaves  with  flour  of 
sulphur. 

Strawberry  beds  should  now  be  covered  between  the 
plants  with  short  grass  or  straw,  in  order  to  keep  the 
surface  moist,  and  the  fruit  from  being  soiled  by  heavy 
rains. 

Thin  Grapes  in  the  stove,  forcing-house,  or  vinery. 

June. 

The  young  trees  which  have  been  grafted  should  be 
looked  over  from  time  to  time,  to  see  that  they  are  not 
cut  by  the  mat  with  which  the  scion  was  tied  ;  should 
there  be  any  appearance  of  this,  the  bandage  must  be 
removed,  and  the  plant  tied  again  at  the  shoulder. 
These  operations  will  be  found  in  detail  under  the 
different  heads  of  fruit,  where  their  propagation  is 
treated  of. 

Look  over  the  different  sorts  of  wall-trees  and  espa- 
liers, removing  the  superfluous  shoots,  and  training  the 
others,  as  directed  under  the  different  heads  of  Pruning 
and  Training. 

Thin  wall-fruit  as  directed  under  their  different  heads 
also.  Apricots  may  be  thinned  for  the  last  time,  as  most 
of  the  sorts  will  have  hardened  their  stones  by  this 
time. 

Vines  must  be  looked  over,  their  tendrils  cut  off  as 
they  make  their  appearance,  and  the  lateral  shoots 
shortened  to  two  joints ;  which  see,  under  the  head  of 
Pruning  and  Training  of  VINES. 

July. 

In  the  beginning  of  this  month,  thin  finally  the  later- 
ripening  Apricots,  and  early  Peaches  and  Nectarines, 
following  up  with  those  which  ripen  in  succession. 

Wall  trees  and  espaliers  must  be  looked  over,  and 


IN   THE    FRUIT    GARDEN.  515 

divested  of  their  superfluous  wood,  and  the  rest  trained 
regularly  and  neatly  at  length. 

Vines  must  be  looked  over,  their  tendrils  taken  off, 
the  laterals  shortened  to  one  joint,  if  the  upper  bud  has 
pushed  since  the  last  month  long  enough  to  require  this 
to  be  done.  The  shoots  which  have  produced  fruit 
must  be  shortened  to  two  joints  above  the  uppermost 
bunch,  keeping  those  closely  trained  to  the  wall. 

Runners  of  all  the  sorts  of  Strawberries  should  now 
be  taken  off,  and  the  young  plants  bedded  out,  in  order 
to  have  them  strong  and  well-rooted  previously  to  their 
being  finally  planted  out  in  the  autumn.  Should  the 
weather  prove  dry,  they  must  be  well  watered  till  they 
have  taken  root. 

August. 

At  the  commencement  of  this  month,  such  Apple 
trees  as  were  washed  over  in  the  month  of  February,  in 
order  to  destroy  the  white  mealy  insect,  should  be 
carefully  examined  now;  and  where  the  insect  again 
makes  its  appearance,  those  parts  must  be  washed  over 
with  the  composition  as  before.  After  this  dressing,  the 
trees  will,  in  all  probability,  continue  without  experienc- 
ing any  further  injury.  It  will  still  be  necessary  to  look 
them  over  again  in  February  or  March,  in  case  they 
should  be  assailed  again  by  a  flight  of  these  depredators 
from  some  neighbouring  tree. 

Continue  to  keep  all  sorts  of  wall  trees  nailed  close  to 
the  wall,  in  order  to  the  better  ripening  of  their  wood, 
and  a  due  admission  of  light  to  their  fruit.  Large  and 
perfectly  ripened  fruit  can  never  be  obtained  where  the 
trees  are  kept  in  a  loose  and  slovenly  state. 

Thin  out  Grapes,  and  such  sorts  of  Pears  as  are 
intended  to  be  grown  to  the  very  largest  size. 

Keep  all  the  lateral  shoots  of  Vines  to  one  joint ;  and 
L  L  2 


516 


A    KALENDAR    OF    \V0RK 


where  these  have  grown  again,  they  must  be  shortened 
back  as  before. 

Runners  of  all  the  sorts  of  Strawberries  must  now  be 
taken  off  and  bedded  out,  if  this  has  not  been  done  al- 
ready ;  and  where  grass  or  straw  has  been  made  use  of 
to  cover  the  old  beds  and  to  protect  the  fruit,  these 
should  be  removed,  and  the  ground  cleaned  by  the  hoe. 

Cut  down  all  the  last  year's  canes  of  such  Raspberries 
as  have  ripened  their  fruit.  This  will  cause  the  young 
canes  to  grow  stronger,  ripen  better,  and  be  productive 
of  finer  and  much  better  fruit  than  if  left,  according  to 
the  usual  custom,  till  the  plants  are  pruned  in  the  winter 
or  spring.  See  Cultivation  of  RASPBERRIES. 

Budding  must  be  performed  this  month,  beginning 
with  Cherries,  Apricots,  or  Plums,  and  continuing  with 
Peaches,  Nectarines,  Pears,  and  Apples ;  but  the  rota- 
tion of  these  must  be  determined  by  an  examination  of 
the  state  of  the  young  wood  of  the  sorts  to  be  budded, 
as  it  is  necessary  the  young  shoots  should  be  sufficiently 
ripened  to  ensure  success  in  the  operation. 

September. 

Continue  to  nail  up  all  fruit  trees  close  to  the  wall, 
in  order  that  the  young  wood  may  be  properly  ripened. 

Towards  the  middle  of  this  month,  cut  off  close  to 
the  principal  shoot  "all  such  lateral  side-shoots  of  the 
Vine  as  were  before  shortened  back  to  one  joint,  as  the 
principal  eyes  now  will  not  push  out  any  new  shoots: 
this  will  give  the  plants  air  and  light,  and  materially 
assist  in  ripening  both  their  wood  and  fruit. 

Protect  the  Grapes  from  wasps  and  the  large  blue 
flies,  by  putting  the  bunches  in  thin  gauze  bags.  In 
some  seasons,  particularly  in  hot  and  dry  summers, 
wasps  and  flies  are  so  numerous  that  they  attack  every 
description  of  fruit  as  it  becomes  ripe.  They  may  be 
destroyed  very  readily  by  hanging  up  bottles  on  differ- 


IN    THE    FRUIT    GARDEN.  517 

ent  parts  of  the  wall,  half  filled  with  vinegar  and  water 
mixed  with  honey,  sugar,  or  treacle,  emptying  the 
bottles  from  time  to  time,  and  returning  the  liquor  into 
them  again. 

Ants  are  also  great  devourers  of  ripe  fruit.  When 
they  are  numerous,  they  may  be  effectually  destroyed 
by  one  quart  of  water  in  which  an  ounce  of  pounded 
arsenic  has  bee»  boiled  half  an  hour,  and  mixed  with 
sugar,  so  as  to  form  a  thin  syrup :  this  must  be  placed 
in  oyster-shells  at  the  foot  of  the  trees  or  bottom  of  the 
wall,  covering  them  so  as  to  keep  off  the  rain :  this  will 
require  to  be  frequently  removed,  and  kept  in  a  liquid 
state. 

Net  Morello  Cherries,  to  preserve  them  from  birds. 

October. 

Apples  and  Pears  will  mostly  require  to  be  gathered 
this  month  for  laying  up  in  the  fruit  room.  The  valu- 
able autumnal  varieties  may  be  continued  in  season 
much  longer  than  their  usual  time,  by  gathering  one 
third  of  the  crop  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks  before  it  be 
ripe,  one  third  a  week  or  ten  days  afterwards,  and  the 
remaining  third  when  it  is  ripe  :  the  last  gathering  in 
this  case  will  be  the  first  to  be  brought  to  table ;  the 
second  gathering  will  be  the  next ;  and  the  first  gather- 
ing will  continue  the  longest  fit  for  use.  After  hot  dry 
summers,  some  of  the  finer  winter  Pears  will  continue 
longer  in  succession,  by  pursuing  this  method,  than  if 
the  whole  crop  were  to  be  left  on  the  tree  till  ripe. 

Imperatrice,  Saint  Catharine,  and  Coe's  Plums,  may 
be  gathered  and  suspended  by  their  stalks  on  twine,  and 
placed  near  the  glass  withinside  of  a  south  window  for 
a  few  weeks,  and  will  continue  to  improve  in  flavour. 
If  after  this  time  Coe's  Plums  are  wrapped  in  thin, 
soft,  white  paper,  and  put  in  boxes  in  a  dry  room,  they 

L  L  3 


518  A    KALENDAR    OF    WORK 

may  be  kept  perfectly  well  for  twelve  months,  when 
they  become  an  excellent  sweatmeat. 

Trench  and  prepare  borders  and  quarters  ;  and  trans- 
plant fruit  trees  against  walls,  and  standards  and 
dwarfs  in  orchards  ;  open  quarters  and  borders  in  the 
fruit  garden. 

Plums  and  Cherries  planted  out  at  this  time  will 
make  fresh  roots  during  the  autumn  ^nd  mild  part  of 
the  winter,  and  grow  with  much  more  vigour  when 
headed  down  in  the  spring,  than  those  planted  out  a 
month  or  more  afterwards. 

It  will  not,  however,  be  advisable  to  plant  these  at 
this  season,  after  a  cold  wet  summer,  unless  the  leaves 
will  come  clean  off  by  drawing  the  hand  upwards  from 
the  bottom  of  the  shoot  to  its  extremity. 

Plant  out  cuttings  of  Gooseberries  and  Currants,  as 
directed  under  that  head. 

The  fruit  room  at  this  time  will  require  particular 
attention  as  to  the  distribution  of  the  fruit,  as  every 
sort  of  Apple  and  Pear  should  be  kept  by  itself. 

In  order  to  keep  some  of  the  more  valuable  Apples 
in  a  perfect  state  to  a  late  period  of  the  season,  they 
should  hang  till  they  can  be  readily  detached  from  the 
tree.  They  should  then  be  placed  in  casks  or  boxes, 
as  they  are  gathered,  beginning  with  a  layer  of 
thoroughly  dry  pit  sand  in  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of 
Apples,  placed  close  to  each  other,  then  another  layer 
of  sand,  just  sufficient  to  cover  the  fruit,  and  no  mofle, 
and  so  continuing  alternately,  till  the  cask  or  box  is 
full,  finishing  with  a  covering  of  sand.  These  should 
be  placed  in  the  fruit  room  ;  where  they  may  remain 
undisturbed  till  the  others  of  the  same  kind  kept  on  the 
shelves  are  nearly  done.  This  method  has  been  prac- 
tised many  years  ago  at  Holkham,  where  I  have  tasted 
the  Golden  Harvey  Apple  and  some  others,  so  kept, 
in  as  high  a  state  of  perfection  in  the  month  of  May 


IN    THE    FRUIT    GARDEN.  519 

and  June  as  I  ever  saw  the  same  kinds  at  any  earlier 
period.  I  have  myself,  as  well  as  several  of  my  friends, 
adopted  this  method  for  several  years,  and  found  it  an 
excellent  one.  The  windows  of  the  fruit  room  should 
be  furnished  with  inside  shutters,  and  kept  closed,  as  it 
is  found  fruit  keeps  longer  and  better  thus  than  when 
exposed  to  the  light. 

Plant  out  Strawberries  where  they  are  finally  to  re- 
main. See  STRAWBERRIES,  Cultivation  of. 

November. 

Plant  out  all  sorts  of  fruit  trees  and  bushes  in  the 
orchard,  against  walls,  and  in  the  quarters  and  borders 
of  the  garden  ;  see  directions  under  the  separate  heads. 

Prune  and  train  Vines,  and  all  other  fruit  trees 
against  walls  and  espaliers,  except  Figs,  which  must  be 
left  till  April.  Prune  also  all  standard  and  dwarf  fruit 
trees  and  bushes  in  orchards,  and  in  the  quarters  and 
borders  of  the  garden. 

Where  late  Grapes  are  now  hanging  upon  the  vines, 
in  an  immature  state,  the  bunches  may  be  cut  off,  with 
a  joint  or  two  of  the  branch  above  and  below  the  fruit, 
and  hung  up  in  a  dry,  warm  room,  or  in  a  warm,  airy 
kitchen,  which  is  much  better,  where  they  may  be 
preserved  two  months,  and  will  acquire  a  higher  degree 
of  maturity.  Fig  trees,  which  are  likely  to  be  injured 
by  frost,  should  now  be  covered  with  mats,  having  pre- 
viously tucked  in  a  little  soft  hay  among  the  branches, 
as  directed  under  the  Cultivation  ofYics. 

Newly  planted  trees  should  be  mulched,  to  prevent 
the  frost  from  injuring  their  roots. 

Examine  the  fruit-room  ;  and  should  any  of  the  fruit 
become  motddy,  it  must  be  wiped  off:  such  of  the  sorts 
of  Apples  as  have  become  very  moist  should  be  wiped 
also,  giving  the  house  air  and  light  during  the  time 

L  L  4 


520  A    KALENDAR    OF    WORK,  ETC. 

this  operation  is  going  on  ;  and  if  some  clean  dry  fern 
can  be  had,  the  fruit  should  be  laid  upon  it,  reserving 
as  much  as  will  cover  it  over  as  soon  as  frost  sets  in. 
Fine  dry  fern  is  by  far  the  best  thing  on  which  to  lay 
Apples,  and  to  cover  them  also,  of  any  material  what- 
ever, as  it  is  perfectly  sweet,  and  not  liable  to  contract 
any  unpleasant  smell,  and  it  keeps  sound  much  longer 
than  straw. 

December. 

Continue  to  prune  and  train  wall  trees  and  espaliers, 
and  to  prune  all  standard  and  dwarf  trees  and  bushes  in 
the  orchard  and  garden.  In  looking  over  the  espaliers, 
where  any  of  the  stakes  are  decayed  they  must  be  re- 
placed with  new  ones,  and  the  whole  put  into  a  thorough 
state  of  repair,  previously  to  the  commencement  of 
training. 

Where  the  trees  and  bushes  have  been  pruned  in  the 
quarters  or  on  the  borders,  these  places  should  be  dug 
over,  leaving  the  ground  rough  to  be  acted  upon  by 
the  winter  frosts  ;  and  where  manure  was  wanted,  it 
ought  to  have  been  dug  in,  which  will  benefit  the  trees 
much  more  than  it  would  if  left  till  the  spring. 

In  the  various  operations  directed  to  be  done  in  the 
different  months  in  pruning  and  training  of  particular 
fruits,  it  will  be  advisable,  in  all  cases,  to  turn  to  those 
fruits  in  the  body  of  the  work,  previously  to  the  com- 
mencement of  those  operations. 

Little  has  been  said  in  regard  to  the  propagation  of 
the  different  fruits  ;  this  will  be  found  at  length  under 
its  proper  head* 


KITCHEN  GARDEN. 


1.  ANGELICA. 

Angelica  ^4rchangelica  is  a  biennial  plant,  a  native 
of  Hungary  and  Germany,  and  ranked  among  medicinal 
plants. 

The  gardeners  near  London,  who  have  ditches  of 
water  running  through  their  gardens,  propagate  great 
quantities  of  this  plant,  for  which  they  have  a  consider- 
able demand  from  the  confectioners,  wTho  make  a  sweet- 
meat with  the  tender  stalks,  cut  in  May,  and  candied 
with  sugar. 

The  seeds  should  be  sown  in  autumn  as  soon  as  they 
are  ripe  ;  and  in  the  spring,  when  the  plants  are  six 
inches  high,  they  should  be  transplanted  upon  the  sides 
of  ditches  and  pools,  or,  for  want  of  these,  on  cold  moist 
ground,  at  two  or  three  feet  asunder.  The  second  year 
after  sowing,  they  will  shoot  up  to  flower  :  therefore,  if 
you  wish  to  continue  their  roots,  you  should  cut  down 
the  stems  in  May,  which  will  occasion  their  putting  out 
heads  from  the  sides  of  their  roots  ;  by  which  means 
they  may  be  continued  for  two  or  three  years  ;  whereas 
if  they  had  been  suffered  to  seed,  their  roots  would  have 
perished  soon  afterwards. 

Angelica  may  also  be  cultivated  by  planting  the  young 
plants  in  shallow  trenches,  earthing  up  their  stems  in 
the  manner  of  cardoons  or  celery  ;  but  when  these  are 
cut  for  use,  the  earth  should  be  levelled  down  again  to 
the  crown  of  the  roots,  from  whence  another  crop  may 
be  obtained  the  following  year. 


KITCHEN    GARDEN. 


2.  ARTICHOKES. 

« 

The  flower  heads  of  Artichoke,  Cynara  Scolymus, 
in  an  immature  state,  contain  the  part  that  is  used,  which 
is  the  fleshy  receptacle,  commonly  called  the  bottom, 
freed  from  the  bristles  and  seed  down,  vulgarly  called 
the  choke,  and  the  lower  part  of  the  leaves  of  the 
calyx. 

There  are  two  varieties  of  the  Artichoke,  viz. :  — 

1.  The  conical,  ovate,  or  oval  French  Artichoke  :  the 

heads  are  of  a  green  colour ;  the  scales  pointed,  and 
turning  outwards. 

2.  The  globular,  or  large  round-headed   Artichoke  ; 

with  dusky  purplish  heads  ;  the  scales  turned  in  at 
the  top.  This  last,  commonly  called  the  Globe 
Artichoke,  is  the  only  sort  deserving  cultivation  in 
this  country. 

Artichokes  are  propagated  by  the  off-set  suckers, 
which  are  produced  abundantly  from  the  roots  of  old 
plants  :  these  should  be  planted  in  rows  four  feet  apart, 
placing  them  in  clumps  of  three  or  four  in  each,  two  feet 
asunder  in  the  rows.  Artichokes  require  a  deep  soil ; 
and,  before  they  are  planted,  the  ground  should  be  well 
manured,  and  trenched  two  feet  deep  :  this  operation 
should  be  performed  in  April,  as  soon  as  the  young 
leaves  begin  to  show  themselves  above  the  surface  of  the 
ground.  After  this,  the  plants  will  require  only  to  be 
kept  clear  from  weeds  during  the  summer,  and  in  the 
autumn  to  be  protected  by  litter  from  the  stable,  to 
secure  them  against  the  frosts  in  winter. 

3.  ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus  qfficinalis  is  a  perfectly  hardy  plant ;  it 
invariably  produces  ripe  seeds  in  the  autumn,  and  from 
these  alone  it  is  raised. 


- 
ASPARAGUS.  523 

The  gardeners  pretend  to  distinguish  two  sorts  ;  the 
Battersea  and  the  Gravesend. 

There  are  various  methods  pursued  in  forming  new 
plantations  of  Asparagus :  the  most  common  one  is  to 
trench  the  ground  from  two  to  three  feet  deep,  mixing 
with  the  soil  a  good  quantity  of  rotten  dung.  If  the 
soil  be  good  to  the  depth  of  three  feet,  it  will  not  be 
necessary,  under  the  ordinary  culture,  to  prepare  the 
ground  deeper ;  but  in  doing  this  a  large  portion  of 
manure  is  necessary,  and  it  will  be  requisite  that  it 
should  be  regularly  mixed  with  the  soil  from  the  bottom 
of  the  trench  to  the  top.  If  one  of  the  quarters  of  the 
garden  should  be  required  for  Asparagus  alone,  the 
whole  ought  to  be  trenched  and  manured  as  if  it  were 
for  only  one  single  bed,  as  the  roots  spread  themselves 
in  all  directions,  and  by  penetrating  the  alleys  between 
the  beds  the  outer  rows  of  heads  will  always  be  finer 
than  those  in  the  middle.  The  ground  being  prepared, 
the  beds  should  be  set  out  of  the  width  of  five  feet,  with 
three  feet  alleys,  fixing  a  strong  stake  at  the  corners 
of  each  bed,  driven  down  to  the  depth  of  three  feet. 
About  the  beginning  or  middle  of  March  proceed  thus 
to  plant  the  beds  :  strain  a  line  round  the  four  cor- 
ners of  the  first  bed,  cut  it  down  perpendicularly  on  the  ' 
inside  of  the  line  to  the  depth  of  three  inches,  and 
take  out  the  soil,  which  must  be  laid  on  the  alleys 
on  each  side,  levelling  the  surface  perfectly  even ;  but 
take  care  not  to  stand  upon  the  bed  ;  on  the  contrary, 
keep  the  soil  as  light  as  possible :  mark  out  four  lines, 
at  a  foot  from  each  side  of  the  bed,  and  a  foot  from  each 
other  :  measure  a  foot  from  the  end  of  the  bed,  and 
mark  each  line  at  a  foot  apart,  thus  forming  squares  of 
twelve  inches  each  way.  Being  now  provided  with  some 
good  one  year  old  plants  (not  more),  open  the  roots  flat, 
place  one  plant  on  each  of  those  places  marked  on  the 
lines,  and  fasten  it  down  with  a  handful  of  mould  to 


KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

keep  it  in  its  place  :  when  this  is  done,  the  bed  must  be 
filled  up  level  with  the  spade.     This  being  finished, 
proceed  with  the  other  beds   in  like  manner,  till  the 
whole  is  completed.     A  bed  of  twenty  yards  long,  thus 
planted,  will  require  236  plants  ;  and  when  of  three  years 
standing,  will  furnish  heads  equal  in  size  to  those  gene- 
rally produced  in  our  best  gardens.     If  still  larger  heads 
than  these  should  be  desired,  they  may  be  produced  by 
planting  the  four  rows  at  fifteen  inches  between  the 
plants  in  the  row  instead  of  twelve  :  and  if  this  is  done, 
it  will  be  of  greater  advantage  if  the  plants  are  placed 
in  the  quincunx  manner  ;  that  is,  by  placing  the  first 
row  of  plants  fifteen  inches  from  the  end,  and  fifteen 
inches  apart ;   the  second  row  twenty-two  inches  and  a 
half  from  the  end,  and  fifteen  inches  apart ;   the  third 
row  fifteen  inches    from  the  end,  and   fifteen   inches 
apart ;  and  the  fourth  row  twenty-two  inches  and  a  half 
from  the  end,  and  fifteen  inches  apart.     The  plants  will 
thus  form  rhomboidal  squares,  instead  of  rectangular 
ones  ;  thereby  allowing  the  roots  of  one  line  to  extend 
themselves  into  the  spaces  of  the  adjoining  ones.     A 
bed  thus  planted  will  require  186  plants.     In  Cheshire, 
and  some  parts  of  Lancashire,  the  gardeners  pursue  a 
much  more  expensive  method  in  the  preparation  of  their 
Asparagus  beds  than  the  one  which  I  have  described. 
Their  method  is  this  :  the  beds  are  staked  out  five  feet 
wide,  leaving  three  feet  alleys  between  them  ;  the  beds 
are  then  thrown  out  six  feet  deep,  and  such  soil  asi 
proves  of  a  bad  quality  is  taken  away,  reserving  that 
only  which  is  good,  and  supplying  the  deficiency,  if  any, 
with  good  soil  from  some  other  place :    six  inches  thick 
of  half  rotten  dung  is  then  spread  in  the  bottom  of  the 
bed,   and  twelve  inches  thick  of  good  mould  levelled 
over  it,   which  is  then  well   forked  over,   and    mixed 
with  a  three-pronged  fork :   after  this,  is  levelled  and 
made  even,  three  other  double  layers  of  dung  and  mould 


ASPARAGUS.  525 

must  be  supplied  and  worked  over  in  the  same  manner, 
which  will  complete  the  bed  ;  but  in  the  two  last  layers 
the  dung  should  be  more  rotten  than  that  with  which 
the  bed  was  begun.  The  beds  thus  prepared  should  be 
left  two  months  at  least  to  settle ;  but  they  must  not  be 
trodden  down,  as  they  are  much  the  best  when  left  to 
settle  of  themselves.  About  the  end  of  March,  or  the 
beginning  of  April,  the  beds  must  be  raked  down,  and 
lines  drawn  at  a  foot  apart,  the  length  of  the  beds,  and 
places  marked  at  fifteen  inches  apart  along  the  lines  ;  at 
each  of  these  places  three  of  the  largest  sized  seeds  are 
to  be  inserted  in  a  triangle,  about  half  an  inch  apart, 
and  half  an  inch  deep  :  the  bed  must  now  be  raked  over, 
and  left  till  the  plants  are  about  two  inches  high  :  if 
three  plants  appear  at  a  place,  two  of  the  weakest  must 
be  pulled  up  ;  where  two  appear,  one  must  be  removed ; 
and  should  there  be  any  defect  in  any  part  of  the  bed, 
a  single  plant  from  those  which  have  been  withdrawn 
will  be  sufficient  to  fill  up  the  space,  so  that  the  bed  will 
now  be  completed  with  a  single  plant  at  each  place  re- 
spectively. There  will  be  nothing  further  required 
during  the  summer,  than  to  keep  the  beds  perfectly 
clean  from  weeds  ;  and  in  the  winter,  to  cover  them  with 
some  half  rotten  dung,  to  preserve  the  crowns  of  the 
roots  from  frost.  In  the  spring  following  it  will  be  found 
that  the  beds  have  settled,  perhaps  considerably  ;  if  so, 
they  must  be  covered  over  with  as  much  good  mould  as 
will  make  up  the  deficiency.  The  third  year  after  plant- 
ing, the  heads  will  be  fit  to  cut.  This  appears  to  be  an 
expensive  process  ;  but  it  is  adopted  by  many  of  the 
market  gardeners,  and  they  consider  they  are  amply 
compensated  by  the  produce  for  all  the  expense  such  a 
preparation  has  occasioned  them.  After  the  beds  have 
been  made  a  few  years,  the  alleys  are  next  taken  out  to 
the  depth  of  the  prepared  beds,  and  filled  up  in  the 
same  manner,  which  completes  the  whole  of  the  process. 


526  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

It  is  easy  to  conceive  that  ground  prepared  in  this  man- 
ner must  be  productive  of  very  large  crops,  and  also  of 
very  large  heads,  some  of  which  are  said  to  weigh  four 
ounces  each. 

In  cutting  the  heads  of  Asparagus,  I  would  recom- 
mend a  knife  with  a  straight  narrow  blade  of  six  inches 
long,  with  a  sharp  smooth  edge,  instead  of  having  a  blade 
like  a  saw  :  the  latter  has  been  recommended  in  books, 
and  I  have  seen  it  used;  but  the  practice  is  not  a  good 
one,  and  it  is  better  laid  aside.  The  cutting  season 
usually  commences  towards  the  latter  end  of  April,  and 
should  never  be  continued  beyond  Midsummer. 

4.  BALM. 

Melissa  qfficinalis,  or  common  Balm,  is  a  perennial 
plant,  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe.  The  recent  plant 
has  the  agreeable  odour  of  lemons,  which  is  lost  in  drying, 
and  an  austere,  slightly  aromatic  taste.  It  is  used  in 
cool  tankards  ;  and  in  the  form  of  tea,  as  a  grateful 
diluent  in  fevers. 

It  is  propagated  by  dividing  its  roots  in  March  or 
April. 

5.  BASIL. 

Ocymum  Basilicum  and  minimum,  the  sweet  or 
common,  and  bush  Basil,  are  the  only  sorts  cultivated 
in  our  gardens.  Basil  is  a  culinary  aromatic,  much 
used  in  French  cookery,  along  with  other  aromatic 
herbs,  in  soups,  &c.  They  are  both  annuals,  natives  of 
the  East  Indies,  and  should  be  sown  on  a  gentle  hot- 
bed in  March :  when  the  plants  are  two  or  three  inches 
high,  they  may  be  transplanted  into  a  warm  border  of 
light  rich  earth,  in  rows  of  six  or  eight  inches'  distance 
from  each  other,  watering  them  occasionally  till  they 
have  taken  root. 


BEANS. BEETS. 

6.  BEANS. 

The  Bean  is  a  hardy  annual,  rising  from  two  to 
four  feet  high,  having  a  thick  angular  stalk,  alternate 
pinnated  leaves,  and  highly  fragrant  blossoms  :  the 
following  sorts  are  those  principally  cultivated  in  our 
gardens :  — 

1.  Dwarf  Fan.  6.  Long-pod. 

2.  Early  Lisbon.  7.  Sandwich. 

3.  Early  Mazagan.  8.  Toker. 

4.  Green  Genoa.  9.  White-blossomed. 

5.  Green  Nonpareil.  10.  Windsor. 

The  Early  Lisbon  and  Mazagan  are  the  sorts  gene- 
rally used  for  early  crops :  they  are  sown  in  October, 
November,  January,  and  February. 

The  Long-pod  is  the  most  abundant  bearer,  and  con- 
sequently more  generally  found  in  the  cottager's  garden 
than  any  other  sort. 

The  Sandwich,  Toker,  and  Windsor,  are  those 
generally  employed  for  the  summer  crops. 

The  green  varieties  are  much  valued  by  some,  for 
their  fine  green  colour  when  served  up  at  table  ;  but 
they  require  to  be  gathered  when  very  young,  or  they 
lose  their  fine  colour,  and  their  skins  become  thick  and 
tough. 

The  White -blossomed  is  generally  sown  in  the  months 
of  May  and  June  for  the  later  crops  ;  and  if  gathered 
when  young,  is  an  excellent  well-flavoured  sort. 

I  have  not  enumerated  in  the  list  what  is  to  be  found 
in  all  the  seedsmen's  lists,  the  Mumford  Bean ;  this 
being  only  a  small-sized  Windsor,  separated  from  that 
sort  by  the  sieve. 

7.  BEETS. 

The  Beet  is  a  biennial  plant,  a  native  of  the  south  of 
Europe,  with  large,  oblong,  succulent  leaves.  The  root 


528  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

is  usually  from  a  foot  to  eighteen  inches  in  length,  and 
from  two  to  fouT  inches  in  diameter. 

The  French  consider  the  Beet  under  two  heads  :  the 
first  they  call  BETTERAVE,  or  Beta  vulgaris,  consisting 
of  those  whose  edible  parts  are  the  roots.  The  second 
they  call  POIREE,  or  Beta  Cicla,  consisting  of  those 
whose  edible  parts  are  the  leaves. 

CLASS  1.  BETTERAVE. 

1 .  Large-rooted  Red  Beet.  8.  Small  Yellow  Beet. 
Betterave  Rouge  grosse.  Betterave  Jaune  de   Castel- 

2.  Long-rooted  Red  Beet.  naudari. 

3.  Dwarf  Red  Beet.  9.  Betterave  Champetre. 

4.  Turnip -rooted  Red  Beet.  Racine  de  Disette. 
Betterave  Rouge  ronde  pr6-  Racine  d"  Abondance. 

coce.  Betterave  sur  terre. 

5.  Petite  Betterave  Rouge.  Hors-de-terre. 

6.  Betterave  Rouge  de  Castel-  Mangold  Wurzel. 

naudari.  Mangel  Wurzel. 

7.  Large  Yellow  Beet.  10.  Betterave     grosse   Blanche 
Betterave  Jaune  grossed  de  Prusse. 

Betterave  Jaune  a  sucre.  La  Disette  Blanche. 

CLASS  2.    POIRE'ES. 

11.  Green  Beet.  14*.  Poiree  a  carde  jaune. 

12.  White  Beet.  15.  Poiree  a  carde  rouge. 

13.  Poiree  a  carde  blanche.  16.  Poiree  grosse  Blanche. 

The  French  possess  all  the  above  sorts,  and  cultivate 
them  for  one  purpose  or  another ;  but  in  this  country 
Nos.  1.  2.  and  4.  are  those  only  which  are  grown  for 
their  roots,  and  11.  12.  and  13.  for  their  leaves. 

All  the  varieties  may  be  sown  in  the  month  of  April ; 
and  as  soon  as  the  plants  are  three  or  four  inches  high, 
they  should  be  thinned  out,  leaving  them  a  foot  apart. 

*  It  was  from  the  Betterave  jaune  grosse,  that  the  French, 
during  the  late  wars,  principally  manufactured  their  sugar.  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p  279. 


BORAGE.  BORECOLE. 

In  the  autumn,  before  the  frost  sets  in,  the  roots 
should  be  taken  up  on  a  dry  day,  their  tops  cut  off 
without  injuring  the  crown,  and  laid  up  in  sand  in  a 
corner  of  the  garden-shed,  or  other  dry  building,  where 
they  may  be  preserved  from  the  frost.  Such  roots  as 
are  not  wanted  for  use  may  be  planted  out  in  April  for 
seed ;  but,  in  order  to  preserve  the  stock  pure,  care 
should  be  taken  to  select  those  roots  only  which  are  of 
the  most  perfect  kind. 

8.  BORAGE. 

Borago  qfficinalis  is  an  annual  plant,  a  native  of 
England.  It  was  formerly  in  great  repute  as  a  cordial. 
According  to  Withering,  the  young  leaves  may  be  used 
as  a  salad  or  a  pot-herb  ;  and  the  flowers  form  an  ingre- 
dient in  cool  tankards. 

The  seeds  require  to  be  sown  in  March,  in  a  light 
dry  spot,  and  likewise  a  little  in  April  and  May,  for  a 
succession.  Wherever  it  ripens  and  sheds  its  seeds,  it 
will  rise  again  abundantly :  having  a  tap  root,  it  does 
not  bear  transplanting,  except  with  great  care,  and 
when  the  plants  are  very  young. 

9.  BORECOLE  AND  SPROUTS. 

The  Borecole  contains  several  sub-varieties.  They 
are,  excepting  the  Neapolitan  variety,  peculiarly  hardy ; 
they  resist  frosts,  and  retain  their  green  appearance 
throughout  the  winter :  hence  their  value  as  winter 
greens.  The  following,  together  with  what  are  termed 
sprouts,  are  the  principal  sorts  at  present  cultivated  in 
this  country. 

1.  *Colebrook  Dale  Borecole.       4.  Neapolitan  Borecole. 

2.  *German  Borecole.  Cavolo  torsolo  ricciuto. 

Curlies,  or  Curled  Kale.  Chou  de  Naples. 

Scotch  Kale.  Chou  de  Naples  frist  nain. 

3.  *Green  Borecole.  5.  *Purple  Borecole. 

M    M 


530  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

Broivn  Borecole.  Kohl  Rabi. 

Brown  Kale.  Rabi  Kale. 

6.  Variegated  Borecole.  12.  *  Jerusalem  Kale. 

7.  *Brussels  Sprouts.  Buda  Kale. 

8.  *Chou  de  Milan.  Manchester  Kale. 

9.  Couve  Tronchuda.  Prussian  Kale. 

10.  Dwarf  Couve  Tronchuda.  Russian  Kale. 

Portugal  Kale.  13.*Thousand-headed  Cabbage. 

11.  ^Egyptian  Kale.  Chou  a  milles  tetes. 

Those  marked  by  an  asterisk  (*)  will  be  mentioned 
again  under  the  head  of  WINTER  GREENS. 

The  Brussels  Sprouts  produce  tall  stems  three  or 
four  feet  high,  with  a  head  somewhat  like  a  Savoy  :  from 
the  axils  or  base  of  the  leaves  arise  small  green  heads 
like  little  cabbages,  about  one  or  two  inches  in  diameter ; 
these  are  peculiarly  rich  and  sweet. 

No.  4.  is  too  tender  to  bear  the  winter  in  this  coun- 
try; but  if  sown  in  March,  it  continues  fit  for  use 
during  the  autumn. 

No.  9.  was  introduced  into  England  in  1821,  and 
No.  10.  in  1822.  As  both  these  are  too  tender  to  stand 
the  winters  here,  seeds  should  be  sown  in  August,  and 
the  plants  kept  in  a  frame  till  the  spring,  and  planted 
out  at  the  same  time  as  Cauliflowers,  for  an  early 
summer  crop ;  and  the  succession  must  be  kept  up  by 
spring  and  summer  sowings.  The  ribs  of  the  outer 
and  large  leaves,  when  divested  of  their  green  parts, 
and  well  boiled,  make  a  good  dish,  somewhat  resembling 
Sea  Kale.  The  heart  or  middle  part  of  the  plant  is, 
however,  the  best  for  use ;  it  is  peculiarly  delicate,  tender, 
and  agreeably  flavoured,  without  any  of  the  coarseness 
which  often  belongs  to  the  cabbage  tribe.  The  dwarf 
sort  is  much  the  earliest ;  and  when  the  lower  leaves  are 
taken  off  for  use,  it  throws  out  numerous  sprouts  from 
the  lower  part  of  the  stem,  which  is  not  the  case  with 
the  other  sort. 


BROCCOLI.  531 

10.  BROCCOLI. 

The  few  varieties  of  Broccoli  that  were  known  in 
Miller's  time,  are  supposed  to  have  proceeded  from  the 
Cauliflower,  which  was  originally  imported  from  the 
island  of  Cyprus,  about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth 
century. 

Miller  mentions  the  white  and  purple  as  coming 
from  Italy ;  and  it  is  conjectured  that  from  these  two 
sorts  all  the  subsequent  kinds  have  arisen.  The  follow- 
ing are  those  principally  cultivated  in  our  gardens  at 
present. 

1.  Purple  Cape.    .  9.  Cream-coloured. 

2.  Green  Cape.  Portsmouth  Broccoli. 

3.  Grange's  Early  Cauliflower.  10.  Sulphur-coloured. 
4-.  Green's  Close-headed  Win-  11.  Spring  White. 

ter.  Cauliflower  Broccoli. 

5.  Early  Purple.  12.  Late  Dwarf    Close  headed 

6.  Early  White.  Purple. 

7.  Dwarf  BrownClose-headed.  13.  Latest  Green. 

8.  Tall  Large-headed  Purple.  Danish  Broccoli. 

Siberian  Broccoli. 

Nos.  1.  and  2.,  if  sown  in  May  and  June,  will  produce 
heads  in  regular  succession  from  August  to  December; 
sown  in  July  and  August,  if  the  weather  is  mild,  will 
produce  heads  in  April  and  May. 

No.  3.  sown  at  three  different  times,  between  the 
beginning  of  May  to  the  end  of  June,  will  produce 
heads  in  succession  from  Michaelmas  to  Christmas. 

No.  4.  continues  to  bear  through  the  winter,  if  the 
weather  is  mild.  Sow  the  end  of  May,  and  the  pro- 
duce in  November,  December,  January,  and  February. 

No.  5.  Sow  in  April,  and  the  produce  will  be  from 
November  till  February.  Sow  in  June,  and  the  pro- 
duce will  be  sprouts  in  March  and  April. 

No.  6.  To  obtain  early  heads,  sow  in  February  or 
the  beginning  of  March  ;  and  the  produce  will  be  from 
November  till  Christmas.  This  sort  is  frequently  cut 

>i  M  2 


532  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

by  market  gardeners  previous  to  severe  frosts,  and  kept 
in  sheds  or  cellars  for  market. 

No.  7«  Sow  the  middle  of  April,  and  the  crop  will 
come  into  use  in  March  and  April. 

No.  8.  Sow  the  end  of  March,  and  the  crop  will  come 
into  use  in  March  and  April. 

No.  9.  Sow  the  middle  of  April,  and  heads  will  be 
produced  in  February,  March,  and  April :  these  fre- 
quently measure  two  feet  in  circumference. 

No.  10.  11,  12.  Sow  in  March  and  April,  and  the 
crop  will  come  into  use  in  April  and  May. 

No.  13.  is  the  hardiest  of  all  the  Broccolis,  as  the 
severest  winter  will  not  destroy  it.  Sow  the  end  of 
April,  and  the  crop  will  come  into  use  in  May  the 
following  year. 

To  secure  Broccolis  through  the  winter,  it  is  always 
best  to  take  up  part  of  all  the  last  nine  sorts  in  the  be- 
ginning of  November,  disturbing  the  roots  as  little  as 
possible,  and  lay  them  in  slopingly  with  their  heads 
towards  the  north,  only  a  few  inches  above  the  ground, 
and  about  eighteen  inches  asunder.  By  this  means  the 
crown  of  the  plant  lying  low,  is  soon  covered  and  pro- 
tected by  the  snow  which  generally  falls  previously  to 
long  and  severe  frosts ;  the  plant  is  also  rendered 
tougher  in  fibre,  and  hardier  by  the  check  received  in 
this  last  removal.  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  161.  169. 

11.  BURNET. 

Poterium  Sanguisorba,  or  Common  Burnet,  is  a 
perennial  plant  a  native  of  England.  A  drink  was 
made  of  it  formerly,  which  was  reckoned  useful  in  many 
complaints,  and  was  also  an  ingredient  in  cool  tankards : 
the  young  leaves  taste  something  like  cucumbers,  -and 
are  occasionally  put  into  salads. 

Although  a  perennial,  the  seeds  are  generally  sown 
in  drills,  at  two  or  three  different  periods  between  the 
spring  and  autumn. 


CABBAGES.  533 

12.  CABBAGES. 

The  Cabbage  is  the  most  ancient  of  our  esculent 
vegetables :  the  tribe  includes  an  extensive  assortment 
of  varieties  and  subvarieties,  all  probably  proceeding 
from  one  common  origin.  The  common  Cabbage  pro- 
duces firm  heads,  green,  greenish  yellow,  or  red  :  they 
are  all  white  within,  except  the  last,  which  ought  to  be 
of  bright  deep  red,  very  firm  and  compact. 

The  following  are  the  principal  varieties  cultivated 
in  our  gardens  :  — 

1.  Early  Battersea.  8.  Imperial. 

2.  Early  Cornish.  9.  Large  Penton. 
Paignton.  10.  Large  York. 
Penton.  11.  Late  Battersea. 

3.  Early  Dutch.  12.   Red' Dutch. 

4.  Early  Dwarf.  13.  Scotch. 

5.  Early  York.  Drumhead. 

6.  East  Ham.  14-.  Sugar-loaf. 

7.  Emperor.  15.  Vanack. 

The  Cabbage  being  a  biennial  plant,  the  chief  or  early 
summer  crop  is  to  be  sown  in  the  preceding  autumn, 
from  the  12th  to  the  20th  of  August ;  but  the  latter 
summer  and  autumn  crops,  to  come  in  from  July  to  the 
end  of  the  year,  will  require  to  be  sown  in  the  spring, 
from  the  beginning  of  April  till  the  end  of  May.  The 
Red  Cabbage,  if  wanted  for  pickling  early  in  the 
autumn,  should  be  sown  in  August ;  but  for  the  winter 
and  spring  use,  those  sown  in  April  will  resist  the  frost 
much  better,  and  be  of  a  better  quality  than  those  sown 
in  the  autumn. 

The  Vanack  Cabbage  is  scarcely  to  be  found  in  the 
seedsmen's  lists,  but  is  highly  deserving  of  notice.  It 
has  been  cultivated  in  the  garden  of  the  Earl  of  Egre- 
mont,  at.  Petworth,  so  long  since  as  the  year  17?6. 
Seeds  of  it  have  been  presented  to  the  Horticultural 
Society  of  London  by  Mr.  Torbron,  gardener  to  the 

M  M  3 


KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

Countess  of  Bridge  water,  at  Ashridge,  in  Hertfordshire. 
It  was  cultivated  some  time  ago  by  the  gardeners 
in  Sussex  and  Hampshire.  By  timely  sowings  the  Va- 
nack  Cabbage  is  always  in  season  ;  it  makes  excellent 
spring  Coleworts,  becomes  a  white-hearted  Cabbage  very 
early,  and  pushes  fine  sprouts  from  the  stump  after  the 
Cabbages  are  cut.  In  quality  it  is  inferior  to  none  of 
the  best  Cabbages. 

13.  CAPSICUM. 

The  Capsicum  cultivated  in  the  garden  for  its  fruit, 
is  an  annual  plant,  a  native  of  India.  The  pods  are 
used  in  a  green  state  for  pickling ;  and,  ripe,  for  mixing 
with  other  ingredients,  as  Tomatos,  &c.  to  form  sauces. 
They  are  also  dried  and  ground,  and  used  like  Cayenne 
pepper. 

There  is  a  great  number  of  varieties,  some  of  which 
are  yellow,  others  red,  and  others  black.  The  colour, 
direction,  and  figure  of  the  fruit  is  also  very  variable  ; 
the  sorts  with  small  oblong  erect  pods  are  the  hottest, 
and  are  commonly  called  .Chilies. 

The  seed  should  be  sown  in  March  or  beginning  of 
April,  on  a  moderate  hot-bed.  When  two  inches  high, 
they  should  be  pricked  out  into  small  pots  of  three 
inches  diameter,  afterwards  to  be  repotted  and  placed 
under  a  frame,  where  they  may  be  hardened  to  the  open 
air  by  degrees.  In  June,  they  should  be  turned  out  of 
the  pots  into  a  south  border  of  light  rich  soil,  at  twelve 
or  fifteen  inches  asunder.  Should  the  nights  prove  cold, 
they  must  be  sheltered  with  a  mat,  otherwise  they  will 
require  no  further  trouble  ;  and  their  fruit  will  be  fit  to 
gather  green  in  August,  and  ripe  in  September. 

14.  CARAWAY. 

Carum  Carui,  or  Caraway,   is  a  biennial  plant,  a 
native  of  Britain.     It  is  cultivated  both  in  agriculture 


CARDOONS.  535 

and  horticulture  for  its  fruit,  which  is  used  to  flavour 
cakes,  to  form  sugar-plums  or  comfits,  to  flavour  spirits, 
and  to  form  a  carminative  distilled  water. 

The  seeds  should  be  sown  broadcast  in  March  or 
April ;  and  when  the  plants  are  two  or  three  inches  high, 
they  should  be  thinned  out  to  five  or  six  inches  apart. 

They  will  require  no  other  care  than  to  keep  them 
clean  from  weeds,  till  the  fruit  is  ripe  in  the  following 
summer. 

15.  CARDOONS. 

The  Cardoon,  Cynara  Cardunculus,  is  greatly 
admired  by  many,  and  ought  to  have  a  place  in  every 
gentleman's  garden.  The  stalks  of  the  leaves,  usually 
called  the  ribs,  when  blanched,  are  the  useful  part. 
They  grow  very  large,  three,  four,  or  five  feet  high ; 
and  in  autumn,  when  full  grown  and  blanched,  they 
are  tender  and  well-flavoured. 

The  following  sorts  are  grown  in  France,  and  are 
also  known  in  this  country :  — 

1.  Common  Cardoon.  3.  Cardoon  of  Tours. 
Cardon  Plein  Inerme.  Cardon  de  Tours  epineux  & 
Cordon  Plein  sans  epines.  c6tes  tres  pleines. 

2.  Spanish  Cardoon.  Cardon  Piquant. 
Cardon  d'Espagne.  4.  Red  Cardoon. 

Cardon  a  cdtes  rouges. 

The  French  gardeners  have  for  some  time  cultivated 
two  sorts  of  Cardoon  ;  Nos.  2.  and  3.,  the  latter  being 
by  them  considered  the  best,  because,  they  say,  its  ribs 
are  thicker,  more  tender,  and  delicate.  With  us,  how- 
ever, the  Spanish  Cardoon  appears  the  best,  as  we  find 
the  ribs  are  larger  and  more  solid  than  the  others.  One 
sort  is  quite  sufficient  for  a  garden  ;  that,  therefore, 
which  has  its  ribs  perfectly  solid,  and  at  the  same  time 
large,  is  to  be  preferred. 

M  M  4 


536  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

The  soil  to  be  chosen  for  the  growth  of  Cardoons 
should  be  deep  and  light,  but  not  over  rich.  Sow  the 
seeds  about  the  middle  of  April,  in  trenches  six  inches 
deep,  and  twelve  inches  wide,  into  which  a  small  quan- 
tity of  rotten  dung  has  been  previously  dug.  The  rows 
to  be  set  four  feet  distance  from  each  other,  and  the 
seed  sown  in  patches,  three  or  four  together,  at  about 
eighteen  inches  apart.  When  the  plants  have  acquired 
four  or  five  leaves,  they  should  be  thinned  out  to  single 
plants.  During  summer  they  must  be  kept  clean  from 
weeds,  and,  in  dry  weather,  frequently  watered,  as  they 
require  a  good  deal  of  moisture.  About  the  end  of 
October,  when  the  plants  have  attained  nearly  their  full 
size,  a  dry  day  is  to  be  chosen,  when  the  plants  are  free 
from  damp.  The  leaves  of  each  plant  are  carefully  and 
lightly  tied  together  with  strong  matting,  keeping  the 
whole  upright,  and  the  ribs  of  the  leaves  together.  The 
plant  is  then  bound  closely  round  with  twisted  hay- 
bands,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  beginning 
at  the  root,  and  continuing  to  about  two-thirds  of  its 
height,  covering  the  whole  so  as  to  prevent  the  earth, 
when  applied  to  it,  coming  in  contact  with  the  ribs  of 
the  leaves.  If  the  Cardoons  are  to  be  used  early,  and 
before  frost  sets  in,  the  plants  may  remain  thus  banded 
without  earthing  up,  and  will  become  sufficiently  blanched 
for  use ;  but  if  there  is  any  danger  of  their  being 
exposed  to  frost,  then  it  is  necessary  that  they  should 
be  earthed  up  in  the  same  manner  as  Celery,  care  being 
taken  that  this  is  done  in  a  dry  day,  and  not  to  raise 
the  earth  higher  than  the  haybands. 

There  have  been  other  methods  of  blanching  recom- 
mended ;  but  this  has  been  practised  in  the  Horticultural 
Garden  at  Chiswick,  and  the  plants  have  been  superior, 
both  in  colour  and  the  length  of  the  blanched  part,  to 
others  under  different  management. 


- 

I 

CARROTS.  537 

16.  CARROTS. 

The  Carrot,  Daucus  Carota,  is  a  biennial  plant,  a 
native  of  this  country  ;  and  although  in  its  wild  state  it 
approaches  but  little  to  the  appearance  of  our  garden 
Carrot,  yet  it  is  allowed  by  all  writers  to  be  the  ori- 
ginal stock  from  whence  all  the  cultivated  varieties  have 
sprung  :  the  roots  of  the  latter  are  of  a  red-yellow  or 
orange  colour,  yellow,  purple,  or  white* 

The  following  are  the  principal  sorts  at  present  culti- 
vated here,  and  also  in  the  French  and  Dutch  gardens : 

1.  Common  Early  Horn,  Carotte  Rouge  Longue. 

2.  Early  Short  Red  Horn.  6.  Long  White  Carrot. 
Carotte  Rouge  Courte  Hative.          Carotte  Blanche. 

3.  Long  Horn.  7.  Long  Yellow. 

Long  Red  Horn.  Carotte  Jaune  Longue. 

4.  Long  Orange.  8.  Purple  Carrot. 
Sandwich  Carrot.  Carotte  Violette. 
Carotte  Rouge  Pale  de  Flan-  9.  Yellow  Carrot. 

dres.  Carotte  Jaune. 

5.  Long  Red.  10.  Altringham. 

Chert sey  Carrot.  Green-topped  Carrot. 

Studley  Carrot.  Superb  Carrot. 

Surry  Carrot. 

The  Altringham  Carrot  is  an  intermediate  variety 
between  the  Horn  Carrot  and  the  Long-rooted. 

For  early  crops  the  two  first  are  the  most  proper ; 
they  are  sown  on  hot-beds  in  February,  or  on  a  warm 
south  border  early  in  March.  The  early  sowing  on  the 
border  will  require  a  shelter  of  haulm,  or  fern  leaves, 
occasionally,  in  the  event  of  frost  and  cutting  wind. 

The  Orange  and  Altringham  Carrot  are  sown  from 
the  middle  of  March  to  the  middle  of  April,  and  are  the 
principal  sorts  for  winter  use.  Succession  sowings  for 
drawing  as  young  Carrots  may  be  made  in  May,  June, 
July,  and  August. 


538  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

17.  CAULIFLOWERS. 

The  Cauliflower,  Choujleur  of  the  French,  is  esteemed 
the  most  delicate  of  the  Cabbage  tribe  :  it  is  annual,  and 
produces  its  flower  in  the  autumn,  if  sown  in  the  spring. 
We  possess  two  varieties  only,  viz. : 

1.  Early  Cauliflower.  2.  Late  Cauliflower. 

For  spring  Cauliflowers  the  seed  is  usually  sown  from 
the  15th  to  the  20th  of  September,  and  the  young  plants 
sheltered  through  the  winter,  either  by  planting  them 
under  hand-glasses,  or  in  frames,  so  that  they  may  be 
covered  during  cold  and  frosty  weather,  and  air  given 
them  when  it  is  mild.  For  the  autumnal  crop,  the  seed 
should  be  sown  upon  a  moderate  hot-bed  the  end  of 
March,  or  under  hand-glasses  ;  these  will  come  in  during 
August :  and  for  a  later  crop,  the  seed  should  be  sown 
the  beginning  or  middle  of  May  ;  this  sowing  will  pro- 
duce its  heads  in  October  and  November.  If  some  of 
the  plants  of  this  last  sowing  be  taken  up  and  laid  in  as 
directed  for  Broccoli,  they  will  be  more  secure,  in  case  of 
cold  wet  weather  at  the  end  of  the  season. 

18.  CELERY. 

The  native  wild  Celery,  Apiwn  graveolens,  is  found 
in  ditches  and  marshy  ground,  especially  near  the  sea- 
coast,  in  various  parts  of  England.  It  is  biennial,  and 
flowers  in  August  and  September.  The  seeds  and  wholte 
plant,  in  its  native  ditches,  are  said  by  Sir  J.  E.  Smith 
to  be  acrid  and  dangerous,  with  a  strong  taste  and  smell. 
By  culture  it  becomes  the  mild  and  grateful  garden 
Celery.  The  following  are  the  principal  sorts  cultivated 
in  our  gardens : 

1.  Italian.  4.  Celeriac. 

2.  Red  Solid.  Turnip-rooted. 

3.  White  Solid.  Celeri  rave. 


CELERY.  539 

The  leaf-stalks,  when  blanched,  are  used  raw  as  a 
salad  ;  they  are  in  season  from  August  to  March  in 
the  following  year  ;  they  are  also  used  to  flavour  soups, 
and  sometimes  are  boiled  as  a  dinner  vegetable.  The 
root  only  of  Celeriac  is  used.  It  is  excellent  in  soups, 
in  which,  whether  white  or  brown,  slices  of  it  are  used 
as  ingredients,  and  readily  impart  their  flavour.  With 
the  Germans  it  is  also  a  common  salad,  for  which  the 
roots  are  prepared  by  boiling,  until  a  fork  will  pass  easily 
through  them  ;  after  they  are  boiled  and  become  cold, 
they  are  eaten  with  oil  and  vinegar.  They  are  also 
sometimes  served  up  at  table,  stewed  with  rich  sauces. 
In  all  cases,  before  they  are  boiled,  the  root,  and  the 
fibres  of  the  roots,  which  are  very  strong,  are  cut  away ; 
and  the  edible  part'  of  the  root  is  put  in  cold  water  on 
the  fire,  not  in  water  previously  boiling. 

For  an  early  crop  of  Celery,  the  seed  should  be  sown 
in  a  hot-bed  the  early  part  of  March ;  and  when  the 
plants  are  two  inches  high,  they  must  be  pricked  out 
under  hand-glasses,  where  they  are  to  remain  till  they 
are  six  inches  high.  They  should  then  be  planted  out 
in  trenches,  preserving  all  their  leaves,  but  pulling  off 
every  offset  or  sucker  which  appears  springing  from 
the  upper  part  of  the  root. 

For  the  succeeding  crops,  the  seed  may  be  sown  upon 
a  bed  of  rich  mould  in  March,  and  again  in  April,  where 
the  plants  may  remain  till  they  are  large  enough  to  plant 
into  the  trenches.  In  taking  up  the  young  plants,  they 
should  be  raised  with  the  spade,  and  planted  with  the 
roots  entire,  merely  cutting  off  the  extreme  fibres,  leav- 
ing the  roots  at  least  six  inches  long.  The  second  and 
third  sorts  are  the  most  valuable. 

The  fourth  sort  should  be  sown  upon  a  hot-bed,  under 
glass,  in  February  or  March ;  when  the  plants  are  two 
or  three  inches  high,  remove  them  to  another  hot-bed, 
and  prick  them  out  two  inches  apart,  under  a  hand-glass. 


540  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

In  June  prepare  a  rich  piece  of  ground,  and  transplant 
them  upon  a  flat  bed,  fifteen  inches  apart  each  way : 
water  them  frequently  and  plentifully,  and  increase  the 
water  as  they  increase  in  size  :  they  require  hoeing  only 
to  keep  them  free  from  weeds,  and  the  roots  will  be  fit 
for  use  in  September  or  October.  See  an  excellent  paper 
on  this  subject  in  the  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  419- 

19.  CHAMOMILE. 

Chamomile,  Antliemis  nobilis,  is  a  perennial  plant,  a 
native  of  Britain.  The  double-flowered  variety  is  that 
cultivated  in  the  garden.  It  is  in  considerable  repute 
both  in  the  popular  and  scientific  Materia  Medica.  The 
flowers,  which  are  the  parts  used,  have  a  strong  and 
fragrant  smell,  and  a  bitter  aromatic  taste  ;  both  are 
extracted  by  water  and  alcohol.  Medicinally,  the  flowers 
are  considered  tonic,  carminative,  and  slightly  anodyne ; 
yet  when  a  strong  infusion  of  them  is  taken  in  a  tepid 
state,  it  proves  powerfully  emetic. 

The  flowers  of  Chamomile  should  be  pulled  from  time 
to  time,  as  they  are  produced  ;  for  the  plants  continue 
to  blossom  in  succession  for  several  months.  When 
gathered,  they  should  be  gradually  dried,  partly  in  the 
sun  and  partly  in  the  shade,  by  being  spread  upon  a  mat 
or  sheet ;  removed  out  of  the  sun  in  the  heat  of  the  day, 
and  placed  in  it  mornings  and  evenings. 

Chamomile  is  propagated  by  dividing  the  roots  in 
March  or  April,  and  planting  them  out  in  small  patches* 
in  an  open  situation,  at  six  or  nine  inches  apart,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  patches  divided  from  the  root.  In 
some  gardens  they  are  planted  as  edgings  to  borders  :  in 
either  way  the  plant  is  of  the  most  easy  culture. 

20.  CHERVIL. 

Chervil,  Chcerophyllum  sativum,  is  an  annual  plant, 
a  native  of  England,  and  is  cultivated  in  gardens 


CHIVES.  CLARY.  541 

for  the  young  leaves,  which  are  used  as  a  small  salad 
along  with  mustard  and  cress ;  and  it  is  used  also  in 
soups,  to  which  it  imparts  a  warm  and  aromatic  flavour. 
There  are  two  sorts  cultivated  in  our  gardens :  — 

1.  Common,  2.  Curled-leaved. 

Both  sorts  require  to  be  sown  in  drills,  in  the  manner 
of  other  small  salading,  every  three  or  four  weeks  during 
the  summer  season.  The  curled  sort,  however,  had 
better  be  sown  thinly  broad-cast,  a"s,  when  the  leaves  are 
fully  grown,  they  make  a  very  handsome  garnish  for 
dishes.  To  keep  this  sort  very  true,  the  most  perfectly 
curled  plants  should %  be  taken  up  carefully,  and  trans- 
planted out  into  a  bed  to  run  up  for  seed.  This  latter 
variety  is  by  no  means  common  ;  but  I  have  seen  it  in 
great  plenty  in  the  gardens  at  Hampton  Court,  when 
under  the  direction  of  the  late  Mr.  Padley. 

21.  CHIVES. 

^4llium  Schcenoprasum,  or  common  Chive,  is  a  native 
of  Britain,  found  in  Oxfordshire,  Berwickshire,  and  Ar- 
gyleshire  :  the  root  is  perennial,  composed  of  small 
slender  bulbs,  pale,  forming  dense  tufts. 

The  leaves  are  used  early  in  the  spring  for  salads  : 
they  are  generally  cut  off  close  to  the  surface,  but  some- 
times the  whole  of  the  plant  is  made  use  of  as  a  substitute 
for  young  onions. 

It  is  cultivated  by  dividing  the  roots,  which  should 
be  planted  out  in  small  patches,  six  or  eight  inches  apart, 
in  almost  any  soil  or  situation,  where  they  rapidly  in- 
crease, and  soon  make  large  bunches,  which  will  last  for 
three  or  four  years. 

22.  CLARY. 

Salvia  Sclarea,  or  common  Clary,  is  a  biennial  plant, 
a  native  of  Italy,  and  introduced  into  England  in 


KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

It  has  a  very  strong  scent,  and  was  formerly  used  in  me- 
dicine. A  wine  is  made  from  the  herb  or  flower,  boiled 
with  sugar,  which  has  a  flavour  not  unlike  Frontignan. 
The  seeds  should  be  sown  in  the  open  part  of  the 
garden  in  March  or  April ;  and  when  the  plants  are 
three  or  four  inches  high,  they  should  be  thinned  out, 
leaving  them  six  or  eight  inches  apart.  From  this  time 
nothing  further  will  be  necessary  than  to  keep  the  plants 
clear  from  weeds  till  the  time  of  their  flowering,  in  July 
or  August  in  the  following  year,  when  they  become  fit 
for  use. 

23.  CORIANDER. 

Coriandrum  sativum,  or  Coriander^  is  an  annual 
plant,  a  native  of  England. 

The  leaves  are  strongly  scented  ;  the  fruits,  which 
are  slightly  aromatic,  are  used  to  conceal  the  taste  of 
senna,  and  in  spices  as  currie  powder  ;  and  they  are 
also  covered  with  sugar  as  a  sweetmeat. 

The  seeds  require  to  be  sown  in  March  or  April,  in 
an  open  part  of  the  garden,  and  will  require  nothing 
further  to  be  done  than  to  be  kept  clean  from  weeds  : 
the  fruits  will  be  ripe  in  August  or  September. 

24-.  CORN  SALAD,  OR  LAMB'S  LETTUCE. 

The  common  Corn  Salad,  J^alerianella  olitoria,  is 
an  annual  plant,  a  native  of  England.  It  is  used  through 
the  winter,  and  early  in  spring,  partly  as  a  substitute  for 
small  lettuces,  and  partly  to  increase  the  variety  of  small 
salad  herbs.  Till  lately  this  species  was  the  only  one 
cultivated  in  our  gardens.  We  have  now,  however, 
another  species  which  has  been  introduced  from  France. 
It  is  superior  to  the  common  sort  in  the  quality  of  its 
foliage,  which  is  milder  in  flavour,  and  in  coming  earlier 
into  use.  The  two  sorts  may  be  stated  thus  :  — 


CRESS.  543 

1.  Common  Corn  Salad.  2,  Italian  Corn  Salad. 

Valerianella  Olitoria.  Valerianella  Eriocarpa. 

Mache  of  the  French.  Mache  cT  Italic. 

The  principal  difference  in  appearance  between  the 
Italian  and  the  Common  sort  is  in  the  colour  of  the  leaves 
of  the  former,  and  the  greater  length  of  the  footstalks. 
Besides  its  use  in  a  crude  state  in  salads,  the  Italian 
species,  when  dressed  in  early  spring  as  a  spinach,  is 
very  good,  and  has  been  in  much  request  for  that 
purpose. 

The  seeds  of  both  sorts  may  be  sown  in  August  for 
winter  and  spring  use  ;  they  may  either  be  sown  broad- 
cast, or  in  narrow  shallow  drills  ;  and  when  the  plants 
are  an  inch  high,  they  should  be  thinned  out  to  the 
distance  of  three  or  four  inches  from  each  other. 

25.  CRESS. 

The  sorts  of  Cress  cultivated  in  England  are  the  fol- 
lowing :  — 

1.  American  Cress.  2.  Common  Cress. 

Barbarea  Prcecox.  3.  Curled  Cress. 

Belleisle  Cress.  4.  Golden  Cress. 
Winter  Cress.  Cresson  Doreofthe  French. 

The  American,  or  Belleisle  Cress,  is  a  perennial 
plant,  a  native  of  England,  and  used  in  salads  during 
the  autumn  and  winter.  It  is  best  sown  broad-cast, 
under  the  protection  of  a  north  wall,  in  April  or  May, 
and  when  the  plants  are  two  or  three  inches  high  thinned 
out  to  six  inches  apart :  it  transplants  readily,  and 
therefore  some  of  the  young  plants  may  be  pricked 
out  three  or  four  inches  apart,  so  as  to  be  covered  with 
a  hand-glass  in  severe  frost  and  snow,  which  will  thus 
keep  it  perfectly  sweet  and  tender  :  it  is,  nevertheless, 
a  very  hardy  plant,  and  will  stand  through  our  most 
severe  winters. 


544  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

The  Common  and  Curled  Cress,  Lepidium  sativum, 
are  annual  plants,  and,  like  Mustard,  used  only  as  small 
salading  :  the  former  is  sown  in  narrow  drills  during 
the  spring,  summer,  and  autumn,  and  in  pots,  or  upon 
the  bottom  of  a  drill  (not  covered)  in  the  back  bed  of 
the  stove  in  winter. 

The  Curled  Cress  should  be  sown  broad-cast,  at  in- 
tervals of  three  or  four  weeks,  during  the  spring  and 
summer  ;  the  radical  leaves  are  those  used,  and  are 
frequently  employed  as  a  garnish,  as  well  as  for  salads. 

The  Curled  Cress,  if  neglected  in  its  cultivation,  is 
liable  to  degenerate  to  the  Common  sort ;  but  if  pro- 
perly treated  it  is  capable  of  being  improved  in  a  very 
high  degree :  for  this  purpose  I  have  for  many  years 
supplied  one  of  the  first  houses  in  London  with  a  stock 
which  has  never  been  surpassed  by  that  of  any  other. 
This  is  effected  by  selecting  every  spring  a  number  of 
the  most  perfectly  curled  plants  as  soon  as  they  can  be 
discovered,  and  pricking  them  out  at  five  or  six  inches 
apart  from  each  other,  and  at  a  distance  from  the  Com- 
mon sort :  the  seed  from  these  plants  may  be  considered 
as  stock  seed ;  and  from  the  plants  of  this  seed  should 
all  the  succeeding  plants  be  annually  selected,  taking 
care,  if  possible,  to  make  choice  of  those  only  which 
are  more  thickly  curled  than  the  stock  from  which  they 
have  been  obtained. 

The  Golden  Cress  is  rather  slenderer  in  growth  than 
the  Common  Cress.  It  is  very  dwarf,  and  is  conse- 
quently short  when  cut  as  a  salad  herb  for  use.  It  has 
a  mild  and  delicate  flavour,  and  affords  a  pleasant  addi- 
tion to  our  stock  of  small  salads.  It  should  be  sown 
and  managed  in  the  same  manner  as  the  Curled  Cress. 

26.  CUCUMBERS. 

The  varieties  of  Cucumber,  Cucumis  sativa,  are 
numerous :  the  following  are  those  most  generally 
cultivated :  — 


CUCUMBERS.  ENDIVES.  545 

1.  Early  Frame.  5.  Green  Turkey. 

2.  Early  Southgate.  6.  White  Turkey. 

3.  Long  Prickly.  7.  White-spined. 
4s  Short  PricEly.  S.  Patagonian. 

The  two  first  sorts  are  those  principally  used  for 
early  crops  in  frames,  and  in  the  forcing-house;  the 
Green  Turkey  and  Wliite  Spined  for  later  crops ;  and 
the  Long  and  Short  Prickly  for  ridges  in  the  open  air. 
For  this  last  purpose,  the  plants  are  raised  in  frames, 
and  when  large  enough  to  transplant,  two  or  three  plants 
are  put  into  a  pot :  they  are  to  be  kept  in  the  frame  till 
they  are  strong  enough  to  turn  out  under  the  hand- 
glasses, in  the  latter  part  of  April,  for  the  first  crop. 
For  the  last  crop,  the  seeds  are  sown  under  the  glasses 
in  May  and  June.  It  is  a  great  advantage  to  the  crop 
in  the  open  air,  to  cover  the  ridges  with  clean  straw  or 
pease  haulm,  when  the  plants  are  grown  long  enough  to 
train  upon  the  ridges :  this  will  serve  to  keep  the  sun 
from  parching  the  ground  in  hot  dry  weather,  and  to 
prevent  the  blossoms  and  young  fruit  from  being  covered 
with  soil  during  heavy  rains.  The  covering  of  the 
ridges  with  straw  or  haulm  has  another  advantage — that 
of  preventing,  in  a  great  measure,  the  fruit  from 
becoming  spotted  when  the  autumn  is  wet  and  cold : 
the  thickness  of  this  covering  should  not  be  less  than 
two  inches  when  pressed  close  to  the  ground. 

The  Patagonian  Cucumber  is  grown  in  the  open 
ground;  and  whilst  young,  the  fruit  is  sliced  and  pickled 
in  the  manner  of  Mango. 

27.  ENDIVES. 

Cichorium  Endivia,  or  Garden  Endive,  is  a  hardy 
annual,  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  and,  according  to 
the  Hortus  Kewensis,  was  cultivated  here  in  1548. 
For  many  years  there  were  only  three  sorts  cultivated 
in  our  gardens,  namely,  the  Batavian,  and  the  Green 

N  N 


546  KITCHEN    GARDEN,  -rj" 

and  White  Curled.  Lately  there  have  been  several 
other  varieties  introduced  by  the  Horticultural  Society 
of  London. 

The  following  are  the  sorts  which  have  been  reported 
in  the  Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  vi.  p.  133. :  — 


1.    BATAVIAN    ENDIVES    (SCAROLES    OF    THE    FRENCH). 

1.  Broad-leaved  Batavian.  4.  Large  Batavian. 
Common  Yellow  ~|   of  the  Scarolede  Hoi-      "i     _  , 
Double  Yellow    J   Dutch.  lande  \°p     * 

2.  Curled  Batavian.  Scarole  Grande     J 
Curled  Yellow  "1    of  the  5.  Lettuce-leaved  Batavian. 
Fine  Curled     J    Dutch.                  New  Batavian. 

3.  Small  Batavian.  White  Batavian. 
Scarole  Courte  ~\  Scarole  afeuille 


scaroie  ^oune-\  scaroie  ajemue-\ 

Scarole  Petite    [  °£       7  de  Laitue         I 

Scarole  Ronde  J    *rench'  Scarole  Blonde  J 


of  the 
French. 


2.    CURLED    ENDIVES    (CHICOREES    OF    THE    FRENCH). 

6.  Small  Green  Curled  French.  9.  Italian  Green  Curled. 
Fine  Curled.  Indivia  Riccia. 
Chicoree  d'E'te.  10.  Dutch  Green  Curled. 
Chicoree  Frisee  Fine  a" Italic.  Large  Green  Curled,  of  the 

7.  Small  Green  Curled.  Dutch. 

Green  Curled.  11.  Long  Italian  Green  Curled. 
Chicoree  de  Meaux.  Indivia  Longa. 

Chicoree  Endive.  12.  White  Curled. 
Chicoree  Frisee.  White  Endive. 

8.  Large  Green  Curled.  Chicoree  Blanche. 

Green  Curled.  Chicoree  toujours  Blanche. 

Cut  Yellow  Winter  Endive, 
of  the  Germans. 

* 

Under  the  Batavian  Endives  are  included  all  the 
varieties  with  broad  leaves,  generally  rounded  at  the 
points,  with  the  margin  slightly  ragged  or  torn,  not 
curled.  These  are  called  by  the  French  Scaroles. 

No.  1.  is  the  common  Batavian  Endive  of  our  gardens. 
It  is  one  of  the  hardiest  of  the  broad-leaved  sorts ;  and 
as  the  lower  leaves  are  much  longer  than  the  inner 
ones,  it  ties  up  well  for  blanching. 


FENNEL.  —  GARLIC. 

No.  3.  is  somewhat  new,  and  is  the  best  of  this  class. 
Its  inner  leaves  form  a  heart  more  readily  than  the 
other ;  it  blanches  with  little  trouble,  and  is  mild  and 
sweet  without  being  bitter. 

Nos.  7.  and  8.  are  the  green  curled  sorts  of  our 
gardens :  they  are  the  most  hardy  of  this  class,  and 
always  require  to  be  tied  up  to  blanch  them  properly. 

The  sowings  of  Endive  are  to  be  made  at  three  or 
four  different  periods.  If  a  very  early  crop  be  required, 
a  small  quantity  of  the  Green  Curled  sort  should  be 
sown  in  June ;  and  for  the  subsequent  crops,  the  sow- 
ings of  other  sorts  in  addition  may  be  made  at  intervals 
of  three  or  four  weeks  till  the  middle  of  August. 

Endive  requires  a  rich  soil,  in  order  to  ensure  its 
quick  growth ;  to  be  planted  thin  on  the  borders,  and 
to  be  tied  up  when  it  has  attained  its  full  growth,  in 
order  to  blanch  it  fit  for  use. 

28.  FENNEL. 

Aneihwn  Fceniculum,  or  Common  Fennel,  is  a  native 
of  England,  and  a  perennial.  Finochio  is  a  variety  of 
Fennel,  a  native  of  Italy :  the  latter  is  the  sort  usually 
cultivated  in  gardens,  and  is  principally  used  in  a  boiled 
state,  and  served  up  with  fish. 

Both  sorts  are  perennial,  and  propagated  by  sowing 
their  seeds  in  March  or  April,  and  also  by  slips  of  the 
root. 

29.  GARLIC. 

Allium  sativum,  or  Garlic,  is  a  hardy  perennial,  a 
native  of  the  south  of  France. 

The  root  is  a  compound  bulb,  consisting  of  ten  or 
twelve  smaller  parts,  or  bulbs,  that  are  termed  cloves. 

Garlic  is  propagated  by  dividing  its  root  into  cloves, 
and  planting  them  in  drills  in  February  or  March  j  the 

N  N    2 


548  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

drills  twelve  or  fifteen  inches  apart,  and  the  cloves  at 
six  inches  from  each  other  in  the  drill. 

As  soon  as  the  leaves  begin  to  decay,  take  up  the 
roots,  and  after  they  are  dry,  hang  them  up  in  a  dry 
room  for  use. 

30.  GOURDS. 

The  varieties  of  Gourd  are  numerous,  and  they  vary 
considerably  in  size,  shape,  and  colour :  many  of  these 
are  grown  for  their  beauty  and  singularity ;  but  two 
only  appear  to  be  deserving  of  cultivation  with  us  as  an 
article  of  food  ;  these  are, 

J.  Cucurbita  Melopepo.  2.  Cucurbita  Ovifera. 

Large  American  Gourd.  Succade  Gourd. 

PotironJaune,  of  the  French.  Vegetable  Marroiu. 

Courge  a  la  Moelle. 

The  first  sort  is  the  largest  of  the  Gourd  tribe.  It 
is  nearly  globular,  very  slightly  ribbed,  of  a  pale  buff  or 
salmon  colour,  and  thickly  reticulated  over  its  whole 
surface  with  narrow  vermicular  processes.  It  keeps  well 
through  most  part  of  the  winter,  and  is  very  thick  in 
flesh. 

It  is  used  in  France  in  soups,  as  well  as  mashed  as  a 
vegetable  in  the  manner  of  potatoes,  It  has  a  pleasant 
and  peculiar  flavour,  and  is  an  excellent  substitute  for 
carrots  and  turnips. 

Mr.  Call  grew  one  four  feet  ten  inches  in  circumfer- 
ence, that  weighed  I03lbs. 

Mr.  Caswell  grew  another  which  weighed  104  Ibs. ; 
and  another  from  America  weighed  140  Ibs. 

It  requires  similar  treatment  with  the  common  Gourd, 
viz.  a  rich  loam  well  manured ;  and  if  laid  eighteen 
inches  or  two  feet  thick,  upon  a  large  body  of  dung, 
the  size  of  the  fruit  will  be  proportionately  increased. 

The  second  sort,  Vegetable  Marrow,  is  highly  deserv- 
ing of  cultivation. 


HORSE-RADISH. 


The  fruit  is  of  an  uniform  pale  yellow,  or  light  sulphur 
colour  ;  .when  fully  grown,  it  is  about  nine  inches  long, 
and  four  inches  in  diameter,  of  an  elliptic  shape,  the 
surface  slightly  uneven  by  irregular  longitudinal  ribs, 
the  terminations  of  which  uniting  form  a  projecting 
apex  at  the  end  of  the  fruit,  which  is  very  unusual 
with  this  tribe.  It  is  useful  for  culinary  purposes  in 
every  stage  of  its  growth  :  when  very  young,  it  is  good 
if  fried  with  batter  ;  when  large,  or  about  half  grown, 
it  is  excellent,  either  plain  boiled  or  stewed  with  rich 
sauces  :  for  either  of  these  purposes,  it  should  be  cut 
in  thin  slices. 

It  requires  the  same  management  as  hand-glass  or 
summer  Cucumbers.  Care  must  be  taken  that  no 
other  sort  of  Gourd  is  grown  near  it  ;  if  there  should, 
no  reliance  can  be  placed  on  the  goodness  of  its  seed. 

31.  HORSE-RADISH. 

Horse-radish,  Cochlearia  Armoracia,  is  a  native  of 
Britain,  and  is  commonly  found  on  waste  spots  about 
farm-houses,  originating,  doubtless,  in  the  refuse  of  the 
garden. 

Horse-radish  is  cultivated  in  different  ways  ;  but  the 
following  method  may  be  recommended  as  simple  and 
easy  :  — 

Trench  the  ground  two  feet  or  twenty  inches  deep, 
in  February  or  March,  having  the  trenches  two  feet 
wide  :  the  first  trench  must  be  taken  out  fifteen  inches 
deep  only,  and  the  mould  harrowed  back  to  rill  up  the 
last  trench  when  the  quarter  is  completed.  The  bottom 
of  the  first  trench  must  now  be  dug  over  five  inches 
deep  and  levelled  even  ;  then  place  a  line  lengthwise,  at 
six  inches  from  the  side,  and  plant  some  crowns  of  the 
roots,  each  cut  with  an  inch  or  two  of  its  root,  at  nine 
inches  apart  along  the  line  :  when  this  is  done,  remove 
the  line  twelve  inches,  which  will  be  within  six  inches 

N  N    3 


550  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

of  the  side  of  the  trench,  the  same  as  the  first,  and 
must  be  planted  in  the  same  manner.  When  this  is 
done,  turn  over  the  second  trench  fifteen  inches  deep 
upon  the  roots  so  planted,  which  will  level  the  work  : 
dig  up  the  bottom  again  as  before,  and  plant  the  sets  in 
the  same  manner,  and  proceed  thus  till  the  whole  piece 
is  finished.  According  to  this  method  the  rows  will  be 
a  foot  apart,  and  the  sets  nine  inches  distance  in  the 
rows.  There  will  be  nothing  further  required  from  this 
time  than  to  keep  the  ground  clean,  and  not  to  suffer 
any  other  crop  to  be  grown  upon  the  ground,  as  the 
Horse-radish  will  soon  make  its  appearance,  and  occupy 
all  the  surface. 

32.  HYSSOP. 

Hyssopus  officinalis  is  a  neat  little  evergreen  tuft,  and 
most  ornamental  and  fragrant  when  in  flower.  It  was 
once  in  considerable  repute  as  a  popular  medicine,  but 
is  now  almost  out  of  use. 

It  is  propagated  by  dividing  the  plant,  and  planting 
out  the  slips  in  March  or  April :  they  will  thrive  in 
almost  any  soil  and  situation. 

33.  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKE. 

Helianthus  tuberosus,  or  Jerusalem  Artichoke,  is  a 
native  of  Brazil,  and  appears  to  have  been  introduced 
in  1617.  The  tubers  are  in  considerable  esteem  on  the 
Continent  as  a  substitute  for  potatoes  ;  and  before  that 
vegetable  became  plentiful,  they  were  a  good  deal  in  use 
in  this  country. 

The  plant  is  cultivated  in  the  manner  of  the  Potatoe, 
by  planting  the  small  tubers  in  February  or  March,  in 
rows  four  feet  apart,  and  the  sets  eighteen  inches  from 
each  other  in  the  rows.  In  order  to  have  the  roots  hand- 
some, they  should  be  taken  up  and  transplanted  into 
fresh  ground  every  year. 


KIDNEY-BEANS.  551 

34.  KIDNEY-BEANS. 

Phaseolus  vulgaris,  or  Dwarf  Kidney  Bean,  is  the 
Haricot  of  the  French.  It  is  a  half-hardy  annual,  a 
native  of  India,  and  introduced  into  this  country  in 
1597)  or  probably  earlier. 

The  species  termed  the  Runner,  Phaseolus  multi- 
florus>  is  a  tender  perennial,  a  native  of  South  America, 
introduced  in  1633. 

The  following  sorts  are  those  principally  cultivated 
in  our  gardens :  — 

1.  Battersea.  9.  Large  Yellow. 

2.  Black-Speckled.  10.  Liver-coloured. 

3.  Canterbury.  11.  Negro. 

4.  Chinese.  12.  Red-Speckled. 

5.  Dwarf  Scarlet.  13.  Small  Yellow. 

6.  Early  Dun,  or  Buff.  14.  White  Dutch. 

7.  Early  Purple-Speckled.  ,15.   Scarlet  Runner.* 

8.  Large  White.  16.  White  Dutch  Runner. 

The  Early  Dun,  Early  Purple- Speckled,  and  Negro, 
are  the  sorts  mostly  used  for  forcing,  and  for  the  first 
crops  in  the  open  air  ;  the  other  dwarfs  are  used  for 
succession  ones,  some  gardeners  preferring  one  sort,  and 
some  another  ;  but  the  Battersea,  Canterbury,  Black 
and  Red  Speckled,  are  those  generally  sown  for  the 
principal  crops. 

The  Scarlet  and  Wltite  Dutch  Runners  are  those 

*  It  may  be  considered  as  a  remarkable  fact,  that  all  our  garden- 
ers, who  have  written  books  on  gardening,  have  never  discovered, 
that  the  Scarlet  Runner  is  a  perennial  plant;  and  it  is  also  stated  to 
be  an  annual,  by  such  botanical  authors  as  I  have  consulted  ;  but 
the  truth  is,  that  it  is  a  perennial :  its  roots  are  tuberous,  similar  to 
those  of  the  DAHLIA,  and,  like  that,  may  be  preserved  through  the 
winter  by  the  same  means  ;  when  if  planted  out  in  April,  they 
soon  make  their  appearance  above  ground,  and  produce,  for  the 
second  time,  an  early  and  abundant  crop. 

N  N    4f 


552  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

which  are  principally  depended  upon  for  the  latest 
crops :  these  two  last -mentioned  sorts  are  most  abun- 
dant bearers ;  and  if  the  young  beans  are  gathered  as 
they  become  fit  for  table,  the  plants  will  be  much  more 
productive,  and  continue  in  a  state  of  bearing  much 
later  in  the  season,  than  they  will  do  if  any  of  the  pods 
are  allowed  to  remain  for  the  purpose  of  ripening  their 
seeds. 

35.  LAVENDER. 

Lavandula  Spica,  our  common  garden  Lavender,  is 
a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  and  highly  valued  for 
its  fragrant  flowers.  The  use  of  the  distilled  water  of 
this  plant  is  well  known.  Alcohol  extracts  the  virtues 
of  the  flowers  completely,  and  elevates  in  distillation  all 
their  odorous  parts.  The  oil,  however,  on  which  their 
virtues  depend,  is  obtained  separate,  in  distillation  with 
water,  in  the  proportion,  it  is  said,  of  one  ounce  of  oil 
from  sixty  ounces  of  flowers. 

Lavender  flowers  should  be  gathered  and  gradually 
dried,  partly  in  the  sun,  and  partly  in  the  shade,  by 
being  spread  upon  a  mat  or  sheet,  removed  out  of  the 
sun  in' the  heat  of  the  day,  and  placed  in  it  mornings 
and  evenings. 

The  spikes  should  be  cut  when  the  flowers  on  the 
under,  or  bottom  part,  begin  to  drop  their  corolla. 

The  plant  is  propagated  by  dividing  it,  and  planting 
the  slips  in  March  or  April. 

36.  LEEKS. 

The  Leek,  Alliwn  Porrum,  is  a  biennial :  it  produces 
an  oblong  tunicated  root :  its  leaves  are  broad  and  flat, 
rising  and  spreading  out  in  opposite  directions. 

It  is  a  native  of  Switzerland,  and  was  introduced  in 
1562.  The  varieties  are  — 

1.  Common.  2.  London,  or  Flag  Leek. 


LETTUCES.  553 

Leeks,  like  the  Onion,  require  an  open  situation,  and 
that  the  ground  be  good,  light,  rich,  and  upon  a  dry 
sub-soil.  The  first  sowing  may  be  about  the  middle  of 
February ;  but  the  main  crop  ought  to  be  sowed  in  the 
middle  or  end  of  March.  When  the  plants  are  three 
or  four  inches  high,  they  should  be  thinned  out,  leaving 
them  about  nine  inches  apart ;  or  they  may  be  planted 
in  deep  drills,  nine  inches  from  plant  to  plant,  and  the 
drills  eighteen  inches  asunder.  As  the  plants  grow 
stronger,  the  earth  may  be  drawn  to  them  so  as  at  last 
to  fill  the  drills  level,  by  which  means  the  lower  part  of 
the  bulbs  will  become  blanched,  and  much  sweeter  than 
when  it  is  more  approaching  to  green. 

37.  LETTUCES. 

Lactuca  sativa,  or  Garden  Lettuce,  is  well  known 
as  furnishing,  among  its  numerous  varieties,  the  best 
vegetable  of  the  salad  kind  grown  in  the  open  garden. 
The  cultivated  Lettuce  will,  if  sown  in  the  spring,  pro- 
duce ripe  seeds  in  August  or  September  ;  and  so  far  it 
is  strictly  an  annual :  but  if  it  be  sown  in  autumn,  it  will 
not  produce  seeds  till  the  succeeding  summer.  It  was 
introduced  or  cultivated  in  1562,  but  from  what  country 
is  unknown. 

The  varieties  are  numerous ;  but  they  may  be  arranged 
in  two  divisions,  viz.  the  upright,  oblong,  or  Cos  Let- 
tuces ;  and  the  round-headed,  spreading,  or  Cabbage 
Lettuces. 

Lettuces  possess  some  medicinal  properties;  their 
milky  juice  is  a  slight  opiate,  and  occasionally  produces 
drowsiness  ;  eaten  at  night,  they  are,  with  some  persons, 
favourable  to  sleep  ;  but  as  they  also  possess  laxative 
qualities,  they  are  apt,  if  eaten  freely  for  several  succes- 
sive days,  to  derange  the  bowels,  and  to  cause  consider- 
able pain  and  distention. 


KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

The  following  are  the  principal  sorts  at  present  culti- 
vated in  this  country  :  — 

CABBAGE     LETTUCES. 

1.  Black-seeded  Gotte.  8.  Imperial. 
Laitue  Gotte  a  graine  noire.  Union. 

2.  Brown  Dutch.  9.  Large  White. 

3.  Brown  Silesia.  10.  Marseilles. 

4.  Drumhead.  11.  Saxony. 

5.  Frame.  12.  Tennis  Ball. 

6.  Grand  Admiral.  13.  White  Silesia. 

7.  Hammersmith. 

COS    LETTUCES. 

14.  Brown,  or  Bath  Cos.  18.  Green  Cos. 

15.  Dwarf  Brown  Cos.  Cove  Cos. 

16.  Egyptian  Cos.  19.   Spotted  Cos. 

17.  Florence  Cos.  20.  White  Cos. 

The  Black-seeded  Gotte  Lettuce  is  a  small  spring 
Cabbage  Lettuce.  It  grows  very  close  to  the  ground ; 
its  heart  is  hard  and  firm  ;  about  four  inches  in  diameter 
when  stripped  of  its  outer  leaves.  Colour  very  pale 
green.  This  Lettuce  conies  early  into  use,  is  excellent 
in  its  flavour,  and  remains  longer  than  almost  any  other 
sort  before  it  runs  to  seed.  It  is  the  smallest  of  all  the 
kinds  of  Cabbage  Lettuce,  except  the  Tennis  Ball,  from 
which  it  differs  in  its  leaves  being  more  curled,  and  of  a 
lighter  green  colour,  and  not  running  to  seed  so  soon  by 
three  weeks  or  a  month. 

The  Grand  Admiral,  Imperial,  and  large  PFhifa, 
are  grown  as  spring  Lettuces,  and  succeed  the  Black- 
seeded  Gotte. 

The  Hammersmith  and  Tennis  Ball  are  sown  in 
August  to  stand  the  winter,  and  are  the  first  to  be  cut 
in  the  spring. 

The  Egyptian  Cos,  Florence  Cos,  the  Green, 
Spotted,,  and  White  Cos,  supply  the  first  salads  in  the 
summer  ;  and  the  Brown,  and  Dwarf  Brown  Cos,  are 


- 
LOVE-APPLES.  555 

those  which  are  sown  in  autumn,  to  be  planted  under 
hand-glasses  or  frames,  to  stand  the  winter,  and  to 
furnish  the  first  Cos  Lettuces  in  the  spring :  for  this 
purpose  these  two  are  decidedly  the  best. 

38.  LOVE-APPLES. 

The  Love- Apple,  Solarium  Lycopersicum,  is  a  tender 
annual,  a  native  of  South  America,  introduced  into  this 
country  in  1596. 

It  is  cultivated  extensively  about  Naples  and  Rome, 
for  the  use  of  the  berry  in  sauces,  stewing,  and  soups. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  common  articles  used  in  Italian 
cookery,  and  makes  an  excellent  sauce  for  fish,  meat, 
and  general  purposes.  Its  use  for  sauce  in  this  country 
is  greatly  on  the  increase,  and  its  cultivation  extensive. 

Formerly  we  had  two  sorts  only  in  our  gardens,  the 
red  and  the  yellow-fruited  ;  but  lately  we  have  had  four 
other  varieties  introduced  from  France,  which  have  been 
fruited  in  the  Horticultural  Garden  at  Chiswick. 

The  French,  Spaniards,  and  Portuguese,  call  them 
Tomates  ;  the  Italians,  Pomi  d'Amore. 

The  following  are  those  at  present  cultivated  in  our 
gardens  :  — 

RED-FRUITED. 

1.  Large  Red.  3.  Pear-shaped. 
Tomate  Grosse.  Tomate  en  Poire. 

2.  Small  Red.  4s  Cherry-shaped. 
Tomate  Petite.  Tomate  Cerise. 

YELLOW-FRUITED. 

5.  Large  Yellow.  6.  Cherry-shaped. 

Tomate  Grosse  Jaune.  Tomate  Petite  Jaune. 

The  first  of  these  sorts  is  the  most  valuable  ;  plants 
of  this  properly  managed  will  produce  from  twenty  to 
forty  pounds'  weight  each;  single  fruit  will  measure 
twelve  inches  in  circumference,  and  weigh  twelve  ounces. 


556  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

By  training  the  plants  against  a  bank,  Mr.  John  Wil- 
mot,  of  Isleworth,  gathered  400  half  sieves*  of  ripe 
fruit  for  market  from  600  plants. 

The  seeds  of  the  Love- Apple  should  be  sown  upon  a 
hot-bed  in  March ;  and  as  soon  as  the  plants  are  two 
inches  high,  they  should  be  planted  in  small-sized  pots, 
placing  two  plants  in  each  pot :  they  should  have  plenty 
of  air  allowed  them,  so  that  they  do  not  draw  up  weak  ; 
and  in  April  they  may  be  removed  to  a  cool  frame,  and 
hardened  by  degrees  till  they  will  bear  the  open  air. 

In  May,  or  the  beginning  of  June,  they  may  be 
planted  against  a  south  wall,  or  against  a  bank,  They 
must  be  trained  close  to  the  wall,  or  pegged  to  the  bank, 
as  they  grow  ;  and  when  they  have  acquired  a  sufficient 
length,  and  shown  blossom  enough  for  a  crop,  they 
should  then  be  topped,  and  all  useless  laterals  removed, 
as  well  as  those  leaves  which  cover  the  fruit. 

39.  MARJORAM. 

There  are  two  species  of  Marjoram  cultivated  in  our 
gardens  :  — ' 

1.  Pot  Mai'joram.  2.  Sweet  Marjoram. 

Origanum  Onites.  Origanum  Majorana. 

The  first  sort  is  a  hardy  perennial,  a  native  of  Sicily, 
cultivated  in  this  country  in  1759-  The  second  sort  is 
a  tender  biennial,  a  native  of  Portugal,  and  cultivated 
in  1573.  The  latter  is  principally  in  use  under  the 
name  of  Knotted  Marjoram,  from  the  flowers  coming  in 
whorls  at  the  joints. 

The  Pot  Marjoram  is  propagated  by  dividing  its  roots 
in  March  or  April. 

Sweet  Marjoram  may  be  sown  upon  a  hot-bed,  and 

*  A  half  sieve  of  Tomatoes  or  Love-Apples  is  about  20lbs., 
and  three  half  sieves  make  a  bushel.   Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  34-2. 


MARYGOLD. MINT.  557 

transplanted  into  the  border  in  May  ;  or  the  seed  may 
be  sown  under  a  hand-glass  in  April,  and  transplanted 
out  into  the  border  when  the  plants  are  two  or  three 
inches  high.  The  plant  being  rather  tender,  it  should 
be  planted  upon  a  south  border. 

40.  MARYGOLD. 

Calendula  qfficinalis,  or  common  Pot  Marygold,  has 
been  a  garden  plant  time  out  of  mind  ;  it  is  a  hardy 
annual,  and  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe  :  its  use  is 
in  soups  and  broths,  but  at  the  present  day  it  appears 
to  have  fallen  almost  into  disuse. 

The  seeds  should  be  sown  in  March  or  April,  and 
nothing  further  will  be  required  than  to  keep  the  plants 
clear  from  weeds.  Where  a  succession  of  flowers  are 
required,  the  sowings  should  be  repeated  in  May  and 
June. 

41.  MINT. 

There  are  two  species  of  Mint  cultivated  in  our 
gardens  :  — 

1.  Spear  Mint.  2.  Pepper  Mint. 

Mentha  viridis.  Mentha  Piperita. 

The  young  tops  of  the  first  sort  are  used  in  spring 
salads,  and  for  sauce  with  lamb,  as  also  to  flavour  other 
vegetables. 

The  second  sort  is  used  only  for  distillation.  Both 
are  propagated  by  dividing  the  roots,  and  they  succeed 
in  almost  any  soil. 

There  have  been  formerly  one  or  two  other  sorts  of 
Mint  grown  in  gardens,  particularly  in  and  near  Nor- 
wich, and  used  in  sauce  for  mackerel  ;  but  they  are 
nauseous,  rather  than  otherwise,  and  therefore  are  now 
rarely  to  be  found  in  a  cultivated  state. 


558  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 


4<2.  MUSHROOMS. 

These  may  be  raised  in  abundance  on  Melon  beds,  by 
spawning  them  on  the  sides  of  the  hills,  and  also  on  the 
surface  of  the  beds.  This  must  be  done  when  the  bed 
is  earthed  up  for  the  last  time.  The  strong  loamy  soil 
used  for  Melons  is  much  more  congenial  to  the  Mush- 
room than  the  light  soil  used  for  Cucumbers  ;  and  if  it 
is  made  still  more  firm  by  treading,  it  will  be  of  very 
great  advantage.  Nothing  more  is  required  than  to 
manage  the  bed  and  the  Melons,  as  if  no  spawn  had 
been  used.  The  warmth  of  the  bed  will  soon  cause  the 
spawn  to  run,  and  extend  itself  through  to  the  surface 
of  the  ground.  In  September  or  October  following, 
when  the  Melon  plant  is  decaying,  the  bed  must  be 
carefully  cleaned,  the  glasses  put  on  and  kept  close ;  and 
when  the  mould  becomes  dry,  it  must  be  frequently 
watered,  but  not  immediately,  as  too  much  wet  would 
destroy  the  spawn ;  advantage  should  also  be  taken  of 
every  gentle  shower  for  the  same  purpose.  The 
moisture  coming  up  on  the  dry  earth  produces  a  mo- 
derate heat,  which  soon  causes  the  Mushrooms  to  appear 
in  every  part  of  the  bed,  in  such  abundance  as  even  to 
prevent  each  other's  growth.  Two  bushels  at  a  time 
have  frequently  been  gathered  from  a  bed  ten  feet  by 
six,  and  have  produced  individual  Mushrooms  of  nearly 
two  pounds'  weight.  The  mould  being  kept  warm  by 
the  glasses,  and  properly  watered,  the  Mushrooms  will 
continue  to  spring  till  the  frosts  of  winter  prevent  their 
further  growth.  After  this,  the  bed,  frame,  &c.  may 
remain  just  as  they  are  till  the  early  part  of  the  spring  ; 
and  as  soon  as  the  frosts  are  supposed  to  be  over,  the 
bed  may  be  covered  with  straw,  should  the  frame  and 
glasses  be  wanted  for  another  purpose,  when  the  warm 
and  enlivening  showers  of  spring  cause  the  Mushrooms 
to  be  again  produced  in  every  part,  till  the  drought  of 


MUSHROOMS.  659 

summer  renders  it  difficult  to  keep  the  bed  sufficiently 
moist  for  their  growth. 

The  Rev.  William  Williamson,  of  Westbere,  near 
Canterbury,  makes  use  of  this  method ;  and  should  it  be 
advisable  to  have  Mushrooms  during  the  depth  of  win- 
ter, he  is  of  opinion  that  they  might  be  obtained,  at  a 
trifling  expense,  by  lining  the  bed  with  hot  dung,  and 
using  other  precautions  to  keep  out  the  cold  air.  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  iii.  p.  6. 

Mushroom  Spawn. 

In  June  or  July,  to  any  quantity  of  fresh  horse  drop- 
pings, mixed  with  short  litter,  add  one  third  of  cow's 
dung,  and  a  small  portion  of  mould  to  cement  it  to- 
gether ;  mash  the  whole  into  a  thin  compost,  and  spread 
it  on  the  floor  of  an  open  shed,  and  let  it  remain  till  it 
becomes  firm  enough  to  be  formed  into  flat  square  bricks, 
which  being  done,  set  them  on  edge,  and  frequently 
turn  them  till  half  dry  :  then  with  a  dibble  make  two  or 
three  holes  in  each  brick,  and  insert  in  each  hole  a  piece 
of  good  old  spawn,  the  size  of  a  common  walnut ;  the 
bricks  should  then  remain  till  they  are  dry.  This  being 
completed,  level  the  surface  of  a  piece  of  ground,  three 
feet  wide,  and  of  length  sufficient  to  receive  the  bricks, 
on  which  lay  a  bottom  of  dry  horse  dung,  six  inches 
thick  ;  then  form  a  pile  by  placing  the  bricks  in  rows 
one  upon  another  (the  spawned  side  uppermost),  till  the 
pile  is  three  feet  high  :  next  cover  it  with  a  small  por- 
tion of  warm  horse  dung,  sufficient  in  quantity  to  diffuse 
a  gentle  glow  through  the  whole. 

When  the  spawn  has  spread  itself  through  every  part 
of  the  bricks,  the  process  is  ended,  and  they  must  be  laid 
up  in  a  dry  place  for  use. 

Mushroom  spawn  made  according  to  this  process  will 
preserve  its  vegetative  power  many  years,  if  well  dried 


560  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

before  it  is  laid  up  ;    if  moist,  it  will  grow,  and  soon 
exhaust  itself.     Hort.  Trans.  Vol.  ii,  p.  345. 

43.  MUSTARD. 

The  only  species  of  Mustard  cultivated  in  our  gar- 
dens is  the  Sinapis  alba,  or  TVhite  Mustard :  it  is  an 
annual  plant,  and  cut  in  its  young  state,  when  the  seed- 
leaves  are  fully  expanded,  and  used  with  Chervil  and 
Cress,  as  an  ingredient  among  salads. 

The  ripe  seeds  were,  a  few  years  since,  recommended 
to  be  taken  whole,  as  a  tonic  and  detergent ;  and  the 
public  was  amused  for  a  time  with  inflated  accounts 
of  the  medical  virtues  of  this  stimulant  for  debility  of 
the  digestive  organs. 

It  requires  to  be  grown  in  the  same  manner,  and  at 
the  same  times,  as  the  common  garden  Cress. 

44.  NASTURTIUMS,  OR  INDIAN  CRESS. 

There  are  two  species  of  Nasturtium  cultivated  in 
our  gardens  :  they  are  both  hardy  annuals :  natives  of 
Peru. 

1.  Large  Nasturtium.  2.  Small  Nasturtium. 

TropcBolum  Majus.  Tropceolum  Minus. 

Introduced  in  1686.  Cultivated  in  1596. 

In  its  native  country,  the  Tropaeolum  endures  several 
seasons ;  but  here,  being  unable  to  sustain  our  winter, 
it  is  treated  as  an  annual,  and  requires  to  be  sown  every 
year. 

The  flowers  and  young  leaves  are  frequently  eaten  in 
salads.  The  flowers  are  also  used  to  garnish  dishes. 
The  pods  are  gathered  green,  and  pickled,  in  which 
state  they  form  an  excellent  substitute  for  capers. 

To  those  who  cultivate  Nasturtiums  in  their  gardens, 
for  the  sake  of  their  seed-pods  to  pickle,  the  second 
sort  is  preferable.  The  common  Nasturtium,  Tro- 


ONIONS.  561 

pceolum  majusy  and  its  dwarf  variety  are  both  runners, 
and  require  the  support  of  stakes  ;  without  which  they 
will  extend  widely  over  the  borders.  Tropseolum  minus 
is  much  smaller  than  the  dwarf  variety  of  T.  majus, 
not  exceeding  ten  or  twelve  inches  in  height,  and  it 
grows  to  about  two  feet  in  length. 

Both  sorts  may  be  sown  in  March  ;  the  former  at  the 
feet  of  pales,  or  where  the  plants  may  be  staked ;  the 
latter  on  the  borders  of  either  the  kitchen  or  flower 
garden,  wHere  they  will  not  require  any  support. 

45.  ONIONS. 

The  common  bulbous  Onion,  Allium  Cepa,  is  a 
biennial  plant,  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Spain,  though 
neither  the  native  country,  nor  the  date  of  its  introduc- 
tion into  this  country,  are  correctly  known.  It  is  dis- 
tinguished from  other  alliaceous  plants  by  its  large 
fistular  leaves,  swelling  stalk,  coated  bulbous  root,  and 
large  globular  head  of  flowers  which  expand  the  second 
year,  in  June  and  July.  The  following  are  the  sorts 
cultivated  in  our  gardens  : 

1.  Blood-red.  10.  Spanish. 
Dutch  Blood-red.  Reading. 
French  Blood-red.  White  Portugal. 
Ognon  Rougefonce.  White  Spanish. 

2.  Deptford.  Ognon  d"Espagne. 

3.  Early  Silver-skinned.  11.  Strasburgh. 
Ognon  blanc  hatif.  Essex  Onion. 

4.  Globe.  Flanders  Onion. 

5.  James's  Long-keeping.  12.  Tripoli. 

6.  Lisbon.  Ognon  pyriforme. 
White  Lisbon.  13.  True  Portugal. 
Ognon  blanc  de  Florence.                 Brown  Portugal. 

7.  Pale  red.  14.  Two-bladed. 
Ognon  Rouge  pale.  15.  Welsh. 

8.  Potatoe  Onion.  16.  Yellow. 
Under-ground  Onion.  Ognon  jaune. 

9.  Silver-skinned. 
Ognon  blanc  gros. 

o  o 


562  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

All  the  varieties  of  onion,  raised  from  seed,  grow 
freely  in  any  common  good  garden  soil,  in  an  open 
situation.  They  are  sown  from  the  middle  of  January 
to  the  end  of  March,  for  the  main  summer  crops  of 
keeping  onions,  and  in  August  for  smaller  crops  to 
stand  the  winter  for  green  young  onions,  in  the  spring. 

To  obtain  large  Onions,  Mr.  Knight  says,  "  Sow  the 
seeds  thick  of  the  Spanish  or  Portugal,  at  the  usual 
time,  on  poor  land,  generally  under  the  shade  of  a 
fruit-tree ;  and  in  such  situations,  the  bulbs,  in  the 
autumn,  will  seldom  exceed  the  size  of  a  pea.  Take 
them  up  and  keep  them  till  the  following  spring,  and 
plant  them  out  ;  they  will  arrive  at  five  inches  in 
diameter,  and  considerably  more,  and  be  as  sound  and 
good  as  those  imported  from  Portugal.  Plants  obtained 
from  seed  sown  in  August,  and  put  out  in  March,  grow 
also  to  a  very  large  size,  from  a  pound  to  twenty-five 
ounces."  Hort.  Trans,  vol.  i.  p.  158. 

In  adopting  either  of  these  methods,  it  is  necessary 
the  ground  should  be  good,  in  an  open  situation,  and 
the  bulbs  planted  at  a  foot  distance  from  each  other, 
hoeing  between  them  frequently,  to  stir  the  surface  and 
destroy  the  weeds.  Should  the  soil  be  light,  it  ought 
to  be  made  firm  before  planting. 

The  Potatoe  Onion,  is  so  called  from  its  producing 
its  crop  generally  under  the  surface,  like  the  Potatoe  ; 
hence  it  is  called  the  Under-ground  Onion,  and  is 
never  obtained  from  seed.  It  cannot  be  ascertained, 
perhaps,  at  this  time,  when  it  was  introduced  into  this 
country,  or  from  whence  it  came.  It  appears  to  have 
been  cultivated  in  Mr.  Driver's  nursery,  near  London, 
in  1796 ;  and  it  has  probably  been  known  in  some  of 
our  gardens  much  longer.-  There  are  several  ways  of 
cultivating  it :  the  two  following  have  been  practised 
with  very  good  success. 

The  first  is  to  dung  and  dig  the  ground  well,  and 


ONIONS.  563 

form  beds  four  feet  wide,  in  February,  on  each  of  which 
plant  three  rows,  placing  the  roots  ten  inches  apart,  and 
inserting  the  bulb  about  half  its  depth  in  drills  drawn 
lengthways  on  the  beds  to  receive  them.  As  they  grow, 
earth  them  up  like  potatoes :  small  bulbs  become  large 
ones,  and  produce  offsets ;  the  middle-sized  and  large 
ones,  large  clusters.  Under  this  management,  sixty 
roots  planted  out  in  February,  produced  360  in  the  July 
following. 

The  second  method  is  that  adopted  by  John  Wedge- 
wood,  Esq.  a  gentleman  possessing  very  extensive  horti- 
cultural knowledge.  He  says,  "  When  the  Onions  have 
shot  out  their  leaves  to  their  full  size,  and  when  they 
begin  to  get  a  little  brown  at  the  top,  he  clears  away  all 
the  soil  from  the  bulb,  down  to  the  ring  from  whence 
proceed  the  fibres  of  the  roots,  and  thus  forms  a  basin 
round  each  bulb,  which  catches  the  rain,  and  serves  as 
a  receptacle  for  the  water  from  the  watering-pot.  The 
old  bulbs  then  immediately  begin  to  form  new  ones ; 
and  if  they  are  kept  properly  moist  and  the  ground 
good,  the  clusters  will  be  very  large  and  numerous ; 
besides,  bulbs  grown  thus  above  ground  are  much 
sounder  than  those  grown  below,  and  will  keep  much 
better  —  quite  as  well  as  many  others."  Hort.  Trans. 
vol.  iii.  p.  403. 

It  will  be  right,  however,  in  adopting  Mr.  Wedge- 
wood's  plan,  to  make  the  experiment  upon  the  half  of 
one  of  the  beds  planted  out  according  to  the  first 
method :  it  will  be  the  means  of  clearly  ascertaining 
whether  the  last  method  is,  or  is  not,  an  improve- 
ment. 

The  Potatoe  Onion  is  a  very  valuable  acquisition  to 
our  gardens,  and  its  cultivation  cannot  be  too  strongly 
recommended.  It  is  most  hardy,  productive,  and  of 
mild  quality,  equally  so  with  the  Spanish ;  possessing 
this  advantage,  that  its  roots  are  perfectly  ripened  and 

o  o  2 


564  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

fit  for  use,  in  any  season,  two  months  before  any  other 
sort. 

46.  PARSLEY. 

Apium  Petroselinum,  or  Garden  Parsley,  is  a  hardy 
biennial,  a  native  of  Sardinia,  and  was  in  cultivation  in 
England  so  long  ago  as  1548.  It  is  a  well  known 
seasoning  herb,  and  communicates  an  agreeable  flavour 
to  soups  and  stews.  There  are  three  varieties  cultivated 
in  our  gardens. 

1.  Common.  3.  Hamburgh. 

2.  Curled-leaved.  Large-rooted. 

Curled  Parsley  is  a  very  valuable  article  in  the  garden, 
and  requires  particular  attention  in  order  to  keep  it 
true  :  as  the  very  finest  variety  will  soon  degenerate  and 
become  plain  if  left  to  itself.  On  the  contrary,  a  very 
fine  sort  may  be  considerably  improved  by  management. 

It  should  be  sown  thin  in  the  spring,  broadcast ;  and 
when  the  plants  have  acquired  five  or  six  leaves,  those 
which  are  the  most  densely  curled  should  be  taken  up, 
their  roots  shortened  to  three  or  four  inches  long,  and 
planted  out  upon  a  bed  in  the  open  part  of  the  garden, 
at  eight  or  nine  inches  apart  from  each  other,  keeping 
the  ground  perfectly  clean  through  the  summer.  By 
the  autumn  the  plants  will  have  attained  their  full  size, 
when  the  very  handsomest  should  again  be  selected, 
taken  up,  and  planted  out  again,  in  the  most  open  and 
exposed  part  of  the  garden,  for  seed. 

By  this  method  of  transplanting  the  plants  twice,  the 
stock  is  improved  as  far,  probably,  as  art  is  capable  of 
effecting  it. 

The  transplanting  of  Chervil  and  Garden  Cress,  is  the 
only  means  of  improving  their  curled-leaved  varieties. 

Hamburgh  Parsley,  which  is  cultivated  for  its  roots 
alone,  should  be  sown  thin,  broadcast,  and  the  plants  hoed 


PARSNIPS.  565 

out  to  the  distance  of  nine  or  ten  inches  from  each  other, 
the  ground  having  been  previously  trenched.  The  whole 
crop  should  be  taken  up  in  the  autumn,  when  the  roots 
have  attained  their  full  size  ;  a  few  of  the  finest  may  be 
selected  and  planted  out  for  seed,  and  the  others  laid 
into  the  ground  again  for  use. 

47.  PARSNIPS. 

The  Parsnip,  Pastinaca  sativa,  is  a  biennial  plant, 
a  native  of  England.  The  Garden  Parsnip  has  large, 
smooth,  pinnated  leaves,  of  a  light  green  colour ;  the 
roots  are  white  or  cream  colour,  mild,  sweet,  and 
aromatic. 

The  following  sorts  have  been  cultivated  in  the  Hor- 
ticultural Garden  at  Chiswick  :  — 

1.  Common  Parsnip.  3.  Hollow-crowned  Parsnip. 
Swelling  Parnsip.  Hollow-headed. 

Large  Swelling  Parsnip.  Panais  Lisbonais,  of  Guern- 

2.  Guernsey  Parsnip.  sey. 
Panais  long,  of  the  French.  4-.  Turnip-rooted. 
Panais    coquin,  of  Guern-            Panais  rond. 

sey. 

The  Guernsey  Parsnip,  No.  2.  appears  to  be  an 
improved  variety  of  the  common  sort :  it  sometimes 
grows  in  Guernsey  to  the  length  of  four  feet.  The 
third  sort  also  grows  to  a  large  size,  and  appears  to  be 
the  most  deserving  of  cultivation,  being  very  hardy, 
tender  in  its  flesh,  and  of  a  most  excellent  flavour. 

Parsnips  cannot  be  expected  to  grow  large  unless  the 
ground  is  good  and  properly  prepared.  For  this  pur- 
pose, it  should  be  trenched  two  spit,  or  twenty  inches 
deep :  in  the  beginning  of  March,  the  seed  should 
be  sown  thinly  in  very  shallow  drills  eighteen  inches 
from  each  other ;  and  as  soon  as  the  plants  are  two  or 
three  inches  high,  they  should  be  thinned  out  to  twelve 
inches  apart,  or  fifteen  inches  if  very  large  roots  are 

o  o  3 


566  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

desired.  It  would,  however,  be  a  safer  way,  at  the  first 
thinning,  to  leave  the  plants  by  pairs,  or  two  together, 
till  they  are  six  inches  high,  when  the  smallest  of  the 
two  may  be  cut  up.  After  this,  there  will  be  nothing 
further  required  than  to  keep  the  crop  perfectly  clean, 
by  frequent  hoeings,  during  the  summer.  Under  this 
management,  I  have  grown  many  tons  of  No.  3.  the 
principal  roots  of  which  have  measured  eighteen  inches 
long,  seventeen  inches  in  circumference  at  the  crown, 
and  weighing  from  four  to  five  pounds. 

48.  PEAS. 

The  Garden  Pea,  Pisum  sativum,  is  a  hardy  annual, 
native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  and  has  long  been  culti- 
vated. It  was  not  common,  however,  in  Elizabeth's 
time,  as  Fuller  informs  us  that  Peas  were  brought  from 
Holland,  and  were  "  fit  dainties  for  ladies,  they  came 
so  far,  and  cost  so  dear." 

The  varieties  of  Peas  are  very  numerous  :  the  follow- 
ing are  mentioned  in  the  seedsmen's  lists :  — 

1.  *Bishop's  Early  Dwarf.  14.  *Knight's  Dwarf  Marrowfat, 

2.  *Blue  Prussian.  15.  *Knight's  Tall  Marrowfat. 

3.  Charlton.  16.  Late  Spanish. 

4.  *Dwarf  Green  Imperial.  17.  Pearl. 

5.  *Dwarf  Marrowfat. .  18.  Prolific. 

6.  Dwarf  Sabre.  19.  *Royal  Dwarf. 

7.  Dwarf  Spanish.  20.  ^Spanish  Morotto.  i 

8.  Dwarf  Sugar.  21.  *Tall  Green  Imperial* 

9.  *Egg.  22.  Tall  Marrowfat. 

10.  *Frame,  Double-podded.  23.  Tall  Sugar. 

11.  Frame,  Single-podded.  24.  Wellington. 

12.  Golden  Hotspur.  25.  White  Prussian. 

13.  *Green  Marrowfat.  26.  White  Rouncival. 

Out  of  the  above  number,  ten  or  twelve  sorts  are  as 
many  as  can  be  required  for  the  largest  garden.  There 
are  other  names  of  Peas  which  might  be  enumerated, 


PEAS.  567 

but,  like  some  of  the  above,  they  are  nominal  only, 
having  no  distinguishable  character.  Those  denoted  by 
an  asterisk (*)  may  be  considered  as  forming  an  assort- 
ment of  the  most  approved  sorts.  Bishop's  Early 
Dwarf  is  a  very  excellent  variety  for  an  early  crop.  The 
Double  and  Single-podded  Frame  scarcely  differ,  ex- 
cept that  the  latter  has  several  of  its  blossoms  solitary 
at  the  joint,  instead  of  being  in  pairs  ;  excess  of  vigour 
in  the  plant,  however,  will  destroy  this  character. 
The  Charlton  Pea  is  only  known  by  name  ;  the  same 
may  be  said  of  the  Golden  Hotspur.  The  Marrowfat 
Peas,  particularly  those  called  Knight's  Marrowfats, 
have  distinguishing  characters,  and  they  are  all  excellent ; 
the  latter  particularly  so  for  late  crops.  The  Egg  Pea, 
and  Spanish  Morotto,  may  be  considered  as  the  poor 
man's  pea,  being  the  most  hardy  and  abundant  bearers. 
Some  of  the  other  sorts  mentioned  in  the  list,  no  doubt, 
possess  considerable  merit ;  but,  it  is  apprehended,  not 
sufficient  to  exclude  those  I  have  recommended. 

For  the  first  crop,  the  early  peas  are  generally  sown 
upon  a  south  border  in  November,  and  again  in  January 
or  February  if  the  weather  be  open  ;  but  in  hard  winters 
the  early  sowings  are  frequently  destroyed,  notwith- 
standing the  greatest  care  has  been  bestowed  upon  them. 

A  much  better  way  of  obtaining  an  early  crop,  and  at 
one  twentieth  part  of  the  trouble,  is  to  sow  the  peas  in 
January,  in  shallow  pots,  and  place  them  under  a  com- 
mon frame,  where  they  may  be  protected  from  frost. 
Towards  the  middle  of  March,  the  plants  must  be  turned 
carefully  out  of  the  pots,  so  as  not  to  injure  their  roots, 
and  planted  out  an  inch  apart  in  drills,  under  a  south 
wall,  at  three  feet  and  a  half,  or  four  feet  from  the  foot, 
drawing  a  ridge  of  mould  six  inches  high  at  the  back  of 
the  plants,  and  protecting  them  by  a  few  closely-placed 
spruce  fir  branches  on  the  north  side.  In  this  manner, 
peas  may  be  brought  much  forwarder  than  those  sown 

o  o  4 


568  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

upon  the  border,  and  under  the  greatest  care  and  atten- 
tion. This  will  appear  clear  by  the  following  experiment : 
Mr.  Knight  sowed  peas  in  the  open  air,  and  others  in 
pots,  on  the  first  day  of  March.  In  the  last  week  of  the 
month,  those  in  pots  were  transplanted  into  rows  in  the 
open  ground.  On  the  29th  of  April,  the  transplanted 
peas  were  fifteen,  and  the  others  four  inches  high ;  and 
in  June  the  former  ripened  twelve  days  before  the  latter. 
For  the  late  crops,  Knight's  Marrowfat  sown  about 
Midsummer  day,  or  a  sowing  made  a  week  before,  and 
another  a  week  after  this  time,  will  produce  a  supply 
from  the  middle  of  September  till  the  end  of  October, 
and  sometimes  much  later.  From  a  sowing  on  Mid- 
summer day,  I  have  gathered  fine  peas  of  Knight's 
Marrow  after  snow  in  November. 

49.  PENNYROYAL. 

Mentha  Pulegium,  or  Pennyroyal,  is  a  perennial 
plant,  a  native  of  Britain.  It  smells  like  Spearmint,  but 
is  less  fragrant ;  the  taste  is  aromatic  and  pungent,  with 
a  slight  flavour  of  camphor.  It  was  formerly  in  use  as 
a  medicinal  plant,  but  is  now  seldom  used  in  regular 
practice.  It  is  propagated  by  dividing  the  plant,  and 
planting  out  the  young  slips  upon  a  moist  bed  or  border, 
in  March  or  April. 

50.  POTATOES. 

Solanum  tuberosum,  or  Potatoe,  is  a  perennial,  sup- 
posed to  be  a  native  of  South  America.  It  appears, 
according  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  that  the  Potatoe  was 
brought  into  England,  from  Virginia,  by  Sir  Walter 
Raleigh,  in  1586. 

The  tubers  of  the  Potatoe,  from  having  no  peculiarity 
of  taste,  and  consisting  chiefly  of  starch,  approach  nearer 
to  the  nature  of  flour,  or  farina  of  grain,  than  any 
vegetable  root  production.  With  the  flour  of  Potatoes 


PURSLANE.  569 

puddings  are  made,  nearly  equal  in  flavour  to  those  of 
Millet.  With  a  moderate  proportion  of  Wheat  flour, 
bread  of  excellent  quality  may  be  formed  of  it,  and  as 
equally  delicate  food  as  sago  or  arrow-root. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  this  root  cultivated  in 
different  parts  of  England  ;  but  few  appear  to  be  suffi- 
ciently meritorious  to  deserve  garden  culture.  The 
most  approved  variety  is  that  known  by  the  name  of 
Ash-leaved  Kidney.  It  is  one  of  the  best  that  can  be 
employed  for  forcing,  and  likewise  for  the  first  crop  in 
the  open  air. 

The  earliest  tubers  of  the  potatoe  are  always  those 
which  are  produced  from  sets  which  have  been  cut  with 
a  single  eye  to  each.  This  circumstance  should  be  par- 
ticularly attended  to  in  the  first  crop,  as  I  have  always 
found  these  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  earlier  than  those 
produced  from  sets  which  had  been  cut  with  two  eyes  or 
more.  I  have  tried  them  several  years,  planting  the 
single-eyed  sets  in  alternate  drills  with  the  others,  and 
the  difference  has  proved  uniformly  the  same. 

When  the  sets  are  cut,  in  all  potatoes  whatever,  the 
crown  of  the  tuber,  or  that  part  opposite  to  where  it  was 
attached  to  the  runner  when  growing,  should  be  thrown 
away. 

The  sets  should  always  be  planted  so  far  apart  that 
the  plants,  when  growing,  should  not  press  upon  each 
other,  but  have  all  their  leaves  fully  exposed  to  sun 
and  air. 

For  excellent  practical  observations  upon  this  subject 
see  Mr.  Knight's  papers  in  the  Hort.  Trans,  particu- 
larly that  at  p.  405.  of  vol.  vii. 

51.  PURSLANE. 

Portulaca  sativa,  and  oleracea,  are  both  annual  plants, 
natives  of  South  America  and  Europe.  They  were 
formerly  cultivated  as  pot  herbs,  salads,  for  garnishings, 


570  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

and  pickling,  though  now  little  used  for  any  of  these 
purposes.     The  sorts  cultivated  are  :  — 

1.  Green  Purslane.  2.  Golden  Purslane* 

It  may  be  sown  on  a  light  warm  border,  broad  cast, 
in  April,  and  repeated  in  May,  June,  and  July,  which 
will  suffice  for  the  summer,  after  which  time  it  is  not 
used. 

52.  RADISHES. 

Raphamts  sativus,  or  Garden  Radish,  is  an  annual 
plant,  a  native  of  China,  and  is  mentioned  by  Gerard  in 
1584. 

There  are  two  distinct  sorts  of  the  Radish  ;  the  one, 
spindle  or  tap-rooted ;  the  other,  roundish  and  turnip- 
rooted.  The  former  is  termed  by  the  French,  Have  ; 
the  latter  they  call  Radis.  Of  these  two  sorts  there 
are  many  varieties,  of  which  the  following  are  recorded 
in  the  Hort.  Trans.  — 

LONG    SPRING    RADISHES. 

1.  Long  white  transparent.  3.  Salmon  Radish. 
Rave  blanche.  4.  Scarlet  Radish. 

2.  Purple  Radish.  Rave  Rose. 
Rave  longue  rouge.  5.  White  Russian. 

ROUND    SPRING    RADISHES. 

6.  Crimson  Turnip-rooted.  8.  Purple  Turnip-rooted. 
Radis  rouge,  or  Rose  rond.  Radis  Violet  rond. 

7.  Early  White  Turnip-rooted.  9.  White  Turnip-rooted. 
Radis  m  blanc   hdtif    d'Hol-  Radis  blanc  rond.  i 

lande.  10.  Yellow  Turnip-rooted. 

Radis  jaune. 

WINTER    RADISHES. 

11.  Black  Spanish.  14.  Round  brown. 
Radis  gros  noir  d'Hiver.  Radis  gris  rond. 

12.  Brown  oblong.  15.  W'hite  Spanish. 

Radis  gris  oblong.  Radis  gros  blanc  d'Augs- 

13.  Large  Purple  Winter.  bourg. 

Radis  gros  violet  d'Hiver.        No.  10.    comes    also    into   this 

division. 
Hort.  Trans,  vol.  iii.  p.  4-36.;  vol.iv.  p.  10. 


RAMPION.  571 

The  best  for  general  culture  are  the  common  taper- 
rooted  Radishes  ;  and  chiefly,  the  short-topped  varieties 
of  the  Salmon  and  Scarlet  for  the  early  and  main  crops. 
No.  2.  is  the  sort  sold  under  the  name  of  Salad  Radish, 
the  seed  leaves  being  large.  Of  the  Turnip-rooted 
Radishes,  the  Early  White  is  a  very  delicate  variety : 
if  sowed  in  February  and  March,  it  comes  in  for  use  in 
April  and  May ;  or  sowed  in  August  for  autumn  use. 
The  Crimson-rooted,  No.  6.,  is  a  very  excellent  variety 
when  perfectly  true,  and  may  be  sown  at  the  time  of 
No.  7«  •  it  is  nearly  as  early,  and  makes  a  very  hand- 
some variety  at  table. 

The  last  six  kinds  of  Radish  will  supply  the  table  in 
succession  through  the  autumn  and  winter.  Those 
which  are  intended  for  winter  use  should  be  taken  up 
in  dry  weather  in  November,  divested  of  their  leaves 
and  fibres,  and  preserved  in  sand  until  they  are  wanted. 


53.  RAMPION. 

The  Rampion,  Campanula  Rapunculus,  is  a  biennial 
plant,  a  native  of  Britain.  It  also  grows  wild  in  France, 
Germany,  Switzerland,  and  the  north  of  Italy,  and  it 
is  sometimes  found  apparently  wild  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Croydon  in  Surry.  It  has  a  long,  white,  spindle- 
shaped  root ;  the  leaves  grow  close  to  the  ground,  till  the 
stem  shoots  up  into  blossom,  in  which  state  its  bunches  of 
blue  flowers,  about  two  feet  high,  may  fairly  be  consi- 
dered ornamental.  Eng.  Bot.  p.  283. 

The  root  is  the  part  which  is  used  :  it  is  eaten  raw 
like  a  Radish,  having  a  very  pleasant  nutty  flavour ;  it 
is  also  sometimes  cut  into  winter  salads,  and  then  the 
leaves  as  well  as  the  roots  are  used. 

The  seed  should  be  sown  in  the  latter  end  of  May, 
on  a  shady  border  of  rich  earth,  not  over  stiff,  the  mould 
being  made  as  fine  as  possible  :  it  is  better  not  to  rake 


KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

in  the  seed,  as  its  being  so  very  fine  it  may  by  that  oper- 
ation be  buried  too  deep. 

Moderate  waterings  must  be  given  through  the  fine 
rose  of  a  watering-pot,  and  it  is  necessary  the  bed  be 
kept  at  all  times  tolerably  moist. 

When  the  plants  are  of  a  sufficient  size,  they  must  be 
thinned  out  to  the  distance  of  three  or  four  inches  apart. 
In  November  the  plants  will  be  fit  for  use,  and  will  con- 
tinue so  till  April,  about  which  time  they  will  begin  to 
run  up  into  flower,  when  a  few  may  be  left  for  seed, 
which  is  produced  in  abundance.  There  is  a  variety  of 
the  Rampion  with  white  flowers. 

54%  RAPE. 

Brassica  Napus,  Wild  Navew,  or  Rape,  is  a  hardy 
biennial,  a  native  of  Britain.  It  is  chiefly  used  as  a 
small  salad,  along  with  Mustard  and  Cress*  It  is,  how- 
ever, sometimes  found  cultivated  in  the  garden  for  spring 
greens,  the  tops  being  first  cut  off,  as  in  the  case  of 
Broccoli ;  and  then  the  young  side  shoots. 

Many  country  people  and  cottagers  take  delight  in 
this  vegetable ;  for  it  supplies  the  family  with  greens, 
for  six  weeks  or  two  months  in  early  spring.  For  this 
purpose  the  seeds  should  be  sown  in  July  and  August 
for  transplanting  late  in  autumn. 

55.  RHUBARB. 

Rhubarb  is  cultivated  for  the  petioles  of  the  leaves,  in 
a  green  state,  or  blanched,  to  be  used  in  tarts  and  pies,  as 
a  substitute  for,  or  along  with  Gooseberries,  and  Apples. 

The  following  are  the  sorts  employed  for  this  pur* 
pose :  — 

1.  Buck's  Rhubarb.     Rheum  undulatum*     A  native 

of  China,  introduced  in  1734. 

2.  Common  Rhubarb.    Rheum  rhaponticum.     A  na- 

tive of  Asia,  cultivated  in  1573. 


RHUBARB.  573 

3.  Elford  Rhubarb.      Rheum    undulatum,  var.      A 

variety  raised  by  Mr.  Wm.  Buck,  of  Elford. 

4.  Hybrid  Rhubarb.     Rheum  hybridum.     A   native 

of  Asia,  cultivated  in  1778. 

One  of  the  most  valuable  varieties  of  Rhubarb  is  the 
Elford,  raised  some  years  ago  by  Mr.  Wm.  Buck,  gar- 
dener to  the  Honourable  Fulke  Greville  Howard,  at 
Elford,  near  Litchfield,  Staffordshire.  It  is  a  very  early 
sort,  and  may  be  forced,  either  in  the  forcing-house, 
mushroom-house,  or  under  garden  pots  in  the  open 
garden,  in  the  manner  of  Sea  Kale.  It  possesses  the 
peculiar  property  of  retaining  its  brilliant  scarlet  colour, 
although  forced  in  perfect  darkness  ;  a  property  not 
possessed,  probably,  by  any  other  culinary  vegetable  ;  in 
addition  to  which,  its  flavour  in  a  tart  is  not  surpassed 
by  that  of  any  other  variety. 

By  potting  the  plants,  and  placing  them  in  the  forcing- 
house,  or  mushroom-house,  in  November,  its  leaves  will 
be  fit  to  gather  by  Christmas,  and  by  bringing  in  other 
plants,  a  succession  may  be  kept  up  till  March. 

By  placing  large  garden  pots  over  the  roots  in  the 
garden  in  February,  and  covering  them  over  with  hot 
dung,  a  succession  may  be  kept  up  from  March,  till  a 
crop  can  be  gathered  in  the  open  air  from  the  same 
variety,  which  will  be  a  month  before  any  other  sort 
makes  its  appearance. 

R.  rhaponticum,  and  hybridum,  are  grown  only  for 
cutting  in  the  open  air,  as  their  colour  and  flavour  are 
neither  of  them  improved  by  forcing  :  the  latter,  having 
very  long  leaves  and  petioles,  is  by  far  the  most  desirable 
as  an  open  crop.  All  the  sorts  require  a  good  deep 
soil,  trenched  two  or  three  feet  deep,  and  the  roots 
planted  in  rows  four  feet  apart,  and  the  plants  three 
feet  from  each  other.  A  strong  plant  of  R.  hybridum, 
however,  will  spread  eight  feet. 


574  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

56.  ROCAMBOLE. 

Rocambole,  Allium  Scorodoprasum,  is  a  hardy 
bulbous-rooted  perennial  plant,  a  native  of  Denmark. 
It  has  bulbs  like  Garlic,  but  the  cloves  are  smaller.  It 
is  cultivated  for  the  same  purpose  as  that  species,  and  is 
considered  as  having  a  more  delicate  flavour. 

Its  cultivation  is  the  same  as  for  Garlic. 

57.  ROSEMARY. 

Rosemary,  Rosmarinus  officinalis,  is  an  evergreen 
shrub,  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  and  was  culti- 
vated here  in  1548.  It  yields,  by  distillation,  a  light 
pale  essential  oil  of  great  fragrance,  which  is  imparted 
to  rectified  spirit.  It  is  said  to  be  the  principal  ingre- 
dient in  Hungary  Water,  and  is  drunk  as  tea  for  head- 
aches, and  by  nervous  persons.  It  prefers  a  lean  dry 
soil,  or  rubbish  of  old  buildings  ;  and  when  it  has  esta- 
blished itself  on  a  wall,  will  resist  the  greatest  cold  of 
our  winters.  It  is  propagated  by  cuttings  or  slips,  in 
April,  the  same  as  other  frutescent  medicinal  plants. 

58.  RUE. 

Ruta  graveolens,  or  Garden  Rue,  is  a  low  ever- 
green shrub,  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  and  cul- 
tivated here  in  1562.  The  leaves  have  a  powerful 
unpleasant  odour,  and  a  hot,  bitter  nauseous  taste. 
Medicinally,  Rue  is  stimulant  and  antispasmodic.  In 
modern  practice,  it  is  chiefly  used  in  hysteria  and 
flatulent  colic. 

It  is  propagated  by  slips  in  March  or  April,  and  will 
succeed  in  almost  any  soil  or  situation. 

59.  SAGE. 

Salvia  officinalis,  is  a  low  evergreen  shrub,  a  native 
of  the  south  of  Europe,  and  cultivated  here  in  1597» 
There  are  several  varieties,  differing  in  the  size,  form, 


SALSAFY. SAVORY.  575. 

and  colour  of  the  leaves.  It  was  formerly  in  great 
repute  in  medicine  as  a  sudorific,  aromatic,  astringent, 
and  antiseptic.  In  cookery,  it  is  used  for  sauces  and 
stuffings  for  meats. 

It  is  propagated  by  slips  in  March  or  April :  the 
plants  succeed  in  almost  any  soil  and  situation. 

60.  SALSAFY. 

Tragopogon  porrifolius9  is  a  hardy  biennial,  a  native 
of  England.  It  has  a  long,  tapering,  fleshy,  white  root, 
which  is  used  like  Carrots  or  Parsnips,  and  cultivated 
in  gardens  for  that  purpose :  the  flavour  of  the  root  is 
mild  and  sweetish :  dressed  like  asparagus,  there  is  some 
resemblance  in  taste. 

The  seed  requires  to  be  sown  in  April,  in  an  open 
part  of  the  garden ;  and  when  the  plants  are  three  or 
four  inches  high,  they  should  be  thinned  out  to  eight  or 
nine  inches  distance  from  each  other. 

61.  SAVORY. 

Savory  has  been  cultivated  as  a  culinary  aromatic 
from  time  immemorial,  and  much  more  formerly  than 
now,  when  almost  all  European  spices  are  superseded 
by  those  of  the  East  Indies  :  there  are  two  sorts  culti- 
vated in  our  gardens  :  — 

1.  Summer  Savory.  2.  Winter  Savory. 

Satureja  hortensis.  Satureja  montana. 

The  first  is  an  annual  plant,  a  native  of  Italy,  and 
cultivated  in  1652. 

The  second  sort  is  a  dwarf  evergreen  shrub,  a  native 
of  the  south  of  Europe,  and  cultivated  about  the  same 
period. 

The  former  is  sown  annually  in  April,  on  a  warm 
border,  with  other  annual  potherbs :  the  latter  must  be 
propagated  by  dividing  the  plant,  in  March  or  April : 


576  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

it  is  also  propagated  by  sowing  the  seeds,  which  are 
annually  imported  with  those  of  other  aromatic  pot-herbs. 

62.  SAVOYS. 

The  Savoy,  Brassica  oleracea,  var.  sabauda,  is  a 
Winter  Cabbage,  the  best  and  staple  supply  from  Novem- 
ber to  March  :  it  is  distinguished  from  all  other  varieties 
of  firm-headed  cabbages,  by  the  roughness  of  its  leaves  : 
there  are  four  varieties,  viz. :  — 

1.  Dwarf  Savoy.  3.  Large  Green. 

2.  Globe.  4.  Yellow. 

These  will  be  noticed  further,  under  the  head  of 
WINTER  GREENS. 

63.  SCORZONERA. 

Scorzonera  hispanica,  or  Garden  Scorzonera,  is  a 
perennial  plant,  a  native  of  Spain,  and  was  cultivated 
with  us  in  1576. 

The  root  is  carrot-shaped,  about  the  thickness  of 
one's  finger,  tapering  gradually  to  a  fine  point.  The 
outer  rind  is  scraped  off,  and  the  root,  like  that  of 
Salsafy,  steeped  in  vinegar,  in  order  to  abstract  its 
bitter  flavour.  It  is  then  boiled  or  stewed  in  the 
manner  of  Carrots  or  Parsnips.  The  roots  are  fit  for 
use  in  October,  and  continue  good  till  the  following 
spring. 

Its  management  is  the  same  as  that  of  Salsafy ;  for 
although  the  plant  is  a  perennial  in  Spain,  its  seeds  are 
sown  annually,  the  same  as  that  plant. 

64.  SCURVY-GRASS. 

Cochlearia  qfficinalis,  or  common  Scurvy-grass,  is 
a  hardy  annual,  a  native  of  Britain.  It  has  powerful 
medical  properties,  is  antiscorbutic,  and  stimulating  to 
the  digestive  organs. 


SEA    KALE.  577 

The  seeds  should  be  sown  upon  a  cool  moist  bed  or 
border,  in  April ;  and  when  the  plants  appear,  they  will 
require  no  further  trouble  than  to  keep  them  clean  from 
weeds. 

65.  SEA  KALE. 

Crambe  Maritima,  or  Sea  Kale,  is  a  hardy  peren- 
nial, a  native  of  various  parts  of  the  shores  of  Britain. 

The  plant  has  not  long  been  introduced  into  public 
use  as  a  dinner  vegetable. 

Mr.  London  says,  "  Jones,  of  Chelsea,  assured  the 
late  Mr.  Curtis  that  he  saw  bundles  of  it,  in  a  cultivated 
state,  exposed  for  .sale  in  Chichester  market  in  1J53." 
About  the  year  1767»  it  was  cultivated  by  Dr.  Lettsom, 
at  Grove  Hill,  and  by  him  brought  into  general  notice 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  London.  Sea  Kale  is  a  choice 
and  delicate  vegetable,  is  of  the  most  ready  culture,  and 
bears  forcing  remarkably  well.  Its  seeds  should  be 
sown  in  March  or  April,  thinly,  upon  a  bed  in  an  open 
part  of  the  garden,  keeping  the  plants  clean  from  weeds 
through  the  summer.  In  the  following  spring  they 
should  be  taken  up  carefully,  and,  shortening  the  roots 
to  eight  or  nine  inches,  they  should  be  planted  out  in 
rows,  on  good,  well-trenched  ground,  in  rows  four  feet 
apart,  and  the  plants  at  eighteen  inches*  distance  from 
each  other,  placing  the  crowns  of  the  roots  two  inches 
below  the  surface.  This  may  be  considered  as  a  regular 
distance  for  the  crop :  but  a  smaller-sized  root  may  be 
planted  between  each  of  the  others,  as  an  intermediate 
plant,  which  will  increase  the  crop  for  the  first  two  or 
three  years,  without  injuring  the  rest ;  afterwards  they 
may  be  removed,  leaving  the  original  number  at  eighteen 
inches  apart. 

At  the  end  of  the  first  year  after  planting  out,  the 
heads  may  be  forced,  by  means  of  large  pots  being 
placed  over  the  crowns,  and  covered  with  hot. dung. 

p  P 


578  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

It  should  be  observed,  that  immediately  on  cutting  the 
forced  heads,  they  should  be  brought  to  a  level  with  the 
surface  of  the  ground  ;  or  else,  in  the  course  of  a  few 
years,  the  roots  will  form  their  crowns  so  high,  that  it 
will  be  necessary  to  earth  them  up,  to  preserve  them 
from  the  effects  of  severe  frost.  Should  young  plants 
not  be  at  hand  when  a  new  plantation  is  required  to  be 
made,  cuttings  from  the  roots  of  the  old  plants,  of  two 
or  three  inches  in  length,  will  answer  the  purpose 
equally  as  well  as  plants ;  for  every  inch  of  root  will 
grow,  if  planted  near  the  surface ;  and  the  stronger 
these  pieces  are,  the  stronger  will  be  the  plants  at  the 
end  of  the  year. 

66.  SHALLOTS. 

dllium  Ascalonicum,  or  common  Shallot,  is  a  hardy 
perennial  plant,  a  native  of  Palestine,  and  more  imme- 
diately of  Ascalon  and  the  adjacent  parts.  It  was  cul- 
tivated in  this  country  in  1548.  The  bulbs  are  com- 
pound, like  those  of  Garlic.  The  Shallot  is  used  to 
flavour  beef-steaks,  and  is  introduced  into  India  pickle 
as  a  substitute  for  Garlic.  The  method  of  cultivating 
the  Shallot  has  generally  been  by  planting  the  roots  in 
drills,  and  earthing  them  up  as  the  plants  advanced  in 
height ;  but  Mr.  Knight  has  suggested  a  mode  of  sur- 
face-planting, by  which  he  has  succeeded  in  growing 
very  fine  bulbs.  It  is  thus  described  :  —  "  He  places  a 
rich  soil  beneath  the  roots,  and  raises  the  mould  <m 
each  side  to  support  them  till  they  become  firmly  rooted. 
This  mould  is  then  removed  by  the  hoe,  and  watered 
from  the  rose  of  a  watering-pot,  and  the  bulbs,  in  con- 
sequence, are  placed  wholly  out  of  the  ground.  The 
growth  of  these  plants,"  he  adds,  "  now  so  closely 
resembled  that  of  the  common  Onion,  as  not  to  be 
readily  distinguished  from  it,  till  the  irregularity  of 
form,  resulting  from  the  numerous  germs  within  each 
bulb,  became  conspicuous. 


SKIRRET. SORREL.  579 

"  The  forms  of  the  bulbs,  however,  remained  perma- 
nently different  from  all  I  had  ever  seen  of  the  same 
species,  being  much  more  broad,  and  less  long  ;  and  the 
crop  was  so  much  better  in  quality,  as  well  as  much 
more  abundant,  that  I  can  confidently  recommend  the 
mode  of  culture  adopted  to  every  gardener."  Hort. 
Trans.  Vol.  ii.  p.  98. 

67.  SKIRRET. 

Slum  Sisarum>  or  Garden  Skirret,  is  a  perennial 
plant,  a  native  of  China,  cultivated  here  in  1548.  Its 
roots  or  tubers,  when  boiled  and  eaten  with  butter,  are 
sweet  and  agreeable.  A  crop  may  be  raised  either  from 
seeds  or  offsets ;  but  the  latter  method  is  seldom  prac- 
tised. It  is  usually  raised  by  sowing  the  seed  in  March 
or  April,  on  a  bed  of  rich  light  earth  ;  when  the  plants 
are  two  or  three  inches  high,  they  must  be  thinned 
out,  in  the  manner  directed  for  Salsafy  and  Scorzonera, 
along  with  which  it  is  generally  cultivated  as  an  esculent 
root.  With  the  usual  summer  culture,  the  roots  will 
have  attained  their  full  size  in  October,  when  they  may 
be  taken  up,  and  laid  in  sand  till  they  are  wanted  for 
use. 

68.  SORREL. 

Formerly  there  was  only  one  species  of  Sorrel  culti- 
vated in  our  gardens,  Rumex  Acetosa,  a  perennial  plant, 
a  native  of  Britain.  In  1596,  another  species,  the 
French  Sorrel,  succeeded,  and  was  considered  as  a  valuable 
addition  to  our  stock.  Lately,  three  other  sorts  have 
been  obtained  from  France,  and  they  merit  the  gardener's 
attention.  These  may  be  arranged  as  below :  — 

1.  Common  Sorrel.  Rumex  Acetosa. 

2.  Blistered-leaved.  j3  bullatus. 

3.  French  Sorrel.  scutatus. 

4.  Mountain  Sorrel.  montanus. 

5.  Green  Mountain  Sorrel.  — — .  /3  lucidus. 

P  P   2 


580  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

The  first  and  third  sorts  are  too  well  known  to  require 
further  notice. 

No.  2.  is  of  French  origin.  It  was  sent  to  the  Hor- 
ticultural Society  of  London,  by  M.  Vilmorin,  of  Paris, 
under  the  name  of  Oseille  a  feuilles  doquees.  Its 
difference  from  the  Broad-leaved  or  Common  Garden 
Sorrel,  consists  in  the  surface  of  the  leaves  being  blis- 
tered. The  root  leaves  are  about  nine  inches  long,  and 
four  inches  broad,  ovate,  hastate,  growing  on  longish 
footstalks ;  the  stem  leaves  are  more  blistered  than  the 
root  leaves.  Its  principal  merit  is,  that  it  is  slow  in 
running  to  seed. 

No.  4.  is  another  useful  Sorrel,  which  has  been  sent 
from  France,  under  the  name  of  Oseille  merge.  It  has 
formerly  been  considered  as  a  variety  ofRumex  Acetosa. 
Its  foliage  possesses  much  acidity.  The  leaves  are  large, 
oblong,  of  thin  texture,  and  a  pale  green  colour  ;  the 
root  leaves  are  very  numerous,  about  nine  inches  long, 
and  four  inches  wide,  being  very  slightly  blistered.  It 
is  rather  later  than  the  Common  Sorrel  in  coming  to 
flower. 

No.  5.  is  an  improved  variety  of  the  preceding,  and 
preferable  to  any  of  the  other  Sorrels,  from  the  greater 
size  and  abundance  of  its  leaves,  which  possess  much 
acidity.  It  is  also  the  latest  in  running  into  flower.  It 
was  sent  from  France,  under  the  name  of  Oseille  merge 
verte  lisse.  The  leaves  are  large,  ovate,  sagittate,  from 
ten  to  eleven  inches  long,  and  nearly  five  inches  wide} 
very  numerous ;  the  root  leaves  are  slightly  blistered, 
have  long  footstalks,  and  are  of  a  dark  shining  green 
colour. 

All  the  sorts  are  best  propagated  by  dividing  the 
roots  in  March  or  April,  and  planting  them  out  thinly 
on  cool  moist  soil. 

They  all  readily  produce  seeds  ;  but  those  sorts  which 
are  not  established  species,  if  propagated  by  them,  are 


SPINACH.  581 

liable  to  degenerate  to  those  species  from  which  they 
originated. 

69.  SPINACH. 

Spinacia  oleracea,  or  Garden  Spinach,  is  an  annual 
plant,  and  appears  to  have  been  cultivated  with  us  ever 
since  1568 ;  of  its  native  country  nothing  certain  is 
known. 

The  varieties  at  present  cultivated  are,  — 

1.  Prickly-seeded.  3.  Flanders  Spinach. 
Bordeaux.  Epinard  de  Flandres   % 

2.  Round-seeded.  tres  largesfeuilles. 

The  first  sort  is  that  which  is  sown  in  autumn  for 
winter  and  spring  use,  and  is  often  termed  Winter 
Spinach.  The  second  sort  is  that  which  is  sown  in 
spring  and  summer,  but  which  will  not  survive  our 
severe  winters. 

The  third  sort  is  a  winter  Spinach,  the  seed  of  which 
was  sent  from  M.  Vilmorin,  of  Paris,  to  the  Horticul- 
tural Society  of  London,  and  is  far  superior  to  the 
Prickly  or  Common  Winter  Spinach,  which  is  in  general 
cultivation  during  the  winter  season  in  our  gardens.  It 
is  equally  hardy,  perhaps  hardier. 

The  leaves  are  doubly  hastate,  and  somewhat  rugose ; 
the  lower  ones  measure  from  twelve  to  fourteen  inches 
in  length,  and  from  six  to  eight  in  breadth ;  they 
are  not  only  larger,  but  thicker,  and  more  succulent 
than  those  of  the  first  sort.  The  whole  plant  grows 
more  bushy,  and  produces  a  greater  number  of  leaves 
from  each  root,  and  it  is  somewhat  later  in  running  to 
seed.  The  seeds  are  like  those  of  the  Round  or  Summer 
Spinach,  but  larger :  they  are  destitute  of  the  prickles 
which  distinguish  the  seeds  of  the  Prickly  Spinach. 

The  seeds  of  this,  like  those  of  the  first  sort,  should 
be  sown  in  August ;  and  when  the  plants  have  acquired 

p  p  3 


582  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

three  or  four  leaves,  they  should  be  thinned  out  to  five 
or  six  inches  apart ;  or  they  may  at  first  be  thinned  out 
to  three  inches,  cutting  out  every  alternate  plant  when 
the  first  crop  is  gathered. 

70.  TANSY. 

Tanacetum  vulgare,  or  common  Tansy,  is  a  peren- 
nial plant,  a  native  of  Britain.  The  young  leaves  are 
shredded  down,  or  reduced  to  a  pulp,  and  employed  to 
give  colour  and  flavour  to  puddings,  omelets,  and  cakes. 
It  is  propagated  by  dividing  the  roots,  and  planting 
them  out  in  any  common  soil  in  the  open  part  of  the 
garden. 

71.  TARRAGON. 

Artemisia  Dracunculus,  or  Tarragon,  is  a  perennial 
plant,  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe.  The  leaves  and 
tops  of  the  young  shoots  are  used  as  an  ingredient  in 
pickles  ;  and  a  simple  infusion  of  those  in  vinegar  makes 
a  pleasant  fish  sauce  :  it  is  eaten  along  with  beef-steaks, 
as  horse-radish  is  with  roast  beef;  and  is  employed,  both 
in  Europe  and  Persia,  to  correct  the  coldness  of  salad 
herbs,  arid  season  soups  and  other  compositions.  The 
plant  is  easily  propagated  by  dividing  its  roots  in  March 
or  April,  and  planting  them  upon  a  warm  dry  soil, 
covering  them  not  more  than  two  or  three  inches  deep. 
It  may  be  propagated  also  very  readily  by  cuttings  of 
the  shoots,  planted  under  a  hand-glass  in  the  month  pf 
August. 

A  small  plantation  of  Tarragon  should  be  made  every 
spring,  as  it  seldom  stands  more  than  two  or  three  years, 
and  the  latter  part  of  the  time  the  plants  are  not  pro- 
ductive. 

72.  TETRAGONIA. 

Tetragonia  expansa,  or  New  Zealand  Spinach,  is  a 
tender  annual,  a  native  of  New  Zealand,  and  was  intro- 
duced into  this  country  in  1772. 


THYME.  583 

This  very  useful  substitute  for  Spinach,  since  it  was 
first  brought  into  notice  by  Mr.  Anderson,  in  a  com- 
munication  to  the  Horticultural  Society,  VoL  iv.  p.  488. 
of  its  Transactions,  has  been  very  generally  cultivated 
in  gardens.  The  great  advantage  it  possesses  is  that  of 
supplying  fresh  leaves,  fit  for  use,  through  the  whole 
summer,  even  in  the  driest  weather,  when  the  crops  of 
summer  Spinach  are  useless.  It  has  been  found  to  be 
both  hardier  and  easier  to  manage  in  the  open  border 
of  the  garden  than  was  at  first  supposed  ;  and  it  is  also 
sufficiently  productive  of  seeds. 

It  must  be  raised  from  seeds  in  a  hot-bed  in  March,  and 
kept  in  small  pots  till  the  plants  can  be  turned  out  into 
the  common  ground,  in  the  end  of  May  or  beginning  of 
June.  One  of  these  plants  will  spread  three  feet,  and 
if  the  soil  be  rich,  four  feet  or  more  ;  so  that  care  must 
be  taken  to  give  it  plenty  of  room.  It  is  best  to  be 
turned  out  upon  a  somewhat  elevated  bed  or  ridge,  and 
to  have  a  southern  aspect,  in  order  to  secure  the  ripening 
of  its  seeds. 

.  On  poor  soil  it  seeds  freely  ;  and  plenty  may  be  ob- 
tained by  picking  up  the  capsules  from  underneath  the 
branches  as  they  drop  off  in  the  autumn ;  and  also  by 
hanging  up  the  branches,  as  we  would  those  of  the  Ice 
plant. 

73.  THYME. 

The  common  Thyme  has  the  aromatic  qualities  pecu- 
liar to  Lavender,  Sage,  Rosemary,  and  other  Labiatae. 
It  yields  a  species  of  camphor  in  distillation  with  water. 
In  Spain  they  infuse  it  in  the  pickle  with  which  they 
preserve  their  olives. 

There  are  two  sorts  cultivated  in  our  gardens :  *•» 

1.  Common  Thyme.         Thymus  Vulgaris. 

2.  Lemon  Thyme.  Thymus  Citriodorus. 

PP  4 


,  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

The  former,  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe;  the 
latter,  of  what  country  we  are  not  acquainted. 

The  Common  Thyme  is  propagated  by  seeds,  which 
should  be  sown  in  March  or  April ;  or  by  dividing  the 
plant,  and  planting  out  its  slips  in  beds,  or  to  form 
edgings  in  kitchen  gardens. 

Lemon  Thyme,  the  most  grateful-scented  of  its  genus, 
is  propagated  most  readily  by  its  procumbent  branches 
which  lie  on  the  ground,  and  strike  root  at  every  joint. 
It  is  always  the  most  beautiful  in  colour,  and  the  most 
perfect  in  its  scent,  when  planted  on  dry,  light,  sandy 
soil. 

74.  TURNIPS. 

The  Turnip,  Brassica  Rapa,  is  a  hardy  biennial 
plant,  a  native  of  Britain. 

There  are  several  varieties  cultivated  in  the  garden,  of 
which  the  following  are  the  principal :  — 

1.  Early  Dutch.  4.  Long  French. 

2.  Early  Dwarf.  Teltou  Turnip  ? 
Six  Weeks.  5.  Yellow  Dutch. 

3.  Early  Stone.  6.  Yellow  Maltese. 
Stubble.  7.  Yellow  Stone. 

All  the  above  varieties  are  well  understood  by  gar- 
deners, and  their  management  is  that  of  the  most  easy 
kind. 

The  Long  French,  (or  Teltow  Turnip,  as  it  appear^ 
to  me,)  requires  a  different  treatment.  It  has  a  small 
and  excellent  spindle-shaped  root,  not  exceeding  the 
size  of  a  small  long-rooted  Radish.  It  is  grown  prin- 
cipally in  the  neighbourhood  of  Teltow,  in  Branden- 
burgh.  The  seed  is  sown  there  twice  a  year,  the  first 
time  in  April ;  and  the  crop  is  fit  to  gather  in  June  or 
July.  The  second  sowing  is  made  in  August.  This 
second  crop  is  taken  up  in  autumn ;  and  after  the  fibres 


WINTER    GREENS.  585 

are  trimmed  off,  the  roots  are  preserved  in  cellars  in  dry 
sand,  where  they  keep  good  till  the  spring. 

It  is  much  used  in  Germany ;  it  is  of  great  excel- 
lence, and  is  dressed  in  a  variety  of  ways,  but  generally 
stewed. 

It  requires  to  be  sown  on  a  poor,  dry,  sandy  soil.  A 
total  absence  of  manure  is  essential  to  the  perfection  of 
these  roots. 

75.  WINTER  GREENS, 

IN   SUCCESSION   AS    THEY   COME    TO    TABLE. 

1.  Green  Savoy.  9.  Thousand-headed  Cabbage. 

2.  Dwarf  Savoy.  Chou  a  milles  t&es. 

3.  Yellow  Savoy.  10.  Chou  de  Milan. 

4.  Brussels  Sprouts.  11.  Egyptian  Kale. 

5.  Green  Borecole.  Rabi  Kale. 

6.  Colebrooke-Dale  Borecole.  Kohl  Rabi. 

7.  Purple  Borecole.  12. , Ragged  Jack. 
Brown  Kale.  13.  Jerusalem  Kale. 

8.  German  Borecole.  Buda  Kale. 
Scotch  Kale.  Manchester  Kale. 
Curlies            1  of  the  Scotch  Prussian  Kale. 
Curled  Kale.  S    Gardeners.  Russian  Kale. 

No.  3.,  the  true  sort,  is  to  be  found  at  Kew. 

No.  6.  is  a  very  dwarf  sort  of  Borecole,  and  the  best. 

No.  8.  is  a  variety  of  No.  5.,  but  much  superior :  it 
is  sold  frequently  hi  the  shops  for  Scotch  Kale. 

The  Savoys  and  late  Winter  Greens  may  be  sown  the 
third  week  in  March,  and  the  strongest  plants  put  out 
in  June,  leaving  the  others  for  succession  crops  if  de- 
sired, to  be  planted  in  July.  The  Dwarf  Winter  Greens, 
not  being  required  to  attain  much  size  before  the  winter, 
ought  not  to  be  sown  till  the  middle  of  May,  nor  be 
planted  out  before  July  ;  but  it  must  be  remembered, 
that  as  the  Jerusalem,  or  Buda  Kale,  is  expected  to 
furnish  a  supply  much  longer  than  most  of  the  others, 
and  until  late  in  the  spring,  a  greater  breadth  of  ground 
should  be  allowed  for  this  kind,  and  that  a  second  plant- 


586  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

ation  of  it  in  August  will  always  be  necessary  for  the 
late  gatherings.  Coleworts,  so  much  mentioned  in  the 
old  books  on  gardening,  are  nowhere  now  to  be  found  ; 
their  place  is  supplied  by  young  Cabbages,  chiefly 
the  Imperial,  planted  out  late  in  autumn  from  the 
seed-beds  :  they  are  cut,  and  sent  into  the  London 
markets. 


587 


A  KALENDAR  OF  WORK  IN  THE  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 

January. 

Trench  and  manure  ground  for  early  crops.  Pre- 
pare hot-beds  for  Asparagus,  Cucumbers,  Mint,  Pota- 
toes, and  Small  Salading. 

Force  Elford  Rhubarb  and  Sea  Kale  in  pits,  in  the 
Mushroom-house,  or  under  large  pots ;  also  Kidney 
Beans  in  the  forcing-house,  or  stove :  the  best  sorts  for 
this  purpose  are  the  Negro  and  Early  Purple-speckled. 

Sow  Black-seeded  Gotte,  Brown  Dutch,  and  Grand 
Admirable  Cabbage  Lettuces,  as  well  as  those  of  the 
Bath  and  Egyptian  Cos. 

Sow  Curled  Parsley  for  transplanting,  Frame  Peas, 
Horn  Carrots,  Mazagan  Beans,  Onions,  if  they  are 
intended  to  be  grown  to  a  large  size,  Radishes,  Round 
Spinach,  &c. 

Plant  out  Cabbage  plants,  to  succeed  the  first  crop 
which  had  been  planted  out  in  the  autumn.  Attend 
to  the  Mushroom-house,  and  see  that  the  bed  is  well 
covered  with  dry  straw :  it  ought  to  be  at  least  twelve 
inches  thick ;  and  every  precaution  must  be  taken  to 
keep  out  the  frost. 

February. 

Trench,  manure,  and  prepare  ground  for  early  crops. 
Prepare  hot-beds  for  Cucumbers  and  Early  Melons. 
Force  Asparagus,  Mint,  Potatoes,  Radishes,  and  Small 
Salading,  Elford  Rhubarb,  and  Sea  Kale  under  pots, 
and  Kidney  Beans  in  the  forcing-house.  Sow  Celery 
and  Celeriac  on  a  moderate  hot-bed.  Sow  Cabbages, 
Curled  Parsley  for  transplanting,  and  Hamburgh 


588  A    KALENDAR    OF    WORK 

Parsley  for  its  roots,  Horn  Carrots,  Lettuces,  Leeks, 
Onions,  Parsnips,  Peas  and  Beans,  Radishes,  Round 
Spinach,  Savoys  and  other  Winter  Greens,  for  the  first 
crop. 

Plant  out  Cabbage  plants,  Chives,  Garlic,  Rocam- 
bole, Shallots,  and  Potatoe  or  Under-ground  Onions. 

Plant  out  Horse-radish,  in  the  manner  recom- 
mended under  that  head. 

March. 

Force  Cucumbers  and  Melons  in  frames,  Kidney 
Beans  in  the  forcing-house  or  stove,  and  Elford  Rhu* 
barb  and  Sea  Kale  under  pots.  Sow,  on  a  moderate 
hot-bed,  Celery  and  Celeriac,  Radishes,  Small  Salading, 
and  Tetragonia  Expansa.  Sow,  in  the  open  borders  and 
quarters,  Asparagus,  Beet,  Cabbages,  Carrots,  Celery* 
Couve  Tronchuda,  Curled  and  Hamburgh  Parsley, 
Leeks,  Lettuces,  Neapolitan  Kale,  Onions,  Parsnips, 
Peas  and  Beans,  Round  Spinach,  Salsafy,  Sea  Kale, 
Scorzonera,  Skirrets,  &c. 

Fork  over  Asparagus  beds,  and  make  new  ones. 

Plant  out  the  small  Onions  which  had  been  sown  thick 
last  spring,  for  the  purpose  of  procuring  large  bulbs ; 
also  early  Potatoes,  Jerusalem  Artichokes,  Chives,  Gar- 
lic, Rocambole,  Shallots,  Rhubarb,  and  Sea  Kale. 

April. 

Make  hot-beds  for  Cucumbers  and  Melons,  and 
single-pot  Tetragonia  Expansa,  to  be  turned  out  next 
month.  Force  Kidney  Beans,  Elford  Rhubarb,  and 
Sea  Kale.  The  roots  of  Scarlet  Running  Kidney 
Beans,  which  have  been  preserved  through  the  winter, 
may  now  be  planted  out,  when  they  will  soon  grow 
afresh,  and  produce  an  early  and  abundant  crop. 
Some  of  these  roots  were  exhibited  at  the  Horticul- 
tural meeting  in  Norwich,  May  25,  1831.  They  were 


IN    THE    KITCHEN    GARDEN.  589 

from  seeds  sown  April,  1830,  taken  up  in  November, 
kept  in  dry  mould  in  the  cellar  through  the  winter,  and 
planted  out  again  the  7th  of  April.  In  forty-eight 
days  they  had  pushed  forth  vigorous  young  shoots  of 
from  six  to  nine  inches  in  length,  not  only  from  the 
roots,  but  from  their  stems  also,  which  had,  in  a  man- 
ner, become  frutescent.  See  this  plant  under  the  head 
of  Kidney  Beans. 

Plant  out  Artichokes,  Ash-leaved,  Kidney,  and  other 
early  Potatoes,  on  warm  borders,  to  succeed  those  grown 
in  frames.  In  planting  out  early  Potatoes,  those  sets 
which  are  cut  with  one  eye  only  to  each  will  come  in 
sooner  by  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  than  those  cut  with 
two  eyes  or  more.  It  will  be  right  to  remember  this 
when  planting  Potatoes  in  frames. 

Divide  and  plant  out  Balm,  Chamomile,  Hyssop, 
Lavender,  Marjoram,  Mint,  Pennyroyal,  Rhubarb, 
Sage,  Sea  Kale,  Sorrel,  Tansy,  Tarragon,  and  Thyme. 

Sow  Capsicums  and  Love- Apples  on  hot-beds.  Sow 
on  warm  borders  and  in  the  open  quarters  Asparagus, 
Beets,  Cabbages,  Cardoons,  Celery,  Chervil,  Couve 
Tronchuda,  Garden  and  Kidney  Beans,  Dutch  Tur- 
nips, Lettuces,  Nasturtiums,  Peas,  Pot-herbs,  Radishes, 
Salsafy,  Scorzonera,  Skirret,  Small  Salading,  Spinach, 
and  Winter  Greens ;  which  see. 

Transplant  Lettuces  and  Couve  Tronchuda  from 
the  frames  ;  and,  towards  the  end  of  the  month,  Cauli- 
flowers from  under  frames  and  hand-glasses. 

May. 

Continue  hot-beds  for  Cucumbers  and  Melons.  Sow 
seeds  of  Cucumbers  under  hand-glasses ;  and  ridge  out 
those  which  were  sown  last  month,  to  come  in  for  the 
first  hand-glass  crop. 

Sow  Cape  Broccoli,  Couve  Tronchuda,  Garden  and 


590  A    KALENDAR    OF   WORK 

Kidney  Beans,  Lettuces,  Peas,  Rampion,  Spinach,  and 
Turnips. 

Plant  out  Love- Apples  against  walls,  poles,  or  banks  ; 
and  also  Capsicums  on  a  warm  south  border.  Prick  out 
Celery,  and  thin  out  Cardoons. 

Hoe  out  Carrots,  Leeks,  Onions,  Parsnips,  and 
Turnips. 

Transplant  Cauliflowers  from  frames  and  hand- 
glasses ;  and  plant  out  Winter  Greens. 

June. 

Plant  out  Cucumbers  and  Melons  in  frames ;  the 
latter  must  still  be  followed  up  with  new  beds.  The 
runners  of  Cucumbers  will  now  begin  to  grow  too  long 
to  be  contained  under  the  hand-glasses :  the  glasses 
must  be  raised  upon  bricks  or  garden  pots,  and  the 
runners  turned  out  upon  the  ridges,  placing  some  short 
grass,  straw,  or  reed  underneath  them,  stopping  the 
runners  at  five  or  six  joints  from  the  stem,  and  fixing 
each  at  a  regular  distance  with  small  hooked  pegs. 

Prepare  Mushroom  Spawn,  in  the  manner  directed 
under  that  head.  Continue  to  sow  Cape  Broccoli, 
Garden  and  Kidney  Beans,  Lettuces,  Peas,  Radishes, 
Rampion,  Spinach,  and  Small  Salading.  Knight's 
Marrow  Peas  are  the  best  for  sowing  this  month, 
and  the  last  sowing  should  be  about  the  24th ;  these 
will  continue  to  bear  till  October  or  November. 

Hoe  Beets,  Carrots,  Leeks,  Onions,  and  Parsnips. 
Prick  out  in  beds,  or  as  edgings,  the  most  curled  plants 
of  Curled  Parsley,  Curled  Cress,  and  Curled  Chervil 
for  seed ;  also  Broccoli  and  Winter  Greens,  Celery  and 
Celeriac,  and  Tetragonia  Expansa.  Love- Apples  must 
be  kept  trained  close  and  at  length.  Asparagus  must 
not  be  cut  after  Midsummer ;  and  if  seed  is  wanted,  it 
should  be  saved  from  a  few  of  the  earliest  and  very 
largest  heads. 


IN    THE    KITCHEN    GARDEN.  591 

July. 

Sow  Cape  Broccoli,  Endive,  Kidney  Beans,  Lettuces, 
Spinach,  and  Turnips. 

Hoe  Carrots,  Leeks,  Onions,  Parsnips,  and  Turnips. 

Plant  out  Broccoli,  Cauliflowers,  Couve  Tronchuda, 
and  Winter  Greens.  Plant  out  Celery  on  the  flat  sur- 
face of  rich  ground,  and  in  trenches;  taking  care  to 
to  take  up  each  plant  with  all  its  roots,  and  to  divest  it 
of  all  its  side  shoots,  to  its  principal  leaves,  which  would 
otherwise  prevent  its  making  a  fine  clean  handsome 
head. 

Prepare  Mushroom  Spawn,  if  not  done  last  month. 

Cucumbers  will  now  be  in  full  bearing  upon  the 
ridges,  and  should  be  kept  pegged  down,  stopping  the 
leading  runners,  so  as  to  keep  the  plants  close,  and  the 
ridges  completely  filled  up. 

In  earthing  up  the  hills  of  Melons,  one  or  two  of  the 
frames  or  pits  may  now  be  spawned  for  Mushrooms,  as 
directed  under  that  head  :  these  will  produce  their  crop 
in  the  autumn. 

Take  up  Garlic,  Potatoe  Onions,  Rocambole,  and 
Shallots,  when  the  leaves  begin  to  decay,  and  lay  them 
on  mats  in  an  airy  place  to  dry. 

August. 

Sow  Cabbages,  Cape  Broccoli,  Couve  Tronchuda, 
Endive,  Lettuces,  and  Flanders  Spinach  :  this  last  is 
much  superior  to  the  Bourdeaux  or  Prickly  Spinach. 
If  the  Flanders  Spinach  cannot  be  obtained  conveniently, 
the  Prickly  must  be  resorted  to.  Sow  also  Strasburgh 
and  Welsh  Onions,  Turnips,  Turnip  and  Spanish 
Radishes. 

Plant  out  Celery  and  Winter  Greens.  Earth  up 
early  Celery  and  Cardoons.  Spawn  Melon  beds  and 
pits,  and  make  Mushroom  beds  under  sheds  or  in  the 
Mushroom-house. 


,592  A    KALENDAR    OF    WORK 

Continue  to  stir  the  surface  of  the  ground  among 
Onions,  especially  those  which  are  intended  to  be  of  the 
largest  size,  as  this  assists  materially  their  growth,  and 
in  perfectly  ripening  their  bulbs. 

September. 

Sow  Cauliflower  and  early  Purple  Broccoli  for  frames, 
Lettuces,  Flanders  and  Prickly  Spinach,  short-topped 
and  Turnip  Radishes. 

Plant  out  Couve  Tronchuda  in  frames,  the  same  as 
Cauliflowers,  to  be  kept  through  the  winter. 

Make  Mushroom  beds  in  the  Mushroom-house,  or 
under  sheds,  for  winter  crops. 

Plant  out  Broccoli  and  Winter  Greens. 

Earth  up  Celery,  Cardoons,  and  tie  up  Endive  to 
blanch.  Prick  out  Cabbage  plants. 

Hoe  out  Winter  Spinach  to  three  or  four  inches 
distance  plant  from  plant.  Pull  up  Onions  as  soon  as 
their  tops  are  nearly  dead,  or  they  will  push  out  fresh 
roots  after  rain,  which  will  greatly  injure  their  bulbs, 
and  prevent  their  keeping  in  a  sound  and  firm  state  to 
their  usual  period  in  the  following  spring. 

October. 

Transplant  Cauliflowers  and  early  Purple  Broccoli 
under  frames  and  hand-glasses.  Plant  out  Cabbages, 
Garlic,  Rocambole,  and  Shallots.  Tie  up  Endive,  and 
earth  up  Cardoons  and  Celery.  Lay  up  Carrots, 
Potatoes,  and  Red  Beet  for  winter  use.  Make  up 
Mushroom  beds  which  have  been  omitted  the  last 
month. 

Towards  the  end  of  the  month,  sow  Frame  Peas  and 
Mazagan  Beans  upon  a  warm  south  border.  Lay  into 
the  ground  Purple  and  White  Broccoli,  within  a  few 
inches  of  their  lower  leaves,  and  letting  their  heads  face 
the  north. 


IN    THE    KITCHEN    GARDEN.  593 

Transplant  Black-seeded  Gotte  and  Bath  Cos 
Lettuces  under  frames,  for  coming  into  use  early  in  the 
spring.  Grand  Admiral,  Hammersmith,  and  Tennis- 
ball  Lettuces  should  be  transplanted  upon  a  warm  south 
border,  at  five  or  six  inches  distance  from  each  other : 
the  Black-seeded  Gotte  Lettuce  may  also  be  planted 
out  along  with  the  former  three  sorts ;  and  should  the 
winter  prove  mild,  it  will  come  in  three  weeks  sooner 
than  the  earliest  of  these  sorts.  Clear  the  beds  of 
aromatic  plants  from  weeds,  and  let  them  have  the 
winter's  dressing  ;  particularly  beds  of  Balm,  Burnet, 
Chamomile,  Hyssop,  Marjoram,  Mint,  Penny-royal, 
Sage,  Savory,  Sorrel,  Tansy,  Tarragon,  and  Thyme. 

Where  forced  Asparagus  is  required  for  use  in  winter, 
hot-beds  may  now  begin  to  be  made,  for  gathering  the 
first  crop  in  November  and  December.  If  a  constant 
succession  is  required  all  winter  and  spring,  a  new  hot- 
bed, planted  with  fresh  plants,  must  be  made  every 
three  or  four  weeks,  from  the  beginning  or  middle  of 
October  to  the  end  of  February  or  March ;  which  will 
furnish  a  supply  of  Asparagus  from  November  till  the 
arrival  of  the  natural  crops  in  the  open  ground  in  April 
or  May. 

November. 

Trench  and  manure  ground  for  planting. 

Earth  up  Cardoons  and  Celery. 

Take  up  Parsnips  on  a  dry  day,  as  soon  as  the  leaves 
are  dead,  and  lay  them  up  for  winter  use. 

Sow  Frame  Peas  and  Mazagan  Beans,  on  a  warm 
south  border.  Plant  out  Lettuces  under  frames  and 
hand-glasses  the  beginning  of  this  month,  if  they  have 
been  omitted  before.  Tie  up  Endive  when  the  plants 
are  dry ;  or  the  middle  of  the  plants  may  be  covered 
with  slates  or  tiles. 

Draw  up  the  mould  close  to  the  heads  of  Sea  Kale  so 

Q  Q 


A    KALENDAR    OF    WORK 

as  nearly  to  cover  them.  Towards  the  end  of  this  month, 
part  of  them  may  be  forced,  by  placing  large  pots  over 
them,  and  covering  them  with  warm  stable  dung :  the 
young  heads  will  thus  he  fit  for  use  by  Christmas. 
Elford  Rhubarb  may  be  forced  in  the  same  manner,  or 
by  planting  the  roots  in  large  pots,  and  placing  them  in 
the  Mushroom-house  near  the  flue.  Clear  Artichoke 
plants  from  their  old  stalks,  and  cover  up  the  heads  with 
half-rotten  dung,  to  keep  off  the  frost.  Cut  down  the 
haulm  or  stems  of  Asparagus  ;  dig  the  alleys,  and  cover 
the  beds  with  mould  three  or  four  inches  deep.  Lay 
into  the  ground  Purple  and  White  Broccoli,  if  it  has  not 
been  already  done  in  the  last  month.  Take  up  the 
tuberous  roots  of  the  Scarlet  Running  Kidney  Bean, 
and  preserve  them  in  dry  sand,  in  a  cellar  excluded 
from  the  frost ;  or  they  may  be  preserved  by  placing 
them  close  together  on  a  dry  warm  border,  covering 
them  six  inches  deep,  and  placing  a  hot-bed  frame  over 
them,  and  covering  the  surface  again  six  inches  deep 
with  old  tan.  In  taking  up  the  roots,  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  injure  the  stem,  but  to  cut  it  down  to 
within  a  foot  of  the  crown  of  the  root :  this  part  must 
also  be  carefully  covered  with  old  tan,  to  preserve  it 
from  the  frost.  In  April  these  roots  must  be  planted 
out  again,  when  they  will  produce  another  abundant 
crop. 

December. 

Trench  and  manure  ground  for  spring  crops. 

Force  Asparagus,  Elford  Rhubarb,  and  Sea  Kale. 

In  the  early  part  of  the  month  lay  in  Purple  and 
White  Broccoli,  unless  it  has  been  done  already. 

Earth  up  Peas  and  Beans,  where  the  tops  are  advanced 
from  early  sowing  ;  also  Cardoons  and  Celery,  for  the 
last  time.  The  finest  ridges  of  Celery  should  now  be 
covered  with  litter  or  soft  meadow  hay,  to  keep  off 


IN    THE    KITCHEN    GARDEN.  5Q5 

severe  frost,  or  the  tops  will  rot,  and  this  will  in  time 
extend  down  to  the  root. 

Cover  the  Mushroom  beds  thickly  with  clean  dry 
straw,  and  do  not  let  the  Mushroom-house  descend  to 
a  lower  temperature  than  50  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's 
scale. 

Look  over  the  Cauliflower  plants  in  frames,  and  pick 
off  all  decayed  leaves.  Every  day  the  weather  is  mild 
and  dry,  let  the  glasses  be  taken  off,  that  the  plants  may 
have  free  air ;  but  let  the  lights  be  put  on  every  night. 
When  the  weather  is  very  wet,  keep  the  lights  over 
them  5  but  at  the  same  time,  if  mild,  let  them  be  raised 
at  the  back  of  the  frames,  to  let  in  a  large  portion  of  air 
to  the  plants.  In  severe  frosty  weather,  keep  the  plants 
constantly  covered  with  the  glasses,  and  other  covering 
of  mats,  straw,  fern,  and  other  long  litter  j  and  apply 
long  litter  also  round  the  outsides  of  the  frames,  when 
the  frost  is  very  rigorous.  Cauliflower  plants  under 
hand-glasses  must  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 
Lettuces  in  frames  and  under  hand-glasses  require 
similar  treatment. 


596 


CONTENTS  OF  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 


American  Cress,  25. 

1.  Angelica. 

2.  Artichokes. 

3.  Asparagus. 

4.  Balm. 

5.  Basil. 

6.  Beans. 

7.  Beets. 

Eelleisle  Cress,  25. 

8.  Borage. 

9.  Borecole. 

10.  Broccoli. 
Brussels  Sprouts,  9. 

11.  Burnet. 

12.  Cabbages. 

13.  Capsicum. 
14?.  Caraway.  - 

15.  Cardoons. 

16.  Carrots. 

17.  Cauliflower. 

18.  Celery. 
Celeriac,  18. 

19.  Chamomile* 

20.  Chervil. 

21.  Chives. 

Chou  de  Milan,  9. 

22.  Clary. 

23.  Coriander. 
24-.  Corn  Salad. 

Couve  Tronchuda,  9. 

25.  Cress. 

26.  Cucumbers. 
Curlies,  75. 

27.  Endives. 

28.  Fennel. 
Finochio,  28. 

29.  Garlic. 


30.  Gourds. 

31.  Horse-radish. 

32.  Hyssop. 
Indian  Cress,  44. 

33.  Jerusalem  Artichokes. 
Kale,  of  sorts  9.  75. 

34-.  Kidney  Beans. 

Lamb's  Lettuce,  24-. 

35.  Lavender. 

36.  Leeks. 

37.  Lettuces. 

38.  Love- Apples. 
Mangel  Wurzel,  7. 

39.  Marjoram. 

40.  Marygold. 

41.  Mint. 

42.  Mushrooms. 
Mushroom  Spawn,  42. 

43.  Mustard. 

44.  Nasturtiums. 

New  Zealand  Spinach,  72. 

45.  Onions. 

46.  Parsley. 

47.  Parsnips. 

48.  Peas. 

49.  Pennyroyal. 

Poire"e  a  Carde.  i 

50.  Potatoes. 
Potiron  Jaune,  30. 

51.  Purslane. 

52.  Radishes. 
Ragged  Jack,  75. 

53.  Rampion. 

54.  Rape. 

55.  Rhubarb. 

56.  Rocambole. 

57.  Rosemary. 


KITCHEN    GARDEN. 


597 


58.  Rue. 

59.  Sage. 

60.  Salsafy. 

61.  Savory. 

62.  Savoys. 

63.  Scorzonera. 

64.  Scurvy-grass. 

65.  Sea  Kale. 

66.  Shallots. 
67-  Skin-el. 
68.  Sorrel. 


69.  Spinach. 

70.  Tansy. 

71.  Tarragon. 

72.  Tetragonia. 
Thousand-headed  Cab- 
bage, 9. 

73.  Thyme. 

74.  Turnips. 
Vegetable  Marrow,  30. 
Winter  Cress. 

75.  Winter  Greens. 


INDEX. 


Page 

Page 

ALMONDS           •            -'  •'•     1 

Cabbages             -  '<  '- 

533 

Propagation  of      -      •        2 

Capsicums 

534. 

Cultivation  of      -        -         2 

Caraway 

534- 

American  Cress         -       -     54-3 

Cardoons         ... 

534? 

Angelica             -    .          -     521 

Carrots          ... 

537 

Ants,  to  destroy        -       -517 

Cauliflower 

538 

Aphis  lanigera       509.  511.  515 

Celeriac         ... 

538 

Apples                               -         3 

Celery 

538 

A  selection  of,  for  a  small 

Chamomile         -         -     - 

540 

garden                       -     113 

Cherries 

141 

Propagation  of             •*    116 

A  selection  of 

155 

Pruning  and  Training  of   117 

Propagation  of 

156 

Index  to  sorts     -         -     123 

Pruning  and  Training  of 

156 

To  keep                        -     518 

Index  to  sorts 

159 

Apricots                            -     128 

Chervil 

540 

A  selection  of        -     -     136 

Chicor^e 

546 

Propagation  of             -     137 

Chives         -             - 

541 

Pruning  and  Training  of  138 

Chou  de  Milan          -    530.  585 

Index  to  sorts       -       -140 

Clary 

541 

Artichokes                        -    522 

Classification    of   Peaches 

Asparagus             T  •*'**'    -'   522 

and  Nectarines 

306 

Coriander 

542 

Balm                                 -    526 

Corn  Salad        -         -      - 

542 

Basil                                 -:  526 

Couve  Tronchuda 

530 

Beans              ...     527 

Cress 

543 

Beets                                -     527 

Cucumbers 

544 

Betterave                         -    528 

Curlies 

585 

Belleisle  Cress     •  •••     ,   »    54-3 

Currants 

160 

Borage                            "-    529 

Propagation  of 

161 

Borecole  and  Sprouts   529.  585 

Cultivation  of 

186 

Broccoli                         ''••»•   531 

Brussels  Sprouts       -     530.  585 

Endives 

545 

Burnet         -         -  ^    «V   532 

600 


INDEX. 


Page 

Page 

Fennel 

547 

Medlars  —  continued. 

Figs 

162 

Absurd  idea    concern- 

A selection  of 

169 

ing               -             -    231 

Propagation  of           •«.  : 

169 

Melons                      -       -     231 

Pruning  and  Training  of 

170 

Cultivation  of               -     237 

Index  to  sorts 

173 

Mint                                  >     557 

Finochio               -             * 

54-7 

Mulberries                         -     240 

Forsyth's  Composition 

507 

Propagation  of             -     240 

Pruning  and  Training  of  241 

Garlic           ... 

547 

Mushrooms          -             -     558 

Gooseberries             -       • 

173 

Mushroom  Spawn            *    559 

A  selection  of     - 

182 

Mustard             -              *    560 

Propagation  of 

185 

Cultivation  of 

186 

Nasturtiums             -         -     560 

Gourds         - 

548 

Nectarines                         -     281 

Grapes             -         - 

190 

A  selection  of              -     298 

A  selection  of 

218 

Propagation  of             -     299 

Index  to  sorts               *;T 

227 

Pruning  and  Training  of  301 

To  keep 

519 

Index  to  sorts               -     305 

Classification  of           -     306 

Horse  Radish     .-,  •*  .?; 

549 

New  Zealand  Spinach     -     582 

Hyssop         -        ,.;•»;..   ,_;,»;,. 

550 

Nuts                    L    -          .-    331 

Propagation  of             -331 

Indian  Cress     ;    »,  : 

560 

Pruning  and  Training  of  332 

Jerusalem  Artichokes 

550 

Onions 


Kale,  of  sorts         529,  530.  585 

Kidney  Beans      ?Ai-^     %    551 

Roots  of  Scarlet  Runners, 

to  preserve       -     589.  594 
Kohl  Rabi         - ,  "t,     530. 585 

Lamb's  Lettuce  •»  542 

Lavender  7-  -  552 

Leeks         -^  .  552 

Lettuces  .  553 

Love  Apples       „  *  -  555 

Mangel  Wurzel  .  •>  528 

Marjoram           rj"  •  556 

Marygold                  •  -T  557 

Medlars                  •>  -  230 

Propagation  of  -  231 

Management  of  -  231 


;».  561 


.-     564 


Parsley         ^  ^  j 

Parsnips  &**--••.- 

Peaches  '  T  243 

A  selection  of  »  27g 

Propagation  of  -  299 

Pruning  and  Training  of  301 

Index  to  sorts  -  2?9 

Classification  of  -.  306 

Pears         -  -  333 

A  selection  of          v,r-  417 

Propagation  of  -  419 

Pruning  and  Training  of  420 

Index  to  sorts  -  425 

To  grow  large  -  396 

To  prolong  the  keep- 

ing of  -  356 

Peas  -  -  566 


INDEX. 


601 


Page 

Page 

Pennyroyal 

568 

Savory                       -        -     575 

Pines 

430 

Savoys                       -     576.  585 

A  selection  of 

438 

Scarole                              -     546 

Propagation  of 

438 

Scorzonera          -              -     576 

Cultivation  of 

438 

Scurvy  Grass                    -     576 

Index  to  sorts 

440 

Sea  Kale       T                 '  -    577 

Plums                             .   -..- 

441 

Shallots          ..-..'•         .-    578 

A  selection  of 

470 

Skirret                               -     579 

Propagation  of 

471 

Sorrel                                -     579 

Pruning  and  Training  of 

472 

Spinach                             -     581 

Index  to  sorts 

474 

Strawberries                      -     481 

To  keep 

517 

A  selection  of              -     498 

Poire"e  a  Cardes 

528 

Cultivation  of               -     499 

Potatoes 

568 

Forcing  of                     -     502 

Potiron  Jaune 

548 

Index  to  sorts               -     504 

Purslane 

569 

Style  and  Calendar  altered   331 

Quinces 

476 

Tansy                                  -     582 

Propagation  of 

477 

Tarragon                           -     582 

Cultivation  of 

477 

Tetragonia  expansa         -     582 

Absurd  idea   concern- 

Thousand-headed Cabbage  585 

ing 

230 

Thyme                               -     583 

Tomato                              -     555 

Radishes 

570 

Tuck  system  of  Training, 

Ragged  Jack 

585 

to  be  deprecated          -     303 

Rampion 

571 

Turnips                               -     584 

Rape 

572 

Raspberries          -». 

478 

Vegetable  Marrow           -     548 

A  selection  of     - 

478 

Vines,  Propagation  of     -     219 

Cultivation  of 

479 

Pruning  and  Training  of    222 

Rhubarb 

572 

Rocambole 

574 

Wash  for  Fruit  Trees      -     509 

Rosemary 

574 

Wasps,  to  destroy            -     516 

Rue 

574 

White  Mealy  Insect    509.511. 

515 

Sage 

574 

Winter  Cress                     -     543 

Salsafy 

575 

Winter  Greens          -       -     585 

THE    END. 


LONDON : 

Printed  by  A.  &  R.  Spottiswoodo, 
New-  Street-  Square. 


ERRATA. 

Page      5.  line  21.  for  "  No.  5."  read  "  715." 
26.  line  15.  for  «  No.  38."  read  "  481." 
82.  line  27.  for  "  No.  1071."  read  "  1157." 

126.  line  18.  for  "  13."  read  "5." 
19.  for  "  5."  read  <c  13." 

127.  line  31.  (2d  col.)  for  "  Tall"  read  "  Fall." 

179.  line,  35.   for  "  Moss  Wither,"  read  "  Moss  Wether." 
ISO.  line    7.  for  "Circus,"  read  "  Cereus." 

57.  for  "  Molon,"  read  "  Melon." 

58.  for  "  Molon,"  read  "  Melon." 

182.  line  15.  for  "  Moorpont,"  read  "  Moorpoot." 
191.  line  21.  for  "  branches,"  read  "  bunches." 
199.  line    1.  for  "  Jaconne,"  read  "  Taconne." 
223.  line  26.  for  "  branches,"  read  ''bunches." 
229.  line  10.  for  "  Ciiba,"  read  "  Cabo." 
33.  (2d  col.)  for  "62,"  read  "40." 

247.  line    7.  for  "  Pudsey,"  read  "  Pewsey." 

248.  line  24.  for  "  No.  15.,"  read  "No.  11." 
250.  line    5.  for  "  August  31st,  read  "July  31st." 
253.  line  35.  for  "mucurate,"  read  "mucronate." 

280.  line  17.   (2dcol.)  for  "Pavie  Car-raw,"  read  "  Pavie  Camue" 
282.   line  16.  for  "  preceding  variety,"  read  "following  variety." 
294,  line  27.  for  "  curved,"  read  "  covered. " 
297.  line  18.  for  «  Hill,"  read  "  Hitt." 

32.  ib.  ib. 

316.  line  33.   for  «  Noir,"  read  "  Nain  " 

34.  ib.  ib. 

318.  line  14.  for  "Belle's,"  read  "  Bellis" 

320.  line  19.  for  "  DIVISION  2,"  read  "  DIVISION  3." 

321.  line  26.  for  "  Chevreux,"  read  "  Chevreuse." 
327.  line  43.  for  "  Fustemborg,"  read  "  Furstemberg." 
828.  line  25.   (2d  col.)  for  "  Carnee,"  read  "  Camu.  " 
340.  line  20.   for  "opens,"  read  "open." 

343.  line    6.  for  "  Lunn,"  read  "  Lynn." 

354.  line  36.  for  "  Hort.  Soc.  Cat.  No.  36."  read"  Hort.  Soc.  Cat. 
No.  123." 

357.  line  12.  for  "  Landey,"  read  "Landry." 

358.  line  35.  for  "  Hill,  read  «  Hall." 

373.  line  10.   for  "  No.  451.,"  read  "  No.  151." 

377.  line    5.  for  "  cone,"  read  "core." 

388.  line  20.   for  "  Ib.,"  read  "  Knoop.  Pom.  p.  136." 

393.  line     4.  for  "  Gelle,"  read  "  Yelle." 

401.  line  25.  dele  "  Ronville." 

419.  line  33.  for  "  grafts,"  read  "buds." 

426.  line    8.  (2d  col.)  for  "  119,"  read  "  120." 

line  10.  (2d  col.)  for  "  Chassiez,"  read  "  Chassery  " 

427.  line  23.  for  "  Ardenport,"  read  "  Ardenpont." 

428.  line    6.  for  "  Cuise,"  read  "  Cuisse. " 

429.  line  21.  (2d  col.)  for  "  Apoie"  read  "  ApoU." 
453.  line    5.  for  "  Pudrigon,"  read  "  Perdrigon.' 
469.  line  17.  for  "  No.  30.,"  read  "  No.  20." 

476.  line  16.  for  "51.,"  read  "15." 

480.  line  22.  for  "  acquired,"  read  "  required." 

484.  line  22.  for  "  arid,"  read  "and." 

490.  line    5.  for  "  Demelle,"  read  "  Femelle." 

505.  line    7.  for  "  Chester,"  read  "  Cluster." 


A   Catalogue  of  New   Works  and   New  Editions, 
printed  for  Longman,  Brown,    Green,  and 
Longmans,  London.  —  November  20,  1843. 

AGRICULTURE  AND  RURAL 

AFFAIRS. 

Pages 

Bayldon  On  valuing  Rents,  &c.    -      3 
the  Valuation  of  Pro- 
perty for  Poor's  Rate                   .      4 
Crocker's  Land-Surveying               -      7 
Davy's  Agricultural  Chemistry      -      7 
i      Johnson's  Fanner's  Encyclopaedia    14 
,      London's  Encyclopedia  of    Agri- 
culture                                                17 

Clas&tfirtr  Intor* 

Pages 
Lorimer's    Letters    to    a    Young 
Master  Mariner         ...        16 
Manual  for  Mechanics'  Institutions   18 
Maunder's  Treasury  of  Knowledge     20 
*•          Scientific  and  Literary 
Treasury    -        -        -    ib. 
«*          Treasury  of  History  and 
Geography          -        -  ib. 
•   "          Biographical  Treasury-    ib. 
Riddle's  Latin  and  English  Dic- 
tionaries      ...         24  and  25 
Short  Whist    26 
Thomson's  Domestic  Management 
of  the  Sick  Room     -    29 
Tomlins's  Law  Dictionary     -       -    30 
Waltzing,  Reform  your  -       -       -    81 

BOTANY  AND  GARDENING 
IN  GENERAL. 

Callcott's  Scripture  Herbal    •       •      6 
Conversations  on  Botany         •        •      7 
Drummond's  First  Steps  to  Botany      8 
Glendinning  On  the  Culture  of  the 
Pine  Apple    -                               -      9 
G  rigor's  Eastern  Arboretum  •       -10 
Henslow's  Botany  -        -        -        -    11 
Hoare  On  Cultivation  of  the  Grape 
Vine  on  Open  Walls    -        -        -    ib. 
Hooker's  British  Flora                      -    12 
"        Icones  Plantarum     -        -    ib. 
*        Compendium  of  English 
Flora    -        -        -        -    ib. 
Ditto  in  Latin  -       -       -    ib. 
**        and  Taylor's  Muscologia 
Britannica                     -     12 
Jackson's  Pictorial  Flora       »        -    13 
Knapp's  Gramina  Britannica         -     15 
Lindley's  Theory  of  Horticulture  -    16 
«         Outline  of  the  First  Prin- 
ciples of  Horticulture  -    ib. 
"         Guide  to  the  Orchard  and 
Kitchen  Garden  -        -    ib. 
"         Introduction  to  Botany  -     15 
"         Natural  System  of  Botany    ib. 
"         Flora  Medica  ...     16 
"        School  Botany         -        -    ib. 
"        Synopsis  of  British  Flora   ib. 
London's  Hortus  Britannicus        -    17 
"     Lignosis  Londinensis  ib, 
"         Encyclopedia   of  Trees 
and  Shrubs  -        -    16 
Gardening   ib. 
"                 Plants      -     17 
M         Suburban   Garden   and 
Villa  Companion         -    ib- 
"        Cemeteries  and  Church- 
yards        ib. 
Repton's  Landscape  Gardening  and 
Landscape  Architecture      -        -    24 
Rivera's  Rose  Amateur's  Guide      -    25 
Roberts  On  the  Vine      -       -        -    ib. 
Rogers's  Vegetable  Cultivator       -    26 
Smith's  Introduction  to  Botany      -    27 
"       English  Flora    -       -       -   ib. 

CHRONOLOGY. 

Blair's  Chronological  Tables         -      4 
Nicolas's  Chronology  of  History    -    22 
Riddle's  Ecclesiastical  Chronology    25 
Tate's  Horatius  Restitutus     -        -    29 
Wathen's  Chronology  of  Anc.  Egypt    32 

COMMERCE  AND  MERCAN- 
TILE AFFAIRS. 

Lorimer's    Letters    to    a    Young 
Master  Mariner   -       -       -       -    16 

Pages 
M'Culloch's   Dictionary   of  Com- 
merce and  Commer.  Navigation  -    20 
Steel's  Shipmaster's  Assistant       -    28 

GEOGRAPHY  X  ATLASES. 

Butler's  Sketch   of    Ancient    and 
Modern  Geography       -      6 
"        Atlas  of  Modern  Geography  ib 
**             "        Ancient  do.  -        -    ib. 
Hall's  New  General  Atlas      -       -    10 
M'Culloch's    Dictionary,    Geogra- 
phical, Statistical,  and  Historical    20 
Malte-Brun's  Geography        -        -    18 
Maunder's  Treasury  of  Geography 
and  History          -        -        -        -    20 
Murray's  Encyclop.  of  Geography  -    22 
Walker's  Britwh  Atlas   -       -       -    31 

HISTORY. 

Addison's  History  of  the  Knights 
Templars                       -      S 
Bell's  History  of  Russia         -        -      4 
Bloomfield's  Translation  of  Thu- 
cydidea         .....    ib. 
Cooley's  History  of  Maritime  and 
Inland  Discovery         ...      7 
Crowe's  History  or  France      -        -    ib. 
Dunham's  History  of   Spain  and 
Portugal                      -      8 
*           History  of  Europe  dur- 
ing the  Middle  Ages   -   ib. 
«           History  of  the  German 
Empire         -        -        -    ib. 
"           History    of    Denmark, 
Sweden,  and  Norway  -    ib. 
"           History  of  Poland         -    ib. 
Fergus's  History  of  United  States 
of  America  9 
Grattan's  History  of  Netherlands  -     10 
Halsted's  Life  of  Richard  III.        -     11 
Keightley's  Outlines  of  History     -    14 
"           History  of  England     -    ib. 
"           Elementary  do.   -        -    ib. 
"           History  of  Greece       -    ib. 
"           Elementary  do.    -        -    ib. 
"           History  of  Rome          -    ib. 
"           Elementary  do.    -        -    ib. 
Hist,  of  Roman  Empire    ib. 
"           Questions  on  the  above 
Histories,  separate      -       -        -    ib. 
Laing's  Kings  of  Norway       -        -     15 
M'Culloch's  Dictionary,  Historical, 
Geographical,  and  Statistical      -    20 
Mackintosh's  History  of  Engl:ind  -     IS 
Maunder's  Treasury  of  History  and 

Moo^T  if  istory  of  Ireland     .       '-    21 
Rome.  History  of                             -    25 
Russell's   Correspondence    of  the 
Fourth  Duke  ofBedford      -        -      4 
Scott's  History  of  Scotland     -        -     26 
Siamondi's  History  of  the  Fall  of 
Roman  Empire        -    27 
"           History  of  the  Italian 
Republics    -        -        -        -        -    26 
Stebbing's  History  of  the  Christian 
Church                         -    28 
"          History  of  Reformation   ib. 
Switzerland.  History  of  -        -        -    29 
Thirlwall's  History  of  Greece         -    ib. 
Turner's  History  of  England         -    31 

JUVENILE  BOOKS, 

INCLVDIXO    MRS.    MARCET'S    WORKS. 

Boy's  (the)  Country  Book       -       -    13 
"           Own  Book    ...      5 
Ladies'  (the  Young)  Book     -       -    32 

Loir's  Elements  of  Agriculture      -     18 
"        Breeds  of  the  Domesticated 
Animals  of  Great  Britain  -    17 
Whitley's  Agricultural  Geology     -    32 

ARTS,    MANUFACTURES, 
AND  ARCHITECTURE. 

Brande's   Dictionary   of    Science, 
Literature,  and  Art     -        -        -      5 
Gwilt'g  Encyclopedia  of  Architec- 
ture     -        -        -        -        -        -    10 
London's  Encyclopedia  of  Cottage. 
Farm,  and  Villa  Architecture  and 

!      Porter's  Manufacture  of  SUk-       '-    23 
"           "         Porcelain  &  Glass   ib. 
Savage's  Dictionary  of  Printing     -     26 
Ure's  Dictionary  of  Arts,  Manufac- 
tures, and  Mines  -       ...    31 
W  athen'8  Egypt.  Arts  &  Antiquities    32 

BIOGRAPHY. 

Aikin's  Life  of  Addlson  -       -       -      8 
Bell's  Lives  of  the  most  eminent 
British  Poets                       -      4 
Biographical  Dictionary  of  the  So- 
ciety for  the  Diflusion  of  Useful 
Knowledge  ib. 
DoTer's  Life  of  the  King  of  Prussia     8 
Dunham's  Lives  of  theEarly  Wri- 
ters of  Great  Britain   -    ib. 
"          Lives    of    the    British 
Dramatists  -       -       -   ib. 
Forster's  Statesmen  of  the  Com- 
monwealth of  England        -        -      9 
Gleig's  Lives  of  the  most  Eminent 
British  Military  Commanders     -    ib. 
;      Harford's  Life  of  Dr.  Burgess          -    11 
I      Jackson's  Life  of  Wellington  -        -     13 
James's  Life  of  the  Blacl  Prince  -    U 
"        Lives  of  the  most  Eminent 
Foreign  Statesmen      -       -        -   ib. 
Maunder'.  Biographical  Treasury-    20 
Roscoe's  Lite*  of  eminent  British 

Russell's   Correspondence   of  the 
Fourth  Duke  of  Bedford      -       -      4 
Shelley's  Lives  of  the  most  eminent 
Literary   Men   of  Italy, 
Spain,  and  Portugal       -    26 
"        Li  ves  of  the  most  eminent 
French  Writers       -        -    ib. 
Smith's  Memoirs  of  the  Marquis  de 
Pombal         27 
Souther's  Lives  of  the  British  Ad- 

Tale's  Horatius  Restitutus     -       -    20 

BOOKS  OF  GENERAL 
UTILITY. 
Donovan's  Domestic  Economy             3 
Hand-book  of  Taste        -                      11 
HinU  on  Etiquette          -        -             11 
Hudson's  Parent's  Hand  book            13 
"        Executor's  Guide    -            ib. 
"     On  Making  Wills       -       -   ib. 

2                       ANALYTICAL  INDEX  TO  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS. 

Pages 

ONE-VOL.    CYCLOP/EDIAS 

THE  SCIENCES  IN  GENERAL 

Marcet's  Conversations  — 
On  the  History  of  England       -    18 

AND    DICTIONARIES. 

Pages 

AND   MATHEMATICS^  ^ 

On  Chemistry           -        -        -    ib. 
On  Natural  Philosophy    -        -    ib. 

Elaine's   Encyclopedia   of    Rural 
Sports  -        -        -                          -      4 

Bakewell's  Introduction  to  Geology      3 
Brande's    Dictionary    of    Science, 

On  Political  Economy     -        -     19 

Brande's    Dictionary    of    Science, 

Literature,  and  Art                                5 

On  Vegetable  Physiology         -    ib. 

Literature,  and  Art                              5 

Brewster's  Optics    -        -        -        -    ib. 

For  Children     -        -        -        -    ib. 
"      The  Game  of  Grammar        -    ib. 

Copland's  Dictionary  of  Medicine  -       7 
Gwilt's  Encyclopedia  of  Architec- 

Bischoff On  the  Heat  of  the  Globe-      4 
Conversations  on  Mineralogy          -      7 

"       Mary's  Grammar  -        -    '    -    ib. 

ture      -        -        -        -        -        -    10 

De  la   Beche   On  the    Geology  of 

"      John  Hopkins's   Notions  of 

Johnson's  Farmer's  Encyclopedia  -     14 

Cornwall,  &c.          -    ib. 

Political  Economy     -        -    ib. 

London's  Encyclopedias  — 

Donovan's  Chemistry                              8 

"      Willy's  Holidays   -                  -    ib. 
"           "       Stories     for    Young 

Trees  and  Shrubs                       -     16 
Gardening         -        -        -        -    ib. 

Farey  On  the  Steam  Engine   -        -      8 
Fosbroke  On  the   Arts,   Manners, 

Children        -        -    ib. 

Agriculture       -                           -     17 

Manufactures,  and    Institutions 

"      The  Seasons  -        -        -        -    ib. 

Plants       ib. 

of  the  Greeks  and  Romans-        -       9 

1       Mairyat's  Masterman  Ready  -        -    ib. 

M'Culloch's    Dictionary,    Geogra- 
phical,    Statistical, 

Greener's  Science  of  Gunnery         -     10 
"         On  the  Gun     -        -        -    ib. 

MEDICINE. 

and  Historical         -    20 
«            Dictionary,  Practical, 

Herschel's  Natural  Philosophy       -     11 

Bull's  Hints  to  Mothers  -        -        -      6 

Theoretical,  &c.  of 

Holland's  Manufactures  in  Metal  -     11 

"      Management  of  Children      -    ib. 
Copland's  Dictionary  of  Medicine  -      7 
EUiotson's  Human  Physiology        -       8 
Frankum  On  Enlargecf  Abdomen  -      9 
Holland's  Medical  Notes         -        -     12 

Commerce      -        -    ib. 
Murray's  Encyclopedia  of  Geogra- 
phy            22 

Savage's  Dictionary  of  Printing     -    26 
Ure's  Dictionary  of  Arts,  Manufac- 

Kane's Elements  of  Chemistry       -    14 
Kater  and  Lardner's  Mechanics     -    ib. 
Lardner's  Cabinet  Cyclopedia        -     15 
"         Hydrostatics  and  Pneu- 
matics -                              ib. 

Macleod  On  Rheumatism        •        -    18 
Pereira  On  Food  and  Diet      -        -    23 

tures,  and  Mines  -        -        -        -    31 
Webster    and    Parkes's    Domectio 

"          Electricity  &  Magnetism    ib 
"          Arithmetic      -        -        -    ib. 

Reece's  Medical  Guide                    -    24 

Economy      32 

"          Geometry        -        -        -    ib. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

POETRY  AND  THE  DRAMA. 

"          Treatise  on  Heat    -        -    ib. 
Lectures  on  Polarised  Light  -        -    ib. 

Bell's  Illustrations  of  the  Liturgy  -      4 
Bosworth's  Anglo-Saxon  Dictionary    5 
Bray's  Philosophy  of  Necessity      -      5 
Cavendish's  Debates                         -      6 
Clavers's  Forest  Life       -        <•        *    ib. 

Aikin's  (Dr.)  British  Poets     -        *     26 
Baillie's  New  Dramas                       -      3 
"        Plays  of  the  Passions         *    ib. 
Bowdler's  Familv  Shakespeare       *    26 
Chalenor's  Walter  Gray                  -      6 
"           Poetical  Remains          •      6 

Lerebours'  Photograph  v,byF.gerton      8 
Lloyd  On  Light  and  Vision    -        -     16 
Mackenzie's  Physiology  of  Vision  -     18 
Marcet's  (Mrs.)   Conversations  on 
the  Sciences,  &c.          -        -      18—19 
Moseley's  Practical  Mechanics       -    22 

Colton's  Lacon        -                          »      7 
De  Calabrella's  Prism  of  Thought      24 
De  Morgan  On  Probabilities           -      7 
Dendy's  Philosophy  of  Mystery      -    ib. 
Duhnng's  Art  of  Living                  -      8 
Good's  Book  of  Nature                     -      9 

L.  E.  L.'s  Poetical  Works       -        -     15 
Lighter  Hours          -                  -        -     16 
Macaulay's  Lays  of  Ancient  Rome    18 
Montgomery's  Poetical  Works       -    ib. 
Moore's  Poetical  Works          -        -    ib. 
"        Lalla  Rookh,  medium  8vo.    ib. 

"        Engineering-Architecture  ib. 
Narrien's  Elements  of  Geometry    -    ib. 
Owen's  Lectures  on  Comp  Anatomy    ib. 
Parnell  On  Roads   -        -                -    ib, 
Pearson's  Practical  Astronomy      -    ib. 
Phillips's     Paleozoic     Fossils     of 

"         Helps  to  English  Grammar  ib. 
Guest's  Mabinogion                          -     10 
Holland's  Progressive  Education  -     11 
Howitt's  Rural  Life  of  England     -    12 
"        Visits  to  Remarkable  Places  ib. 
«         Student-Life  of  Germany-     13 
"         Rural  and  Domestic  Life 
of  Germany  -        -        -    ib. 
"         Colonisation    and    Chris- 
tianity  -        -        -        -    ib. 
Jeffrey's  (Francis)  Contributions  to 
The  Edinburgh  Review       -        -    14 
Life  of  a  Travelling  Physician        -     15 
Macaulay's  Critical  and  Historical 
Essays  18 

"           "          "        fcp.  8vo.       -    ib. 
"       Irish  Melodies  -       -        -    ib. 
Moral  of  Flowers     -        -        -        -    ib. 
Southey's  Poetical  Works       -        -    27 
"         British  Poets                   -    26 
Spirit  of  the  Woods         ...    27 
Thomson's  Seasons         ...     30 

POLITICAL   ECONOMY 
AND    STATISTICS. 

M'Culloch's  Geographical,  Statisti- 
cal, and  Historical  Dictionary    -     20 
"             Political  Economy       -    ib. 
Smith's  Wealth  of  Nations      -        >•    27 
Spackman's  Statistical  Tables        -    ib. 

Cornwall,  &c.        -        -    ib. 
Guide  to  Geology    -        -    ib. 
Treatise  on  Geology        -    ib. 
"         Introduct.  to  Mineralogy    ib. 
Poisson's  Mechanics        -        -        -   ib. 
Portlock's  Report  on  the  Geology 
of  Londonderry    -        -        -        -    34 
Powell's  Natural  Philosophy  -        -    ib. 
Richardson's  Geology     -        -        -   ib. 
Roberts's  Dictionary  of  Geology    -    25 
AVilkinson's  Engines  of  War  -        -     32 
Wood  On  Railroads         -        -        -    ib. 

TOPOGRAPHY   AND 
GUIDE  BOOKS. 

Milne  On  the  Valuation  of  Annuities 
and  Assurance  on  Lives,  &c.       -    21 

Tooke's  History  of  Prices        -        -    30 

Adam's  Gem  of  the  Peak        -        -      3      i 
Addison's  History  of  the   Temple              i 

Morgan    On   Assurances,  Annuities, 
and  Reversions    -                              ib. 

RELIGIOUS  X  MORALWORKS. 

Church                            -       3 
"         Guide  to  ditto          -        -    ib. 

Peter  Plymley's  Letters                   -    27 
Seaward's  Narrative  of  Shipwreck  -    26 
Smith's  (Rev.  Sydney)  Works         -     27 
Taylor's  Statesman         -        -        -    29 

Bell's  Illustrations  of  the  Liturgy  -      4 
Bellamy's  Bible       -        -        -        -      4 
Bloomfield's  Greek  Testament        -      5 
"           College  and  School  do.    ib. 
"            Greek  &  English  Lexi- 

Black's Tourist  of  England    -        -      4 
Britton's  Picture  of  London  -        -      C 
Guide  to  all  the  Watering  Places  in 
Great  Britain                                -    10 

NATURAL  HISTORY. 

con  to  NewTestament    ib. 
Burder's  Oriental  Customs     -        -    ib. 

TRANSACTIONS    OF 

C  O  f*  1  KTT"]  C"  C 

Catlow's  Popular  Conchology         -      6 
Gray  'sFigures  of  MolluscousAnimals  10 
'«     Genera  of  Birds     -        -        -      9 
Kirby  and  ^pence's  Entomology    -     15 
Lee's  Taxidermy                               -    15 
Reeve's  Conchologia  Systematica  -    24 
Stephens's  British  Coleoptera        -    28 
Swainson  On  the  Study  of  Natural 
History                          -    28 
"          Animals  -        -         -        -    ib. 

Burns's  Christian  Philosophy         -      8 
Callcott's  Scripture  Herbal     -        -    ib. 
Dibdin's  Sunday  Library        -        -     28 
Doddridge's  Family  Expositor       -      8 
Englishman'sHeb.&Chald.  Concord.     8 
Ford's  New  Devout  Communicant        9 
"      Century  of  Prayers       -        -    ib. 
Harcourt's  Doctrine  of  the  Deluge      11 
Kippis's  Collection  of  Hymns,  &c.  -    14 
M  .-.Hinge  Gift-        -        -        -        -19 

dUdc.  MC.O. 

Transactions  of  the  Entomological 
Society    -        -    30 
Zoological  Society    ib. 
"              Linnean  Society  -    ib. 
"              Institution  of  Civil 
Engineers       -    ib. 
"             Roy^.  1  Institute  of 
British  Architects    ib. 
Proceedings  of  the  Zoological  Soci^y  24 

"          Quadrupeds    -        -        -    ib. 
Birds        -        -        -         -    ib. 
"          Animals  in  Menageries  -    29 
"          Fish,   Amphibians,    and 
Reptiles        -        -        -    ib. 
"          Insects    -        -        -        -    ib. 
"          Malacology     -        -        -    ib. 
"          Habits  and  Instincts  of 
Animals       -        -        -    ib. 
Turton's  Shells  of  theBritishlslands    31 
Waterton's  Essays  on  Natural  Hist.    ib. 
Westwood's  Classification  of  Insects    32 

O'Sullivan  Of    the  Apostacy   pre- 
dicted by  St.  Paul     -    22 
Parkes's  Domestic  Duties       -        -    ib. 
Pearson's  Prayers  for  Families        -    23 
Riddle's  Letters  from  a  Godfather  -     25 
Robinson's  Greek&Er.glishLexicon 
to  the  New  Testament   ib. 
Sandford's  EnglishFemaleWorthies    ib. 
"         Female  Improvement    -    26 
"      On  Woman        -        -        -    ib. 
Tate's  History  of  St.  Paul       -        -    29 
Tayler's  Dora  Melder                        -    29 

TRAVELS. 

Allan's  Mediterranean                            3 
China,  Last  Year  in,      -        -               6 
De  Custine's  Russia                         -      7 
Harris's  Highlands  of  ^Ethiopia     -     11 
Laing's  Notes  of  a  Traveller  -        -     15 
Residence  in  Norway         -    ib. 
"        Tour  in  Sweden          -        -    ib. 
Marrvat's  Travels  of  Mons.  Violet  -    19 
Postans's  Observations  on  Sindh     -     24 
Strong's  Greece  as  a  Kingdom        -    28 

NOVELS  AND  WORKS  OF 

"      Margaret  ;  or,  the  Pearl    -    29 
Turner's  Sacred  History-        -        -     30 
Wardlaw's  Sermons         ...    31 

VETERINARY   MEDICINE 
AND   AFFAIRS. 

FICTION. 

Blessington's  (Lady)  Meredith        -    21 

"        On  Socinian  Controversy     ib. 
White  On  the  Gospel                        -    32 

Field's  Veterinary  Records     -        -       9 
Morton's  Veterinary  Medicine        -     21 

Doctor  (the)    7 
Howitt's  (Mary)  Neighbours  -        -    12 
Home      -       -       -    ib. 
tl        "        Prosident'sDaughters  13 

RURAL  SPORTS. 

Bainbridge's  Fly-fisher's  Guide      -      3 
Elaine's  Dictionary  of  Sports          -      4 

"          "       Toxlcological  Chart  ib. 
Percivall's  Hippopathology     -        -     23 
"          Anatomy  of  the  Horse  -    ib. 
Spooner  On  the  Foot  and  Leg  of 

"        "        Strife  and  Peace       -     13 

Hansard's  Fishing  in  Wales   -        -     11 

the  Horse       -        -        -    28 

Ingemnnn's     King    Eric   and    the 

Hawker's  Instructions  to  Sportsmen    ib. 

"        On  the  Influenza  of  Horses,  ib. 

Outlaws                                          -     13 
Marrvat's  Masterman  Ready-        -     19 
Rambles  of  the  Emperor  Clung  Tib.      6 
Trollope's  (Mrs.)  The  Laurringtons    30 

Martingale's  Sporting  Scenes          -     19 
Ronalds's  Fly-fisher's  Entomology     25 
Thacker's  Coursser'sRemembrancer    29 
"         Coursing  Rules       -        -  ib. 

Thomson's  Animal  Chemistry        -    29 
Turner  On  the  Foot  of  the  Horse   -    XI 
White's  Veterinary  Art  -        -        -     32 
"        Cattle  Medicine          -        -    ib. 

CATALOGUE, 


AIKIN.-THE  LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  ADDISON. 

Illustrated  by  many  of  his  Letters  and  Private  Papers  never  before  published.  By  LUCY 
Ai  KIN.  2  vols.  post  8vo.  with  Portrait  from  Sir  Godfrey  Kneller's  Picture,  18s.  cloth. 

"  Miss  Aikin  has  not  k-ft  a  stone  unturned,  that  her  monument  to  one  of  our  most  polished  writers  and  complete 
minds  may  be  fair,  upright,  and  symmetrical.  Her  book  contains  the  first  complete  life  of  Addison  ever  put  forth. 
As  a  literary  biography  it  is  a  model ;  and  its  pages  are  besides  enriched  by  many  hitherto  unpublished  letters  of 
Addison.  "—Axu  EN  iu  M  . 

ALLAN. -A  PICTORIAL  TOUR  IN  THE  MEDITERRANEAN ; 

Comprising  Malta,  Dalmatia,  Turkey,  Asia  Minor,  Grecian  Archipelago,  Egypt,  Nubia,  Greece, 
Ionian  Islands,  Sicily,  Italy,  and  Spain.  By  J.  H.  ALLAN,  Member  of  the  Athenian  Archaeo- 
logical Society,  and  of  the  Egyptian  Society  of  Cairo.  Imperial  4to.  with  upwards  of  Forty 
Lithographed  Drawings,  and  70  Wood  Engravings,  a£3.  3s.  cloth.— Ready. 

ADAM.-THE  GEM  OF  THE  PEAK; 

Or,  Matlock  Bath  and  its  Vicinity :  an  Account  of  Derby ;  a  Tour  from  Derby  to  Matlock ; 
Excursion  to  Chatsworth,  Haddon,  Monsal  Dale,  &c.  &c.  By  W.  ADAM.  3d  Edition,  I2mo. 
with  Maps  and  Engravings,  6s.  cloth. 

ADDISON.-THE  KNIGHTS  TEMPLARS. 

By  C.  G.  ADDISON,  Esq.,  of  the  Inner  Temple.  2d  Edition,  enlarged,  square  crown  8vo.  with 
Illustrations,  18s.  cloth. 

ADDISON.-THE  TEMPLE  CHURCH  IN  LONDON : 

Its  History  and  Antiquities.  By  C.  G.  ADDISON,  Esq.,  of  th'e  Inner  Temple  ;  Author  of 
"  The  History  of  the  Knights  Templars."  Square  crown  8vo.  with  Six  Plates,  5s.  cloth. 

ADDISON.-A  FULL  AND  COMPLETE  GUIDE,  HISTORICAL 

AM)  DESCRIPTIVE,  TO  THE  TEMPLE  CHURCH.  (From  Mr.  Addison's  "  History  of 
the  Temple  Church.")  Square  crown  8vo.  Is.  sewed. 

BAILLIE'S  (JOANNA)  NEW  DRAMAS. 

3  vols.  8vo.  £\.  16s.  boards. 

MILLIE'S  (JOANNA)  PLAYS  ON  THE  PASSIONS. 

3  vols.  8vo.  £\.  11s.  6d.  boards. 

BAINBRIDGE.-THE  FLY-FISHER'S  GUIDE, 

Illustrated  by  Coloured  Plates,  representing  upwards  of  40  of  the  most  useful  Flies,  accurately 
copied  from  Nature.  By  G.  C.  BAINBRIDOE.  4th  Edition,  8vo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

BAKEWELL.-AN  INTRODUCTION  TO  GEOLOGY. 

Intended  to  convey  Practical  Knowledge  of  the  Science,  and  comprising  the  most  important 
recent  discoveries ;  with  explanations  of  the  facts  and  phenomena  which  serve  to  confirm  or 
invalidate  various  Geological  Theories.  By  ROBERT  BAKEWELL.  Fifth  Edition,  considerably 
enlarged,  8vo.  with  numerous  Plates  and  Woodcuts,  21s.  cloth. 

BAYLDON.-ART  OF  VALUING  RENTS  AND  TILLAGES, 

And  the  Tenant's  Right  of  Entering  and  Quitting  Farms,  explained  by  several  Specimens  of 
Valuations;  and  Remarks  on  the  Cultivation  pursued  on  Soils  in  different  Situations. 
Adapted  to  the  Use  of  Landlords,  Land-Agents,  Appraisers,  Farmers,  and  Tenants.  By 
J.  S.  BAYLDON.  5th  Edition,  re-written  and  enlarged,  by  JOHN  DONALDSON.  With  a 
Chapter  on  the  Tithe-Commutation  Rent-Charge,  by  a  Gentleman  of  much  experience  on  the 
Tithe  Commission.  8vo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 


CATALOGUE   OF  WORKS 


BAYLDON.-TREATISE  ON  THE  VALUATION  OP  PROPERTY 

FOR  THE  POOR'S  RATE ;  shewing  the  Method  of  Rating  Lands,  Buildings,  Tithes,  Mines, 
Woods,  Navigable  Rivers  and  Canals,  and  Personal  Property :  with  an  Abstract  of  the  Poor 
Laws  relating  to  Rates  and  Appeals.  By  J.  S.  BAYLDON,  Author  of  "Rents  and  Tillages." 
1  vol.  8vo.  7s.  6d.  boards. 

BAYNES.— NOTES  AND  REFLECTIONS 

During  a  Ramble  in  the  EAST,  an  Overland  Journey  from  India,  Visit  to  Athens,  &c.  By 
C.  R.  BAYNES,  Esq.  of  the  Madras  Civil  Service.  Post  8vo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

BEDFORD  CORRESPONDENCE.  -  CORRESPONDENCE  OF 

JOHN,  FOURTH  DUKE  OF  BEDFORD,  selected  from  the  Originals  at  Woburn  Abbey: 
with  Introductions  by  Lord  JOHN  RUSSELL. 

8vo.  Vol.  1  (1742-48),  18s.  cloth ;  Vol.  2  (1749-60),  15s.  cloth. 


;  The  second  volume  of  this  publication  includes  a  correspondence  having  relation  to  the  period  from  the  Peace  of 

-la-Chapelle  to  the  death  of  George  II.     Its  most  remarkable  portion  bears  upon  an  important  question  on  which 

there  exist  some  differences  of  opinion  at  the  present  time,  viz.  the  intrigues  which  led  to  the  junction  of  the  Duke  of 


Newcastle  and  Pitt,  in  1757.    The  letters  respecting  the  state  of  Iieland  under  the  Viceroyalty  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford, 
also  here,  are  not  a  little  interesting." — MORNING  HEB.A.LD. 

*»*  Vol.  3,  to  complete  the  work,  is  in  preparation. 

BELL. -THE    LORD'S    PRAYER    AND    THE    BELIEF 

ILLUSTRATED,  in  a  Series  of  Compositions,    By  JOHN  BELL,  Sculptor.   4to.  8s.  6d.  cloth. 

V  The  above  form  Nos.  1  and  2  of  Mr.  Bell's  "Series  of  Compositions  from  the  Liturgy,"  and 
may  be  had  separately,  3s.  each.    Published  Monthly.    No.  3  on  Jan.  1. 

BELL.-LIYES  OF  THE  MOST  EMINENT  ENGLISH  POETS. 

By  ROBERT  BELL,  Esq.    2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

BELL.-THE  HISTORY  OF  RUSSIA, 

From  the  Earliest  Period  to  the  Treaty  of  Tilsit.    By  ROBERT  BELL,  Esq.    3  vols.  fcp.  8vo. 
with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

BELLAMY.-THE  HOLY  BIBLE, 

Newly  Translated  from  the  Original  Hebrew  only.    By  J.  BELLA  MY.    4to.  Parts  1  to  8. 

BIOGRAPHICAL  DICTIONARY 

6f  the  Society  for  the  Diffusion  of  Useful  Knowledge.    To  be  continued  Quarterly,  in  Half- 
volumes.— Half-volumes  1  to  4,  8vo.  12s. 

Vol.  3,  Part  1— ANTELMI  to  ARISTOPHANES,  8vo.  12s.  cloth. 
V  Continued  Quarterly.— The  work  will  probably  not  exceed  Thirty  Volumes. 

"  This  work  proceeds  in  a  satisfactory  manner.     The  number  of  new  names  is  very  considerable ;  and  in  the 
informs 


articles  which  we  have  read,  and  of  which  we  have  been  able  to  form  an  opinion,  -we  have  sometimes  gained  new 
a,  and  at  others  have  seen  the  errors  of  former  authorities  satisfactorily  corrected." — BRITISH  MAGAZINE. 


BISCHOFF.-PHYSICAL,   CHEMICAL,  AND   GEOLOGICAL 

RESEARCHES  on  the  Internal  Heat  of  the  Globe.  By  GUSTAV  BISCHOFF,  Ph.D.  Professor 
of  Chemistry  in  the  University  of  Bonn.  2  vols.  Vol.  1,  8vo.  Plates  and  Woodcuts,  10s.  bds. 

BLACK'S  PICTURESQUE  TOURIST, 

And  Road-Book  of  England  and  Wales :  with  a  general  Travelling  Map,  Charts  of  Roads, 
Railroads,  and  interesting  Localities,  and  engraved  Views  of  the  Scenery.  Fcp.  8vo.  10s.  6%.  cl. 

BLAINE.-AN  ENCYCLOPEDIA  OF  RURAL  SPORTS ; 

Or,  a  complete  Account,  Historical,  Practical,  and  Descriptive,  of  Hunting,  Shooting,  Fishing, 
Racing,  and  other  Field  Sports  and  Athletic  Amusements  of  the  present  day.  By  DELABERE 
P.  ELAINE,  Esq.  Author  of  "Outlines  of  the  Veterinary  Art,"  "  Canine  Pathology,"  &c.  &c. 
Illustrated  by  nearly  600  Engravings  on  Wood,  by  R.  Branston,  from  Drawings  by  Alken, 
T.  Landseer,  Dickes,  &c.  1  thick  vol.  8vo.  pp.  1256,  £1.  10s.  bound  in  fancy  cloth. 

BLAIR'S  CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLES, 

From  the  Creation  to  the  present  time.  A  new  edition,  carefully  corrected,  enlarged,  and 
brought  down  to  the  present  time ;  and  primed  in  a  convenient  form.  Under  the  revision  of 
Sir  HENRY  ELLIS,  K.H.  Principal  Librarian  of  the  British  Museum.  Roy.  8vo.—Just  ready. 

BLOOMFIELD.-HISTORY  OF  THE  PELOPONNESIAN  WAR. 

By  THUCVDIDES.  Newly  translated  into  English,  and  accompanied  with  very  copious  Notes, 
Philological  and  Explanatory,  Historical  and  Geographical.  By  the  Rev.  S.  T.  BLOOM  FIELD, 
D.D.  F.S.A.  3  vols.  8vo.  with  Maps  and  Plates,  ^2.  5s.  boards. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO. 


BLOOMFIELD.-HISTORY  OF  THE  PELOPONNESIAN  WAR. 

By  THUCYDIDBS.  A  New  Recension  of  the  Text,  with  a  carefully  amended  Punctuation;  and 
copious  NOTES,  Critical,  Philological,  and  Explanatory,  almost  entirely  original,  but  partly 
selected  and  arranged  from  the  best  Expositors:  accompanied  with  full  Indexes,  both  of 
Greek  Words  and  Phrases  explained,  and  matters  discussed  in  the  Notes.  The  whole  illus- 
trated by  Maps  and  Plans,  mostly  taken  from  actual  surveys.  By  the  Rev.  S.  T.  BLOOM  FIELD, 
IX  U.  F.S.A.  2  vols.  8vo.  388.  cloth. 
V  Separately,  Vol.  1, 18s.  cloth ;  Vol.  2,  just  published,  and  completing  the  work,  20s.  cloth. 

BLOOMFIELD.-THE  GREEK  TESTAMENT : 

With  copious  English  Notes,  Critical,  Philological,  and  Explanatory.  By  the  Rev.  S.  T. 
BLOOM  FI  ELD,  D.D.  F.S.A.  3d  Edit,  improved,  2  vols.  8vo.  with  a  Map  of  Palestine,  40s.  cloth. 

BLOOMFIELD.-COLLEGE  &  SCHOOL  GREEK  TESTAMENT; 

With  English  Notes.  By  the  Rev.  S.  T.  BLOOM  FIELD,  D.D.  3d  Edition,  greatly  enlarged, 
and  very  considerably  improved,  12mo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

BLOOMFIELD.-GREEK  AND  ENGLISH  LEXICON  TO  THE 

NEW  TESTAMENT:  especially  adapted  to  the  use  of  Colleges,  and  the  Higher  Classes  in 
Public  Schools ;  but  also  intended  as  a  convenient  Manual  for  Biblical  Students  in  general. 
By  Dr.  BLOOMFIELD.  Fcp.  8vo.  9s.  cloth. 

BOY'S  OWN  BOOK  (THE) : 

A  Complete  Encyclopaedia  of  all  the  Diversions,  Athletic,  Scientific,  and  Recreative,  of  Boy- 
hood and  Youth.  19th  Edition,  square  12mo.  with  many  Engravings  on  Wood,  8s.  6d.  boards. 

BRANDE.-A  DICTIONARY  OF  SCIENCE,  LITERATURE, 

AND  ART ;  comprising  the  History*  Description,  and  Scientific  Principles  of  every  Branch 
of  Human  Knowledge ;  with  the  Derivation  and  Definition  of  all  the  Terms  in  General  Use. 
Edited  by  W.  T.  BRANDE,  F.R.S.L.  &  E. ;  assisted  by  JOSBPH  CAUVIN,  Esq.  The  various 
departments  are  by  Gentlemen  of  eminence  in  each.  1  very  thick  vol.  8vo.  pp.  1332,  illustrated 
by  Wood  Engravings,  £3,  bound  in  cloth.  London,  1842. 

BRAY.-THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  NECESSITY; 

Or,  the  Law  of  Consequences  as  applicable  to  Mental,  Moral,  and  Social  Science.  By  CHARLES 
BRAT.  2  vols.  8vo.  15s.  cloth. 

BREWSTER.-TREATISE  ON  OPTICS. 

By  Sir  DAVID  BREWSTER,  LL.D.  F.R.S.,  &c.  New  Edition.  J  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  Vignette  Title, 
and  176  Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth. 

BRITTON.-THE  ORIGINAL  PICTURE  OF  LONDON : 

With  a  Description  of  its  Environs.  Re-edited,  and  mostly  re-written,  by  J.  BRITTON, 
F.S.A.  &c.  28th  Edition,  with  upwards  of  100  Views  of  Public  Buildings,  Plan  of  the  Streets, 
and  Two  Maps,  18mo.  9s.  neatly  bound;  with  the  Maps  only,  6s.  bound. 

BULL-HINTS  TO  MOTHERS, 

For  the  Management  of  Health  during  the  Period  of  Pregnancy  and  in  the  Lying-in  Room ; 
with  an  Exposure  of  Popular  Errors  in  connection  with  those  subjects.  By  THOMAS  BULL, 
M.D.  Physician  Accoucheur  to  the  Finsbury  Midwifery  Institution,  &c.  &c.  3d  Edition. 
1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  enlarged,  pp.  336,  7s.  cloth.  London,  1841. 

BULL.-THE  MATERNAL  MANAGEMENT  OF  CHILDREN, 

in  HEALTH  and  DISEASE.    By  T.  BULL,  M.D.    Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  cloth. 

"  Excellent  guides,  and  deserve  to  be  generally  known."— JOHNSON'S  MEDICO-CHIRUHGICAL  REVIEW. 

BURDER.-ORIENTAL  CUSTOMS, 

Applied  to  the  Illustration  of  the  Sacred  Scriptures.  By  SAMUEL  BURDER,  A.M.  3d  Edit, 
with  additions,  fcp.  8vo.  8s.  6d.  cloth. 

Houses  and  Tents— Marriage— Children— Servants— Food  and  Drink— Dress  and  Clothing— 
Presents  and  Visiting— Amusements— Books  and  Letters— Hospitality— Travelling— Respect 
and  Honour— Agriculture — Cattle  and  Beasts— Birds,  Insects,  and  Reptiles— Fruit  and  Wine 
—Kings  and  Government— War— Punishments— Religion— Time  and  Seasons— Medicine- 
Funerals,  &c. 


CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 


BURNS.-THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  CHRISTIAN  PHILOSOPHY; 

containing  the  Doctrines,  Duties,  Admonitions,  and  Consolations  of  the  Christian  Religion. 
By  JOHN  BURNS,  M.D.  F.R.S.    5th  Edition,  12mo.  7s.  boards. 

Man  is  created  for  a  Future  State  of  Happiness  ;  on  the  Means  by  which  a  Future  State  of 
Happiness  is  procured  ;  of  what  is  required  of  Man  that  he  may  obtain  a  Future  State  of 
Happiness  ;  of  the  Nature  of  the  Future  State  of  Happiness  ;  of  the  Preparation  for  the  Future 
State  of  Happiness  ;  of  Personal  Duties  ;  of  Relative  Duties  ;  of  the  Duties  Men  owe  to  God  ; 
of  the  Admonitions  and  Consolations  afforded  by  the  Christian  Religion. 

BUTLER-SKETCH  OF  ANCIENT  &  MODERN  GEOGRAPHY. 

By  SAMUEL  BUTLER,  D.D.  late  Lord  Bishop  of  Lichfield  and  Coventry;  and  formerly  Head 
Master  of  Shrewsbury  School.    New  Edition,  revised  by  his  SON,  8vo.  9s.  boards. 

The  present  edition  has  been  carefully  revised  by  the  author's  son,  and  such  alterations  introduced  as  continually 
ogressive  discoveries  and  the  latest  information  rendered  neces 


progressive  discoveries  and  the  latest  information  rendered  necessary.  Recent  Travels  have  been  constantly  con- 
sulted where  any  doubt  or  difficulty  seemed  to  require  it;  and  some  additional  matter  has  been  added,  both  in  the 
ancient  and  modern  part. 

BUTLER-ATLAS  OF  MODERN  GEOGRAPHY. 

By  the  late  Dr.  BUTLEE.  New  Edition  ;  consisting  of  Twenty-three  coloured  Maps,  from  a 
New  Set  of  Plates.  8vo.  with  Index,  12s.  half-bound. 

BUTLER.-ATLAS  OF  ANCIENT  GEOGRAPHY; 

Consisting  of  Twenty-three  coloured  Maps.    With  Index.    By  the  late  Dr.  BUTLER.    New 
Edition.    8vo.  12s.  half-bound. 
V  The  above  two  Atlases  may  be  had,  half-bound,  in  One  Volume,  in  4to.  price  24s. 

CALLCOTT.-A  SCRIPTURE  HERBAL. 

With  upwards  of  120  Wood  Engravings.  By  LADY  CALLCOTT.  Square  crown  8vo.  pp.  568, 
agl.  5s.  cloth. 

"  The  last  two  y»ars  of  her  life  -were  devoted  to  drawing  the  specimens  of  the  plants,  and  collecting  the  best  works 
on  botany,  so  as  to  furnish  materials  for  her  last  book—'  The  Scripture  Herbal'—  the  design  and  character  of  which  is 
as  creditable  to  her  philanthropy  ae  its  origin  is  honourable  to  the  extent  of  her  Biblical  studies.  The  easy  grace- 
fulness of  its  style,  and  its  elegant  embellishments  ,  may  lead  many  an  inhabitant  of  the  drawing-room  or  boudoir  to 
'  look  from  Kature  up  to  Nature's  God,'  to  study  his  '  unwritten  laws'  in  the  natural  world,  in  connection  with  the 
written  law  of  revelation."—  From  a  Memoir  of  LADY  CALLCOTT,  in  the  ANNUAL  BIOGRAPHY  for  1842. 

CATLO¥.-POPULAR  CONCHOLOGY; 

Or,  the  Shell  Cabinet  arranged:  being  an  Introduction  to  the  Modern  System  of  Conchology  : 
with  a  sketch  of  the  Natural  History  of  the  Animals,  an  account  of  the  Formation  of  the  Shells, 
and  a  complete  Descriptive  List  of  the  Families  and  Genera.  By  AGNES  CATLOW.  Fcp.  8vo. 
with  312  Woodcuts,  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

CAVENDISH'S  (SIR  HENRY)  DEBATES  OF  THE  HOUSE  OF 

COMMONS,  during  the  Thirteenth  Parliament  of  Great  Britain,  commonly  called  the 
Unreported  Parliament.  To  which  are  appended,  Illustrations  of  the  Parliamentary  History 
of  the  Reign  of  George  III.,  consisting  of  Unpublished  Letters,  Private  Journals,  Memoirs, 
&c.  Drawn  up  from  the  Original  MSS.,  by  J.  WRIGHT,  Esq.,  Editor  of  the  Parliamentary 
History  of  England.  In  4  vols.  royal  8vo.  Vol.  1  is  now  ready,  25s.  cloth.  This  work  is 
also  published  in  Parts,  6s.  each,  of  which  six  are  now  published. 

".  These  Reports  (1768  —  1774)  constitute  a  valuable  addition  to  Hansard's  Debates,  and  contain  much  curious 
matter  —  inter  alia,  upwards  of  on«  hundred  new  speeches  of  Burke  ;  they,  in  fact,  go  far  to  fill  up  a  hitherto  hopeless 
gap  in  our  Parliamentary  history—  and  the  publication,  with  its  important  appendices,  does  great  honour  to  the 
skill  and  industry  of  the  discoverer  and  editor."  —  QUARTERLY  REVIEW. 

CHALENOR.-POETICAL  REMAINS  OF  MARY  CHALENOR. 

Fcp.  8vo.  4s.  cloth. 

CHALENOR.-¥ALTER  GRAY,  i 

A  Ballad,  and  other  Poems  ;  including  the  Poetical  Remains  of  Mary  Chalenor.  2d  Edition, 
with  Additions,  fcp.  8vo.  6s.  cloth. 

"  The  poems  are  sweetly  natural  ;  and.  though  on  topics  often  sung,  breathe  a  tenderness  and  melancholy  which 
are  at  once  soothing  and  consolatory."—  LITERABT  GAZETTE. 

CHINA.-THE  LAST  YEAR  IN  CHINA, 

To  the  Peace  of  Nanking  :  as  sketched  in  Letters  to  his  Friends,  by  a  Field  Officer  actively 
employed  in  that  Country.  With  a  few  concluding  Remarks  on  our  Past  and  Future  Policy 
»n  China.  2d  edition,  revised.  Fcp.  8vo.  with  Map,  7s.  cloth. 

CHINESE  NOVEL-RAMBLES  OF  THE  EMPEROR  CHING 

Tih  in  Keang  Nan:  a  Chinese  Tale.  Translated  by  Tkin  Shen  ;  with  a  Preface  by  JAMES 
LEGGE,  D.D.  2  vols.  post  8vo.  21s.  cloth. 

"  These  rambles  of  the  Haroun  Alraschid  of  the  Celestial  Empire  give  a  very  curious,  and,  at  the  present  moment, 
a  peculiarly  interesting  view  of  Chinese  opinions,  usages,  and  institutions."  —  TAIT'S  MAGAZINE. 

CLAVERS.—  FOREST  LIFE. 

By  MA  BY  CLAVERS,  an  Actual  Settler  ;  Author  of  "A  New  Home,  Who  '11  Follow?"  2  vols. 
fcp.  8vo.  pp.  642,  12s.  cloth. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO. 


COLTON.-LACON ;  OR,  MANY  THINGS  IN  FEW  WORDS. 

By  the  Rev.  C.  C.  COLTON.    New  Edition,  8ro.  12s.  clbth. 

CONVERSATIONS  ON  BOTANY. 

9th  Edition,  improved,  pp.  302,  fcp.  8vo.  with  22  Plates,  7s.  6d.  cloth  j  with  the  plates  coloured, 
12s.  cloth. 

The  object  of  this  work  is  to  enable  childi , 

tions  of  their  native  country,  by  introducing  to  them, 
Botany.    For  this  purpose,  the  arrangement  of  Linns 

few  exceptions,  i*  examined,  and  illustrated  by  an  — 0 „, 

foreign  -species. 

CONVERSATIONS  ON  MINERALOGY. 

With  Plates,  engraved  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lowry,  from  Original  Drawings.  3d  Edition,  en- 
larged. 2  vols.  12mo.  14s.  cloth. 

COOLEY.-THE  HISTORY  OF  MARITIME  AND  INLAND 

DISCOVERY.    By  W.  D.  COOLEY,  Esq.    3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

COPLAND.-A  DICTIONARY  OF  PRACTICAL  MEDICINE; 

comprising  General  Pathology,  the  Nature  and  Treatment  of  Diseases,  Morbid  Structures, 
and  the  Disorders  especially  incidental  to  Climates,  to  Sex,  and  to  the  different  Epochs  of 
Life,  with  numerous  approved  Formulae  of  the  Medicines  recommended.  By  JAMES  COPLAND, 
M.D.,  Consulting  Physician  to  Queen  Charlotte's  Lying-in  Hospital ;  Senior  Physician  to  the 
Royal  Infirmary  for  Children  ;  Member  of  the  Royal  College  of  Physicians,  London ;  of  the 
Medical  and  Chirurgical  Societies  of  London  and  Berlin,  &c.  Publishing  in  parts,  of  which 
the  9th  will  be  published  December  1st. 

CROCKER'S  ELEMENTS  OF  LAND  SURVEYING. 

Fifth  Edition,  corrected  throughout,  and  considerably  improved  and  modernized,  by  T.  G. 
BUNT,  Land  Surveyor,  Bristol.  To  which  are  added,  TABLES  OF  SIX-FIGURE  LOGA- 
RITHMS, &c.,  superintended  by  RICHARD  FARLEY,  of  the  Nautical  Almanac  Establishment. 
1  vol.  post  8vo.  12s.  cloth. 

•»•  The  work  throughout  is  entirely  revised,  and  much  new  matter  has  been  added  ;  there  are  aew  thapter*.  con- 
taining very  full  and  minute  Directions  relating  to  the  modern  Practice  of  Surveying,  both  with  and  without  the  aid 
of  angular  "instruments.  The  method  of  Plotting  Estates,  and  Casting  or  Computing  their  Areas,  are  described,  &c. 
&c.  The  chapter  on  Levelling  also  is  new. 

CROWE.-THE  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE, 

From  the  Earliest  Period  to  the  Abdication  of  Napoleon.  By  E.  E.  CROWE,  Esq.  3  vols.  fcp. 
8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

DAVY  (SIR  HUMPHRY). -AGRICULTURAL  CHEMISTRY: 

With  Notes  by  Dr.  JOHN  DAVY.    6th  Edition,  8vo.  with  10  Plates,  15s.  cloth. 

CONTEXTS:  —  Introduction  —  The  General  Powers  of  Matter  which  influence  Vegetation  —  The  Organization  of 
Plants — Soils— Nature  and  Constitution  of  the  Atmosphere,  and  its  influence  on  Vegetables — Manures  of  Vegetable 
and  Animal  Origin  -  Manures  of  Mineral  Origin,  or  Fossil  Manures — Improvement  of  Lands  by  Burning — Kxperi- 
ments  on  the  Nutritive  Qualities  of  different  Grasses,  &c. 

DE  CUSTINE.— THE  EMPIRE  OF  THE  CZAR; 

Or,  Observations  on  the  Social,  Political,  and  Religious  State  of  Russia,  and  its  Prospects,  made 
during  a  Journey  through  that  Empire.  By  the  MARQUIS  DE  CUSTINE.  Translated  from  the 
French.  3  vols.  post  8vo.  31s.  6d.  cloth. 

"  M.  De  Cnstine  has  exhibited  s«me  new  views  on  Russia  in  a  striking  and  attractive  way.  To  the  Frenchman's 
sparkling  vivacity  of  manner  he  adds  his  skill  in  seizing  upon  the  incidents  of  action,  the  features  of  cliaracter, 
or  the  points  of  tilings,  and  presenting  them  with  an  attractive  or  imposing  effect.  The  aristocratical  opinions  of 
M.  De  Custine  also  impart  a  character  to  his  sentiments  :  as  his  politeness  refines  his  taste  and  gives  an  air  of  de- 
corum to  his  morals,  without  modifying  his  French  confidence."— SPECTATOR. 

"  A  remarkable  book,  full  of  lively,  curious,  extractable  matter.  The  Marquis  is  a  clever,  spirited  writer:  and  life 
point  and  brilliancy  are  kept,  his  happy  hits  given,  and  his  vehement  indignation  in  no  way  compromised,  in  this 
excellent  translation."— EXAMINER. 

DE  LA  BECHE.-REPORT  ON  THE  GEOLOGY  OF  CORN- 

WALL,  DEVON,  and  WEST  SOMERSET.  By  HENRY  T.  DE  LA  BECHE,  F.R.S.  &c., 
Director  of  the  Ordnance  Geological  Survey.  Published  by  Order  of  the  Lords  Commissioners 
of  H.M.  Treasury.  8vo.  with  Maps,  Woodcuts,  and  12  large  Pates,  14s.  cloth. 

DE  MORGAN.— AN  ESSAY  ON  PROBABILITIES, 

And  on  their  Application  to  Life  Contingencies  and  Insurance  Offices.  By  AUG.  DE  MORGAN, 
of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

DENDY.-THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  MYSTERY. 

15y  \V.  C.  DENDY.    1  vol.  8vo.  12s.  cloth. 

DOCTOR  (THE),  ftc. 

ovols.  post  8vo.  jfe'2.  12s.  6d.  cloth. 

"  Admirably  as  the  mystery  of  the  '  Doctor'  has  been  preserved  up  to  the  present  moment,  there  is  no  longer  any 
reason  for  affecting  secresy  on  the  subject.  The  author  is  Robert  Southey  :  he  acknowledged  the  fact  shortly  before 
his  last  illness  to  his  most  confidential  friend,  an  M.P.  of  high  character.  In  a  private  letter  from  Mrs.  Southey, 
dated  February  27,  1S13,  she  not  only  states  the  fact,  but  adds  that  the  greater  part  of  a  sixth  volume  had  gone 
through  the  press,  and  that  Southry  looked  forward  to  the  pleasure  of  drawing  her  into  it  as  a  contributor  ;  giving  her 
full  authority  to  affirm  Uiat  her  husbaud  is  the  author."— RODKST  BELL,  Et>u.  in  THE  STOUT  TELLER,  No.  1. 


CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 


DODDRIDGE.-THE  FAMILY  EXPOSITOR ; 

Or,  a  Paraphrase  and  Version  of  the  New  Testament :  with  Critical  Notes,  and  a  Practical 
Improvement  of  each  Section.  By  P.  DODDRIDGE,  D.D.  To  which  is  prefixed,  a  Life  of  the 
Author,  by  A.  KIPPIS,  D.D.  F.R.S.  and  S.A.  New  Edition,  4  vols.  8vo.  jgl.  16s.  cloth. 

DONOVAN-TREATISE  ON  CHEMISTRY. 

By  M.  DONOVAN,  M.R.I.A.    Fourth  Edition,  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

DONOVAN.-A  TREATISE  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 

By  M.  DONOVAN,  Esq.  M.R.I.A.  Professor  of  Chemistry  to  the  Company  of  Apothecaries  in 
Ireland.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

DOVER-LIFE  OF  FREDERICK  II.  KING  OF  PRUSSIA. 

By  LORD  DOVER.    2d  Edition,  2  vols.  8vo.  with  Portrait,  28s.  boards. 

DRUMMOND.-FIRST  STEPS  TO  BOTANY, 

Intended  as  popular  Illustrations  of  the  Science,  leading  to  its  study  as  a  branch  of  general 
education.  By  J.  L.  DRUMMOND,  M.D.  4th  Edit.  12mo.  with  numerous  Woodcuts,  9s.  bds. 

DUHRING.-THE  ART  OF  LIVING. 

By  Dr.  H.  DUHRING.    Post  8vo.  5s.  cloth. 

"  Happy  is  life,  when  sound  health,  pure  feelings,  rational  thoughts,  and  noble  deeds,  combine  to  exalt  its  earthly 
course.     Then  man  almost  reveals  in  himself  the  image  of  his  Deity,  and  his  home  becomes  a  Paradise." 

DUNHAM.-THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  GERMANIC  EMPIRE. 

By  Dr.  DUNHAM.    3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

DUNHAM.-HISTORY  OF  EUROPE  DURING  THE  MIDDLE 

AGES.    By  Dr.  DUNHAM.    4  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  £l.  4s.  cloth. 

DTJNHAM.-THE  HISTORY  OF  SPAIN  AND  PORTUGAL. 

By  Dr.  DUNHAM.    5  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  £l.  10s.  cloth. 

DUNHAM.-THE  HISTORY  OF  DENMARK,  SWEDEN,  AND 

NORWAY.    By  Dr.  DUNHAM.    3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

DUNHAM.-THE  HISTORY  OF  POLAND. 

By  Dr.  DUNHAM.    1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

DUNHAM.-THE  LIVES  OF   THE  EARLY  WRITERS  OF 

GREAT  BRITAIN.  By  Dr.  DUNHAM,  R.  BELL,  Esq.  &c.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette 
Title,  6s.  cloth. 

DUNHAM,  &C.-THE  LIVES  OF  BRITISH  DRAMATISTS. 

By  Dr.  DUNHAM,  R.  BELL,  Esq.  &c.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

EGERTON.-A  TREATISE  ON  PHOTOGRAPHY; 

Containing  the  latest  Discoveries  appertaining  to  the  Daguerreotype.  Compiled  from  Com- 
munications by  MM.  Daguerre  and  Arago,  and  other  Eminent  Men  of  Science.  By  N.  P. 
LEREBOURS,  Optician  to  the  Observatory,  Paris,  &c.  Translated  by  J.  EGERTON.  Post  8vo. 
with  Plate  of  Apparatus,  7s.  6d.  cloth. 

ELLIOTSON.-HUMAN  PHYSIOLOGY: 

With  which  is  incorporated  much  of  the  elementary  part  of  the  "  Institutions  Physiologies" 
of  J.  F.  Blumenbach,  Professor  in  the  University  of  Gottingen.  By  JOH  N  ELLIOTSON,  M.D. 
Cantab.  F.R.S.  Fifth  Edition,  8vo.  with  numerous  Woodcuts,  ^2.  2s.  cloth. 

ENGLISHMAN'S  HEBREW  AND  CHALDEE  CONCORDANCE 

of  the  OLD  TESTAMENT ;  being  an  attempt  at  a  Verbal  Connection  between  the  Original 
and  the  English  Translations :  with  Indexes,  a  List  of  the  Proper  Names  and  their  occur- 
rences, &c.  &c.  2  vols.  royal  8vo.  cloth,  ^63.  13s.  6d. ;  large  paper,  j£4.  14s.  6d. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO. 


FAREY.-A    TREATISE    ON    THE    STEAM     ENGINE, 

Historical,  Practical,  and  Descriptive.  By  JOHN  FAREY,  Engineer.  4to.  Illustrated  by 
numerous  Woodcuts,  and  25  Copper-plates.  ^5.  5s.  boards. 

FERGUS. -HISTORY  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA, 

From  the  Discovery  of  America  to  the  Election  of  General  Jackson  to  the  Presidency.  By  the 
Rev.  H.  FERGUS.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

FIELD.-POSTHUMOUS    EXTRACTS    FROM    THE 

VETERINARY  RECORDS  OF  THE  LATE  JOHN  FIELD.  Edited  by  his  Brother, 
WILLIAM  FIELD,  Veterinary  Surgeon,  London.  8vo.  8s.  boards. 

*.*  These  Records  consist  of  Selections  from  a  vast  number  of  Manuscript  papers  and  cases,  extending  over  a 
period  of  twenty  years,  and  treat  of  most  of  the  diseases  incidental  to  Horses. 

FORD -THE  NEW  DEVOUT  COMMUNICANT, 

According  to  the  Church  of  England ;  containing  an  Account  of  the  Institution,  Prayers,  and 
Meditations,  before  and  after  the  Administration,  and  a  Companion  at  the  Lord's  Table.  By 
the  Rev.  JAMES  FORD,  B.D.  7th  Edition,  18mo.  2s.  6d.  bound  in  cloth,  with  gilt  edges; 
fcp.  8vo.  3s.  6d.  bound. 

FORD.-A  CENTURY  OF  CHRISTIAN  PRAYERS, 

On  FAITH,  HOPE,  and  CHARITY;  with  a  Morning  and  Evening  Devotion.  By  the  Rev. 
JAMES  FORD,  B.D.  3d  Edition,  18mo.  4s.  cloth. 

FORSTER.-THE  STATESMEN  OF  THE  COMMONWEALTH 

OF  ENGLAND.    With  an  Introductory  Treatise  on  the  Popular  Progress  in  English  History. 

By  JOHN  FORSTER,  Esq.     5  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Original  Portraits  of  Pym,  Eliot,  Hampden, 

Cromwell,  and  an  Historical  Scene  after  a  Picture  by  Cattermole,  £\.  10s.  cloth. 
The  Introductory  Treatise,  intended  as  an  Introduction  to  the  Study  of  the  Great  Civil  War  in 

the  Seventeenth  Century,  separately,  2s.  6d.  sewed. 
The  above  5  vols.  form  Mr.  Forster's  portion  of  the  Lives  of  Eminent  British  Statesmen,  by  Sir 

James  Mackintosh,  the  Right  Hon.  T.  P.  Courtenay,  and  John  Forster,  Esq.    7  vols.  fcp.  8vo. 

with  Vignette  Titles,  ^2.  2s.  cloth. 

FOSBROKE.-A  TREATISE   ON   THE  ARTS,  MANNERS, 

MANUFACTURES,  and  INSTITUTIONS  of  the  GREEKS  and  ROMANS.  By  the  Rev. 
T.  D.  FOSBROKE,  &c.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

FRANKUM.-DISCOURSE    ON     THE    ENLARGED     AND 

I'KNDULOUS  ABDOMEN,  showing  it  to  be  a  visceral  affection  attended  with  important 
consequences  in  the  Human  Economy ;  with  cursory  Observations  on  Diet,  Exercise,  and  the 
General  Management  of  Health :  for  the  use  of  the  Dyspeptic.  By  RICHARD  FRANKUM,  Esq. 
Surgeon. 

The  Second  Edition,  augmented,  with  a  Dissertation  on  Gout,  suggesting  new  physiological  views 
as  to  its  Cause,  Prevention,  and  the  best  Course  of  Treatment.    Fcp.  8vo.  pp.  126,  5s.  cloth. 

GLEIG.-LIVES  OF  MOST  EMINENT  BRITISH  MILITARY 

COMMANDERS.    By  the  Rev.  G.  R.  GLEIO.    3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

GLENDINNING.-PRACTICAL  HINTS  ON  THE  CULTURE 

OF  THE  PINE  APPLE.  By  R.  GLENDINNINO,  Gardener  to  the  Right  Hon.  Lord  Rolle, 
Bicton.  12mo.  with  Plan  of  a  Pinery,  5s.  cloth. 

GOOD.-THE  BOOK  OF  NATURE. 

A  Popular  Illustration  of  the  General  Laws  and  Phenomena  of  Creation.  By  JOHN  MASON 
GOOD,  M.D.  F.R.S.,  &c.  Third  Edition,  corrected,  3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  24s.  cloth. 

GRAHAM-ENGLISH ;  OR,  THE  ART  OF  COMPOSITION 

explained  in  a  Series  of  Instructions  and  Examples.  By  G.  F.  GRAHAM.  Fcp.  8vo.  pp.  348, 
7s.  cloth. 

GRAHAM.-HELPS  TO  ENGLISH  GRAMMAR; 

Or,  Easy  Exercises  for  Young  Children.  By  G.  F.  GRAHAM.  Illustrated  by  Engravings  on 
Wood.  Fcp.  8vo.  cloth,  3s. 

'•  Mr.  Graham's  '  Helps  to  English  Grammar*  will  be  found  a  good  elementary  book ;  and  the  numerous  engraving' 
which  it  contains  must  render  it  extremely  attractive  to  the  '  Young  Children'  for  whose  use  these  '  Easy  Exercisscs 
are  designed.  The  ARROW,  which  is  for  the  first  time  adopted  in  a  work  of  this  sort,  to  illustrate  the  connection,  by 
action  or  motion,  between  persons  and  things,  is  a  happy  idea."— BRIGHTON  GAZETTE. 


10  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 

GRATTAN.-THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  NETHERLANDS, 

From  the  Invasion  by  the  Romans  to  the  Belgian  Revolution  in  1830.  By  T.  C.  GRATTAN, 
Esq.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

GRAY.-FIGURES  OP  MOLLUSCOUS  ANIMALS, 

Selected  from  various  Authors.  Etched  for  the  Use  of  Students.  By  MARIA  EMMA  GRAY. 
Vol.  I.  pp.  40,  with  78  plates  of  Figures,  12s.  cloth. 

THE  GENERA  OF  BIRDS; 

Comprising  their  Generic  Characters,  a  Notice  of  the  Habits  of  each  Genus,  and  an  extensive 
List  of  Species,  referred  to  their  several  Genera.  By  GEORGE  ROBERT  GRAY,  Acad.  Imp. 
Georg.  Florent.  Soc.  Corresp.  Senior  Assistant  of  the  Zoological  Department,  British  Museum  ; 
and  Author  of  the  "  List  of  the  Genea  of  Birds,"  &c.  &c.  Illustrated  with  Three  Hundred 
and  Fifty  imperial  quarto  Plates,  by  DAVID  WILLIAM  MITCHELL.— In  preparation. 

V  Publication  will  commence  when  One  Hundred  Subscribers'  Names  have  been  obtained. 
Prospectuses  maybe  obtained  of  all  Booksellers ;  a  Specimen  maybe  seen  at  the  Publishers. 

GREENER.-THE  GUN; 

Or,  a  Treatise  on  the  various  Descriptions  of  Small  Fire- Arms.  By  W.  GREENER,  Inventor  of 
an  improved  method  of  Firing  Cannon  by  Percussion,  &c.  STO.  with  Illustrations,  15s.  boards. 

GREENER.-THE  SCIENCE  OF  GUNNERY, 

As  applied  to  the  Use  and  Construction  of  Fire  Arms.  By  WILLIAM  GREENER,  Author  of 
"The  Gun,"  &c.  With  numerous  Plates,  15s.  cloth. 

GRIGOR.-THE  EASTERN  ARBORETUM; 

Or,  Register  of  Remarkable  Trees,  Seats,  Gardens,  &c.  in  the  County  of  Norfolk.  With 
Popular  Delineations  of  the  British  Sylva.  By  JAMES  GRIGOR.  Illustrated  by  50  Drawings 
of  Trees,  etched  on  copper  by  H.  NINHAM.  8vo.  17s.  6d.  cloth. 

GUEST. -THE  MABINOGION, 

From  the  Llyfr  Coch  o  Hergest,  or  Red  Book  of  Hergest,  and  other  ancient  Welsh  MSS. : 

with  an  English  Translation  and  Notes.    By  Lady  CHARLOTTE  GUEST. 
Part  1.  Containing  the  Lady  of  the  Fountain.    Royal  8vo.  with  Fac-simile  and  Woodcuts,  8s. 
Part  2.  Containing  Peredur  Ab  Evrawc ;  a  Tale  of  Chivalry.    Royal  8vo.  with  Fac-simile  and 

Woodcuts,  8s. 
Part  3.  Containing  the  Arthurian  Romance  of  Geraint,  the  Son  of  Erbin.    Royal  8vo.  with 

Fac-simile  and  Woodcuts,  8s. 
Part  4.  Containing  the  Romance  of  Kilhwch  and  Olwen.    Royal  8vo.  with  4  Illustrations  and 

Fac-simile,  8s. 
Part  5.  Containing  the  Dream  of  Rhonabwy,  and  ijje  Tale  of  Pwyll  Prince  of  Dyved.    Royal 

8vo.  8s. 

GUIDE  TO  ALL  THE  WATERING  &  SEA-BATHING  PLACES 

of  Great  Britain  ;  containing  full  and  accurate  Descriptions  of  each  place,  and  of  the  Curio- 
sities and  striking  Objects  in  the  Environs;  and  forming  an  agreeable  and  useful  Companion 
during  a  residence  at  any  of  the  places,  or  during  a  summer  tour  in  quest  of  health  or 
pleasure:  with  a  Description  of  the  Lakes,  and  a  Tour  through  Wales.  New  Edition, 
including  the  SCOTCH  WATERING  PLACES,  1  thick  vol.  18mo.  illustrated  by  94  Views  and 
Maps,  15s.  bound. 

GWILT.-AN  ENCYCLOPEDIA  OF  ARCHITECTURE; 

Historical,  Theoretical,  and  Practical.  By  JOSEPH  GWILT,  Esq.  F.S.A.  Illustrated  with 
upwards  of  1000  Engravings  on  Wood,  from  Designs  by  J.  S.  GWILT.  In  1  thick  vol.  8vo. 
containing  nearly  1300  closely-printed  pages,  £2.  12s.  6d.  cloth. 

HALL.- NEW    GENERAL    LARGE    LIBRARY  ATLAS   OF 

FIFTY-THREE  MAPS,  on  Colombier  Paper;  with  the  Divisions  and  Boundaries  carefully 
coloured.  Constructed  entirely  from  New  Drawings,  and  engraved  by  SIDNEY  HALL.  New 
Edition,  thoroughly  revised  and  corrected  ;  including  all  the  Alterations  rendered  necessary 
by  the  recent  Official  Surveys,  the  New  Roads  on  the  Continent,  and  a  careful  Comparison 
with  the  authenticated  Discoveries  published  in  the  latest  Voyages  and  Travels.  Folded  in 
half,  Nine  Guineas,  half-bound  in  russia;  full  size  of  the  Maps,  Ten  Pounds,  half-bound  in 
russia. 

The  following  Maps  have  been  re-engraved,  from  entirely  new  designs— Ireland.  South  Africa,  Turkey  in  Asia; 
the  following  have  been  materially  improved— Switzerland,  North  Italy,  South  Italy,  Kgypt,  Central  Germany, 
Southern  Germany,  Greece,  Austria,  Spain  and  Portugal ;  a  new  map  of  China,  corrected  from  the  recent  government 
survey  of  the  coast  from  Canton  to  Nankin  (to  which  is  appended  , the  Province  of  Canton,  on  an  enlarged  scale,  in 
a  separate  compartment),  has  since  been  added. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  11 

HALSTED.-LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF  RICHARD  THE  THIRD, 

as  Duke  of  Gloucester  and  King  of  England :  in  which  all  the  Charges  against  him  are  care- 
fully investigated  and  compared  with  the  Statements  of  the  Cotemporary  Authorities.  By 
CAROLINE  A.  HALSTED,  Author  of  "The  Life  of  Margaret  Beaufort,  Mother  of  King  Henry 
VII.,"  and  "  Obligations  of  Literature  to  the  Mothers  of  England."  2  vols.  with  an  original 
Portrait. — In  the  press. 

HAND-BOOK  OF  TASTE; 

Or,  How  to  Observe  Works  of  Art,  especially  Cartoons,  Pictures,  and  Statues.  By  FABIUS 
PICTOR.  Fcp.  Svo.  3s.  boards. 

"  We  have  never  met  with  a  compendious  treatise  on  art,  and  the  principles  which  should  guide  taste  in  judging  of 
its  productions,  that  contained  more  excellent  matter  than  this  small  unpretending  volume.  It  is  expressly  compiled 
for  the  instruction  of  the  public .  and  with  a  view  to  that  era  in  art  which  the  decoration  of  the  new  Houses  of  Parlia- 
ment, and  the  present  display  of  the  cartoons  in  Westminster  Hall,  may  be  expected  to  create.  It  exhibit*  the  opinions 
of  the  best  artiste  and  critics  of  all  ages.  It  is  not  intended  to  instruct  the  student  in  art,  though  he  may  profit  much 
by  its  lessons,  but  to  tell  the  observer  now  he  may  judge  of  the  productions  of  the  fine  arts.  It  is  not  flattering  to  set 
out  with  saying  that  England,  in  the  art  of  design,  is  not  only  immeasurably  behind  Italy,  but  falls  short  of  what 
France  aspires  to,  and  Germany  has  accomplished ;  but  this  is  qualified  by  the  admission  that  England  is,  nevertheless, 
quite  capable  of  efficient  progress. 

"  The  following  rules,  and  those  which  precede  them,  should  be  well  conned  over  before  visiting  exhibitions, and 
afterwards  stitched  up  with  our  catalogue."— T AIT'S  MAGAZINES. 

HANSARD.-TROUT  AND  SALMON  FISHING  IN  WALES. 

By  G.  A.  HANSARD.    12mo.  6s.  6d.  cloth. 

HARFORD.-LIFE  OF  THOMAS  BURGESS,  D.D.  F.R.S.  &c. 

Late  Lord  Bishop  of  Salisbury.  By  JOHN  S.  HARFORD,  Esq.  D.C.L.  F.L.S.  2d  Edition,  with 
additions,  fcp.  Svo.  with  Portrait,  8s.  6d.  cloth. 

HARRIS.-THE  HIGHLANDS  OF  ETHIOPIA; 

Being  the  Accout  of  Eighteen  Months'  Residence  of  a  British  Embassy  to  the  Christian  Court 
of  Shoa.  By  Major  W.  C.  HARRIS,  Author  of  "  Wild  Sports  in  Southern  Africa,"  "  Portraits  of 
African  Game  Animals,"  &c.  3  vols.  Svo.  with  Map  and  Three  Illustrations.— Nearly  ready. 

HAWKER-INSTRUCTIONS  TO  YOUNG  SPORTSMEN 

In  all  that  relates  to  Guns  and  Shooting.  By  Lieut.-Col.  P.  HAWKER.  8th  Edition,  corrected, 
enlarged,  and  improved,  with  numerous  explanatory  Plates  and  Woodcuts,  Svo.  £\.  Is,  cloth. 

HENSLOW.-THE    PRINCIPLES    OF   DESCRIPTIVE  AND 

PHYSIOLOGICAL  BOTANY.  By  J.  S.  HENSLOW,  M.A.  F.L.S.  &c.  1  vol.  fcp.  Svo.  with 
Vignette  Title,  and  nearly  70  Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth, 

HERSCHEL.-A  TREATISE  ON  ASTRONOMY. 

By  Sir  JOHN  HERSCHEL.     New  Edition.    1  vol.  fcp.  Svo.  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

HERSCHEL.-A    PRELIMINARY   DISCOURSE    ON    THE 

STUDY  OF  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY.  By  Sir  JOHN  HERSCHEL.  New  Edition,  1  vol. 
fcp.  Svo.  with  vignette  title,  6s.  cloth.  * 

HINTS  ON  ETIQUETTE  AND  THE  USAGES  OF  SOCIETY: 

With  a  Glance  at  Bad  Habits.  By  Ayuyos.  "  Manners  make  the  man."  25th  Edition, 
revised  (with  additions)  by  a  Lady  of  Rank.  Fcp.  Svo.  2s.  6d.  handsomely  bound  in  fancy 
cloth,  gilt  edges. 

General  Observations ;  Introductions— Letters  of  Introduction— Marriage— Dinners— Smoking; 
Snuff — Fashion — Dress — Music — Dancing— Conversation — Advice  to  Tradespeople — Visiting ; 
Visiting  Cards— Cards— Tattling— Of  General  Society. 

HOARE.-A  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  THE  CULTIVATION 

OF  THE  GRAPE  VINE  ON  OPEN  WALLS.  By  CLEMENT  HOARE.  3d  Edition,  Svo. 
7s.  6d.  cloth. 

Introduction  ;  Observations  on  the  present  Method  of  Cultivating  Grape  Vines  on  open  Walls  ; 
on  the  capability  and  extent  of  the  Fruit-bearing  Powers  of  the  Vine ;  on  Aspect ;  on  Soil ; 
on  Manure ;  on  the  Construction  of  Walls ;  on  the  Propagation  of  Vines ;  on  the  Pruning  of 
Vines;  on  the  Training  of  Vines;  on  the  Management  of  a  Vine  during  the  first  five  years  of 
its  growth ;  Weekly  Calendarial  Register ;  General  Autumnal  Prunings ;  on  the  Winter 
Management  of  the  Vine  ;  on  the  Planting  and  Management  of  Vines  in  tne  public  thorough- 
fares of  towns ;  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  twelve  sorts  of  Grapes  most  suitably  adapted  for 
Culture  on  open  Walls. 

HOLLAND.-PROGRESSIVE  EDUCATION ; 

Or,  Considerations  on  the  Course  of  Life.    Translated  from  the  French  of  Madame  Necker  de 

Saussure.    By  Miss  HOLLAND.    3  vols.  fcp.  Svo.  19s.  6d.  cloth. 

%*  The  Third  Volume,  forming  an  appropriate  conclusion  to  the  first  two,  separately,  7s.  6d. 

HOLLAND.-A  TREATISE  ON  THE  MANUFACTURES  IN 

METAL.  By  J.  HOLLAND,  Esq.  3  vols.  fcp.  Svo.  Vignette  Titles,  and  about  300  Woodcuts, 
18s.  cloth. 


12  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 

HOLLAND.--MEDICAL  NOTES  AND  REFLECTIONS. 

By  HENRY  HOLLAND,  M.D.  F.R.S.  &c.  Fellow  of  the  Royal  College  of  Physicians,  Physician 
Extraordinary  to  the  Queen,  and  Physician  in  Ordinary  to  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Albert. 
2d  Edition,  1  vol.  8vo.  pp.  654, 18s.  cloth. 

HOOKER.-THE  BRITISH  FLORA, 

In  Two  Vols.  Vol.  1 ;  comprising  Phsenogamous  or  Flowering  Plants,  and  the  Ferns.  By  Sir 
WILLIAM  JACKSON  HOOKER,  K.H.  LL.D.  F.R.A.  and  L.S.  &c.  &c  &c.  Fifth  Edition,  with 
Additions  and  Corrections;  and  173  Figures  illustrative  of  the  Umbelliferous  Plants,  the 
Composite  Plants,  the  Grasses,  and  the  Ferns.  8vo.  pp.  502,  with  12  Plates,  14s.  plain ;  with 
the  plates  coloured,  24s.  cloth. 

Vol.  2,  in  Two  Parts,  comprising  the  Cryptogamia  and  Fungi,  completing  the  British  Flora,  and 
forming  Vol.  5,  Parts  1  and  2,  of  Smith's  English  Flora,  24s.  boards. 

HOOKER.-COMPENDIUM  OF  THE  ENGLISH  FLORA. 

2d  Edition,  with  Additions  and  Corrections.    By  Sir  W.  J.  HOOKER.    12mo.  7s.  6d.  cloth. 
THE  SAME  IN  LATIN.    5th  Edition,  12mo.  7s.  6d. 

HOOKER.-ICONES  PLANTARUM ; 

Or,  Figures,  with  brief  Descriptive  Characters  and  Remarks,  of  New  and  Rare  Plants,  selected 
from  the  Author's  Herbarium.  By  Sir  W.  J.  HOOKER,  K.H.  LL.D.  &c.  4  vols.  8vo.  with 
400  Plates,  ^5. 12s.  cloth. 

HOOKER  AND  TAYLOR.-MUSCOLOGIA  BRITANNICA. 

Containing  the  Mosses  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  systematically  arranged  and  described ; 
with  Plates,  illustrative  of  the  character  of  the  Genera  and  Species.  By  Sir  W.  J.  HOOKER 
and  T.  TAYLOR,  M.D.  F.L.S.,  Sic.  2d  Edition,  8vo.  enlarged,  31s.  6d.  plain  ;  £3.  3s.  coloured. 

HOWITT  (MARY). -STRIFE  AND  PEACE; 

Or,  Life  in  Norway :  the  H Family ;  Axel  and  Anna,  &c.    Translated  by  MARY  HOWITT, 

from  the  Swedish  of  Miss  BREMER,  Author  of  "The  Neighbours,"  "The  Home,"  "The 
President's  Daughters,"  &c.  3  vols.  post  8vo.— Nearly  ready. 

HOWITT  (MARY). -THE  HOME. 

Or,  Family  Cares  and  Family  Joys.  By  FREDERIKA  BREMER.  Translated  by  MARY 
HOWITT.  2d  Edition,  revised  and  corrected,  2  vols.  post  8vo.  21s.  boards. 

"  Miss  Bremer  possesses,  beyond  any  other  living  writer  of  her  class,  the  power  of  realising  to  the  imagination 
every  individual  she  introduces.  There  is  scarcely  a  single  person  in  her  multitudinous  groups  that  does  not  stand 
out  palpably  in  his  living  lineaments.  The  minute  fidelity  of  her  details,  the  vivid  distinctness  with  which  every 
mental  struggle  and  secret  emotion  is  traced ;  the  moral  beauty  and  womanly  purity  which  steadily  illuminate 
her  narrative ;  and  the  calm  Christian  philosophy  out  of  which  all  its  earnest  lessons  of  truth,  and  justice,  and  resig- 
nation, and  serene  wisdom,  are  drawn,  must  receive  implicit  admiration  on  all  hands." — EXAMINEB. 

HOWITT  (MARY). -THE  NEIGHBOURS  : 

A  Story  of  Every-day  Life  in  Sweden.  By  FREDERIKA  BREMER.  Translated  by  MARY 
HOWITT.  3d  Edition,  revised  and  corrected,  2  vols.  post  8vo.  18s.  boards. 

HOWITT  (MARY).-THE  PRESIDENT'S  DAUGHTERS, 

Including  NINA.  By  FREDERIKA  BREMER.  Translated  by  MARY  HOWITT.  3  vols. 
post  8vo.  31s.  6d.  boards. 


"  '  The  President's  Daughters '  is  every  way  worthy  of  the  author  of  '  The  Home  *  and  '  The  Neighbours.'  It  is  dis- 
tinguished by  the  same  life-like  and  truthful  sketches,  the  same  distinctness  of  individual  portraitures,  a  power  of 
description,  whether  of  character  or  of  scenery,  which,  without  being  elaborate,  is  at  once 


mony  with  the  human  mind,  and  a  purity  o:  thought  and  reeling  arising  not  Irom  ignorance  ol  the  actual  world,  but 
from  the  supremacy  of  those  better  principles  which  constitute  the  glory  of  our  nature."— ECLECTIC  REVIEW,  ^ov. 

HOWITT -THE  RURAL  LIFE  OF  ENGLAND. 

By  WILLIAM  HOWITT,  New  Edition,  medium  8vo.  with  Engravings  on  wood,  by  Bewick  and 
Williams,  uniform  with  "Visits  to  Remarkable  Places,"  21s.  cloth. 


Life  of  the  Aristocracy. 
Life  of  the  Agricultural  Population. 
Picturesque  and  Moral  Features  of  the  Country. 
Strong  Attachment  of  the  English  to  Country 
Life. 


The  Forests  of  England. 

Habits,  Amusements,  and  Condition  of  the 
People;  in  which  are  introduced  Two  New 
Chapters,  descriptive  of  the  Rural  Watering 
Places,  and  Education  of  the  Rural  Population. 


HOWITT.-VISITS  TO  REMARKABLE  PLACES; 

Old  Halls,  Battle-Fields,  and  Scenes  illustrative  of  Striking  Passages  in  English  History  and 
Poetry.  By  WILLIAM  HOWITT.  New  Edition,  medium  8vo.  with  40  Illustrations  by 
S.  Williams,  21s.  cloth. 

SECOND  SERIES,  chiefly  in  the  Counties  of  DURHAM  and  NORTHUMBERLAND,  with  a 
Stroll  along  the  BORDER.  1  vol.  medium  8vo.  with  upwards  of  40  highly-finished  Woodcuts, 
from  Drawings  made  on  the  spot  for  this  work,  by  Messrs.  Carmichael,  Richardsons,  and 
Weld  Taylor,  21s.  cloth. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  13 

HOWITT.-RURAL  AND  DOMESTIC  LIFE  OF  GERMANY : 

With  Characteristic  Sketches  of  its  Chief  Cities  and  Scenery.  Collected  in  a  General  Tour, 
and  during  a  Residence  in  that  Country  in  the  Years  1840-42.  By  WILLIAM  HOWITT, 
Author  of  "  The  Rural  Life  of  England,"  "  Visits  to  Remarkable  Places,"  "  The  Boy's 
Country  Book,"  &c.  1  vol.  medium  8vo.  with  above  50  Illustrations,  21s.  cloth. 

"  We  cordially  record  our  conviction  of  the  value  of  Mr.  Howitt's  volume,  and  strongly  recommend  its  early  perusal. 
It  is  both  instructive  and  entertaining,  and  will  be  found  to  familiarize  the  English  reader  with  forma  of  character 
and  modes  of  social  life,  vastly  different  from  anything  witnessed  at  home."— ECLECTIC  REVIEW. 

IIOWITT.— THE  STUDENT-LIFE  OF  GERMANY. 

From  the  Unpublished  MSS.  of  Dr.  Cornelius.  By  WILLIAM  HOWITT.  8vo.  with  24  Wood- 
Engravings,  and  Seven  Steel  Plates,  21s.  cloth. 

•»•  This  volume  contains  Forty  of  the  most  famous  STUDENT-SONGS,  with  the  Original  Music,  adapted  to  the 
Pianoforte  by  Winkelmeyer. 

IIOWITT.-COLONISATION  AND  CHRISTIANITY: 

A  Popular  History  of  the  Treatment  of  the  Natives,  in  all  their  Colonies,  by  the  Europeans. 
By  WILLIAM  HOWITT.  1  vol.  post  8vo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

HOWITT.-THE  BOY'S  COUNTRY  BOOK : 

Being  the  real  Life  of  a  Country  Boy,  written  by  himself;  exhibiting  all  the  Amusements, 
Pleasures,  and  Pursuits  of  Children  in  the  Country.  Edited  by  WILLIAM  HOWITT,  Author 
of  "  The  Rural  Life  of  England,"  &c.  2d  Edition,  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  about  40  Woodcuts, 
8s.  cloth. 

HUDSON.-THE  PARENT'S  HAND-BOOK; 

Or,  Guide  to  the  Choice  of  Professions,  Employments,  and  Situations  ;  containing  useful  and 
practical  Information  on  the  subject  of  placing  out  Young  Men,  and  of  obtaining  their  Edu- 
cation with  a  view  to  particular  occupations.  By  J.  C.  HUDSON,  Esq.  Author  of  "Plain 
Directions  for  Making  Wills."  Fcp.  8vo.  5s.  cloth. 

"  This  volume  will  be  found  useful  to  any  parent  who  is  painfully  meditating  upon  that  difficult  subject  how  or 
where  he  can  best  place  his  sons  in  the  world."— SPECTATOR. 

HUDSON-PLAIN  DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING  WILLS 

In  Conformity  with  the  Law,  and  particularly  with  reference  to  the  Act  7  Will.  4  and  1  Viet, 
c.  26.  To  which  is  added,  a  clear  Exposition  of  the  Law  relating  to  the  distribution  of  Per- 
sonal Estate  in  the  case  of  Intestacy ;  with  two  Forms  of  Wills,  and  much  useful  information, 
&c.  By  J.  C.  HUDSON,  of  the  Legacy  Duty  Office,  London.  12th  Edition,  corrected,  with 
notes  of  cases  judicially  decided  since  the  above  Act  came  into  operation,  Fcp.  8vo.  2s.  6d. 
cloth,  gilt  edges. 

HUDSON.-THE  EXECUTOR'S  GUIDE. 

By  J.  C.  HUDSON.    Third  Edition,  fcp.  8vo.  5s.  cloth. 

%*  These  two  works  may  be  had  in  1  volume,  price  7s.  cloth. 

INGEMANN.-KING  ERIC  AND  THE  OUTLAWS; 

Or,  the  Throne,  the  Church,  and  the  People.  By  INGEMANN.  Translated  from  the  Danish 
by  JANE  FRANCES  CHAPMAN.  3  vols.  post  8vo.  31s.  6d.  boards. 

"  This  tale  introduces  us  into  new  and  fertile  ground, — Denmark  in  the  thirteenth  century.  The  characters  are 
all  drawn  from  Danish  history :  the  story  itself  is  full  of  incident  and  adventure.  The  author  boldly  plunges  at  once 
in  medias  res  ;  and  we  recollect  few  novels  in  which  the  attention  of  the  reader  is  more  quickly  interested,  or  mo:e 
completely  absorbed.  The  characters  are  struck  off  with  a  shrewd  intelligence,  and  contrast  admirably;  and  the 
whole  tale  is  original,  lively,  and  varied  in  no  common  degree,  reminding  us  of  the  chivalric  spirit  of  Scott." 

COURT  JOURNAL. 

JACKSON-PICTORIAL  FLORA ; 

Or,  British  Botany  delineated,  in  1500  Lithographic  Drawings  of  all  the  Species  of  Flowering 
Plants  indigenous  to  Great  Britain  ;  illustrating  the  descriptive  works  on  English  Botany  of 
Hooker,  Lindley,  Smith,  &c.  By  Miss  JACKSON.  8vo.  15s.  cloth. 

JACKSON,  &c -THE  MILITARY  LIFE  OP  FIELD-MARSHAL 

THE  DUKE  OF  WELLINGTON,  K.G.  &c.  &c.  By  Major  BASIL  JACKSON,  and  Captain 
C.  ROCH  FORT  SCOTT,  late  of  the  Royal  Staff  Corps.  2  vols.  8vo.  with  Portraits  and  numerous 
Plans  of  Battles,  30s.  cloth. 

JAMES-LIVES  OF  MOST  EMINENT  FOREIGN  STATESMEN. 

By  G.  P.  R.  JAMES,  Esq.,  and  E.  E.  CROWE,  Esq.  5  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  Vignette  Titles, 
30s.  cloth. 


14  CATALOGUE  Of  NEW  WORKS 

JAMES. -A  HISTORY  OF  THE  LIFE  OF  EDWARD  THE 

BLACK  PRINCE,  and  of  various  Events  connected  therewith,  which  occurred  during  the 
Reign  of  Edward  III.  King  of  England.  By  G.  P.  R.  JAMES,  Esq.  2d  Edition,  2  vols.  fcp. 
8vo.  Map,  15s.  cloth. 

JEFFREY.  —  CONTRIBUTIONS     TO     THE    EDINBURGH 

REVIEW.  By  FRANCIS  JEFFREY,  now  one  of  the  Judges  of  theCourt  ofSessionin  Scotland. 
4  vols.  8vo.  48s.  cloth. 

JOHNSON.-THE  FARMER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA, 

And  Dictionary  of  Rural  Affairs :  embracing  all  the  recent  Discoveries  in  Agricultural  Che- 
mistry ;  adapted  to  the  comprehension  of  unscientific  readers.  By  CUTHBERT  W.  JOHNSON, 
Esq.  F.R.S.  Barrister-at-Law,  Corresponding  Member  of  the  Agricultural  Society  of  Konigs- 
berg,  and  of  the  Maryland  Horticultural  Society ;  Author  of  several  of  the  Prize  Essays  of 
the  Royal  Agricultural  Society  of  England,  and  other  Agricultural  Works ;  Editor  of  the 
"  Farmer's  Almanack,"  &c.  1  thick  vol.  8vo.  pp.  1324,  illustrated  by  Wood  Engravings  of 
the  best  and  most  improved  Agricultural  Implements,  ^2. 10s.  cloth. 

KANE. -ELEMENTS  OF  CHEMISTRY; 

Including  the  most  Recent  Discoveries  and  Applications  of  the  Science  to  Medicine  and 
Pharmacy,  and  to  the  Arts.  By  ROBERT  KANE,  M.D.  M.R.I. A.,  Professor  of  Natural 
Philosophy  to  the  Royal  Dublin  Society.  1  thick  volume,  8vo.  with  236  Woodcuts,  24s.  cloth. 

KATER  AND  LARDNER.-A  TREATISE  ON  MECHANICS. 

By  Captain  KATER  and  Dr.  LARDNER.  New  Edition.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  Vignette  Title,  and  19 
Plates,  comprising  224  distinct  figures,  6s.  cloth. 

KEIGHTLEY.-THE  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND. 

By  THOMAS  KEIGHTLEY,  Esq.  In  2  vols.  12mo.  pp.  1206, 14s.  cloth ;  or  bound,  15s. 

For  the  convenience  of  Schools,  the  volumes  will  always  be  sold  separately. 

KEIGHTLEY.-AN  ELEMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND. 

By  THOMAS  KEIGHTLEY,  Esq.,  Author  of  "A  History  of  England,"  "Greece,"  "Rome," 
"  Outlines  of  History,"  &c.  &c.  12mo.  pp.  364,  5s.  bound. 

KEIGHTLEY.-  THE  HISTORY  OF  GREECE. 

By  THOMAS  KEIGHTLEY,  Esq.    Third  Edition,  12mo.  pp.  508,  6s.  6d.  cloth,  or  7s.  bound. 
ELEMENTARY  HISTORY  of  GREECE,  18mo.  pp.  264,  3s.  6d.  bound. 

KEIGHTLEY.-THE  HISTORY  OF  ROME 

To  the  end  of  the  Republic.  By  THOMAS  KEIGHTLEY,  Esq.  Third  edition,  12mo.  pp.  512, 
6s.  6d.  cloth ;  or  7s.  bound. 

ELEMENTARY  HISTORY  of  ROME,  18mo.  pp.  294,  3s.  6d.  bound. 

KEIGHTLEY.-THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  ROMAN  EMPIRE, 

From  the  Accession  of  Augustus  to  the  end  of  the  Empire  in  the  West.  By  T.  KEIGHTLEY, 
Esq.  12mo.  pp.  456,  6s.  6d.  cloth,  or  7s.  bound. 

QUESTIONS  on  the  HISTORIES  of  ENGLAND,  Parts  1  and  2,  pp.  56  each;  ROME,  3d  edit, 
pp.  40 ;  GREECE,  3d  edit.  pp.  42.    12mo.  sewed,  Is.  each. 

KEIGHTLEY.-OUTLINES  OF  HISTORY,  * 

From  the  Earliest  Period.  By  THOMAS  KEIGHTLEY,  Esq.  New  Edition,  corrected  and  con- 
siderably improved,  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  468,  6s.  cloth ;  or  6s.  6d.  bound. 

KIPPIS.-A  COLLECTION  OF  HYMNS  AND  PSALMS, 

For  Public  and  Private  Worship.  Selected  and  prepared  by  A.  KIPPIS,  D.D.,  ABRAHAM 
REES,  D.D.,  the  Rev.  THOMAS  JERVIS,  and  the  Rev.  T.MORGAN.  To  which  is  added,  a 
SUPPLEMENT.  New  Edition,  corrected  and  improved,  18mo.  5s.  bound. 

KIRBY  &  SPENCE.-AN  INTRODUCTION  TO  ENTOMOLOGY; 

Or,  Elements  of  the  Natural  History  of  Insects  :  comprising  an  account  of  noxious  and  useful 
Insects,  of  their  Metamorphoses,  Food,  Stratagems,  Habitations,  Societies,  Motions,  Noises, 
Hybernation,  Instinct,  &c.  By  W.  KIRBY,  M.A.  F.R.S.  &  L.S.  Rector  of  Barham;  and  W. 
SPENCE,  Esq.  F.R.S.  &  L.S.  6th  Edit,  corrected  and  much  enlarged,  2  vols.  8vo.  31s.  6d.  cloth. 

The  first  two  volumes  of  the  "Introduction  to  Entomology"  are  published  as  a  separate  work,  distinct  from 
the  third  and  fourth  volumes,  and,  though  much  enlarged,  at  a  considerable  reduction  of  price,  in  order  that 
the  numerous  class  of  readers  who  confine  their  study  of  insects  to  that  of  their  manners  and  economy,  need  not  be 
burthened  with  the  cost  of  the  technical  portion  of  the  work,  relating  to  their  anatomy,  physiology,  &c. 


PRINTED   FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  15 

KXAPP.-GRAMINA  BRITANNICA ; 

Or,  Representations  of  the  British  Qrasses  :  with  Remarks  and  occasional  Descriptions.  By 
I.  L.  KNAPP,  Esq.  F.L.S.  &  A.S.  2d  Edition,  4to.  with  118  Plates,  beautifully  coloured, 
pp.  250,  j£3.  16s.  boards. 

LAING.-A  TOUR  IN  SWEDEN, 

I  n  1 S38 ;  comprising1  observations  on  the  Moral,  Political,  and  Economical  State  of  the  Swedish 
Nation.  By  SAMUEL  LAING,  Esq.  8vo.  12s.  cloth. 

LAING.-NOTES  OF  A  TRAVELLER, 

On  the  Social  and  Political  State  of  France,  Prussia,  Switzerland,  Italy,  and  other  parts  of 
Europe,  during  the  present  century.  By  SAMUEL  LAI  NO,  Esq.  2d  Edition,  8vo.  16s.  cloth. 

LAIXG.— JOURNAL  OF  A  RESIDENCE  IN  NORWAY, 

During  the  years  1834, 1835,  and  1836 ;  made  with  a  view  to  inquire  into  the  Rural  and  Political 
Economy  of  that  Country,  and  the  Condition  of  its  Inhabitants.  By  SAMUEL  LAING,  Esq. 
2d  Edition,  8vo.  14s.  cloth. 

LAING -THE  CHRONICLE  OF  THE  KINGS  OF  NORWAY, 

From  the  Earliest  Period  of  the  History  of  the  Northern  Sea  Kings  to  the  Middle  of  the  Twelfth 
Century,  commonly  called  the  Heimskringla.  Translated  from  the  Icelandic  of  Snorro 
Sturlesbn,  with  Notes,  and  a  Preliminary  Discourse,  by  SAMUEL  LAING,  Author  of  "  A 
Residence  in  Norway,"  "  A  Tour  in  Sweden,"  "  Notes  of  a  Traveller,"  &c. 

[Preparing  for  publication. 

LARDNER'S  CABINET  CYCLOPAEDIA; 

Comprising  a  Series  of  Original  Works  on  History,  Biography,  Literature,  the  Sciences,  Arts, 
and  Manufactures.  Conducted  and  edited  by  Dr.  LARDNER. 

The  Series,  complete,  in  One  Hundred  and  Thirty-three  Volumes,  rf39.  18s.    (Three  volumes 
remain  to  be  published.)    The  works,  separate,  6s.  per  volume. 

LARDNER.— A  TREATISE  ON  ARITHMETIC. 

By  D.  LARDNER,  LL.D.  F.R.S.    1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth  lettered. 

LARDNER.-A  TREATISE  ON  ELECTRICITY  &  MAGNETISM. 

By  Dr.  LARDNER.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  12s.  (Vol.  2,  revised  and  completed  by  C.  V.  Walker, 
Secretary  of  the  Electrical  Society,  is  in  the  press.) 

LARDNER.-A  TREATISE  ON  GEOMETRY, 

And  its  Application  to  the  Arts.  By  Dr.  LARDNER.  1  vol.  fcp.  9vo.  Vignette  Title,  and 
upwards  of  200  figures,  6s.  cloth. 

LARDNER.-A  TREATISE  ON  HEAT. 

By  D.  LARDNER,  LT  ^     «-~     i  ^ol.  frp.  8vo.  with  Woodcuts  and  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 


16  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 

LIGHTER  HOURS : 

A  Series  of  Poems.    By  an  ETONIAN.    Fcp.  8vo.  5s.  cloth. 

LINDLEY.-INTRODUCTION  TO  BOTANY. 

By  Prof.  J.  LINDLEY,  Ph.D.  F.R.S.  L.S.  &c.  3d  Edition  (1839),  with  Corrections  and  consi- 
derable Additions,  1  large  vol.  8vo.  pp.  606,  with  Six  Plates  and  numerous  Woodcuts,  18s.  cloth. 

LINDLEY.-A  NATURAL  SYSTEM  OF  BOTANY; 

Or,  a  Systematic  View  of  the  Organization,  Natural  Affinities,  and  Geographical  Distribution 
of  the  whole  Vegetable  Kingdom  ;  together  with  the  uses  of  the  most  important  species  in 
Medicine,  the  Arts,  and  Rural  or  Domestic  Economy.  By  JOHN  LINDLEY,  Ph.D.,  F.R.S., 
L.S.,  &c.  2d  Edition,  with  numerous  additions  and  corrections,  and  a  complete  List  of 
Genera,  with  their  synonyms.  8vo.  18s.  cloth. 

LINDLEY.-FLORA  MEDICA; 

A  Botanical  Account  of  all  the  most  important  Plant*  used  in  Medicine,  in  different  Parts  of 
the  World.  By  JOHN  LINDLEY,  Ph.D.,  F.R.S.,  &c.  1  vol.  8vo.  18s.  cloth  lettered. 

LINDLEY.-SCHOOL  BOTANY; 

Or,  an  Explanation  of  the  Characters  and  Differences  of  the  principal  Natural  Classes  and 
Orders  of  Plants  belonging  to  the  Flora  of  Europe,  in  the  Botanical  Classification  of  DE 
CANDOLLE.  For  the  use  of  Students  preparing  for  their  matriculation  examination  in  the 
University  of  London,  and  applicable  to  Botanical  Study  in  general.  By  JOHN  LINDLEY, 
Ph.D.,  F.R.S.,  &c.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  upwards  of  160  Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth  lettered. 

LINDLEY.-A  SYNOPSIS  OF  THE  BRITISH  FLORA, 

Arranged  accordingto  the  Natural  Orders.  By  Professor  JOHN  LINDLEY,  Ph.D.,  F.R.S.,  &c. 
The  3d  Edition,  with  numerous  additions,  corrections,  and  improvements,  12mo.  pp.  390, 
10s.  6d.  cloth. 

LINDLEY.-THE  THEORY  OE  HORTICULTURE ; 

Or,  an  Attempt  to  explain  the  Principal  Operations  of  Gardening  upon  Physiological  Prin- 
ciples. By  JOHN  LINDLEY,  Ph.D.,  F.R.S.  8vo.  Illustrations  on  Wood.  12s.  cloth. 

This  book  is  written  in  the  hope  of  providing  the  intelligent  gardener,  and  the  scientific  amateur,  correctly,  with 
the  rationalia  of  the  more  important  operations  of  Horticulture :  and  the  author  has  endeavoured  to  present  to  his 
readers  an  intelligible  explanation,  founded  upon  well-ascertained  facts,  which  they  can  judge  of  by  their  own  means 
of  observation,  of  the  general  nature  of  vegetable  actions,  and  of  the  causes  which,  while  they  control  the  powers 
of  life  in  plants,  are  capable  of  being  regulated  by  themselves.  The  possession  of  such  knowledge  will  necessarily 
teach  them  how  to  improve  their  methods  of  cultivation,  and  lead  them  to  the  discovery  of  new  and  better  modes. 

LINDLEY.-AN  OUTLINE  OF  THE  PIRST  PRINCIPLES  OF 

HORTICULTURE.    By  PROFESSOR  LINDLEY.     18mo.  2s.  sewed. 

LINDLEY.-GUIDE  TO  ORCHARD  AND  KITCHEN  GARDEN; 

Or,  an  Account  of  the  most  valuable  Fruits  and  Vegetables  cultivated  in  Great  Britain  :  with 
Kalendars  of  the  Work  required  in  the  Orchard  and  Kitchp"  Garden  during  every  month  in 
^he  vear.  Bv  n™p<—  *  TAT^T.T--  •*  "  T  -op  LINDLEY.  1  large 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  17 

LOUDON.-AN  ENCYCLOPEDIA  OF  AGRICULTURE; 

Comprising  its  History  in  all  Countries ;  the  Principles  on  which  Agricultural  Operations 
depend,  and  their  Application  to  Great  Britain  and  similar  Climates.  By  J.  C.  LOUDON, 
F.  L.S.  &c.  The  Third  Edition,  1  large  vol.  8vo.  pp.  1418,  with  nearly  1,300  Wood  Engravings, 
.*2.  10s.  cloth. 

LOUDON.-AN  ENCYCLOPEDIA  OF  PLANTS; 

Including  all  the  Plants  which  are  now  found  in,  or  have  been  introduced  into,  Great  Britain  ; 
giving  their  Natural  History,  accompanied  by  such  descriptions,  engraved  figures,  and 
elementary  details,  as  may  enable  a  beginner,  who  is  a  mere  English  reader,  to  discover  the 
name  of  every  Plant  which  he  may  find  in  flower,  and  acquire  all  the  information  respecting 
it  which  is  useful  and  interesting.  The  Specific  Characters  by  an  Eminent  Botanist;  the 
Drawings  by  J.  D.  C.  Sowerby,  F.L.S.  A  New  Edition  (1841),  with  a  New  Supplement,  com- 
prising every  desirable  particular  respecting  all  the  Plants  originated  in,  or  introduced  into, 
Britain  between  the  first  publication  of  the  work,  in  1829,  and  January  1840 :  with  a  new 
General  Index  to  the  whole  work.  Edited  by  J.  C.  LOUDON,  prepared  by  W.  H.  Baxter,  Jun. 
and  revised  by  George  Don,  F.L.S. ;  and  800  new  Figures  of  Plants  on  Wood,  from  Drawings 
by  J.  D.  C.  Sowerby,  F.L.S.  One  very  large  vol.  8vo.  with  nearly  10,000  Wood  Engravings, 
pp.  1354,  43.  138.  6d. 

The  New  Supplement  (1841),  separately,  8vo.  pp.  190, 15s.  cloth. 

LOUDON.-AN  ENCYCLOPEDIA  OF  COTTAGE,  FARM,  AND 

VILLA  ARCHITECTURE  and  FURNITURE.  Containing  Designs  for  Cottages,  Villas,  Farm 
Houses,  Farmeries,  Country  Inns,  Public  Houses,  Parochial  Schools,  &c. ;  with  the  requisite 
Fittings-up,  Fixtures,  and  Furniture,  and  appropriate  Offices,  Gardens,  and  Garden  Scenery: 
each  Design  accompanied  by  Analytical  and  Critical  Remarks  illustrative  of  the  Principles  of 
Architectural  Science  and  Taste  on  which  it  is  composed,  and  General  Estimates  of  the  Expense. 
By  J.  C.  LOUDON,  F.L.S.  &c.  New  Edition  (1842),  corrected,  with  a  Supplement,  containing 
160  additional  pages  of  letter-press  and  nearly  300  new  engravings,  bringing  down  the  work  to 
1842.  1  very  thick  vol.  8vo.  pp.  1326,  with  more  than  2000  Engravings  on  Wood,  dSZ.  3s.  cloth. 
*»*  The  New  Supplement,  separately ',  8vo.  pp.  174,  7s.  6d.  sewed. 

LOUDON.-HORTUS  BRITANNICUS : 

A  Catalogue  of  all  the  Plants  indigenous  to  or  introduced  into  Britain.  The  3d  Edition  (1832), 
with  a  NEW  SUPPLEMENT,  prepared,  under  the  direction  of  J.  C.  LOUDON,  by  W.  H.  BAXTER, 
and  revised  by  GEORGE  DON,  F.L.S.  1  vol.  8vo.  pp.  766,31s.  6d.  cloth. 

The  FIRST  SUPPLEMENT  (1835)  separately,  8vo.  pp.  26,  2s.  6d.  sewed. 

The  NEW  SUPPLEMENT  (1839) separately, 8vo.  pp.  742,  8s.  sewed. 

LOUDON. —  THE  SUBURBAN  GARDENER  AND  VILLA 

('( >.M  I'ANION :  comprising  the  Choice  of  a  Villa  or  Suburban  Residence,  or  of  a  situation  on 
which  to  form  one ;  the  Arrangement  and  Furnishing  of  the  House  ;  and  the  Laying-out, 
Planting,  and  general  Management  of  the  Garden  and  Grounds ;  the  whole  adapted  for  grounds 
from  one  perch  to  fifty  acres  and  upwards  in  extent ;  intended  for  the  instruction  of  those 
who  know  little  of  Gardening  or  Rural  Affairs,  and  more  particularly  for  the  use  of  Ladies. 
By  J.  C.  LOUDON,  F.L.S.  &c.  1  vol.  8vo.  with  above  300  Wood  Engravings,  20s.  cloth. 

LOUDON.-HORTUS  LIGNOSIS  LONDINENSIS; 

Or,  a  Catalogue  of  all  the  Ligneous  Plants  cultivated  in  the  neighbourhood  of  London.  To 
which  are  added  their  usual  prices  in  Nurseries.  By  J.  C.  LOUDON,  F.L.S.  &c.  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

LOUDOX.-ON    THE    LAYING-OUT,     PLANTING,     AND 

MANAGEMENT  of  CEMETERIES;  and  on  the  Improvement  of  Churchyards.  By  J.  C. 
LOUDON,  F.L  S.  &c.  8vo.  with  60  Engravings,  12s.  cloth. 

LOW.-THE  BREEDS  OF  THE  DOMESTICATED  ANIMALS 

Of  Great  Britain  Described.  By  DAVID  Low,  Esq.  F.R.S.E.  Professor  of  Agriculture  in  the 
University  of  Edinburgh;  Member  of  the  Royal  Academy  of  Agriculture  of  Sweden;  Corre- 
sponding Member  of  the  Conseil  Royal  d'Agriculture  de  France,  of  the  Socie'te'  Royale  et 
Centrale,  &c.  &c.  The  Plates  from  Drawings  by  W.  Nicholson,  R.S.  A.  reduced  from  a  Series 
of  Oil  Paintings,  executed  for  the  Agricultural  Museum  of  the  University  of  Edinburgh,  by 
IT.  Shiels,  R.S.A.  2  vols.  atlas  quarto,  with  52  plates  of  animals,  beautifully  coloured  after 
Nature,  ^16. 16s.  half-bound  in  morocco. 

Or  in  four  separate  portions,  as  follow : — 

The  OX,  in  1  vol.  atlas  quarto,  with  22  plates,  £6. 16s.  6d.  half-bound  in  morocco. 

The  SHEEP,  in  1  vol.  atlas  quarto,  with  21  plates,  £6.  16s.  6d.  half-bound  in  morocco. 

The  HORSE,  in  1  vol.  atlas  quarto,  with  8  plates,  £3,  half-bound  in  morocco. 

The  HOG,  in  1  vol.  atlas  quarto,  with  5  plates,  £1.  2s.  half-bound  in  morocco. 


18  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 


LOW.-ELEMENTS  OF  PRACTICAL  AGRICULTURE; 

Comprehending  the  Cultivation  of  Plants,  the  Husbandry  of  the  Domestic  Animals,  and  the 
Economy  of  the  Farm.  By  DAVID  Low,  Esq.  F.R.S.E.,  Professor  of  Agriculture  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Edinburgh.  8vo.  4th  Edition,  with  Alterations  and  Additions,  and  above  200  Wood- 
cuts, 21s.  cloth. 

"  The  opinion  of  the  public  has  been  pronounced  in  favour  of  this  excellent  hook  in  a  manner  not  to  he  mistaken 
It  is  the  best  treatise  on  agriculture  in  the  language,  and  this  is  much  the  best  edition  of  it.  A  passage  in  the  preface 
is  so  full  of  practical  wisdom,  and  is  applicable  with  so  much  justice  to  agricultural  affairs  in  their  present  state,  that 
we  cannot  do  better  than  quote  it,  partly  for  its  intrinsic  value,  and  partly  as  an  indication  of  the  manner  in  which 
1  rofessor  Low  has  extended  the  matter  of  his  valuable  pages."— PROFESSOR  LINDLEY  in  the  GARDENER'S  CHRONICLE. 

MACAULAY.-CRITICAL  AND  HISTORICAL  ESSAYS  CON- 
TRIBUTED to  the  EDINBURGH  REVIEW.  By  the  Right  Hon.  THOMAS  BABINGTON 
MACAULAY.  2d  Edition,  3  vols.  8vo.  36s.  cloth. 

MACAULAY.-LAYS  OF  ANCIENT  ROME. 

By  T.  B.  MACAULAY,  Esq.    3d  Edition,  crown  8vo.  pp.  192;  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

MACKENZIE. -THE  PHYSIOLOGY  OF  VISION. 

By  W.  MACKENZIE,  M.D.,  Lecturer  on  the  Eye  in  the  University  of  Glasgow.  8vo.  with 
Woodcuts,  10s.  6d.  boards. 

MACKINTOSH,  fec.-THE  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND. 

By  Sir  JAMES  MACKINTOSH  ;  W.  WALLACE,  Esq. ;  and  ROBERT  BELL,  Esq.  10  vols.  fcp. 
8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  ^J3.  cloth. 

MACLEOD.-ON  RHEUMATISM, 

And  on  the  Affections  of  Internal  Organs,  more  especially  the  Heart  and  Brain,  to  which  it 
gives  rise.  By  R.  MACLEOD,  M.D.  Physician  to  St.  George's  Hospital.  8vo.  pp.  172, 
7s.  cloth. 

MALTE-BRUN.-A  SYSTEM  OF  UNIVERSAL  GEOGRAPHY, 

Founded  on  the  Works  of  MALTE-BRXJN  and  BALBI,  embracing  an  Historical  Sketch  of  the 
Progress  of  Geographical  Discovery,  the  Principles  of  Mathematical  and  Physical  Geography, 
and  a  complete  Description,  from  the  most  recent  sources,  of  the  Political  and  Social  Condition 
of  all  the  Countries  in  the  World  :  with  numerous  Statistical  Tables,  and  an  Alphabetical  Index 
of  12,000  Names.  One  thick  vol.  8vo.  closely  and  beautifully  printed,  30s.  cloth. 

MANUAL  FOR  MECHANICS'  INSTITUTIONS. 

Published  under  the  superintendence  of  the  Society  for  the  Diffusion  of  Useful  Knowledge. 
Post  8vo.  5s.  cloth. 

MARCET  (MRS.)-CONVERSATIONS  ON  THE  HISTORY  OF 

ENGLAND.  For  the  Use  of  Children.  Vol.  1,  containing  the  History  to  the  Reign  of 
Henry  VII.  18mo.  pp.  354,  4s.  6d.  cloth. 

"  Juvenile  literature  will  freely  own  how  much  it  is  indebted  to  Mrs.  Marcet,  not  only  for  the  present,  but  all  her 
preceding  works.  She  imparts  'interest  to  dry  and  dull  details  ;  and,  while  she  teaches,  begets  a  desire  in  her  pupils 
for  further  knowledge,  so  pleasantly  imparted.  These  '  Conversations,'  admirably  suited  to  the  capacitie^of  children, 
may  be  skimmed  advantageously  by  '  children  of  a  larger  growth.'  " — LITERARY  GAZETTE. 

MARCET,-CONVERSATIONS  ON  CHEMISTRY; 

In  which  the  Elements  of  that  Science  are  familiarly  Explained  and  Illustrated  by  Experiments. 
14th  Edition  (1841),  enlarged  and  corrected,  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  732,  14s.  cloth. 

MARCET.-CONVERSATIONS  ON  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY; 

In  which  the  Elements  of  that  Science  are  familiarly  explained,  and  adapted  to  the  compre- 
hension of  Young  Persons.  10th  Edition  (1839),  enlarged  and  corrected  by  the  Author. 
In  I  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  484,  with  23  Plates,  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

Cf  the  General  Properties  of  Bodies;  the  Attraction  of  Gravity ;  the  Laws  of  Motion;  Compound 
Motion ;  the  Mechanical  Powers ;  Astronomy ;  Causes  of  the  Earth's  Motion ;  the  Planets ; 
the  Earth;  the  Moon;  Hydrostatics;  the  Mechanical  Properties  of  Fluids;  of  Springs, 
Fountains,  &c. ;  Pneumatics;  the  Mechanical  Properties  of  Air ;  on  Wind  and  Sound;  Optics; 
the  Visual  Angle  and  the  Reflection  of  Mirrors ;  on  Refraction  and  Colours ;  on  the  Structure 
of  the  Eye,  and  Optical  Instruments. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  19 


MARCET.-CONVERSATIONS  ON  POLITICAL  ECONOMY; 

In  which  the  Elements  of  that  Science  are  familiarly  explained.  7th  Edition  (1839),  revised 
and  enlarged,  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  424,  7s.  6d.  cloth. 

Introduction;  on  Property;  the  Division  of  Labour;  on  Capital;  on  Wages  and  Population ;  on 
the  Condition  of  the  Poor;  on  Value  and  Price;  on  Income;  Income  from  Landed  Property ; 
Income  from  the  Cultivation  of  Land  ;  Income  from  Capital  lent ;  on  Money ;  on  Commerce; 
on  Foreign  Trade ;  On  Expenditure  and  Consumption. 

MARCET.  -  CONVERSATIONS   ON  VEGETABLE  PHYSIO- 

LOGY;  comprehending  the  Elements  of  Botany,  with  their  application  to  Agriculture. 
3d  Edition  (1839),  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  474,  with  4  Plates,  9s.  cloth. 

Introduction ;  on  Roots ;  on  Stems ;  on  Leaves ;  on  Sap ;  on  Cambium  and  the  peculiar  Juices 
of  Plants ;  on  the  Action  of  Light  and  Heat  on  Plants ;  on  the  Naturalization  of  Plants ;  on 
the  Action  of  the  Atmosphere  on  Plants;  on  the  Action  of  Water  on  Plants;  on  the  Artificial 
Mode  of  Watering  Plants ;  on  the  Action  of  the  Soil  on  Plants ;  on  the  Propagation  of  Plants 
by  Subdivision ;  on  Grafting ;  on  the  Multiplication  of  Plants  by  Seed ;  the  Flower ;  on  Com- 
pound Flowers ;  on  Fruit;  on  the  Seed;  on  the  Classification  of  Plants ;  on  Artificial  Systems; 
on  the  Natural  System;  Botanical  Geography;  the  Influence  of  Culture  on  Vegetation ;  on 
the  Degeneration  and  Diseases  of  Plants;  on" the  Cultivation  of  Trees;  on  the  Cultivation  of 
Plants  which  produce  Fermented  Liquors  ;  on  the  Cultivation  of  Grasses,  Tuberous  Roots,  and 
Grain  ;  on  Oleaginous  Plants  and  Culinary  Vegetables. 

MARCET -CONVERSATIONS  FOR  CHILDREN; 

On  Land  and  Water.  2d  Edition  (1839),  revised  and  corrected,  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  256,  with 
coloured  Maps,  showing  the  comparative  altitude  of  Mountains,  5s.  6d.  cloth. 

MARCET.-THE  GAME  OF  GRAMMAR, 

With  a  Book  of  Conversations  (fcp.  8vo.  pp.  54,  1842)  shewing  the  Rules  of  the  Game,  and 
affording  Examples  of  the  manner  of  playing  at  it.  In  a  varnished  box,  or  done  up  as  a  post 
8vo.  volume  in  cloth,  8s. 

MARCET.  -MARY'S  GRAMMAR ; 

Interspersed  with  Stories,  and  intended  for  the  Use  of  Children.  6th  Edition  (1842),  revised 
and  enlarged.  18mo.  pp.  336,  3s.  6d.  half-bound. 

MARCET. -JOHN    HOPKINS'   NOTIONS   ON   POLITICAL 

ECONOMY.    3d  Edition  (1834),  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  194,  4s.  6d.  cloth. 

***  A  smaller  Edition  (the  second,  1833),  ISmo.  pp.  176,  Is.  6d.  sewed. 

MARCET.-WILLY'S  HOLIDAYS; 

Or,  Conversations  on  Different  Kinds  of  Governments,  intended  for  Young  Children.  18mo. 
pp.  158  (1836),  2s.  half-bound. 

MARCET.-WILLY'S  STORIES  FOR  YOUNG  CHILDREN. 

Third  Edition,  18mo.  pp.  138  (1839),  2s.  half-bound. 

The  House-building ;  the  Three  Pits  (the  Coal  Pit,  the  Chalk  Pit,  and  the  Gravel  Pit) ;  and  the 
Land  without  Laws. 

MARCET.-THE  SEASONS; 

Stories  for  very  Young  Children.  4  vols.  18mo.  new  Editions  :  Vol.  1,  Winter,  3d  Edition, 
pp.  180,  1839 ;  Vol.  2,  Spring,  3d  Edition,  pp.  196,  1839 ;  Vol.  3,  Summer,  3d  Edition,  pp.  178, 
1840  ;  Vol.  4,  Autumn,  3d  Edition,  pp.  184,  1840.  2s.  each  volume,  half-bound. 

MARRIAGE  GIFT. 

By  a  MOTH KR.    A  Legacy  to  her  Children.    Post  8vo.  5s.  cloth,  gilt  edges. 

MARRYAT.-NARRATIVE  OF  THE  TRAVELS  AND  ADVEN- 

TURES  of  MONSIEUR  VIOLET,  in  California,  Sonora,  and  Western  Texas.  Written  by 
Capt.  MARRYAT,  C.B.  Author  of  "  Peter  Simple."  3  vols.  post  8vo.  31s.  6d.  bds. 

MARRYAT.-MASTERMAN  READY ; 

Or,  the  Wreck  of  the  Pacific.  Written  for  Young  People.  By  CAPTAIN  MARRYAT.  3  vols. 
fcp.  8vo.  with  numerous  Engravings  on  Wood,  22s.  6d.  cloth. 

*»*  The  volumes  separately,  7s.  6d.  each,  cloth. 

MARTINGALE— SPORTING  SCENES  AND  COUNTRY  CHA- 

RACTERS.  By  MARTINGALE.  1  vol.  square  crown  8vo.  beautifully  embellished  with 
Wood  Engravings  in  the  highest  style  of  the  Art,  £\.  Is.  handsomely  bound  in  a  new  style. 


20  CATALOGUE  OP  NEW  WORKS 

MAUNDER.-THE  TREASURY  OF  KNOWLEDGE, 

And  LIBRARY  of  REFERENCE :  containing  a  new  and  enlarged  Dictionary  of  the  English 
Language,  preceded  by  a  Compendious  Grammar,  Verbal  Distinctions,  &c.;  a  new  Universal 
Gazetteer ;  a  Compendious  Classical  Dictionary ;  a  Chronological  Analysis  of  General  History ; 
a  Dictionary  of  Law  Terms,  &c.  &c.  By  SAMUEL  MAUNDER.  14th  Edition,  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo. 
pp.  810,  with  two  engraved  Frontispieces,  8s.  6d.  cloth;  or  handsomely  bound  in  roan,  lettered, 
with  gilt  edges,  10s.  6d. 

MAUNDER.-THE  SCIENTIFIC  &  LITERARY  TREASURY; 

A  new  and  popular  Encyclopaedia  of  Science  and  the  Belles-Lettres  ;  including  all  Branches  of 
Science,  and  every  Subject  connected  with  Literature  and  Art.  The  whole  written  in  a  familiar 
style,  adapted  to  the  comprehension  of  all  persons  desirous  of  acquiring  information  on  the 
subjects  comprised  in  the  work,  and  also  adapted  for  a  Manual  of  convenient  Reference  to  the 
more  instrucied.  By  SAMUEL  MAUNDER.  2d  Edition,  1  thick  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  of  1700  closely- 
printed  columns,  pp.  840,  with  an  engraved  Frontispiece,  10s.  handsomely  bound  in  fancy 
cloth,  lettered;  or  bound  in  roan,  gilt  edges,  12s. 

MAUNDER.-THE  BIOGRAPHICAL  TREASURY; 

Consisting  of  Memoirs,  Sketches,  and  brief  Notices  of  above  12,000  Eminent  Persons  of  all  Age. 
and  Nations,  from  the  Earliest  Period  of  History ;  forming  a  new  and  complete  Dictionary 
of  Universal  Biography.  4th  Edition,  with  a  "  Supplement,"  from  the  Accession  of  Queen 
Victoria  to  the  Present  Time.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  pp.  876,  with  engraved  Frontispiece,  8s.  6d. 
cloth ;  or  roan,  gilt  edges,  10s.  6d. 

MAUNDER.-THE  TREASURY  OF  HISTORY; 

Comprising  a  General  Introductory  Outline  of  Universal  History,  Ancient  and  Modern,  and  a 
Series  of  separate  Histories  of  every  principal  Nation  that  exists ;  their  Rise,  Progress,  and 
Present  Condition,  the  Moral  and  Social  Character  of  their  respective  inhabitants,  their 
Religion,  Manners,  and  Customs,  &c.  By  SAMUEL  MAUNDER.  10s.  cloth. 

M'CULLOCH.-THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  POLITICAL  ECONOMY: 

with  some  Enquiries  respecting  their  Application,  and  a  Sketch  of  the  Rise  and  Progress  of 
the  Science.  By  J.  R.  M'CULLOCH,  Esq.  New  Edition,  enlarged  and  corrected  throughout, 
8vo. 15s. 

M'CULLOCH.-A  DICTIONARY,  GEOGRAPHICAL,  STATIS- 

TICAL,  AND  HISTORICAL,  of  the  various  Countries,  Places,  and  Principal  Natural  Objects 
in  the  WORLD.  By  J.  R.  M'CULLOCH,  Esq.  2  thick  vols.  8vo.  pp.  1980,  ^4,  bound  in  cloth. 
Illustrated  with  Six  Large  important  Maps  as  follow  :— 

1.  The  World,  on  Mercator's  Projection;  with  enlarged  scales  introduced  of  Canton  River,  Van 

Dieman's  Land,  Hooghly  River,  Island  and  Town  of  Singapore,  and  Colony  of  Good  Hope. 

2.  Asia  on  a  very  extensive  scale,  embracing  every  recent  Survey  (coloured). 

3.  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  exhibiting  the  Navigable  Rivers,  and  completed  and  proposed 

Railways;  with  Dublin  Bay,  the  Caledonian  Canal,  and  the  River  Thames,  introduced  on 
an  enlarged  scale. 

4.  The  British  Possessions  in  North  America,  with  part  of  the  United  States,  compiled  from 

official  sources ;  with  Plans  of  the  Cities  and  Harbours  of  Montreal  and  the  Island  of 
Newfoundland,  introduced  on  an  enlarged  scale. 

5.  Central  and  Southern  Europe,  with  the  Mediterranean  Sea ;  the  Mouth  of  the  Schelde  intro- 

duced on  an  extended  scale. 

6.  Central  America  and  the  West  Indies,  from  the  latest  and  best  authorities ;  with  the  Island 

of  Jamaica,  the  Harbours  of  Port  Royal  and  Kingston,  and  the  Harbour  and  City  of  Havana, 
introduced  on  an  enlarged  scale. 

"  The  extent  of  information  this  Dictionary  affords  on  the  subjects  referred  to  in  its  title  is  truly  surprising.  It 
cannot  fail  to  prove  a  vade-mecum  to  the  student,  whose  inquiries  will  be  guided  by  its  light,  and  satisfied  by  its  clear 
and  frequently  elaborated  communications.  Every  public  room  in  which  commerce,  politics,  or  literature,  forms  the 
subject  of  discussion,  ought  to  be  furnished  with  these  volumes." — GLOBE. 

M'CULLOCH. -A  DICTIONARY,  PRACTICAL,  THEORETI- 

CAL,  AND  HISTORICAL,  OF  COMMERCE  AND  COMMERCIAL  NAVIGATION.  Illus- 
trated with  Maps  and  Plans.  By  J.  R.  M'CULLOCH,  Esq.  A  New  Edition,  with  a  new  and 
enlarged  Supplement,  containing  the  New  Tariff,  the  New  Corn  Law  (with  an  Article  on  the 
latter),  and  bringing  down  the  information  in  the  work  to  September  1842.  One  closely 
and  beautifully-printed  vol.  8vo.  of  more  than  1350  pages,  £1.  10s.  boards. 

V  The  New  Supplement  separately,  5s.  sewed. 


PRINTED  FOB  LONGMAN,  BROVTN,  AND  00.  21 

MEREDITH. 

lly  the  Countess  of  BTESSINGTON.    3  vols.  post  8vo.  31s.  6<1.  boards. 

"  This  novel  is  perhaps  the  best  that  Lady  Blessington  has  yet  ghcn  to  us— combining,  a    it  does,  nil  the  best 
features  of  her  style,  in  a  consistent  and  well-constructed  narrative  which  accomplishes  all  it  aims  at,— namely,  to 
..•fore  its  readers  a  picture  of  actual  Knsjlish  life,  so  grouped  and  coloured  by  the  hand  of  fiction  as  merely  to 
heighten  its  moral  effect  without  impairing  its  truthfulness." — NEW  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE. 

MILNE.-TREATISE  ON  THE  VALUATION  OF  ANNUITIES 

AM)  ASSURANCES  on  LIVES  and  SURVIVORSHIPS;  on  the  Construction  of  Tables  of 
Mortality ;  and  on  the  Probabilities  and  Expectations  of  Life.  Wherein  the  Laws  of  Mortality 
that  prevail  in  different  parts  of  Europe  are  determined,  and  the  Comparative  Mortality  of 
different  Diseases  and  of  the  Two  Sexes  are  shown:  with  a  variety  of  Tables.  By  JOSHUA 
MILNE,  Actuary  to  the  Sun  Life  Assurance  Society.  2  vols.  8vo.  dE\.  10s.  boards. 

MONTGOMERY'S  (JAMES)  POETICAL  WORKS. 

\i  \v  and  only  Complete  Edition  (1841).  With  some  additional  Poems,  and  Autobiographical 
Prefaces.  Collected  and  Edited  by  Mr.  MONTGOMERY.  4  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Portrait,  and 
Seven  other  beautifully-engraved  Plates,  20s.  cloth ;  or  bound  in  morocco,  gilt  edges,  36s. 

MOORE'S  (THOMAS)  POETICAL  WORKS. 

The  only  Complete  Edition  (1841).  Edited  by  Mr.  MOORE.  With  Autobiographical 
Prefaces.  10  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Portrait,  and  19  other  highly-finished  Plates,  ;62.  10s. 
fancy  cloth ;  or  ^4.  10s.  handsomely  bound  in  morocco,  with  gilt  edges- 

MOORE'S  POETICAL  WORKS; 

Containing  the  Author's  recent  Introduction  and  Notes.  Complete  in  one  volume,  uniform 
with  Lord  Byron's  Poems.  With  a  New  Portrait,  by  George  Richmond,  engraved  in  the  line 
manner,  and  a  View  of  Sloperton  Cottage,  the  Residence  of  the  Poet,  by  Thomas  Creswick, 
A.R.A.  Medium  8vo.  21s.  cloth. 

MOORE'S  LALLA  ROOKH. 

Twentieth  Edition  (1842),  1  vol.  medium  8vo.  beautifully  illustrated  with  13  Engravings 
finished  in  the  highest  style  of  Art,  21s.  handsomely  bound  in  cloth  and  ornamented ;  morocco, 
35s. ;  or,  with  India  Proof  Plates,  42s.  cloth, 

MOORE'S  LALLA  ROOKH. 

Twenty-first  Edition  (1842),  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Four  Engravings,  from  Paintings  by  Westall, 
10s.  6d.  cloth  ;  or,  handsomely  bound  in  morocco,  with  gilt  edges,  14s. 

MOORE'S  IRISH  MELODIES. 

New  Edition,  imp.  8vo.  illustrated  with  above  50  Designs  by  Maclise,  etched  on  steel,  £2. 2s. ; 
Proofs  on  India  Paper,  ^4.  4s. ;  before  Letters  (of  Illustrations  only),  £.6.  6s.— In  the  Spring. 

The  Poetry  and  Designs  will  both  be  engraved,  and  each  page  surrounded  with  aa  Ornamental  Border. 

MOORE'S  IRISH  MELODIES. 

Fifteenth  Edition  (1843),  with  Engraved  Title  and  Vignette,  10s.  cloth  lettered ;  or  13s.  6d. 
handsomely  bound  in  morocco,  with  gilt  edges. 

MOORE.-THE  HISTORY  OP  IRELAND. 

By  THOMAS  MOORE,  Esq.    Vols.  1  to  3,  with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

MORAL  OF  FLOWERS. 

3d  Edition,  1  vol.  royal  8vo.  with  24  beautifully-coloured  Engravings,  £\ .  10s.  half-bound- 

MORGAN.-THE  PRINCIPLES  AND  DOCTRINE  OF  ASSU- 
RANCES, ANNUITIES  on  LIVES,  and  CONTINGENT  REVERSIONS,  stated  and  explained. 
By  W.  MORGAN,  F.R.S.  Actuary  to  the  Society  for  Equitable  Assurances  on  Lives,  &c,  8vo. 
12s.  boards. 

MORTON.— A  VETERINARY  TOXICOLOGICAL  CHART, 

Containing  those  Agents  known  to  cause  Death  in  the  Horse ;  with  the  Symptoms,  Antidotes, 
Action  on  the  Tissues,  and  Tests.  By  W.  J.  T.  MORTON.  12mo.  6s.  in  case ;  on  rollers,  8s.  6d. 

MORTON.-A  MANUAL  OF  PHARMACY, 

For  the  Student  in  Veterinary  Medicine ;  containing  the  Substances  employed  at  the  Royal 
Veterinary  College,  with  an  attempt  at  their  classification,  and  the  Pharmacopoeia  of  that  In- 
stitution. By  W.  J.  T.  MORTON.  2d  Edition,  12mo.  9s.  cloth. 


22  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 


MOSELEY.-ILLUSTRATIONS  OF  PRACTICAL  MECHANICS. 

By  the  Rev.  H.  MOSELEY,  M.A.,  Professor  of  Natural  Philosophy  and  Astronomy  in  King's 
College,  London;  being  the  First  Volume  of  the  Illustrations  of  Science  by  the  Professors  of 
King's  College.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  numerous  Woodcuts,  8s.  cloth. 

MOSELEY. -THE  MECHANICAL  PRINCIPLES  OF  ENGI- 

NE BRING  AND  ARCHITECTURE.  By  the  Rev.  H.  MOSELEY,  M.A.  F.R.S.,  Professor  of 
Natural  Philosophy  and  Astronomy  in  King's  College,  London ;  and  Author  of  "Illustrations 
of  Mechanics,"  &c.  1  vol.  8vo.  with  Woodcuts  and  Diagrams,  24s.  cloth. 

'  This  volume  includes  the  substance  of  a  course  of  lectures  delivered  to  the  students  of  King's  College,  in  the 

partments  of  engineering  and  architecture,  during  the  present  and  two  preceding  years  (1840-42).    The  first  pa   ' 

treats  of  statics,  so  far  as  that  science  applies  to  the  subject;   the  second  of  dynamics;   the  third  of  the  theory 
machines ;  the  fourth  of  the  theory  of  the  stability  of  structures ;  the  fifth  of  the  strength  of  materials  ;    and  the 
sixth  and  last  of '  impact."     We  have  merely  noted  the  divisions  of  this  body  of  mathematical  science  for  the  informa- 
tion of  those  to  whom  the  high  reputation  of  Professor  Moseley  will  be  a  sufficient  warranty." — SPECTATOR. 


"  This  volume  includes  the  substance  ot  a  course  ol  lectures  delivered  to  the  students  of  King's  College,  in  the 
departments  of  engineering  and  architecture,  during  the  present  and  two  preceding  years  (1840-42).  The  first  part 
treats  of  statics,  so  far  as  that  science  applies  to  the  subject;  the  second  of  dynamics;  the  third  of  the  theory  of 
machines ;  the  fourth  of  the  theory  of  the  stability  of  structures ;  the  fifth  of  the  strength  of  materials  ;  and  the 
sixth  and  last  of '  impact."  We  have  merely  noted  the  divisions  of  this  body  of  mathematical  science  for  the  informa- 
tion of  those  to  whom  the  high  reputation  of  Professor  Moseley  will  be  a  sufficient  warranty." — SPECTATOR. 

"  The  work  of  Mr.  Moseley  is  an  elaborate,  profound,  accurate,  and  elegant  abstract  and  purely  mathematical 
disquisition  on  the  theoretical  principles  of  mechanics;  and  will  serve  to  increase  the  author's  nigh  reputation  as  a 
mathematician." — ATHENJEUM. 

MURRAY. -ENCYCLOPEDIA  OF  GEOGRAPHY; 

Comprising  a  complete  Description  of  the  Earth :  exhibiting  its  Relation  to  the  Heavenly 
Bodies,  its  Physical  Structure,  the  Natural  History  of  each  Country,  and  the  Industry,  Com- 
merce, Political  Institutions,  and  Civil  and  Social  State  of  all  Nations.  By  HUGH  MURRAY, 
F.R.S.E. :  assisted  in  Astronomy,  &c.  by  Professor  Wallace ;  Geology,  &c.  by  Professor 
Jameson ;  Botany,  &c.  by  Sir  W.  J.  Hooker ;  Zoology,  &c.  by  W.  Swainson,  Esq.  New 
Edition,  brought  down  to  1840 :  with  82  Maps,  drawn  by  Sidney  Hall,  and  upwards  of  1000  other 
Engravings  on  Wood,  from  Drawings  by  Swainson,  T.  Landseer,  Sowerby,  Strutt,  &c.  repre- 
senting the  most  remarkable  Objects  of  Nature  and  Art  in  every  Region  of  the  Globe.  1  vol. 
8vo.  containing  upwards  of  1500  pages,  £3,  cloth. 

NARRIEN.-ELEMENTS  OF  GEOMETRY ; 

Consisting  of  the  first  Four  and  Sixth  Books  of  Euclid,  chiefly  from  the  Text  of  Dr.  Robert 
Simson  :  with  the  principal  Theorems  in  Proportion,  and  a  Course  of  Practical  Geometry  on 
the  Ground ;  also,  Four  Tracts  relating  to  Circles,  Planes,  and  Solids,  with  one  on  Spherical 
Geometry.  By  Mr.  NARRIEN,  Professor  of  Mathematics  in  the  Royal  Military  College, 
Sandhurst.  8vo.  pp.  288,  with  many  diagrams,  10s.  6d.  bound. 

NICOLAS. -THE  CHRONOLOGY  OF  HISTORY. 

Containing  Tables,  Calculations,  and  Statements  indispensable  for  ascertaining  the  Dates  of 
Historical  Events,  and  of  Public  and  Private  Documents,  from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the 
Present  Time.  By  Sir  HARRIS  NICOLAS,  K.C.  M.G.  Second  edition,  corrected  throughout. 
1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

"  We  strongly  recommend  to  historical  students  the  clear  and  accurate  '  Chronology  of  History,'  by  Sir  Harris 
Nicolas,  which  contains  all  the  information  that  can  be  practically  required." — QUARTERLY  REVIEW,  No.  142. 

O'SULLIVAN.-OF  THE  APOSTACY   PREDICTED  BY  ST. 

PAUL.  By  the  Rev.  MORTIMER  O'SULLIVAN,  D.D.  Rector  of  Killyman.  8vo.  pp.  596, 
14s.  cloth. 

OWEN.  -  LECTURES  ON  THE  COMPARATIVE  ANATOMY 

AND  PHYSIOLOGY  OF  THE  INVERTEBRATE  ANIMALS,  delivered  at  the  Royal  College 
of  Surgeons  in  1843.  By  RICHARD  OWEN,  F.R.S.  Hunterian  Professor  to  the  College.  From 
Notes  taken  by  William  White  Cooper,  M.R.C.S.  and  revised  by  Professor  Owen.  With 
Glossary  and  Index.  8vo.  with  nearly  140  Illustrations  on  Wood,  14s.  cloth.  \ 

"  It  is  sufficient  to  announce  a  work  on  the  comparative  anatomy  of  the  Invertebrata  by  Mr.  Owen.  "Were  it 
necessary  to  recommend  it,  we  should  say,  that  the  desideratum  it  supplies  has  been  long  felt  by  students  of  natural 
history ;  and  that  no  writer  of  the  present  day  except  Mr.  Owen  could  have  ventured  to  approach  the  subject :  his 
enlightened  researches  having  made  the  delightful  department  of  science  in  which  he  has  created  his  brilliant  repu- 
tation legitimately  his  own;  and,  indeed,  organised  into  a  system  an  interesting  branch  of  knowledge  in  which  he 
found  only  a  few  scattered  and  imperfectly  known  facts."— MEDICAL  GAZETTE. 

PARKES.-DOMESTIC  DUTIES ; 

Or,  Instructions  to  Young  Married  Ladies  on  the  Management  of  their  Households  and  the 
Regulation  of  their  Conduct  in  the  various  Relations  and  Duties  of  Married  Life.    By  Mrs. 
W.  PARKES.    5th  Edition,  fcp.  8vo.  9s.  cloth. 
Social  Relations— Household  Concerns— the  Regulation  of  Time— Moral  and  Religious  Duties. 

PARNELL.-A  TREATISE   ON  ROADS; 

Wherein  the  Principles  on  which  Roads  should  be  made  are  explained  and  illustrated  by  the 
Plans,  Specifications,  and  Contracts  made  use  of  by  Thomas  Telford,  Esq.  on  the  Holyhead 
Road.  By  the  Right  Hon.  Sir  HENRY  PARNELL,  Bart.,  Hon.  Memb.  Inst.  Civ.  Eng.  London. 
Second  Edition,  greatly  enlarged,  with  9  large  plates,  £1.  Is.  cloth. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BKOWN,  AND  CO,  23 

PKARSON.-I'RAYERS  FOR  FAMILIES: 

Consisting  of  a  Form,  short  but  comprehensive,  for  the  Morning  and  Evening  of  everyday  in 
the  week.  Selected  by  the  late  E.  PEARSON,  D.D.  Master  of  Sidney  Sussex  College,  Cambridge. 
To  which  is  prefixed,  a  Biographical  Memoir  of  the  Editor.  New  Edit.  18mo.  2s.  6d.  cloth. 

PEARSON.-AN  INTRODUCTION  TO  PRACTICAL  ASTRO- 

NO.MY.  By  the  Rev.  W.  PEARSON,  LL.D.  F.R.S.,  &c.,  Rector  of  South  Killworth, 
Leicestershire,  and  Treasurer  to  the  Astronomical  Society  of  London.  2  vols.  4to  with 
Plates,  st7.  7s.  boards. 

Vol.  1  contains  Tables,  recently  computed,  for  facilitating  the  Reduction  of  Celestial  observa- 
tions ;  and  a  poi  ular  explanation  of  their  Construction  and  Use. 

Vol.  2  contains  Descriptions  of  the  various  Instruments  that  have  been  usefully  employed  in 
determining  the  Places  of  the  Heavenly  Bodies,  with  an  Account  of  the  Methods  of  Adjusting 
and  Using  them. 

PERCIYALL.-THE  ANATOMY  OF  THE  HORSE; 

Embracing  the  Structure  of  the  Foot.    By  W.  PERCIVALL,  M.R.C.S.   8vo.  pp.  478,  £\,  cloth. 

PERCIVALL.-HIPPOPATHOLOGY ; 

A  Systematic  Treatise  on  the  Disorders  and  Lameness  of  the  Horse;  with  their  modern  and 
most  approved  Methods  of  Cure;  embracing  the  doctrines  of  the  English  and  French 
Veterinary  Schools.  By  W.  PERCIVALL,  M.R.C.S.  Veterinary  Surgeon  in  the  1st  Life  Guards. 
Vol  1,  8vo.  pp.  340,  10s.  6d.  boards;  Vol.  2,  8vo.  pp.  436, 14s.  boards. 

PEREIRA.-A  TREATISE  ON  FOOD  AND  DIET: 

With  Observations  on  the  Dietetical  Regimen  suited  for  Disordered  States  of  the  Digestive 
Organs ;  and  an  Account  of  the  Dietaries  of  some  of  the  principal  Metropolitan  and  other 
Establishments  for  Paupers,  Lunatics,  Criminals,  Children,  the  Sick,  &c.  By  JON.  PEREIRA, 
M.D.  F.R.S.  &  L.S.  Author  of  "  Elements  of  Materia  Medica."  8vo.  16s.  cloth. 

"  Invaluable  to  the  professional,  and  interesting  even  to  the  general  reader.  It  is  written  in  that  clear  and  racy  style 
which  characterises  Dr.  Pereira's  writings,  and  which  possesses  snch  charms  for  those  who  like  scientific  books  when 
they  are  not '  too  drv.'  We  may,  in  fine,  pronounce  it  well  worthy  of  the  author  of  the  best  work  on  Materia  Medic* 
and  Therapeutics  of  the  age  in  which  he  lives." — COEXIST. 

PHILLIPS.- AN  ELEMENTARY  INTRODUCTION  TO  MINE- 

R  A  LOGY;  comprising  a  Notice  of  the  Characters  and  Elements  of  Minerals;  with  Accounts 
of  the  Places  and  Circumstances  in  which  they  are  found.  By  WILLIAM  PHILLIPS,  F.L.S. 
M.G.S.,  &c.  4th  Edition,  considerably  augmented  by  R.  ALLAN,  F.R.S.E.  8vo.  numerous 
Cuts,  12s.  cloth. 

PHILLIPS.-FIGURES     AND     DESCRIPTIONS    OF    THE 

PAL.EOZOIC  FOSSILS  of  CORNWALL,  DEVON,  and  WEST  SOMERSET;  observed  in 
the  course  of  the  Ordnance  Geological  Survey  of  that  District.  By  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  F.R.S. 
F.G.S.  &c.  Published  by  Order  of  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  H.M.  Treasury.  8vo.  with 
60  Plates,  comprising  very  numerous  figures,  9s.  cloth. 

PHILLIPS.-A  GUIDE  TO  GEOLOGY. 

By  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  F.R.S.G.S.,  &c.    1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Plates,  6s.  cloth. 

PHILLIPS.-A  TREATISE  ON  GEOLOGY. 

By  JOHN  PHILLIPS,  F.R.S.G.Sj.,  &c.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles  and  Woodcuts, 
12s.  cloth. 

POISSON.-A  TREATISE  ON  MECHANICS. 

By  s.  D.  Poissox.  2d  Edition.  Translated  from  the  French,  and  illustrated  with  Explanatory 
Notes,  by  the  Rev.  Henry  H.  HARTE,  late  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Dublin.  2  large  vols. 
8vo.  288.  boards. 

PORTER.- A  TREATISE  ON  THE  MANUFACTURE  OF  SILK. 

By  G.  R.  PORTER,  Esq.  F.  U.S.  Author  of  "  The  Progress  of  the  Nation,"  &c.  1  vol.  8vo.  with 
Vignette  Title,  and  39  Engravings  on  Wood,  6s.  cloth. 

PORTER.- A   TREATISE   ON   THE    MANUFACTURES    OF 

P(  >RU  I.  A  IN  AND  (il.ASS.  By  G.  R.  PORTER,  Esq.  F.R.S.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette 
Title  and  50  Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth. 


24  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 

PORTLOCK.-REPORT  ON  THE  GEOLOGY  OF  THE  COUNTY 

of  LONDONDERRY,  and  of  Parts  of  Tyrone  and  Fermanagh,  examined  and  described  tinder 
the  Authority  of  the  Master-General  and  Board  of  Ordnance.  By  J.  E.  PORTLOCK,  F.R.S. 
&c.  8vo.  with  48  Plates,  24s.  cloth. 

POSTAL-PERSONAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON  SINDH, 

The  Manners  and  Customs  of  its  Inhabitants,  and  its  Productive  Capabilities :  with  a  Narrative 
of  the  Recent  Events.  By  Capt.  POSTANS,  Bombay  Army,  late  Assistant  to  the  Political 
Agent,  Sindh.  8vo.  with  new  Map,  coloured  Frontispiece,  and  other  Illustrations,  18s.  cloth. 

"  Capt.  Postans  writes  pleasantly,  and  is  a  firm  and  calm  recorder  of  what  he  has  seen  and  known — an  honest  and 
deliberate  reporter  of  the  conclusions  he  has  come  to  on  a  subject  that  has  points  about  which  men  are  much  divided. 
He  has  studied  his  theme  in  its  various  branches  vigilantly  and  patiently,  and  has  bestowed  reflection  and  exemplary 
care  before  delivering  the  results  of  his  observation  and  research.  His  work,  indeed,  we  cannot  doubt,  will  become 
an  authority  upon  various  points  of  Indian  policy  even  beyond  the  interests  that  are  immediately  combined  with  the 
Sindhian  nation." — MONTHLY  REVIEW. 

POWELL.-THE  HISTORY  OF  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY, 

From  the  Earliest  Periods  to  the  Present  Time.  By  BADEN  POWELL,  M.A.,  Savilian  Professor 
of  Mathematics  in  the  University  of  Oxford.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

PRISM  OF  IMAGINATION  (THE)  FOR  1844. 

By  the  Baroness  DE  CALABRELLA,  Author  of  "  The  Prism  of  Thought  for  1843."  Post  8vo. 
21s.  handsomely  bound  in  morocco,  and  gilt. 

«**  Tne  Ornamental  Designs  by  Mr.  Owen  Jones.  Each  page  will  be  surrounded  with  rich 
and  appropriate  Ornamental  Borders,  printed  in  Colours  and  Gold.  There  will  be  Eight 
Ornamental  Titles  illustrative  of  the  Tales,  and  Eight  Lithographic  Illustrations,  designed  by 
Henry  Warren.  The  Letterpress  will  consist  of  a  series  of  five  Imaginative  Tales,  entitled — 
The  Miniature— The  Ring— The  Pen— The  Armlet— The  Watch. 

PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE  ZOOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  LONDON. 

8vo.    The  last  part  published  is  Part  9  for  1841,  6s.  cloth. 

REECE.-THE  MEDICAL  GUIDE, 

For  the  use  of  the  Clergy,  Heads  of  Families,  Seminaries,  and  Junior  Practitioners  in  Medi- 
cine ;  comprising  a  complete  Modern  Dispensatory,  and  a  Practical  Treatise  on  the  Distin- 
guishing Symptoms,  Causes,  Prevention,  Cure  and  Palliation,  of  the  Diseases  incident  to  the 
Human  Frame.  By  R.  REECE,  M.D.  late  Fellow  of  the  Royal  College  of  Surgeons  of  London, 
&c.  16th  Edition,  8vo.  pp.  600, 12s.  boards. 

REEVE.-CONCHOLOGIA  SYSTEMATICA : 

Or,  Complete  System  of  Conchology :  in  which  the  Lepades  and  Molluscaare  described  and 
classified  according  to  their  Natural  Organization  and  Habits ;  illustrated  with  300  highly 
finished  copper-plate  engravings,  by  Messrs.  Sowerby,  containing  above  1500  figures  of  Shells. 
By  L.  REEVE,  F.L.S.  &c. 

Vol.  1,  containing  the  Lepades  and  Bivalve  Mollusca,  with  130  Plates,  ^3.  5s.  cloth ;  with 

coloured  Plates,  £5.  10s.  cloth. 
Vol.  2,  the  "Univalve  Mollusca,"  with  171  Plates,  ^4.  9s.  cloth;  coloured,  ^7.  12s.  cloth. 

REPTON.-THE  LANDSCAPE  GARDENING  &  LANDSCAPE 

ARCHITECTURE  of  the  late  HUMPHRY  REPTON,  Esq.;  being  his  entire  works  on  these 
subjects.  New  Edition,  with  an  historical  and  scientific  Introduction,  a  systematic  Analysis, 
a  Biographical  Notice,  Notes,  and  a  copious  alphabetical  Index.  By  J.  C.  LOUDO^,  F.L.S. 
&c.  Originally  published  in  1  folio  and  3  quarto  volumes,  and  now  comprised  in  1  vol.  8vo. 
illustrated  by  upwards  of  250  Engravings,  and  Portrait,  30s.  cloth;  with  coloured  plates, 
£1,  6s.  cloth. 

RICHARDSON-GEOLOGY  FOR  BEGINNERS: 

Comprising  a  Familiar  Explanation  of  Geology,  and  its  associate  Sciences,  Mineralogy, 
Physical  Geology,  Fossil  Conchology,  Fossil  Botany,  and  Palaeontology,  including  Directions 
for  forming  Collections  and  generally  cultivating  the  Science ;  with  a  succinct  Account  of  the 
several  Geological  Formations.  By  G.  F.  RICHARDSON,  F.G.S.  of  the  British  Museum. 
Second  Edition,  considerably  enlarged,  with  new  Frontispiece,  and  nearly  100  new  Wood 
Engraving's,  fcp.  8vo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

RIDDLE. -A  COMPLETE  ENGLISH-LATIN  AND  LATIN- 

ENGLISH  DICTIONARY,  compiled  from  the  best  sources,  chiefly  German.  By  the  Rev. 
J.  E.  RIDDLE.  2d  Edition,  corrected  and  enlarged.  8vo.  31s.  6d.  cloth. 

***  Separately— The  English-Latin  part,  10s.  6d.  cloth  j  the  English- Latin  part,  21s.  cloth. 


PRINTED  FOB  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  25 

RIDDLE.-THE  YOUNG  SCHOLAR'S  ENGLISH-LATIN  AND 

I.A1J. \-KNGLISH  DICTIONARY:  being  the  Author's  Abridgments  of  the  above.  2d  Edit. 
Square  12ino.  12s.  bound. 

*»*  Separately— the  English- Latin  part,  5s.  6d.  bound ;  the  Latin-English  part,  7a.  bound. 

"  Riddle's  Dictionary  is  the  best  of  the  kind  in  our  language."— ATHENim. 

RIDDLE. -A  DIAMOND   LATIN  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY. 

For  the  waistcoat-pocket.  A  Guide  to  the  Meaning,  Quality,  and  right  Accentuation  of  Latin 
Classical  Words.  By  the  Rev.  J.  E.  RIDDLE,  M.A.  Royal  32rno.  4s.  bound. 

"  A  most  useful  little  lexicon  to  the  general  reader  who  may  wish  for  an  accommodating  interpreter  of  such  Latin 
words  or  sentences  as  may  be  encountered  in  erery  day's  casual  literary  exercises.  It  is  at  once  copious  and 
succinct."— MoasLso  HERALD. 

RIDDLE-LETTERS  FROM  AN  ABSENT  GODFATHER ; 

Or,  a  Compendium  of  Religious  Instruction  for  Young  Persona.    By  the  Rev.  J.  E.  RIDDLB, 
v.    Fcp.  8vo.  6s.  cloth. 

RIDDLE.  -ECCLESIASTICAL  CHRONOLOGY ; 

Or,  Annals  of  the  Christian  Church,  from  its  Foundation  to  the  present  Time.  Containing  a 
View  of  General  Church  History,  and  the  Course  of  Secular  Events ;  the  Limits  of  the 
Church  and  its  Relations  to  the  State ;  Controversies ;  Sects  and  Parties ;  Rites, 
Institutions,  and  Discipline  ;  Ecclesiastical  Writers.  The  whole  arranged  according  to  the 
order  of  Dates,  and  divided  into  Seven  Periods.  To  which  are  added,  Lists  of  Councils  and 
Popes,  Patriarchs,  and  Archbishops  of  Canterbury.  By  the  Rev.  J.  E.  RIDDLE,  M.A., 
Author  of  "  The  Complete  Latin  Dictionary."  1  vol.  8vo.  15s.  cloth. 

RIYERS.-THE  ROSE  AMATEUR'S  GUIDE. 

In  Two  Parts :  Part  1,  The  Summer  Rose  Garden  ,  Part  2,  The  Autumnal  Rose  Garden.  The 
whole  arranged  so  as  to  form  a  Companion  to  the  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  the  Sawbridge- 
worth  Collection  of  Roses,  published  annually.  By  T.  RIVERS,  Jun.  3d  Edition,  greatly 
enlarged,  fcp.  8vo.  6s.  cloth. 

Among  the  additions  to  the  present  Edition  will  be  found  full  Directions  fot  Raising  Xew  Roses  from  Seed,  by 
•nodes  nerer  before  published,  appended  to  each  Family;  with  descriptions  of  the  most  remarkable  New  Roses 
:  y  introduced ;  an  alphabetical  list  of  all  the  New  Roses  and  Show  Flowers. 

ROBERTS.-A  COMPREHENSIVE  VIEW  OF  THE  CULTURE 

of  the  VINE  under  GLASS.  By  JAMES  ROBERTS,  Gardener  to  M.  Wilson,  Esq.  Eshton  Hall, 
Yorkshire.  12mo.  5s.  6d.  cloth. 

ROBERTS.-AN     ETYMOLOGICAL    AND     EXPLANATORY 

DICTIONARY  of  the  Terms  and  Language  of  GEOLOGY;  designed  for  the  early  Student, 
and  those  who  have  not  made  great  progress  in  the  Science.  By  G.  ROBERTS.  Fcp.  6s.  cloth. 

ROBINSON.- GREEK  AND  ENGLISH  LEXICON   TO   THE 

Ni:\V  TESTAMENT.  By  E.  ROBINSON,  D.D.  Author  of  "Biblical  Researches."  Edited, 
with  careful  revision,  corrections,  &c.  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  BLOOMFIELD.  1  vol.  8vo.  188.  cloth. 

ROGERS.-THE  VEGETABLE  CULTIVATOR; 

Containing  a  plain  and  accurate  Description  of  all  the  different  Species  of  Culinary  Vegetables, 
with  the  most  approved  Method  of  Cultivating  them  by  Natural  and  Artificial  Means,  and 
the  best  Modes  of  Cooking  them ;  alphabetically  arranged.  Together  with  a  Description  of 
the  Physical  Herbs  in  General  Use.  Also,  some  Recollections  of  the  Life  of  PH  ILIP  MILLER, 
F.A.S.,  Gardener  to  the  Worshipful  Company  of  Apothecaries  at  Chelsea.  By  JOHN  ROOEBS, 
Author  of  "  The  Fruit  Cultivator."  Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  cloth, 

ROME.-THE  HISTORY  OF  ROME. 

2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

RONALDS.-THE  FLY-FISHER'S  ENTOMOLOGY, 

Illustrated  by  Coloured  Representations  of  the  Natural  and  Artificial  Insect ;  and  accompanied 
by  a  few  Observations  and  Instructions  relative  to  Trout  and  Grayling  Fishing.  By  ALFRED 
RONALDS.  2d  Edition,  with  20  Copperplates,  coloured,  8vo.  14s.  cloth. 

ROSCOE.— LIVES  OF  EMINENT  BRITISH  LAWYERS. 

By  HENRY  ROSCOE,  Esq.    1  vol.  fcp.  8vo,  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

SANDFORD.-LIVES  OF  ENGLISH  FEMALE  WORTHIES. 

By  Mrs.  JOHN  SANDFORD.  Vol  1,  containing  the  Lives  of  Lady  Jane  Grey  and  Mrs.  Colonel 
Hutchinson,  fcp.  8vo.  6«.6d.  cloth. 


26  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 


SANDFORD.-WOMAN  IN  HER  SOCIAL   AND  DOMESTIC 

CHARACTER.    By  Mrs.  JOHN  SANDFORD.    6th  Edition,  fcp.  8vo.  6s.  cloth. 
Causes  of  Female  Influence;  Value  of  Letters  to  Woman;  Importance  of  Religion  to  Woman ; 
Christianity  the  Source  of  Female  Excellence;  Scripture  illustrative  of  Female  Character; 
Female  Influence  on  Religion;  Female  Defects;  Female  Romance ;  Female  Education ;  Female 
Duties. 

SANDFORD.-FEMALE  IMPROVEMENT. 

By  Mrs.  JOHN  SANDFORD.    2d  Edition,  fcp.  8vo.  7s.  6d.  cloth. 

The  Formation  of  Female  Character ;  Religion  a  paramount  Object ;  the  Importance  of  Religious 
Knowledge;  Christianity,  Doctrinal  and  Practical ;  the  Employment  of  Time ;  Study,  its  Mode 
and  its  Recommendation;  Accomplishment;  Temper;  Taste;  Benevolence;  Marriage;  the 
Young  Wife ;  the  Young  Mother. 

SAYAGE.-A  DICTIONARY  OF  PRINTING. 

By  WILLIAM  SAVAGE,  Author  of"  Practical  Hints  on  Decorative  Printing,"  and  a  Treatise 
"  On  the  Preparation  of  Printing  Ink,  both  Black  and  Coloured."  In  1  vol.  8vo.  with  numerous 
Diagrams,  61.  6s.  cloth. 

SCOTT.-THE  HISTORY  OF  SCOTLAND. 

By  Sir  WALTER  SCOTT,  Bart.    New  edition.    2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

SEAWARD.- SIR  EDWARD  SEAWARD'S  NARRATIVE  OF 

HIS  SHIPWRECK,  and  consequent  Discovery  of  certain  Islands  in  the  Caribbean  Sea :  with 
a  detail  of  many  extraordinary  and  highly  interesting  Events  in  his  Life,  from  1733  to  1749,  as 
written  in  his  own  Diary.  Edited  by  Miss  JANE  PORTER.  3d  Edition,  with  a  New  Nautical 
and  Geographical  Introduction,  containing  Extracts  from  a  Paper  by  Mr.  C.  F.  Collett,  of  the 
Royal  Navy,  identifying  the  islands  described  by  Sir  E.  Seaward.  2  vols.  post  8vo.  21s.  cloth. 

SELECT  WORKS  OF  THE  BRITISH  POETS, 

From  Chaucer  to  Withers.  With  Biographical  Sketches,  by  R.  SOUTHEY,  LL.D.  1  vol.  8vo. 
30s.  cloth ;  with  gilt  edges,  31s.  6d. 

SELECT  WORKS  OF  THE  BRITISH  POETS, 

From  Ben  Jonson  to  Beattie.  With  Biographical  and  Critical  Prefaces,  by  DR.  AIKIN. 
1  vol.  8vo.  18s.  cloth  ;  with  gilt  edges,  20s. 

•  «*  The  peculiar  feature  of  these  two  works  is,  that  the  Poems  included  are  printed  entire,  without  mutilation  or 
abridgment ;  care  heing  taken  that  such  poems  only  are  included  as  are  fit  for  the  perusal  of  youth,  or  for  reading 

SHAKSPEARE,  BY  BOWDLER. 

THE  FAMILY  SHAKSPEARE;  in  which  nothing  is  added  to  the  Original  Text ;  but  those 
words  and  expressions  are  omitted  which  cannot  with  propriety  be  readaloud.  ByT  BOWDLER, 
Esq.  F.R.S.  Seventh  Edition  (1839),  1  large  vol.  8vo.  with  36  Illustrations  after  Smirke,  &c. 
30s.  cloth  ;  or  31s.  6d.  gilt  edges. 

***  A  LIBRARY  EDITION,  without  Illustrations,  8  vols.  8vo.  ^4.  14s.  6d.  boards. 

SHELLEY,  &C.-LIVES  OF  THE  MOST  EMINENT  LITEUARY 

MEN  OF  ITALY,  SPAIN,  and  PORTUGAL.  By  Mrs.  SHELLEY,  Sir  D.  BREWSTER, 
J.  MONTGOMERY,  &c.  3  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  18s.  cloth. 

SHELLEY.— LIVES  OF  MOST  EMINENT  FRENCH  WRITERS. 

By  Mrs.  SHELLEY,  and  others,    2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

SHORT  WHIST : 

Its  Rise,  Progress,  and  Laws ;  with  Observations  to  make  any  one  a  Whist  Player ;  containing 
also  the  Laws  of  Piquet,  Cassino,  Ecarte",  Cribbage,  Backgammon.  By  Major  A  *****. 
7th  Edition.  To  which  are  added,  Precepts  for  Tyros.  By  Mrs.  B  *****.  Fcp.  8vo.  3s 
cloth,  gilt  edges. 

SISMONDI.-THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  ITALIAN  REPUBLICS ; 

Or,  of  the  Origin,  Progress,  and  Fall  of  Freedom  in  Italy,  from  A.D.  476  to  1805.  By  J.  C.  L. 
DE  SISMONDI.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  27 

SISMONDI.-THE  HISTORY  OP  THE  FALL  OF  THE  ROMAN 

KM  I'l  RE.  Comprising  a  View  of  the  Invasion  and  Settlement  of  the  Barbarians.  By  J.  C  L. 
DE  SISMONDI.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

SMITH.-AN  INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  STUDY  OF  BOTANY. 

By  ^ir  J.  E.  SMITH,  late  President  of  the  Linnean  Society.  7th  Edition  (1833),  corrected  ;  in 
which  the  object  of  Smith's  "  Grammar  of  Botany"  is  combined  with  that  of  the  "  Introduc- 
tion." By  Sir  WILLIAM  JACKSON  HOOKER,  K.H.,  LL.D.,  &c.  1  vol.Svo.  pp.  522,  36  Steel 
Plates,  16s.  cloth ;  with  the  Plates  coloured,  £1.  12s.  6d.  cloth. 

SMITH.-THE  ENGLISH  FLORA. 

By  Sir  JAMES  EDWARD  SMITH,  M.D.  F.R.S.,  late  President  of  the  Linnaean  Society,  &c. 

6  vols.  8vo.  j£"3.  12s.  boards. 

Contents  :— Vols.  I.  to  IV.  the  FLOWERING  PLANTS  and  the  FERNS,  £ 2.  8s. 
Vol.  V.  Part  1,12s.— CRYPTOGAMI A;  comprising  the  Mosses,  Hepaticae,  Lichens,  Characeae, 

and  Algae.    By  Sir  W.  J.  HOOK  ER. 
Vol.  V.  Part  2,  12s.— The  FUNGI— completing  the  work,  by  Sir  J.  W.  HOOKER,  and  the  Rev. 

M.  J.  BERKELEY,  F.L.S.  &c. 

SMITH.-THE  WORKS  OF  THE  REV.  SYDNEY  SMITH. 

2d  Edition,  3  vols.  8vo.  with  Portrait,  pp.  1412,  36s.  cloth. 

This  collection  consists  of  the  author's  contributions  to  the  Edinburgh  Reriew,  Peter  Plymley's  L«tt«rs  on  the 
Catholics,  and  other  miscellaneous  works. 

SMITH.-LETTERS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  THE  CATHOLICS, 

to  my  Brother  Abraham  who  lives  iu  the  Country.  By  PETER  PLYMLEY.  21st  Edition, 
post  8vo.  pp.  200,  7s.  cloth. 

SMITH.-THE  MEMOIRS  OF  THE  MARQUIS  DE  POMBAL. 

By  JOHN  SMITH,  Private  Secretary  to  the  Marquis  De  Saldana.  2  vols.  post  8vo.  with  Portrait 
and  Autographa,  21s.  cloth. 

These  Memoirs  of  this  illustrious  Portuguese  Statesman,  designated  by  his  countrymen  the  "  GREA.T  MARQUIS," 
contain  det  tils  of  the  terrible  earthquake  in  1756— the  energy  of  Pombal  on  that  awful  occasion — the  establishment 
of  the  Oporto  Wine  Company — the  Duke  of  Aveiro's  conspiracy — rupture  with  the  Court  of  Rome — strange  hallncina- 
tionsof  theJesuit  Malagrida — suppression  of  the  Jesuit  order  throtighout  Europe  effected  by  Pombal's  energy  and 
address — family  compact  and  war  with  France  and  Spain — extensive  reforms  and  flourishing  condition  of  Porfigal — 
death  of  the  king — Pombal's  resignation,  examination,  sentence,  illness,  and  death.  The  whole  interspersed  with 
extracts  from  the  despatches  of  Mr.  Hay,  Lord  Kinnoull,  Mr.  Walpole,  &c.  never  before  published. 

SMITH.-AN  INQUIRY  INTO  THE  NATURE  AND  CAUSES 

OF  THE  WEALTH  OF  NATIONS.  By  ADAM  SMITH,  LL.D.  With  a  Life  of  the  Author, 
an  Introductory  Discourse,  Notes,  and  Supplemental  Dissertations.  By  J.  R.  M'CULLOCH. 
New  Edition,  corrected  throughout,  and  greatly  enlarged,  8vo.  with  Portrait,  £\.  Is.  cloth. 

SOUTHEFS  (ROBERT)  POETICAL  WORKS. 

First  and  only  Complete  Edition  (1838-42).     Collected  and  edited  by  Mr.  SOUTHEY.    With 
Autobiographical  Prefaces.    10  Vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Portrait,  and  19  other  highly-finished 
Plates,  £1.  10s.  fancy  cloth ;  or  £\.  10s.  handsomely  bound  in  morocco,  with  gilt  edges. 
The  following  may  be  had,  separately,  in  cloth  :  — 


JOAN*  of  ARC 1  vol.  5s. 

M  ADOC 1  vol.  5s. 

CURSE  of  KEHAMA    .,  ..1vol.  5s. 


THALABA 1  vol.     5s. 

BALLADS,  &c 2  vols.  10s. 

RODERICK  . .  . . .  1  vol.     5s. 


SOUTHEY,  &c. -LIVES  OF  THE  BRITISH  ADMIRALS; 

With  an  Introductory  View  of  the  Naval  History  of  England.  By  R.  SOUTHEY,  Esq.  and 
R.  BELL,  Esq.  5  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  jfrl.  10s.  cloth. 

SPACEMAN.  -  STATISTICAL  TABLES 

Of  the  Agriculture,  Shipping,  Colonies,  Manufactures,  Commerce,  and  Population  of  the 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  its  Dependencies,  brought  down  to  the  year  1843. 
Compiled  from  Official  Returns.  By  W.  F.  SPACKMAN,  Esq.  Fcp.  8vo.  pp.  162,  5s.  cloth. 

SPIRIT  OF  THE  WOODS. 

By  the  Author  of  "  The  Moral  of  Flowers."  2d  Edition,  1  vol.  royal  8vo.  with  23  beautifully- 
coloured  Engravings  of  the  Forest  Trees  of  Great  Britain,  4\.  11s.  6d.  cloth. 


28 


CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 


SPOONER.-A  TREATISE  ON  THE  INFLUENZA  OE  HORSES. 

Showing  its  Nature,  Symptoms,  Causes,  and  Treatment;  embracing  the  subject  of  Epizooti 
Disease  generally.  By  W.  C.  SPOONER,  M.R.V.C.  12mo.  pp.  118,  3s.  6d.  cloth. 

SPOONER.— A  TREATISE   ON   THE  STRUCTURE,  EUNC- 

TIONS  and  DISEASES  of  the  FOOT  and  LEG  of  the  HORSE ;  comprehending  the  Com- 
parative Anatomy  of  these  parts  in  other  Animals,  embracing  the  subject  of  Shoeing  and 
the  proper  Treatment  of  the  Foot ;  with  the  Rationale  and  Effects  of  various  Important 
Operations,  and  the  best  methods  of  performing  them.  By  W.  C.  SPOONER,  M.R.V.C. 
12mo.  pp.  398,  7s.  6d.  cloth. 

STEBBING.-THE  HISTORY  OE  THE  CHRISTIAN  CHURCH, 

from  its  Foundation  to  A.D.  1492.  By  the  Rev.  H.  STEBBING,  M.A.  &c.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo. 
•with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

STEBBING.-THE  HISTORY  OE  THE  REFORMATION. 

By  the  Rev.  H.  STEBBING.    2  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

STEPHENS.-A  MANUAL  OF  BRITISH  COLEOPTERA; 

or,  BEETLES :  containing  a  Description  of  all  the  Species  of  Beetles  hitherto  ascertained  to 
inhabit  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  &c.  With  a  Complete  Index  of  the  Genera.  By  J.  F. 
STEPHENS,  F.L.S.  Author  of  "  Illustrations  of  Entomology."  1  vol.  post  8vo.  Us.  cloth. 

STEEL'S  SHIPMASTER'S  ASSISTANT, 

And  OWNER'S  MANUAL ;  containing  Information  necessary  for  persons  connected  with 
Mercantile  Affairs ;  consisting  of  the  Regulation  Acts  of  the  Customs  for  the  United  King- 
dom, and  British  Possessions  abroad  ;  Navigation  Laws  ;  Registry  Acts  ;  Duties  of  Customs 
of  the  United  Kingdom,  the  British  Plantations  in  America,  Canada,  and  Isle  of  Man,  in  the 
East  Indies,  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  New  South  Wales,  and  Van  Dieman's  Land  ;  Smuggling 
Acts  ;  Pilotage  throughout  England  and  Scotland ;  Insurances  ;  Commercial  Treaties  ;  Dock 
Charges  on  Shipping,  &r.  New  Edition,  corrected  by  J.  STIKEMAN,  Secretary  to  the  East 
India  and  China  Association.  With  Tables  of  Monies,  Weights,  Measures,  and  Exchanges. 
By  Dr.  KELLY.  With  a  Supplement.  1  vol.  8vo.  £\.  Is.  cloth, 

STRONG-GREECE  AS  A  KINGDOM : 

A  Statistical  Description  of  that  Country :  its  Laws,  Commerce,  Resources,  Public  Institutions, 
Army,  Navy,  &c.— from  the  arrival  of  King  Otho,  in  1833,  down  to  the  present  time.  From 
Official  Documents  and  Authentic  Sources.  By  FREDERICK  STRONG,  Esq.  Consul  at  Athens 
for  the  Kingdoms  of  Bavaria  and  Hanover*  8vo  15s.  cloth, 

SUNDAY  LIBRARY : 

Containing  nearly  One  Hundred  Sermons  by  the  following  eminent  Divines.  With  Notes,  &c. 
by  the  Rev.  T.  F.  DIBDIN,  D.D.  6  vols.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Six  Portraits,  30s.  cloth. 

Archbp.  Lawrence 

"        Seeker 
Bp.  Bloomfield 

*  Gray 

"  Heber 

"   Hobart 

«   Home 

'*  Horsley 

SWAINSON.-A    PRELIMINARY    DISCOURSE    ON    iTHE 

STUDY  OF  NATURAL  HISTORY.    By  W.  SWAINSON,  Esq.    1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  6s.  cloth. 

SWAINSON.-A  TREATISE  ON  THE  NATURAL  HISTORY 

AND  CLASSIFICATION  of  ANIMALS.  By  W.  SWAINSON,  Esq.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  6s. 
cloth  lettered. 

SWAINSON.-NATURAL  HISTORY  AND  CLASSIFICATION 

OF  QUADRUPEDS.  By  W.  SWAINSON,  Esq.  1  vol.  fcp.  8vo,  with  vignette  title  and  176 
Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth. 

SWAINSON.-NATURAL  HISTORY  AND  CLASSIFICATION 

OF  BIRDS,  By  Wk  SWAINSON,  Esq.  Fcp.  8vo.  Vignette  Titles  and  above  800  Woodcuts, 
12s.  cloth. 

SWAINSON.-ANIMALS  IN  MENAGERIES. 

By  W.  SWAINSON,  Esq.    Fcp.Svo.  Vignette  Title  and  numerous  Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth  lettered. 


Bp.  Htmtingford 
"    Maltby 

Archdeacon  Nares 
"           Pott 

Professor  White 
Rev.  Arch.  Alison 

Rev  W.  Jones  (of  Nnyland) 
«     C.  W.  Lc  Bas 

"    Mant 

Dr.  Blair 

"      C.  Benson 

*     H.  H.  Milman 

"    Newton 

"   Chalmers 

«•     Joshua  Gilpifl 

"      R.  Mori-head 

"    Porteus 

"  D'Oyly 

«»     G.  Hae^itt 

'*     Thomas  Rennell 

"    J.  B.  Sumne* 

"  Paler 

*     Robert  Hall 

"     J.  H.  Spry 

«  VanMildert 

"   Parr 

"     J.  Hewlett 

w      Sydney  Smith 

Dean  Chandler 

**  Shuttiewortli 

•     A.  Irvine 

"     Thomas  Townson. 

PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  29 

SW VINSON.-NATURAL  HISTORY  AND  CLASSIFICATION 

OF  FISH,  AMPHIBIANS,  AND  REPTILES.  By  W.  SWAINSON,  Esq.  2  vols.  fcp.  8vo. 
with  numerous  Woodcuts  and  Vignette  Titles,  12s.  cloth. 

SWAINSON.-HABITS  AND  INSTINCTS  OF  ANIMALS. 

Uy  \V.  SWAINSON,  Esq.    1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  and  numerous  Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth. 

SWAINSON.— A  TREATISE  ON  MALACOLOGY; 

Or,  the  Natural  Classification  of  Shells  and  Shell-fish.  By  W.  SWAINSON,  Esq.  1  vol.  fcp. 
8vo.  with  Vignette  Title  and  very  numerous  Illustrations  on  Wood,  6s.  cloth. 

SWAINSON  AND  SHUCKARD  -HISTORY  AND  NATURAL 

ARRANGEMENT  OF  INSECTS.  By  W.  SWAINSON,  Esq.,  and  W.  E.  SHUCKARD,  Esq. 
1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title  and  Woodcuts,  6s.  cloth. 

SWITZERLAND.-THE  HISTORY  OF  SWITZERLAND. 

1  vol.  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title,  6s.  cloth. 

TATE.-THE  CONTINUOUS  HISTORY  OF  THE  LIFE  AND 

WKITINGS  OF  ST.  PAUL,  on  the  basis  of  the  Acts;  with  Intercalary  Matter  of  Sacred 
Narrative,  supplied  from  the  Epistles,  and  elucidated  in  occasional  Dissertations :  with  the 
Horac  Paulina;  of  Dr.  Paley,  in  a  more  correct  edition,  subjoined.  By  JAMES  TATE,  M.A. 
Canon  Residentiary  of  St.  Paul's.  8vo.  with  Map,  13s.  cloth, 

TATE.-HORATIUS  RESTITUTUS; 

Or,  the  Books  of  Horace  arranged  in  Chronological  Order,  according  to  the  Scheme  of  Dr. 
Bentley,  from  the  Text  of  Gesner,  corrected  and  improved.  With  a  Preliminary  Dissertation, 
very  much  enlarged,  on  the  Chronology  of  the  Works,  on  the  Localities,  and  on  the  Life  and 
Character  of  that  Poet.  By  JAMES  TATE,  M.A.  Second  Edition.  To  which  is  now  added, 
an  original  Treatise  on  the  Metres  of  Horace.  8vo.  12s.  cloth. 

TAYLER  (REV.  CHARLES  B.)— MARGARET; 

Or,  the  Pearl.  By  the  Rev.  CHARLES  B  .TAYLER,  M.A.  Rector  of  St.  Peter's,  Chester,  Author 
Of  "  May  You  Like  It,"  "  Records  of  a  Good  Man's  Life,"  &c.—  In  the  Press. 

"  Vital  religion  is  the  real  antidote  for  tractarian  error." 

TAYLER  (REV.  CHARLES  B.)-DORA  MELDER; 

A  Story  of  Alsace.  By  MET  A  SANDER.  A  Translation.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  C.  B.  Tayler, 
Author  of  "  Records  of  a  Good  Man's  Life,"  &c.  Fcp.  8vo.  pp.  286,  2  Illustrations,  7s.  cloth. 

"  Viewed  in  a  literary  point  of  view,  this  tale  is  admirably  told  ;  whilst  an  air  of  reality  gives  it  a  true  charm." 

BIUTIBH  MAGAZINE. 

TAYLOR.-THE  STATESMAN. 

By  HENRY  TAYLOR,  Esq.,  Author  of  "Philip  Van  Artevelde."    12mo.  6s.  6d.  boards. 

THACKER -THE  COURSER'S  ANNUAL  REMEMBRANCER, 

and  STUD-BOOK  ;  being  an  Alphabetical  Return  of  the  Running  at  all  the  Public  Coursing 
Clubs  in  England,  Ireland,  and  Scotland,  for  the  Season  1841-42  ;  with  the  Pedigrees  (as  far 
as  received)  of  the  Dogs  that  won,  and  the  Dogs  that  ran  up  second  for  each  Prize  ;  also,  a 
Ret  urn  of  all  single  Matches  run  at  those  Meetings ;  with  a  Preliminary  Essay  on  the  Decision 
of  Short  Courses.  By  T.  THACKER.  8vo.  10s.  cloth. 

Til  ACKER— A    POCKET    COMPENDIUM    OF    COURSING 

RULES  AND  BYE-LAWS,  for  Use  in  the  Field.    By  THOMAS  THACKER.    Is.  6d.  sewed. 

TIIIRLAYALL.-THE  HISTORY  OF  GREECE. 

By  the  Right  Rev.  the  LORD  BISHOP  of  ST.  DAVID'S.  Vols.  1  to  7,  fcp.  8vo.  with  Vignette 
Titles,  £1.  2s.  cloth. 

TIIOMSON.-THE  DOMESTIC  MANAGEMENT  OF  THE  SICK 

ROOM,  necessary,  in  Aid  of  Medical  Treatment,  for  the  Cure  of  Diseases.  By  ANTHONY 
TODD  THOMSON,  M.D.  F.L.S.  &c.  Post  8vo.  10s.  6d.  cloth. 

THOMSON.-CHEMISTRY  OF  ANIMAL  BODIES. 

By  THOMAS  THOMSON,  M.D.  Regius  Professor  of  Chemistry  in  the  University  of  Glasgow. 
8vo.  16s.  cloth. 


30  CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS 

THOMSON'S  SEASONS. 

Edited  by  BOLTON  CORNEY,  Esq.  Illustrated  with  Seventy-seven  Designs  drawn  on  Wood, 
by  the  following  Members  of  the  Etching  Club  .— 

J.  Bell,  Sculptor,  J.  C.  Horsley,  Frank  Stone,  H.  J.  Townsend, 

C.  W.  Cope,  .  J.  P.  Knight,  C.  Stonhouse,  T.  Webster,  A.R.A. 

Thomas  Ores  wick,  R.  Redgrave,  A.R.A.  F.  Tayler, 

Engraved  by  Thompson  and  other  eminent  Engravers. 
Handsomely  printed  in  square  crown  8vo.  (1842),  pp.  336,  21s.  richly  bound  in  ultra-marine 

cloth  ;  in  morocco  in  the  best  manner  by  Hayday,  36s. 

***  A  few  copies  printed  on  prepared  paper  of  great  beauty,  forming  a  most  unique  book, 
i£%.  2s.  in  ultra-marine  cloth ;  in  morocco  in  the  best  manner  by  Hayday,  £1.  17s. ;  or  in 
Russia,  otfS. 

"  Few  works  of  the  class  have  a  fairer  prospect  of  popularity  than  this  new  edition  of  THOMSON,  illustrated  by  the 
members  of  the  Etching  Club.  Most  of  the  designs  are  in  accordance  with  the  spirit  of  the  author,— some  of  them 
beautiful.  The  landscape  vignettes  contributed  by  Mr.  CRESWICK  entitle  him  to  a  first  place  as  a  book-illustrator  ; 
exhibiting  a  versatility  of  talent  for  which  his  warmest  admirers  could  hitherto  have  hardly  ventured  to  give  him 
credit.  Mr.  F.  TAYLER  is  not  far  behind,  as  his  designs  at  pp.  11,  12,  and  26,  will  most  satisfactorily  prove  ;  and  he 
comes  one  step  nearer  historical  art  than  Mr.  Creswick,  in  right  of  his  clever  management  of  rustic  figures.  Messrs. 
COPE,  HORSLEY,  REDGRAVE,  and  BELL,  with  all  their  true  English  feeling,  and  the  grace  of  their  conceptions,  are  a 
degree  more  ambitious.  Mr.  BELL'S  preparatory  outline  of  '  Spring  '  gives  indications  of  grace,  poetry,  and  fancy, 
worthy  of  being  carried  to  the  highest  perfection.  This  book  is  beautifully  brought  out ;  the  vignettes  are  from 
copper  blocks,  produced  by  the  electrotype  process.  This  gives  a  peculiarity  of  effect  to  the  impressions  more  easy  to 
perceive  than  to  describe.  Other  of  our  classical  poems  are  to  follow,  illustrated  in  a  similar  fashion.  Mr.  BOLTON 
CORNEY'S  labours  are  not  the  less  to  be  commended  because  they  are  unobtrusive  :  the  work  is  extremely  well  edited, 
and  therefore  entitled  to  a  place  on  the  library  shelf  as  well  as  on  the  drawing-room  table." — ATHEN  JETJM. 

TOMLINS.-A  POPULAR  LAW  DICTIONARY; 

Familiarly  explaining  the  Terms  and  Nature  of  English  Law ;  adapted  to  the  comprehension 
of  persons  not  educated  for  the  legal  profession,  and  affording  information  peculiarly  useful 
to  Magistrates,  Merchants,  Parochial  Officers,  and  others.  By  THOMAS  EDLYNE  TOMLINS, 
Attorney  and  Solicitor.  In  1  thick  vol.  post  8vo.  18s.  cloth. 

The  whole  work  has  been  revised  by  a  Barrister. 

TOOKE.-A  HISTORY  OF  PRICES ; 

With  reference  to  the  Causes  of  their  principal  Variations,  from  1792  to  the  Present  Time. 
Preceded  by  a  Sketch  of  the  History  of  the  Corn  Trade  in  the  last  Two  Centuries.  By  THOMAS 
TOOKE,  Esq.  F.R.S.  2  vols.  Svo.  <£\.  16s.  cloth. 

(A  Continuation  of  the  Above.) 

AN  ACCOUNT  of  PRICES  and  of  the  State  of  the  CIRCULATION  in  1838  and  1839;  with 
Remarks  on  the  Corn  Laws,  and  on  proposed  Alterations  in  our  Banking  System.  Svo.  12s.  cloth. 

TRANSACTIONS  OF  THE  ENTOMOLOGICAL  SOCIETY. 

8vo.    The  last  part  published  is  Part  3  of  Vol.  3,  Svo.  with  Plates,  4s.  6d. 

TRANSACTIONS    OF    THE    ZOOLOGICAL     SOCIETY    OF 

LONDON.  4to.  The  last  part  published  is  Part  1,  Vol.  3,  with  Plates,  14s.  coloured, 
and  12s.  plain. 

TRANSACTIONS   OF  THE  INSTITUTION  OF  CIVIL 

Engineers,   4to.    Vol.  II.  with  Twenty-three  finely  engraved  Plates,  28s.  cloth. 
Vol.  III.  with  Nineteen  finely  engraved  Plates,  £1.  12s.  6d.  cloth. 

TRANSACTIONS  OF  THE  ROYAL  INSTITUTE  OF  BRITISH 

ARCHITECTS  of  LONDON  :  consisting  of  a  series  of  Papers  on  "  Antiquities,"  and  "  Con- 
struction." By  R.  Willis,  M.A.  F.R.S.  &c. ;  Ambrose  Poynter;  Herr  Hallmann,  of  Han- 
over; Dr.  Faraday  ;  Mr.  Bracebridge;  Herr  Beuth,  of  Berlin  ;  Joseph  Gwilt,  F.S.A.  F.A.S. ; 
Mr.  C.  H.  Smith  ;  Mr.  C.  Fowler,  Hon.  Sec. ;  Mr.  W.  A.  Nicholson,  of  Lincoln  ;  and  Mr.  J.  P. 
Papworth.  Vol.  I.  Part  2, 4to.  with  numerous  lithographic  and  woodcut  illustrations,  2<jfc.  cloth. 
V  Part  1,  Vol.  I.  uniform  with  the  above,  16s.  cloth. 

TRANSACTIONS  OF  THE  LINNEAN  SOCIETY  OF  LONDON. 

The  last  part  published  is  Part  2,  Vol.  XIX.    4to.  with  Plates,  21s. 

TROLLOPE.— THE  LAURRINGTONS ; 

Or,  Superior  People.  By  Mrs.  TROLLOPE,  Author  of  "Widow  Barnaby,"  &c.  3  vols. 
post  8vo. — Nearly  ready. 

TURNER.-THE  SACRED  HISTORY  OF  THE  WORLD, 

Philosophically  considered.  By  SHARON  TURNER,  F.S.A.  R.A.S.L.    New  Edit.  3  vols.  Svo.  42s. 

Vol.  1  considers  the  Creation  and  System  of  the  Earth,  and  of  its  Vegetable  and  Animal  Races 

and  Material  Laws,  and  Formation  of  Mankind. 
Vol.  2,  the  Divine  Economy  in  its  special  Relation  to  Mankind,  and  in  the  Deluge,  and  the 

History  of  Human  Affairs  ; 
Vol.  3,  the  Provisions  for  the  Perpetuation  and  Support  of  the  Human  Race,  the  Divine  System 

of  our  Social  Combinations,  and  the  Supernatural  History  of  the  \\  01  id. 


PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN,  BROWN,  AND  CO.  31 

TURNER.-THE  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND, 

From  the  Earliest  Period  to  the  Death  of  Elizabeth.  By  SHARON  TURNER,  Esq.  F.A.S. 
R.A.S.L.  12  vols.  8vo.  48.  3s.  cloth. 

Or  four  separate  portions,  as  follow  :— 

THE  HISTORY  of  the  ANGLO-SAXONS;  comprising  the  History  of  England  from  the 
Earliest  Period  to  the  Norman  Conquest.  6th  Edition,  3  vols.  8vo.  42.  5s.  boards. 

THK  HISTORY  of  ENGLAND  during:  the  MIDDLE  AGES;  comprising  the  Reigns  from 
William  the  Conqueror  to  the  Accession  of  Henry  VIII.,  and  also  the  History  of  the  Litera- 
ture, Religion,  Poetry,  and  Progress  of  the  Reformation  and  of  the  Language  during  that 
period.  3d  Edition,  5  vols.  8vo.  43,  boards. 

THE  HISTORY  of  the  REIGN  of  HENRY  VIII.;  comprising  the  Political  History  of  the 
commencement  of  the  English  Reformation :  being  the  First  Part  of  the  Modern  History  of 
England.  3d  Edition,  2  vols.  8vo.  26s.  bds. 

THE  HISTORY  of  the  REIGNS  of  EDWARD  VI.,  MARY,  and  ELIZABETH;  being  the 
Second  Part  of  the  Modern  History  of  England.  3d  Edition,  2  vols.  8vo.  32s.  boards. 

TURNER.- A  TREATISE  ON  THE  TOOT  OF  THE  HORSE, 

And  a  New  System  of  Shoeing,  by  one-sided  nailing ;  and  on  the  Nature,  Origin,  and  Symptoms 
of  the  Navicular  Joint  Lameness,  with  Preventive  and  Curative  Treatment.  By  JAMES 
TURNER,  M.R.V.C.  Royal  8vo.  pp.  118,  7s.  6d.  boards. 

TURTON'S  (DR.)  MANUAL  OF  THE  LAND  AND  FRESH- 

W  ATER  SHELLS  of  the  BRITISH  ISLANDS.  A  New  Edition,  thoroughly  revised  and  with 
considerable  Additions.  By  JOHN  EDWARD  GRAY,  Keeper  of  the  Zoological  Collection  in 
the  British  Museum.  1  vol.  post  8vo.  with  Woodcuts,  and  12  Coloured  Plates,  15s.  cloth. 

URE.-DICTIONARY  OF  ARTS,  MANUFACTURES,  &  MINES ; 

Containing  a  clear  Exposition  of  their  Principles  and  Practice.  By  ANDREW  URE,  M.D. 
F.R.S.  M.G.S.  M.A.S.  Lond.;  M.  Acad.  N.L.  Philad. ;  S.  Ph.  Soc.  N.  Germ.  Hanov. ;  Mulii. 
&c.  &c.  Third  Edition,  corrected,  8vo.  illustrated  with  1240  Engravings  on  Wood,  50s.  cloth. 

WALKER.-BRITISH  ATLAS  OF  FORTY-SEVEN  MAPS, 

CAREFULLY  COLOURED;  comprising  separate  Maps  of  every  County  in  England,  each 
Riding  in  Yorkshire,  and  North  and  South  Wales;  showing  the  Roads,  Railways,  Canals, 
Parks,  Boundaries  of  Boroughs,  Places  of  Election,  Polling  Places,  &c.  Compiled  from  the 
Maps  of  the  Board  of  Ordnance  and  other  Trigonometrical  Surveys.  By  J.  and  C.  WALKER. 
Imperial  4to.  coloured,  Three  Guineas,  half-bound ;  large  paper,  Four  Guineas,  half-bound. 
V  Each  County  may  be  had  separately,  in  case,  2s.  6d. 

WALTZING.— REFORM  YOUR  WALTZING.     THE   TRUE 

THEORY  of  the  RHENISH  or  SPANISH  WALTZ,  and  of  the  German  Waltz,  a  Deux  Temps, 
analysed  and  explained  for  the  first  time.  By  AN  AMATEUR.  Fcp.  8vo.  uniform  with  "  Hints 
on  Etiquette,"  price  Half-a-Crown. 

The  Figure  of  8  in  both  these  Waltzes  on  an  entirely  new  principle. 
•  .*  Waltzing  is  the  art  of  a  gentleman,  and  never  yet  was  taught  or  understood  by  a  dancing-master. 

"  The  author  of  these  amusing  hints  cannot  be  a  more  enthusiastic  admirer  of  waltzing  than  we  are.  It  was  a 
source  of  enioyment  to  us  in  the  land  of  its  legitimate  home  for  many  a  year  in  the  days  of  yore ;  but, '  helas,  ils  sont 
passles  ces  jours  de  fete!'  we  are  now  too  old  and  rheumatic  to  be  able  to  indulge  in  such  pastimes.  Those  of  our 
readers,  however,  who  are  younger  and  more  active  than  ourselves,  and  who  wi»h  to  know  what  real  waltzing  actually 
means,  cannot  do  better  than  benefit  by  the  system  laid  down  and  recommended  for  adoption  by  '  An  Amateur,' 
whose  remarks  are  well  calculated  to  prove  serviceable  to  the  uninitiated."— UMTED  SERVICE  GAZETTE. 

WARDLAW.-SERMONS, 

By  Dr.  WARDLAW.    8vo.  12s.  boards. 

WARDLAW.-DI8COURSES  ON  THE  PRINCIPAL  POINTS 

OF  THE  SOCIMAN  CONTROVERSY— the  Unity  of  God,  and  the  Trinity  of  Persons  in  the 
Godhead;  the  Supreme  Divinity  of  Jesus  Christ ;  the  Doctrine  of  the  Atonement;  the  Christian 
Character,  &c.  By  RALPH  WARDLAW,  D.D.  5th  Edition,  8vo.  15s.  cloth. 

WATERTON.-ESSAYS  ON  NATURAL  HISTORY, 

Chiefly  Ornithology.  By  CHARLES  WATERTON,  Esq.,  Author  of  "Wanderings  in  South 
America."  With  an  Autobiography  of  the  Author,  and  a  View  of  Walton  Hail,  ihird 
Edition,  fcp.  8vo.  8s.  cloth. 


32    CATALOGUE  OF  NEW  WORKS  PRINTED  FOR  LONGMAN  AND  CO. 

WATHEN.-ARTS,  ANTIQUITIES,  AND  CHRONOLOGY  OF 

ANCIENT  EGYPT,  from  Personal  Observations.  By  G.  H.  WATHEN,  Architect.  With 
Illustrations  from  Original  Sketches  by  the  Author.  Royal  8vo.  with  Plates  and  Woodcuts, 
16s.  cloth. 

"  A  clever  and  lively  contrbution  to  the  chronology  and  arts  of  ancient  Egypt,  the  result  of  a  professional  visit  to 
her  land,  made  by  an  enthusiastic  student  of  her  history  well  qualified  to  explore  her  remains." — SPECTATOR. 

WEBSTER.-AN  ENCYCLOPEDIA  OF  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY; 

Comprising  such  subjects  as  are  most  immediately  connected  with  Housekeeping :  as,  The 
Construction  of  Domestic  Edifices,  with  the  modes  of  Warming,  Ventilating,  and  Lighting 
them— A  description  of  the  various  articles  of  Furniture,  with  the  nature  of  their  Materials- 
Duties  of  Servants— A  general  account  of  the  Animal  and  Vegetable  Substances  used  as  Food, 
and  the  methods  of  preserving  and  preparing  them  by  Cooking— Making  Bread— The  Chemical 
Nature  and  the  Preparation  of  all  kinds  of  Fermented  Liquors  used  as  Beverage— The  various 
Clothing  Arts,  and  Materials  employed  in  Dress  and  the  Toilette— Business  of  the  Laundry— 
Description  of  the  various  Wheel  Carriages— Preservation  of  Health— Domestic  Medicine, 
&c.  &c.  &c.  By  THOMAS  WEBSTER,  F.G.S.  &c. ;  assisted  by  the  late  Mrs.  Parkes,  Author  of 
"  Domestic  Duties."  1  thick  vol.  8vo.  illustrated  with  nearly  1000  Woodcuts.— In  the  Press. 

WESTWOOD -INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  MODERN  CLASSI- 

FICATION  OF  INSECTS;  comprising  an  Account  of  the  Habits  and  Transformations  of  the 
different  Families  ;  a  Synopsis  of  all  the  British,  and  a  Notice  of  the  more  remarkable  Foreign 
Genera.  By  J.  O.  WESTWOOD,  Sec.  Ent.  Soc.  London,  F.L.S.,  &c.  2  vols.  illustrated  with 
above  150  Woodcuts,  comprising  about  2500  distinct  Figures,  £2.  7s.  cloth. 

WHITE'S  COMPENDIUM  OF  THE  VETERINARY  ART; 

Containing  Plain  and  Concise  Observations  on  the  Construction  and  Management  of  the 
Stable ;  a  brief  and  popular  Outline  of  the  Structure  and  Economy  of  the  Horse  ;  the  Nature, 
Symptoms,  and  Treatment  of  the  Diseases  and  Accidents  to  which  the  Horse  is  liable ;  the 
best  method  of  performing  various  Important  Operations  ;  with  Advice  to  the  Purchasers  of 
Horses ;  and  a  copious  Materia  Medica  and  Pharmacopoeia.  17th  Edition,  entirely  recon- 
structed,with  considerable  Additions  and  Alterations,  bringing  the  work  up  to  the  present  state 
of  Veterinary  Science.  By  W.  C.  SPOONER,  Veterinary  Surgeon,  &c.  &c.  8vo.  pp.  588,  with 
coloured  Plate,  16s.  cloth.  London,  1842. 

WHITE'S  COMPENDIUM  OF  CATTLE  MEDICINE; 

Or,  Practical  Observations  on  the  Disorders  of  Cattle  and  other  Domestic  Animals,  except 
the  Horse.  6th  Edition,  re-arranged,  with  copious  Additions  and  Notes,  by  W.  C.  SPOONER, 
Vet.  Surgeon,  Author  of  a  "Treatise  on  the  Influenza,"  and  a  "  Treatise  on  the  Foot  and 
Leg  of  the  Horse,"  &c.  8vo.  9s.  cloth. 

WHITE.-THE  GOSPEL  PROMOTIVE  OF  TRUE  HAPPINESS. 

By  the  Rev.  HUGH  WHITE,  M.A.    12mo.  6s.  cloth. 

WHITLEY.-THE  APPLICATION  OF  GEOLOGY  TO  AGRI- 

CULTURE,  and  to  the  Improvement  and  Valuation  of  Land :  with  the  Nature  and  Properties 
Of  Soils,  and  the  Principles  of  Cultivation.  By  NICHOLAS  WHITLEY,  Land-Surveyor.  8vo. 
7s.  6d.  cloth. 

"  Mr.  Whitley's  book  appears  to  us  like  the  commencement  of  a  more  philosophical  review  of  our  agricultural  riches 
than  has  yet  been  given  to  the  public  ;  its  utility  is  manifest,  and  on  that  score  alone  we  earnestly  recommend  it  to 
those  who,  from  their  pursuits,  are  much  better  able  than  ourselves  to  estimate  its  merits  and  take  advantage  of  its 
suggestions." — SUNDAY  TIMES,  Oct.  22, 1843. 

WILKINSON.-THE  ENGINES  OF  WAR,  &c. 

Being  a  History  of  Ancient  and  Modern  Projectile  Instruments  and  Engines  of  Warfare  and 
Sporting;  including  the  Manufacture  of  Fire-Arms,  the  History  and  Manufacture  of  Gun- 
powder, of  Swords,  and  of  the  cause  of  the  Damascus  Figure  in  Sword  Blades,  with  some 
Observations  of  Bronze :  to  which  are  added,  Remarks  on  some  Peculiarities  of  Iron,  and  on 
the  Extraordinary  Effect  produced  by  the  Action  of  Sea-water  on  Cast-iron ;  with  Details  of 
various  Miscellaneous  Experiments.  By  H.  WILKINSON,  M.R.A.S.  1  vol.  8vo.  9s.  cloth. 

WOOD.-A  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  RAILROADS,  AND 

INTERIOR  COMMUNICATION  in  GENERAL;  containing  numerous  Experiments  on 
the  Powers  of  the  Improved  Locomotive  Engines,  and  Tables  of  the  comparative  Cost  of  Con- 
veyance on  Canals,  Railways,  and  Turnpike  Roads.  By  NICHOLAS  WOOD,  Colliery  Viewer, 
Memb.  Inst.  Civ.  Eng.  &c.  Third  edition,  very  greatly  enlarged,  with  13  large  Plates,  and 
several  new  Woodcuts.  dS\.  11s.  6d.  cloth. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  BOOK  (THE) : 

A  Manual  of  Elegant  Recreations,  Exercises,  and  Pursuits.  4th  Edition,  with  numerous 
beautifully  executed  Engravings  on  Wood.  *61.  Is.  elegantly  bound  in  crimson  silk,  lined  with 
imitation  of  Mechlin  lace. 


HOME  USE 

CIRCULATION  DEPARTMENT 
MAIN  LIBRARY 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 
1-month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling  642-3405. 
6-month  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing  books 

to  Circulation  Desk. 
Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made  4  days  prior 

to  due  date. 

ALL  BOOKS  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  RECALL  7  DAYS 
AFTER  DATE  CHECKED  OUT. 


LD21— A-40m-5,'74 
(R8191L) 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


'1C  60228 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


